Lagos State University (LASU) vice chancellor (VC) Prof Olanrewaju Fagbohun has said all hands must be on deck to ensure that the institution does not fall back into its “dark years”. In the past, the institution was crisis-ridden, leading to its loss of the accreditation of some of its programmes in which it held sway. Hard hit was the Law programme in which its graduates hithterto emerged tops at the Law School. Speaking in Lagos at the weekend during a dinner held for him by the LASU Alumni Association to mark his attainment of the Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) rank, Fagbohun urged the group to wake up to its responsibilities. “be proactive in complementing the new LASU project and preventing the university from going back into the dark years,” he said. In her speech, Deputy Governor Idiat Adebule said the government will ensure that a worthy person succeeds Fagbohun in 2020. Adebule, also an alumna of the university, said selecting a capable person to succeed Fagbohun was key to sustaining the peace and progress in the university in the past three years. “About the fear of who will take the mantle from Prof. Fagbohun and build on the good work he has started, I admonish that you fear not, for God is always there. “At the appointed time, God will choose who will fit into the position, but as a government, we are not unmindful of the fact that it is our pride to pick the best person. “As God assisted us to pick Fagbohun, He will also guide us to pick a suitable successor. No evil person will scale through the selection process,” she said. Adebule hailed the VC for working for LASU’s progress, saying: “God has done it for you. I am proud of you as our VC and appreciate you for not being distracted in your set goals. “Thank you for keeping faith and keeping the LASU flag flying. God will protect you. “Mrs. Yeside Fagbohun, all the accolades of today are for you; for being a friend and supportive wife to the VC.” LASU Alumni Association President Gen. Cecil Esakhaigbe (retd) hailed the deputy governor for honouring the VC. He said the association was a platform to give back to the university. Esakhaigbe congratulated the VC on getting silk and for being a visionary leader and turning LASU around. “This is the beginning of great things to come your way. So, don’t be distracted, as there are bound to be challenges, but you will triumph. “LASU used to be synonymous with crisis, but things have changed in the last three years. The university now features positively in the news. “For those who are against peace in LASU, you will fail because there must be peace in LASU. That is not negotiable,” he said. Fagbohun thanked the deputy governor and the association for celebrating his achievements and the institution’s progress. “The deputy governor’s passion for LASU is something else, as you have always been at the forefront when it comes to anything pertaining to the institution. “It is not easy for you to close the gap between us, but you are determined to remain close to us,” he said.