•NACA targets $15m  HIV/AIDS trust fund THE Federal Government is closer to ending the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) and Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) epidemic, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said yesterday. He added that like many other countries in Africa, Nigeria is committed to the ambitious goal of ending the AIDs epidemic by 2030. Osinbajo, who was represented by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation Mustapha Boss, spoke yesterday at a programme marking the 2018 World Aid Day in Abuja. He said: “I am pleased to mute that more than ever before; we are closer to ending the AIDs epidemic. Having a HIV diagnosis today implies something very different from 20 years ago. “Research has delivered improved medicines, technologies and approaches to service delivery and holds even greater promise for what will obtain in the future. Today, with more access to treatment and care, people living with HIV can live healthier and more fulfilling lives. “I acknowledge the remarkable achievements made in Nigeria despite our resource constraints. We now have over a million people on life-saving HIV treatment. Every year, about nine million adults are tested for HIV, with about two million being pregnant women, a clear affirmation of our goal to eliminate Mother-to-Child Transmission of HIV. “Like many other countries in Africa, we are committed to the ambitious goal of ending the AIDs epidemic by 2030. Despite the gains achieved so far, we know that concerted effort will be required to achieve this. It is in this regard that we embarked on the National AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey in all 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory, which Mr. President personally flagged-off in June this year. The survey aims at providing us a reliable baseline against which we can monitor our performance as a country. I understand that the survey has made remarkable progress, and the results will be available by March 2019.” Osinbajo said the Federal Government also appreciated the need to reinvigorate and sustain prevention efforts to end the AIDs epidemic. “The role of HIV testing services and supporting people living with HIV to ‘live life positively’ cannot be over-emphasised. The theme: ‘Know your status’, clearly speaks to the importance we place on HIV testing. “I would like to reaffirm the commitment of the government in providing sustained political support at the highest level. Furthermore, Government is committed to increase funding for the HIV response and ensuring universal access to HIV prevention, treatment and care services. “To this end, government has for the first time ensured that the funds required to keep all those living with HIV on our treatment programme in Taraba and Abuja is fully accommodated in the 2019 budget.” He said the Federal Government is committed to support an additional 50,000 persons on HIV treatment every year in budgets. The Vice President added that the government will also facilitate the integration of vulnerable members of the HIV community into its poverty alleviation and social intervention programmes. He lauded the efforts of development partners for their efforts towards eradicating the scourge. But NACA said it has concluded arrangement to launch an HIV and AIDS Trust Fund, as part of efforts to address funding gap. The seed money for the take-off of the fund, according to NACA Director-General, Dr. Sani Aliyu, is $15 million. Aliyu said the initiative would help to provide platform for more contributions from the private sector. The NACA DG said the idea of the trust fund is the fruit of government engagement with the private sector. This year marks three decades of commemoration of World AIDs Days and also 30 years of global progress against HIV. Aliyu added that states have begun to response to the idea of setting aside one per cent of their monthly Federal Allocation towards funding AIDS response. He said: “We have been working on strengthening our engagement with the Private Sector in Nigeria through the Nigeria Business Coalition Against AIDS (NIBUCAA) in a bid to increase domestic funding for HIV towards a more sustainable response. “The HIV Trust Fund, which will soon be launched, will provide the platform for more concrete contributions from the private sector. It is our hope that resources that come through this window will help to close the gap in access to antiretroviral therapy for people living with HIV,” he said. He added: “Improving engagement with the private sector forms part of our larger efforts to enhance local ownership and sustainability of the response.” Explaining further on the fund, he said the fund is going to provide additional support to the country’s response to HIV, as it will be used to procure drugs, commodities and logistics. “It is going to serve as a support to whatever the government is doing on test and treatment for HIV.” Aliyu hailed the role the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo played in obtaining a commitment from governors to resource the HIV responses in their respective states with up to 1.0% from their monthly Federal allocation. NACA, he said, is prioritising local manufacturing of HIV medicines and other relevant commodities as part of its long-term plan.