The National Reconciliation Committee of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) says it will submit the report of its findings and recommendations this week.  The committee was set up by the party to collate the grievances of members who felt they were unjustly treated during the primary elections and make recommendations on how to assuage them.  The Chairman of the committee, Chief Jerry Chukwueke, disclosed this to newsmen in Awka on Wednesday.  Chukwueke, who is also the Vice-Presidential candidate of APGA, said he was impressed with the level of cooperation from the aggrieved members. He said he was sure that the outcome of the committee  activities would engender a more united and formidable APGA that would win elections nationwide.   He said the report would be ready for submission to the party hierarchy at the end of this week. “We are very close to completing the assignment and submitting our report to the appropriate authority, by this weekend it should be ready.  “Our party will deal with the matter with the facts that have been found, we are preparing to go out aggressively for the election we are contesting. “It is in the strategic interest of our party to heal and reconcile with justice, truth and peace.  “I can assure you that it will be a report that has dignity and integrity because it is in the strategic interest of our party to do so,” he said. The committee which began work in October promised to assuage all frayed nerves and recommend restitution where need be.  “Anyone who can be pinned down as having perpetuated this shall face the necessary consequence(s). Issues about what happened in the primary elections shall be resolved to the satisfaction of all aggrieved persons.  “Where we find that people obtained Certificate of Return without being grounded effectively with their constituents, it shall be taken up,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Victor Oye, National Chairman of the party, has said that the party leadership should strongly consider the report and enforce its recommendations in accordance with the party’s constitution.  NAN