 There was pandemonium in some parts of Ado-Ekiti on Friday following the spread of a news of a purported attack on two commercial banks by suspected armed robbery. The alleged robbery which turned out to be a hoax was said to have taken place on two banks located in Ijigbo and Secretariat Road. Many residents fled in different directions when a security officer allegedly mishandled his rifle by firing some gun shots into the air in Ijigbo area of the town. Some armed policemen deployed to the area with the intent of quelling the phantom robbery also announced their arrival at the scene by firing gunshots into the air. The hullabaloo sparked by the gun shots paralyzed traffic, social and economic activities for about 45 minutes. Anxious residents caught in the web of the robbery scare ran for their dear lives. Others called their family members, friends, coworkers and well wishers to avoid Ijigbo and Secretariat Road which has the highest concentration of banks to avoid the “trouble spots.” Messages were also circulated on the social media alleging that the two banks were being attacked simultaneously. Normalcy was later returned as the culprit who mishandled his firearm has been arrested. The security scare was believed to have been triggered by frequent attacks on banks in some towns in Ekiti State in the last six months. The most recent bank robbery was recorded in Ijero Ekiti on Monday in which three policemen and a civilian were shot dead by suspected armed robbers. Speaking on the Friday’s Ado-Ekiti robbery scare, the Police Public Relations Officer, Mr. Caleb Ikechukwu, said no bank was attacked as being rumoured by some residents. Ikechukwu, a Deputy Superintendent of Police, explained that the gunshots that caused the scare resulted from mishandling of firearms. The police spokesperson disclosed that the affected officer has been arrested and has been explaining all he knows about the incident. Ikechukwu added the the police have deployed enough men to strategic places, especially the central business district, to assure residents of their security. He urged residents of the city not to entertain any fear and go about their legitimate businesses.