The Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III on Saturday said Nigerians should hold President Muhammadu Buhari to his words that he will conduct a free, fair and credible 2019 general elections.  Abubakar disclosed that Nigerians should also know that Christian and Muslim leaders: “We do not have any preferred candidate for any elective post in the forthcoming 2019 elections. Everybody is our candidate. “President Muhammadu Buhari has vowed to ensure violence free campaign and free, fair and credible 2019 elections. So we will hold him to his words. INEC should also take note of what the president said. Security agencies especially the police should take not of this. Let us deliberate and see who is the best to lead us out of this quagmire.” He said this during the Nigeria Inter-religious Council (NIREC), Youth Wing second National Youth Summit themed: Towards Peaceful And Contribution Of Christians And Muslim Youth In 2019 General Elections In Nigeria,held in Abuja. He said that Nigerians should take a stand and not to be used by politicians and other stakeholders to cause violence especially during the forthcoming general elections. Abubakar said that the second summit came at the time Nigeria have been politicised by the political class and that there was the need to sit as a family irrespective of their various religious. He advised Nigerians to be untied and that the summit is aimed at contributing to peaceful participation of inter religious groups on the 2019 election. The sultan called on the youths not to allow themselves to be used by politicians to instigate violence of any kind. His words: “This summit is better now as we are approaching the 2019 general elections. Nigeria has never been so tensed-up  as it is today. Everything is politicized. Religion is politicized, economy is politicized, including politics itself. We have seen politic in other lands and it is not as hot as our own. “The youths are the foot-solders of tomorrow and it is necessary that we bring them together. There is so much apprehension yes. Our religions have never preach violence. So where did we get our own violent mood that we use children to kill, burn and destroy houses and properties. As religious leaders we are worried. The victims of election violence are not my children or yours, the victims are the children of the common men and women who cannot afford one meal a day. So why should we be used by politicians to commit crime. “Why won’t the politicians use their children for election violence, or their friends. Even  if it is the president, we will not be used by any politician. And the earlier we do that the better for us.” The president of the Christians Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Samson Ayokunle, also told youths not to allow themselves to be use by selfish politicians to cause mayhem during the 2019 general elections.  Ayokunle said that youth should not allow disgruntled politicians to use them as political thugs by providing them with drugs and all sort of weapons to attack their own brothers because of political differences while their own children are schooling abroad. He said that Youth should wake up from slumber and always see themselves as futher leaders instead of being cheap to selfish politicians. “Our youths should stay peacefully and not allow selfish politicians to use them in breaching the relative peace in the country. Whoever approaches you for thuggery, ask him to lead you in the act.” The CAN president, caution ahead of the elections, saying “any distraction or violence will only set our democracy backwards and affect all areas of human development”.  He noted some of the challenges being experienced in the country are instigated by politicians while urging them to play politics devoid of acrimony and violence. Lamenting the security challenges across the country. In his remarks, the National Security Adviser to the President Maj.Gen Babagana Monguno, (rtd) represented by Brig-Gen Emmanuel Ndagi said that peaceful dialogue is the path way to peaceful coexistence. Monguno said that security is a collective responsibility, adding that Nigerians should stay peaceful.  He urged the youths to ensure that Nigeria achieve peaceful elections and that Nigeria’s President is working to ensure free fair peaceful and credible elections in 2019.  He, however, added that the Federal Government, religious leaders, politicians as well as youths have critical roles in preventing the used of social media to propagate fake news, hate speech and any act capable of instigating violence. The United States of America Ambassador, represented by David Young, Deputy Chief of Mission of embassy in Nigeria, said that the US is committed to supporting Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to achieve credible elections in Nigeria. Young commended the role NIREC in mobilising Nigeria’s Youths towards peaceful 2019 general elections. He advised that Nigerian youths should practiced their faith and put it into action by loving God and their neighbors with all their hearts,” for faith without works is dead” . The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris said government is working seriously for the success of the forthcoming 2019 general election. Idris who was represented by Assistant Inspector General of Police  Raheed Akintunde vowed that both vote buyers and sellers would be dealt with without fear or favour. He urged youths not to allow themselves be used as political thug.  It would be recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had few weeks back given the assurance at the International Conference Center(ICC),in the Hague, Netherlands, where he assured the International Criminal Court that his administration would deploy every power within its reach to conduct free, fair and violence-free polls in 2019. 