The Federal Government has inaugurated the Governing Council for the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria. At the event in Abuja,  Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole charged the council’s Chairman, Prof. Abba Hassan, and members to achieve MDCN’s objectives. The Minister said: “As you are aware, governing councils are creations of statutes, and their responsibilities are to give policy direction, effective oversight and strategic guidance to the management of the institutions. I, therefore, wish to emphasis that government expects no less from this council. “Your council is critical to the achievement of developmental goals of government being implementing entities of the health sector. You are all enjoined to commit to achieving this mandate and to live above board.” The minister urged the council to adhere to their  roles. He said the Council should determine the standard of knowledge and skill to be attained by those seeking to become members of the medical and dental professions and review those standards from time to time as circumstance might permit. The minister explained that the council should review periodically the code of conduct of the two professions. Adewole said the aim of the  ministry  was to ensure that the Nigerians had access to affordable and quality health care. “I must inform you that our job is to take our nation to a brighter future in spite of challenges that confront us,” Adewole said. The ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Abdulaziz M. Abdullahi, called on  the council members to see their appointment as a call to national service and which should be given full sense of responsibility. He also urged the members of the Governing Council to do everything possible to reduce professional rivalry in the sector. Responding, Hassan pledged to give their best in improving the health system. He said: “Our principal task is to ensure high quality medical and dental training, curtail unethical medical and dental practice and stamp out quackery.” Hassan called on patients affected by unethical practice to come forward and complain.