Students of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) will now have microchip-installed Identity (ID) Cards to enable them use the cards for the dual purpose of personal identification and electronic wallet. Thanks to the digital ID card initiative introduced by the United Bank for Africa (UBA), which seeks to co-brand the ID cards the school issued to students to serve as both a prepaid VISA card and also an ID card. During the meeting held at the Vice-Chancellor’s complex, the bank officials gave a presentation before the management team, Students’ Union Government (SUG) representatives, members of students’ associations, and campus journalists on how the digital ID card would work. The Digital Head of UBA in Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara area branch, Mr Austin Obibi, said: ”UBA provides a prepaid payment card which is set up without the need for you to have a bank account with the bank. A prepaid card is an electronic wallet in which you put funds into and spend. “This is both the UBA and Usmanu Dan Fodio University coming together to brand a product that has an international standard. The card has a unique ‘chip and pin’ technology, which secure the transaction done on it. This reduces the potential for fraudulent use. “In cases of card misplacement, the card can be blocked or better still, the cash in the card can be transferred from the misplaced card to another. This can be done via the designated website, which offers the direct control of the card; it has records of all card transactions and this reduces the cost of cash management. “The co-branded ID card will have an identification number at the bottom right of the card. This serves as an account number to enable the transfer of funds into the card. The cobranded ID card has a transaction limit of N300,000 and N50,000 depending on the transaction of users, which can either be low or high.” Obibi said the card would be valid for three years, adding that students whose course of study exceeds the stipulated period would have their cards renewed. He also noted that the card would serve as multiple identification purposes where staff members and students would no longer have to carry multiple cards, such as library ID cards, clinic ID cards, club ID cards, and hostel ID cards. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor (DVC) for Academics, Prof A. G. Yahya, said the management was willing to adopt the co-branded ID card initiative, but noted that the school would negotiate with the bank in order to reach an agreement that would be in favour of students The bank’s Regional Head, Mrs Aisha Na’Allah, said successes were recorded in the previous partnerships the bank had with other tertiary institutions, noting that the adoption of the co-branded ID card would elevate the university in the digital world. She said: “We are here to present an opportunity for the university to be part of the digital drive that is happening across the world. It is common knowledge that the digital arena is taking the space across the world, and anybody who would belong to this world in this era must be digitally savvy. “For UBA, lifting people through education is a top priority. We regard UDUS as a highly intellectual institution, which is why we are bringing our product to raise the stake for education and simply complicated activities for students.” The Dean, Student Affairs, Prof Aminu Mode, appreciated the bank for its contributions to its development, pointing out that the introduction of the co-branded ID card would digitise the university operation.