FRONTLINE presidential candidate Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has vowed to tackle cancer headlong, if elected in the 2019 presidential election. The People’s Trust (PT) candidate told women group in the Southwest, under the aegis of Women for Hashim (WfH), that it was time Nigerian halt the devastating effect of cancer. He stressed that the cancer programme was dear to him, especially after listening to his daughter, Ifeaoluwa, who said: “‘Dad, I wonder how many Nigerian women can afford this vaccine at N33, 000.00, when the minimum wage is N18, 000? Daddy, when you become president, please makes it free!'” He added that the Federal Government under his presidency will sponsor vaccine for girls from age nine to age 25. According to him, when these vaccines reach women in that category, there are very remote chances that they would ever have cancer. “So, we can vaccinate against cancer and that is what I am going to do for all Nigerian girls and young women. They will have the vaccines against cervical cancer when I am elected president in 2019. As Commander-in-Chief, I will do it within six months of being sworn-in. This is a major programme for women that will protect them in the future against falling ill to cancer.” The presidential candidate further told the teaming population of women: “I’m somebody who knows how to create jobs. I will create jobs for your children.  I will create four million jobs every year by removing the obstacles to investment in Nigeria because it is only the private sector that can create jobs, not the government.” He said the four million jobs will be manufacturing and services jobs, apart from removing the obstacles to investment in Nigeria. “We are going to expand the economy from the $510 billion to a $4 trillion economy. That will be achieved with the New Nigeria Economic Development Plan.” “We will pay workers minimum wage, stop killings and unite Nigerians. Nigeria has never been divided as it is under the APC government today. We will give Nigeria a government that will unite the country, secure the land and a government where all Nigerians will be protected by the office of the Commander-in-Chief. This is what I promise Nigeria. Take the message to the polling units that you have a presidential candidate that is equipped to deliver. “Tell the people of Ondo State that they have a candidate who has done business for 25 years, creating jobs all over the world and in Nigeria. I am not a parasite that has always relied on government. We have a lot of work to do in going to sell our party at the polling unit. The deciding moment is how many votes is counted at the polling unit” The women leaders took turns to eulogies Olawepo-Hashim, noting that: “We want a break, as change is inevitable. We have been neglected over the past decades. We are women for Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim in 2019,” they said.