A tale of the rich, the strong and the mighty. King of Boys is a total story. It is indeed a unique piece, directed by Kemi Adetiba, whose earlier work got everyone in the country running down to the cinemas.  As this movie was premiered, it definitely created a lot of buzz, as the popular musician Reminisce was brought into film. It is safe to say that this was one of the factors that got the many Afro Pop music fans running down to the cinema to see what ‘Ibile’, as he is called could do on the movie screen. We in the hood, the Crithood went to see how this one unfolds as well. As usual, we were delayed for about an hour by the cinema house, and as usual no one complained, but this time we came prepared. The movie began. Cliché as it seems these days that every major movie always starts with a large societal party, we are of the opinion that script writers should start getting creative. Honestly, there are a thousand other ways, a movie could begin. Nevertheless, the movie King of Boys, takes you into a Jungle where only the strong survives. However, unique to this story is the fact that it tells an actual Nigerian story, far off from fantasies and illusions, nemesis becomes a controlling factor that propels the plot of the story into a tragedy to a large extent. Indeed, a king of boys as the king always rules, as it eventually appears to be. The movie is a promising piece, but has some lapses here and there. At some point, it becomes confusing what genre the director is trying to achieve. However, commendable is the use of the indigenous Nigerian languages and tongues. Truthfully, one can tell that the director aimed at being highly realistic, with the story telling. But this falters, when characters as Inspector Nuru, cannot keep up with a particular accent, therefore this brings about a certain level of confusion. More so, is the case of older and younger Eniola, and the difference in the skin complexion. This definitely causes a break in the willing suspense of disbelief. Moreover, the movie is too long! Although, it is a lovely story that cleverly tries to break the illusion of time, as this technique is brilliantly used to connect events of the past and present, still there are ways to modify a movie so it does not get excessively long. The camera angles and shots were not definite. The technicality could have been better.  It seemed as though the director’s vision was not properly understood by the technical team. It wasn’t quite there for us. This our verdict: A powerful and honest story, not a perfect picture. Average acting in total, great vision on the path of the director, but could be better executed. Definitely mind blowing and highly realistic to an average spectator, but with a number of loopholes here and there. Some commendable techniques, a number of indefinite techniques. All in all, a great attempt with plenty room for improvement. Recommended but to a selected few.