Total Upstream Nigeria Limited has advocated that boat passengers compulsorily use life jackets to ensure safety on the nation’s waterways. The firm regretted the incessant cases of boat mishaps. The Executive General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility, Total Upstream companies in Nigeria, Mr. Vincent Nnadi stated this in Onitsha at the 2018 Marine Safety Awareness Campaign for River Niger waterway users in the commercial city. He attributed most accidents on the waterways to ignorance and unsafe behaviours of boat drivers and passengers, expressing optimism that the partnership with “co-ventures” would minimise boat mishaps. “It is the desire of Total that after today, wearing a life jacket is made mandatory before boarding a boat. “Each boat operator and passenger must take the checklist provided seriously as well as implement all other safety precautions,” he said. Nnadi said the campaign was part of the firm’s corporate social responsibility, as well as a sustained commitment and enduring culture of responsiveness to stakeholders needs He said, “The programme is an initiative of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation and her partners is aimed at empowering boat operators, passengers and jetty managers with requisite safety skills required to navigate waterways without accident. He cautioned against removal of the life jackets from the jetties, insisting that they must be kept safe for passengers to wear before boarding and removal on arrival at the other jetty. Also speaking, the Area manager, National Inland Waterways Authority, Onitsha Area Office, Mrs Uche Amadi, blamed most boat mishaps on operators without valid license and permit, overloading among other shortcomings. She commended the management of ANPEZ centre and Total E & P for their intervention and sponsorship of the programme which she described as lifesaving. Amadi was optimistic that the programme would provide the missing link between operators, passengers, regulators and other relevant stakeholders. Responding, Chairman, Engine Boat Operators Association, Onitsha, Chukwudi Ekwenze, was full of thanks to the benefactors for the provision of the items. “I’ve been in the boat business since 1975 but I’ve not witnessed this kind of gesture. I am sure it must have cost much to provide these life jackets,” he said. While praying that the over twelve jetties in the commercial city benefited from the jackets, Ekwenze pledged judicious use of the items to ensure their durability. No fewer than five hundred life jackets, comprising of 300 adults and 200 children were distributed among the participating jetties.