A premium beer, ‘’33’’ Export Lager Beer, was launched into the market in 1979. It has since evolved beyond being a brand with the customer- brand exchanges into a brand that cares about deepening the bonds of friendship between its consumers, thereby creating opportunities for them and changing their lives. ”33″ Export lager beer initiated the Friendship Experience party and ‘City of Friends’ events in an effort to provide unique friendship experiences while also creating opportunities for consumers to bond, party and create memorable moments. The Friendship experience party which has been on for a couple of years at various cities within the country has served as an avenue for friends and lovers of the brand to come together to have fun as consumers were treated to music, rib-cracking jokes by top comedians and various fun engaging games, including Jenga and Connect Four in which consumers get a chance to win exciting prizes. The exciting positive atmosphere created during the friendship experience parties leaves an enjoyable memory on the mind of everyone who attends which further strengthen the friendship tie between them. The lager beer recognises the importance of friendship in the lives of its consumers which in turn stimulated the Friendship experience party initiative. This is used to reaffirm the brand’s commitment to providing excellent and memorable experiences that allows friends and communities from all over the country to connect, build stronger bonds and share memorable moments. The export beer, which prides itself in celebrating real friendship with the yearly celebration which takes place in different cities across the Nigeria The other signature event created by the brand, “City of Friends”, was conceived to commemorate the United Nations’ World Friendship Day which is aligned with the brand’s theme of strengthening friendship bonds. The “City of Friends” parties also served as a platform for the brand to help promote love and friendship within Nigeria while also creating beautiful memories in the process. The event also featured top entertainers in the country, including the likes of Kiss Daniel, Simi, Small Doctor, Phyno, Harrysong, Mc Gordons, and Mc Shakara. The brand decided to add a new concept to celebrate creative writers in the latest edition of its “City of Friends” event by organising a writing competition tagged #Pendownforfriendship, which resulted in being a combination of music, entertainment and creative writing that had its unique experience. The fact that “33” Export is also promoting and strengthening friendship bonds. This shows that the brand understands and appreciates the role friendship plays in promoting peace, prosperity, and progress, among individuals and societies. It is therefore no surprise that “33” Export Lager Beer Brand has endeared itself to the hearts of beer lovers all over the country as its friendship themed initiatives has allowed the brand to reach out and connect better with its consumers while also deepening the friendship bond between them and judging by how committed the brand has been to values of friendship, one can only look forward to more achievements from the brand as it truly proves itself to be Nigeria’s No 1 Friendship Beer.  