Residents of Arepo in Ogun State have unveiled plans to use technology to enhance security within estates in the community. Rising from a retreat, the Arepo Central Community Development Association (ACCDA) said it would liaise  with  the  Police  Community  Relations  Committee  (PCRC)  for  effective  security  arrangement  within the community. Among estates within the community is the Journalists’ Estate which came into being in 2004. A communique issued after the retreat by ACCDA President Mr Kehinde Adeyemo and General Secretary Mr. Jide Oke said there would be an alignment of activities of the component estates’ security units for an efficient networking. “ACCDA shall re-inaugurate a security committee that will comprise each component’s estate security team. The activities of okada riders shall be managed via rider registration and issuance of reflective jackets,” the statement said. The association, it said, shall collaborate more with law enforcement agencies to tighten security within and around the estates. To combat the perennial power problem, the association said it would work with the Ikeja Electric (IK) through electricity committee to facilitate the distribution of Pre-paid Meters (PPM) to residents, and follow up on replacement of faulty transformers in the community. “ACCDA shall support and encourage individual estates that may want to pursue Independent Power Project (IPP) in achieving their goals,” the statement said. It bemoaned the neglect of its road by the government, saying it would continue in its interaction with the government on the rehabilitation of the  road. “However, a structured plan geared towards palliative work on the road all-year round will be put  in  place, while  the  entrance  gatehouse  shall  be  given  a  facelift  to create  a welcoming view to visitors. “The retreat acknowledged the contributions of the erstwhile Road Project Committee on the project thus far, and decided that the committee shall be revived and strengthened to accelerate the association’s actions on the road going forward,” ACCDA said.