The Nigerian Community in South Africa on Friday pledged to work with Nigeria’s new envoy to that country. The Federal Government had on Monday presented Bala with Letters of Credence as the new Nigerian High Commissioner to South Africa with concurrent posting to Swaziland and Lesotho. Bala took over from Amb. Musa Ahmed Ibeto, who resigned and contested the governorship primary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Niger State. Before his appointment, Bala was Deputy High Commissioner to the U.K. A career diplomat, Amb. Bala joined the Foreign Service in 1999 and had at different times served in Brasilia, Sudan, The Gambia, Netherlands and Thailand. He also served in the State House Office of the Chief of Staff to the President, as well as State House Protocol. The President of the Nigerian Union in South Africa, Mr Adetola Olubajo, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday on telephone from Pretoria that the body was delighted with the appointment of Bala. “We welcome the appointment of Amb. Kabiru Bala as the High Commissioner of Nigeria in South Africa.  “We are delighted that the President appointed a career diplomat because the Nigerian community in South Africa is in need of stability ad unity’’ “Olubajo restated the determination of the union to work with the envoy in solving the numerous challenges of the Nigerian community. “We hope the appointment of Bala will unite the deeply divided community,’’ he said. He said that the union had been working hard to promote the welfare of Nigerians in South Africa, especially in cases of injustice against members and their families. “We have set up a legal desk to handle cases in involving our people in courts or with the police to ensure that justice is done. So far, the desk has been doing a good work in the handling of cases involving our people,’’ he said. He noted the union had zero tolerance for crime and had always preached to members to desist from activities that would harm them and tarnish the image of the country. Olubajo said that the body had chapters in the nine provinces of South Africa and Wards in major cities of the country.“We are willing to partner with the envoy to achieve set goals and objectives,’’ he added.  (NAN)