The police have arrested an alleged ringleader of a new ponzi scheme D9 Clube said to have swindled thousands of Nigerians. Already, operatives of the Special Enquiry Bureau (SEB) Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (FCIID) Alagbon in Ikoyi said over 200 victims have been identified. The alleged ringleader Kayode Samuel, Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of ‘Sack Your Boss Be Your Boss,’ was arrested at Ibadan alongside his employee Kola Banji, where he was said to have relocated to after swindling one Mrs. Zainab Jimoh. Samuel allegedly lured the woman to invest one million naira with assurances that the money would yeild N3million returns. But when it did not come to fruition after a year, the suspect allegedly packed out of his 10, Aina Street, Ojudu Berger, Ojodu office and relocated to Oyo State. According to the police, the incident occurred in August last year but investigation into the case started when a petition was sent to the Inspector-General of Police (IG) and Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG), FCIID on the matter. On November 6, police said they received a tip-off that Samuel and his alleged accomplices were planning to defraud other innocent persons. “The detectives embarked on investigation activities to Oyo State and the duo was arrested. An HP laptop and a Passat Volkswagen vehicle with registration number KRD953FJ were recovered from Samuel,” said the police. In an interview with reporters, the victim said she heard them speaking on radio about the investment and she paid in N1million. She said: “I invested N1m after I heard him speaking on radio about the scheme. I paid the N1m into Samuel’s Access Bank account as I was directed. After one year, I did not receive any money. “When I asked him to refund my money; he said that the scheme had shut down because the person that started it had been murdered. I have over 200 names of people that I know he had defrauded so far. There are still others.” The woman claimed she had to travel to Ibadan more than seven times for her money, adding that at a point, Samuel started threatening her life. But the suspect denied being a conman, insisting that he lost N3million to the scheme. Samuel said: “In fact, I was also scammed. I invested almost N3m. I have collected only once before the scheme suddenly shut down. But everyone that ventured into the scheme knew the risk they were taking. “We warned them about the risk before they invested their money. They all signed to that effect. The scheme shut down after the person that started it was murdered. I am not a fraudster.”