Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Babajide Sanwo-Olu has said that he is prepared for the huge task ahead, if elected in next year’s election. He promised to preside over “creative and productive government,” which will attach value to technological advancement for the promotion of good governance. He promised “a government of inclusion”, adding that his administration will give succour to the poorest of the poor. Sanwo-Olu told reporters that his experience as a private sector operator, former special adviser and commissioner, and head of an important corporation in the state have prepared him for the job of governor in the Centre of Excellence. He said having been part of governance since 2002, he is conversant with the challenges confronting the city state. He said Lagos under the leadership of himself and his deputy, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, will witness progress, adding that he will build on the achievement of his progressive successors. Sanwo-Olu told the story of his life, spanning his days at the University of Lagos, Akoka (UNILAG), where he studied Surveying, to his career as a surveyor with a thriving company handling some contracts in the Niger Delta, Maiduguri, Bugarg, Mongonu, and other parts of the Northeast. He recalled his rise from the ashes of a crash business, saying that the lesson he learnt was that the success of a man is how far he can rise after each fall. The flagbearer recalled his memorable years in Kerry Micheal and Company, and later, at the Lead Merchant Bank, where he was the treasurer. Sanwo-Olu also spoke on his illustrious career at the United Bank for Africa (UBA), where he worked with high flyers as head of foreign money market. He said his corporate experience heralded his involement in governance in Lagos State when his boss, Otunba Femi Pedro, invited him to join him in the office of deputy governor. Sanwo-Olu said the experience he gained as Special Adviser on Corporate Matters, Acting Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget, Commissioner for Commerce and Industry and Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions were invaluable.  