The conference hall of Swiss Spirit Hotel on Ken Saro-Wiwa (formerly Stadium) Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers State was full with distributors, block makers and other eminent personalities on October 23 this year for the unveiling of BlocMaster cement, described as the king of cement, by Dangote Cement PLC. The distributors and block makers, consisting of men and women, came from the 23 local government areas of Rivers state and adjoining states in the Niger Delta, with some of the persons in attendance actually making blocks in the last 51 years, thereby speaking authoritatively from experience, at the colourful event, which was spiced up with cultural displays. The Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Dangote Cement PLC, Mr. Joe Makoju, noted that the event was about the launch of Dangote BlocMaster’s premium high strength Portland Limestone Cement, which he revealed was ideal for all block and high-grade concrete applications. Makoju, who was represented by the company’s Group Chief Marketing Officer, Mr. Oare Ojeikere, said: “The cement offers the best value for money, by far. It is up to 50 per cent stronger, after one day, thereby increasing the speed at which block makers can meet customers’ demands, as the blocks will be ready for sale faster. It is the cement of choice for all major construction projects. “It is currently the highest grade bagged cement in Nigeria. The Dangote BlocMaster 42.5R high-grade cement is the strongest bagged cement product, currently in the Nigerian market. It has comparatively lower heat of hydration, thereby reducing the risk of cracking in large concrete pours, due to its lower peak temperatures at all ages. “The higher the grade of cement, the tougher the concrete application that you can apply it to. 42.5R cement is more useful for heavy-duty concrete applications, for example high-rise foundations and structures, heavy-duty industrial floors, precast beams and slabs, bridges and dams, among others. “Dangote BlocMaster cement is particularly useful for construction works in swampy areas and land reclamation, as well as laying foundations in the riverine communities of the Niger Delta. The cement becomes a much better offering to use. In the coastal communities of the Niger Delta, cement that is slightly stronger is required, considering the swampy terrain. There is higher Sulphur content in the riverine area and higher grades of cement tend to work much better in those areas. There will be much better results, using Dangote BlocMaster cement in the coastal communities of the Niger Delta. “Dangote BlocMaster cement has been tested and proven to provide the best performance for all concrete applications that require rapid early strength, higher final comprehensive strength and fast setting. It outperforms all other bagged cement products in Nigeria.” The company’s group managing director also revealed that pricing of cement was always based on the cost of the product and the cost of shipping it into the market, stressing that Dangote decided to have a uniform cement price across Nigeria, so that nobody is disadvantaged. Makoju said: “Transport cost (of cement) is actually high. We are impressed by the Federal Government’s plan to invest in infrastructure, especially rail. That is a very good sign. We are also pushing for concrete road application. Right now, we are championing it across Nigeria. There are a few of them in Lagos and we are having it in other states on Nigeria. Good and strong concrete roads will ultimately help to bring down the cost of cement. “Twenty six thousand retail outlets of cement across Nigeria are actively supported by Dangote, through the provision of tables, chairs and signage. We are also empowering block makers and retailers of Dangote cement through promotions, leading to giving them containers and free cement. We are always in touch with our different constituents.” In his goodwill message, the paramount ruler of Ukwuaukwu-Ututu in Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia State, Eze Daniel Kalu Okore, who started making blocks in 1967 in Port Harcourt, before the civil war and continued after the war, stated that the unveiled BlocMaster cement is the best in the market, having used it on many occasions. While also speaking, the branch Chairman of the Nigerian Association of Highway and Transport Engineers, Francis Oriake, who is a specialist in construction of roads for over 35 years, described the new cement as good, strong and reliable, with value for money and that it was the cement to go for, for construction of roads, while also recommending it to all builders, other construction experts and block makers. A block maker, Ike Benedict, said: “Dangote BlocMaster cement dries faster. I have used it and it is the best and the king of cement.” In his remarks, Lucky Uche, an engineer, requested the reduction in the price of the Dangote cement from the current N2,500 per bag, for all Nigerians to be able to afford it, thereby becoming homeowners. Dangote cement’s Regional Sales Director, Johnson Olaniyi, while later speaking with reporters, noted that the BlocMaster cement had been adding value to block-making and construction works, stressing that the new product would meet the expectations of today and tomorrow. The cement giant’s Regional Director, Southsouth, George Okoro, revealed that 75 per cent of the persons in attendance at the launch were block makers, with the remaining 25 per cent being distributors of BlocMaster. Okoro stated that the endorsements of BlocMaster cement by the persons of honour at the elaborate event came from their hearts, while assuring that the high quality of the product would be sustained and noted that Dangote cement is employing and empowering many Nigerians. Indigenes and residents of the coastal communities of the Niger Delta need not worry again about construction projects in their areas, especially with the availability of stronger and more reliable Dangote’s BlocMaster cement, which will put an end to collapse of structures in the riverine communities with swampy terrain.