….Says only EFCC, others can probe him  The Ekiti State Governor, Kayode Fayemi on Monday said that he is not interested in probing his predecessor, Ayodele Fayose and that he has left him in the hands God. According to him, it is left for the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and other related bodies to carry out the probe. Speaking with State House correspondents after a closed-door meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, he said that he is only looking at the books. He said “Well, I am sure I have never said anything about probe; I only gave hints that I would look into the books prior to my swearing in. “Looking into books or account is the duty of any new governor; you need to know what you found on ground; I just talked about visitation panel into the education sector and institutions in the state. “There are other sectors in the state; and it will be good for me not to check what we found when we came into office and share that with the citizens of the state. “It is just accountability not probe. I am not EFCC; I am not ICPC; there are institutions that are charged with the responsibility to do that and it is entirely up to them if they want to probe the governor or not. “It is not my business; I leave the governor to God; I have said that before.’’ he added Fayose is being prosecuted by EFCC over 11-count charge of conspiracy and money laundering. Fayemi also said that his administration is taking steps that will lead to an increase in school enrollment in all parts of the state. According to him, the state government had since introduced free and compulsory education at the primary and secondary levels, to encourage school attendance. “One of the very first things we are doing to increase enrollment is to make sure that all fees and levies that were put on the primary and secondary sector are removed. We have returned free education, compulsory and qualitative education to our basic education sector,” he stated. He said the steps taken are aimed at restoring the state to its leading position in education in Nigeria. The education sector in Ekiti State, he said, has suffered some setbacks in recent time and the State government is doing its best to return the lost glory. The Governor however expressed regret that school enrollment has dropped and his administration is working hard to unravel the cause. “We do have a tradition of being the intellectual capital of this country but we seem to have lost that edge lately so we are doing what we can to reposition the sector particularly the basic and tertiary sectors. “On the tertiary sector we have set up visitation panels in all of the tertiary institutions, to review and  recommend what the critical and challenging issues are and how government should respond to the yearnings of this sector and in the basic education site, we are working hard to encourage enrollment into primary and secondary schools,” he said. He went on “We are doing all that we can to encourage more students to come into schools, so we are starting the school feeding programme in Ekiti State in order to ensure that students and kids that are not opportune to be in school are in school. “We are also ensuring that we pay salaries regularly because you cannot expect parents who have not received salaries and wages for 6-10 months on one hand and their children are been asked to pay education levy on the other hand to have the capacity to send such children to school and we need to make sure that education, which we see in our party as a right not a privilege should be free at least at the basic level is free,” he said 