As part of plans to boost health care delivery in the state under its Healthcare Improvement Programme (Edo-HIP), the Edo State Government has remodelled 20 primary health care centres across the state. The 20 remodelled PHCs undid the Edo-HIP is the first step towards ensuring that 200 PHCs are built in the 192 wards in the state. Areas where PHCs are receiving facelifts are Sasaro Primary Healthcare Centre in Akoko Edo Local Government Area; Uwelu PHC, in Egor LGA; Ugbekpe PHC in Etsako Central LGA; Ewoyi PHC in Esan North East LGA; Ukpenu PHC in Esan West LGA; Eguare PHC in Igueben LGA; Ofumengbein PHC in Ovia South West LGA and Iyakhara PHC in Owan East LGA amongst others. The renovated health centres are equipped with solar-powered electricity, boreholes and laboratories to ensure rural dwellers have access to quality healthcare. To boost morale of the health workers ahead of the opening of the renovated health centres, the state government has pencilled 1,700 health workers to be trained under the Edo-HIP. Already, 174 health workers have been trained. Speaking while inspecting progress work at the health centres, Governor Godwin Obaseki explained that his administration focused on improving primary health care in the state is to train and retrain health workers for effective management of the health care system. Governor Obaseki stated that the Edo-HIP makes provision for rehabilitating the physical infrastructure in the PHCs through which electricity and water supply will be provided including the use of Information Communication Technologies (ICT) tools to capture patients’ data as well as a system to administer drugs and bill patients. Obaseki said his administration’s plan also include putting in place an all-encompassing health insurance programme to improve access to affordable health care in the rural areas. He assured that quality healthcare services would get to the doorsteps of all Edo residents no matter how far flung their locations to the urban areas are. His words, “We intend to have at least one primary health care center in each local government area which will help us study the workability of the programme before rolling out the proposed 200 primary health care centres across the state. When that is achieved, it means we will have one primary healthcare centre per ward. “Our target is to have 500 functional primary healthcare centres at the end of our administration that will be fitted with e-patient software, reliable sources of power and water, drugs, computers and furniture amongst other facilities.” “We have a bill before Edo State House of Assembly (EDHA), which will soon be passed into law to ensure rural people buy into our health insurance scheme. A team has been set up to work out the operational modalities for the programme. “The Edo-HIP is an extensive programme to revamp Primary Health Care across the state with a goal to locate at least one functional PHC center in each ward in the state, with the target set at 200 PHCs. Executive Secretary, Edo State Primary Health Care Development Agency (EDSPHCDA), Dr. Mrs. Mbarie Imuwahen, said the plan is to make the PHC conducive for the people through the proviso. Of necessary infrastructure to improve the quality of service. According to her, “Work is ongoing in all the 20 pilot PHC centers. We have competed work on the PHC centers in Warake, Ofumwegbe, Uwelu, Ugbeke and Ukpenu, all in different LGAs. We have finished installation of the solar power system in Uwelu, Warake and Ofumwegbe PHCs. This will ensure that those working in the PHC have regular power to work. This is actually renovation work. We are fencing the premises, renovating failing structures and also providing the much-needed materials to boost the quality of healthcare.” Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Primary Health Centers, Dr. Aanu Fakunle, explained that the Edo-HIP includes various interventions targeted at the rehabilitation work at the PHCs to meet NPHCDA infrastructural standards for primary healthcare delivery; Provision of essential drugs and medical appliances in the PHC and provision of amenities such as 24-hours power and potable water supply. She said the objectives are to improve population health status and wellbeing of the good people of Edo State by improving access to, efficiency, and quality primary health care services in all centers.