The Katsina State Police Command, on Tuesday evening, paraded no fewer than 7 armed suspects for alleged armed robbery and kidnap operations particularly along Birnin-Gwari and Rugu forests They include Mohammed Tukur, 30 of Kubau local government area of Kaduna state; Ibrahim Umar, 18 of Maidabino village, Danmusa local government area of Katsina state and Musa Sani,19, of Kankara local government area also of Katsina state. The state police Commissioner, Muhammadu Wakili who briefed the press before parading the suspects at the Command headquarters in Katsina, revealed that the first three suspects were arrested on 17, November, 2018 following a distress call received by Divisional police officer  for Malumfashi local government area,SP Atiku and his team  that  armed bandits had attacked  a cow trader, Alhaji Salisu Abdullahi and his brother, Shehu Abdullahi and rustled seventy cows from them. The police Commissioner said” The police team had a fierce encounter with the hoodlums and succeeded in arresting some of them. “In the course of investigation, two AK 47 rifles with Breech Nos.1968th 5545 and 1975842222, thirty-nine rounds of life ammunition and nineteen rounds of blank ammunition were recovered from the suspects. Investigation is ongoing with a view to arresting other members of their syndicate.” Also paraded were Samaila Yau,35 and Sanusi Bello,30 ,both of Gangara village, Malumfashi local government area of katsina state. They were arrested on 12, November, 2018 as they were about allegedly kidnapping one Mallam Magaji Umaru, of Kuriri village also in the local government area. Wakili further disclosed that the duo had already confessed to committing the crime. He said “On 17, November, 2018 at about 09:00hrs,men of the Safer High way and police patrol team attached to Batsari division, Katsina state, arrested the duo of one Abubakar Saidu, m ,aged 20 years of Giwa local government area  of Kaduna state and Adamu Haruna,m,aged 25 years of Ilela village, Safana local government area of katsina state in possession of one empty shell of GPMG ammunition’’. “In the course of investigation, suspects confessed to belonging to gangs of kidnappers/ cattle rustlers operating in Birnin-Gwari forest and were invited to Rugu forest for their nefarious activities. The sum of twenty thousand naira (N20,000) was found in possession of Abubakar Saidu who confessed   that the money is a proceed of kidnapping. Suspects confessed to various kidnappings within and outside the state. Investigation is ongoing.’ He assured that all the suspects would soon appear in court after completion of investigation on their various cases.