The World Toilet Day is celebrated annually on 19th November. It is a day set aside by the United Nations (UN) to tackle global sanitation crisis. The day is set aside to inform, engage and inspire people to take action toward achieving the goal of ending open defecation. The theme for the 2018 day “When Nature Calls”, tells us of the need to use a good toilet, in answering the call of nature, and not to expose our waste publicly, as it causes environmental hazards, that can lead to sickness. Studies show that it is dangerous to delay defecation, countering the belief of some people that like to wait till they get to a comfortable place Research further show that holding defecation for a long period leads to death, which is the reason public toilets are available around for anyone who wants to use it at any time. A counter to the use of public toilets is that it is easy for people to get diseases from these toilets. Toilet diseases can however be prevented by observing total cleanliness and carefulness. Some common toilet disease contracted is: 1. Escherichia coli also known as Ecoli, which is normally found in the gastro intestinal tract, and is responsible for diarrhea. It is one if the commonest disease contracted in toilet. The symptoms of this disease include vomiting, abdominal pain, diarrhea. 2. Norovirus: This virus gets into the body through the faucets handles and door knobs as well as other surfaces. Signs of norovirus includes vomiting, fever, abdominal pain,diarrhea. This is why it is important to thoroughly wash the hands after using a public toilet 3. Staphylococcus also referred to as staph is one of the most dangerous toilet disease because it is a bacterium that has the ability to live for a lengthy period on a surface. If anyone infected by staph must get thorough treatment because it can just result from a minor illness to a more serious illness like pneumonia 4. Influenza is known to be a highly contagious viral infection of the respiratory passage that can be contacted in a dirty toilet surface and it causes fever, aching, catarrh, sore throat 5. Streptococcus is mostly found arranged in the throat, It is said to be most contracted disease in the toilet seat. It cause several diseases with the symptoms of pneumonia, rheumatic fever,strep throat and so on 6.  Shigella bacteria is a disease gotten when the infected surface in the rest room is touched such as the door handle, toilet seat, towel roller and tap. A person can also be infected when the water used is contaminated Shigella bacteria symptoms are diarrhea, dysentery, abdominal pain.