…Receives security report from NIPSS  President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday declared that the security challenges facing the country were caused by internal and external factors. He made the remark while receiving security report from the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to him, the security challenges his administration met in 2015 was threatening the lives and property of the country. Towards finding a sustainable solution to the problem, he said that it necessitated the commissioning of NIPSS to have a holistic view of the country’s security problems. He said, “In November 2017 I tasked the management of National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies with the responsibility of strengthening the nation’s internal security framework through community policing by proposing borders, policy, offence and strategy. And I think this is what the report is all about. “The decision of government was borne out of sincere desire to find sustainable solutions to the many security challenges inherited by this administration. These challenges not only threaten the security of lives and property of our people but also the sovereignty, territorial integrity of our country. “We are confronted by Boko Haram insurgency in the North East, worrisome conflict with respect to farmers and herdsmen which has resulted in wanton destruction of lives and property across the country. Furthermore there is the crisis of separatist agitation in the South East, and militancy in the South-South. “Government is convinced that these security challenges are rooted in both internal and external factors. Most importantly, government is also convinced that finding sustainable solutions to these challenges will require the support and collaboration of security agencies and communities,” he said. The report of NIPSS, he said, was timely as it came at the time his government was changing security strategies of the country. The President said that he would study the report and its recommendations. He assured NIPSS that the Ministry of Budget and National planning will work towards providing necessary funding for the institute.