With so much dependence on oil over the years, the Nigerian economy last Wednesday got another boost towards diversification. Before the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration came on board in 2015, Nigeria had operated an almost absolute mono-economy. Oil was the main base of the Nigeria economy with the sector mostly contributing over over 90% of Nigeria’s revenue. Then, there was near total neglect of other sectors of the economy as there were huge incomes from sale of oil at the international market. But with the crashing of the oil price to around $30 per barrel at the inception of Buhari’s administration in 2015, more Nigerians began to really see oil discovery in Nigeria as source of ‘doom’ and not ‘boom’. They specifically blamed the past administrations in the country for not channeling the huge incomes from oil to develop infrastructures and support the growth of other sectors in the country in order to become foreign exchange earners and for Nigeria to have a multi-revenue based economy. No wonder when Buhari came on board, he had to restructure the economy towards diversification. With very little coming from oil, Buhari, with the right policies and more access to funds and fertilizers, encouraged Nigerians to go back to agriculture. He wanted to make the sector what it used to be during the pre-independence and independence era when it was a major foreign exchange earner. While so much is said to have been achieved in the agriculture sector in the past three and half years with the savings of billions of dollars from stoppage of rice importation into Nigeria and correspondent increase in consumption of locally produced rice, the Nigerian masses on the street are still yearning for the price of bag of rice to crash in the market. They are also awaiting the commencement of rice exportation from Nigeria to other countries to earn foreign exchange. So much is also said to have been achieved in the mines and steel development sector. While the environment is being created to fully turn around the mines and steel sector, it was claimed that so far in 2018 alone about N3 billion has been remitted to the Federation Account. Other sectors of the economy, as a departure from the past, have also been claimed to be doing well in the past three and half years under Buhari. To ensure that the Nigeria economy is expanded further, the Buhari’s administration last Wednesday introduced another diversification policy. The new effort towards diversification of the economy approved during the Federal Executive Council meeting was a National leather policy. The policy, among other objectives, aims to encourage export of finished leather products from Nigeria to boost foreign exchange earnings. On the new policy, the Minister of Science and Technology, Ogbonnaya Onu, said “The Federal Executive Council has approved the National leather and leather products policy that will enable government attract more investment into the sector. “We would now harness our leather resources in a manner that will allow us make more gains instead of exporting raw leather or semi-finished products. “We want to prepare our nation so that we can process our leather and use the leather in production of finished leather products. “This has application in almost every sector of our economic life, including footwear, apparels and automobile industry. “There is hardly any machine that you will open without finding leather component. “This is the only way we can create more jobs and a lot of wealths. And we would be in a position to fight poverty. “In any country, they always start with textiles and then leather. Here we have comparative advantage because our Labour cost is low,” he added. The Minister went on “As far as light leather is concerned, we are number two in Africa and number 8 in terms of exporting leather in the world. “If we harness the leather we have in Nigeria and that we processed our hides and skins, we will be creating a lot of jobs and wealth because of the small scale enterprises that will spring up. “You will now be having new businesses springing up. President Buhari is very much interested … that those who want to work can work. “In terms of contributions, leather contributes almost $921 million to our economy, as at 2013. There was a time leather was number three in terms of contributions from the non- oil sector. We believe that leather will help us achieve much to the economy.” Explaining that possible problems from the policy are being taken care of, he said “On health hazards associated with processing, this is exactly why you have the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology and we have the Leather Research Institute in Zaria. “This institute is conducting research in the various segments. This is the only organization permitted to offer higher training in the leather industry. “When you use certain chemicals, you have to find a way to treat before you can discharge them into any water source. A percentage will be in what is environmentally acceptable. They are working on that at the moment. “We are very much aware of that because we have ternaries at the moment. We want to make sure that our people are safe,” he said. With the on-going efforts, it is hoped that the abundant resources in Nigeria will be properly harnessed to change the story of the nation. That Nigeria will truly become the ‘Giant of Africa’ and a force to reckon with in the international community based on its massive human and natural resources.