•Meets with political parties The Akwa Ibom State Police Commissioner, Musa Kimo, has expressed dismay over the crisis rocking the House of Assembly. He urged political parties to strive for peace during next year’s election. Kimo, who spoke yesterday when he met with leaders of 20 political parties in the state, described the crisis as ‘ugly and worrisome’. He enjoined the political parties to maintain peace before, during and after the elections by playing by the rules. The police boss asked leaders of the political parties to rein their supporters and loyalists, by advising them to eschew violence, thuggery and other social vices capable of tarnishing the images of their respective parties. Kimo assured the people that the police would be professional and follow the rules of law in the discharge of their duties, but warned that it would deal decisively with trouble makers. He said: “Let me praise and congratulate the parties for successful primaries. But the recent happenings, especially at the Assembly, are worrisome, excruciating and disturbing. “I feel it is important and expedient to invite you to meet in search of peace. Peace is essential because without it, it will be difficult to do anything meaningful, especially political activities. I enjoin you to have a peaceful political environment to enable you go about your activities. I advise you to play by the rules as you did during your primaries. “The Police would be apolitical, neutral, fair and just to everybody. The Inspector General of Police (IG) has given us the order not to be partisan and be fair and professional in dealing with the public. So, you have nothing to fear because we are going to work together.” Deputy Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Ita Udoesen was confident that Kimo would not go out of the rules of engagement, saying the party would play according to the laid down rules. Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Harrison Ekpo congratulated the police boss for his posting to the state, and hoped he would ensure effective policing of the state and be fair to all. 