President Muhammadu Buhari and Service chiefs met yesterday over the recent attacks on and killing of soldiers by Boko Haram insurgents at the 157 Task Force Battalion in Metete, in Borno State community on the Nigeria-Chad border. According to Presidency sources, all the Service chiefs and the Inspector-General of Police met behind closed doors with the President at the State House in Abuja. The President, in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, had Saturday expressed deep shock over the killing of troops. Shehu said in the statement that the President had taken measures to block the loopholes which led to the fatalities in the November 18 attack. It said that the President and his administration remained more committed and focused on the security of military personnel and other citizens. The statement reads: “No responsible Commander-in-Chief would rest on his oars or fold his hands to allow terrorists to endanger the lives of its military personnel and other citizens. “Our loyal forces have proved their strength over the terrorists and we are ready to give them all the needed support in terms of equipment and manpower to succeed in ending the renewed threat. “In the coming days, I am engaging the Military and Intelligence Chiefs in extensive discussions on the next steps we shall be taking.” The President pointed out that fighting terrorism has taken a global dimension, which necessitates international collaboration among states facing similar security challenges. He reassured Nigerians of his continued commitment to their security and of his efforts to sustain the momentum in the previous significant successes recorded against the terrorists. But, he warned Nigerians against making a political capital out of national tragedy, stressing that members of the armed forces are one family who are commonly committed to the security and safety of all. The President had at the week ordered dispatched the Defence Minister Brig.-Gen Mansur Dan Ali to go and meet the President of Chad and the country’s Defence Minister on how to tackle insurgency within the borders of the two countries.