The senator representing Ondo North, Prof Ajayi Boroffice, has warned Nigerians not be distracted by the antics of those who destroyed the economy and are still seeking to return to power. He stressed that there is no vacancy in Aso Rock. Speaking at the inauguration of various support groups under the Presidential Support Committee (PSC) for the Buhari/Osinbajo re-election bid, Boroffice urged Nigerians to queue behind President Muhammadu Buhari to continue the building of a nation that all Nigerians would be proud of. The senator said Nigerians are united by the desire to have good governance, ensure justice and equity as well as fight pervasive corruption in the land. He noted that these can only be achieved through President Buhari. Boroffice said Nigerians would be doing themselves a lot of good, if they continued to support the President for his second term bid, adding that the time had come to consolidate on the gains the present administration had recorded. He said: “We will line up behind President Buhari and we are united behind this cause. We will succeed, by the grace of God.” The Special Adviser (SA) to the President on Disability Matters Dr. Samuel Ankeli said people with disability would work for the success of the President in next year’s general elections. He said: “You see him as a man of integrity, but for those of us in the disability world, we see him as our eyes, our ears and our legs. “He has given us a voice where others relegate us. Today, we can sit down with others and discuss. In the past, people saw us as lepers. But that has changed. A man who sits with you to decide on your future has done a great thing for you. So, we celebrate him and we are ready to go anywhere with him. “Where others failed, we won. At the international level, we have won several laurels for this country. President Buhari has empowered us, and we our loyalty goes to him.” Also, the Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the President on Political Matters Gideon Zamani said President Buhari came to fight corruption and injustice in the country and had done so credibly well. He urged the support groups and the zonal committees of the PSC to take the campaign for the President’s re-election to states, local governments, wards and unit levels for massive sensitisation of the electorate on the gains of the Buhari administration. PSC’s National Publicity Secretary Ebunola Martins said it would be an error of judgment for Nigerians to allow those who destroyed the economy to return to power.