The absence of defence witnesses, yesterday, stalled the trial of alleged billionaire kidnap kingpin Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike a.k.a Evans at an Ikeja High Court. The trial judge, Justice Hakeem Oshodi, had at last hearing, fixed yesterday for continuation of the suspect’s trial to determine whether or not his confessional statement was voluntarily made to the police, following his arrest. Evans is facing trial alongside six others on a two-count charge of conspiracy and  kidnapping brought against them by the Lagos state government before Justice Hakeem Oshodi. The other defendants are Uche Amadi, Ogechi Uchechukwu, Chilaka Ifeanyi, Okwuchukwu Nwachukwu and Victor Aduba. They all pleaded ‘not guilt’y to the charges. At the resumed proceedings, yesterday, Evans’ counsel, Olanrewaju Ajanaku, told the court that their witnesses were not in court and prayed the court for short adjournment. The prosecution, led by the Director, Directorate of Public Prosecution (DPP), Titilayo Shitta-Bay, did not oppose the request. Justice Oshodi, therefore, adjourned the case till December 7, 2018, for adoption of their written address in respect of trial within trial with the consent of counsel to parties in the suit. Evans, had at the last proceedings, October 26, testified about how he was allegedly tortured by members of Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Response Team and the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). Led in defence by his counsel, Ajanaku, Evans claimed to have been tortured and made to witness the execution of more than 30 persons while being interrogated at the back of the guest house of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) at Onikan. “They took me to the backyard of the I.G’s guest house. I sustained injuries on my head and body and Mr Phillip asked the policemen to walk on me and when I started bleeding, he said, ‘you think we are joking here?’ “At the backyard, I saw some people that I was paraded with, they were wearing leg chains, some of them had bullet wounds on their legs and Mr Phillip ordered Idowu Haruna to bring a big brown cellotape, handkerchief and polybags. “Idowu Haruna forced a handkerchief into the mouth of one of them, he used the cellotape to tape his mouth and face, and put a polybag over his head and cellotaped it and used another poly bag and cellotaped it for the second time and they left the man on the ground. “The man on the ground was shaking, he pissed (urinated) on his body, he poo pooed (defecated) on his body and after a while he went quiet. “Idowu Haruna went to the man and stepped on his body and he was unresponsive and he told me, can you see I have travelled him.” Under cross examination by the prosecution, Ms Shitta-Bay, Evan contended, “The story I told the court was never an afterthought, SARS killed more than 30 people in my presence, the killings took place at the I.G’s guesthouse in Ikoyi.”