Nigerian singer and vocalist Jeff Akoh rose to prominence after winning the season eighth of Project Fame West Africa, at the age of 18, making him the youngest winner. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUKANMI, the talented singer speaks about how his encounter with Dede transformed his career among other issues. Excerpts: Tell us about your current work? It is titled First Dance. It is about that special feeling you get when you have your first dance as a couple. It is quite different from the one you have dating. It is different because the memory stays with you forever. It will be out very soon. What are your plans? In the first place I am grateful to have won, among the great contestants that we came into the academy together with the same vision to be the winner. But I am glad that I was singled out as the winner, in 2013. I am excited for the journey So far.  There have been ups and downs, but nothing beats steady progress and I know that at every point, I have been able to break through and I am grateful that I have a story to tell about my career. I take it one step at a time. And there is nothing better than that, growing organically. I am excited and grateful to God and my family for support and being able to live my career. What makes you different from others that we have been listening to? The good thing is that there have been growth and progress in the industry. And then I am not a regular artiste.  I try to do different kind of music to express myself fully. That is the kind of artiste I am.  I try to show my versatility and professionalism. So, I can do whatever I want to do at the  same time. Anything I release at a point in time shows how I feel at that moment. So it is just me expressing myself truly. How do you intend to deal with pressure to deliver? The good thing is I do not see myself under any pressure. I live my life one step at a time like I said earlier. The goals are my goals. And as long as I am meeting my goals,that is what really matters. I make music for lovers of good music and there is no pressure at this side. Do you see yourself organizing shows too? Very soon, that will come into place and they will definitely come through. We have had artistes come and go, how do you intend to stay afloat? I have come to stay. This is what I have dreamt of doing all my life right from when I was a kid. And I plan to give it 100 per cent. I will be doing this all my life. Your first album was titled Lokoja, why? First of all,  I am from Kogi State. The whole idea of the album was to bring different ideas together and   bringing different sounds together.  I recorded like more than 100 songs and decided to choose that. The album was just to show my versatility to my fans. It was no way an experimental work. A lot of work was put into it and it is titled Lokoja,  meaning different sounds meeting in one place. It is  like different waters meeting in one place. What is your core goal concerning your musical career? The primary tool of music is the vocal, and that is very important to me. If there is no vocal there is no music. That is the mind and the soul coming together and singing your heart out to reach out to people. To others it might differ, but for me it is about the vocal 100 per cent  and it makes it perfect and instrument can come next. How did you feel when Dede described you as ‘True voice of Africa’? It definitely came from a place of sincerity and I was thrilled. I went to sing at one of the Industry Nite edition, and I sang my song ‘Never Let You Go’, which was my first single and I was on stage and Mr Dede came on stage, took the mic and announced that  he wanted to say something to me . He said ‘You are the true voice of Africa’. I was truly happy, I can’t really explain the words to describe the feeling and it meant a lot to me and made me want to do more. That is another level of pressure and makes you want to express yourself more to the world. So I am grateful to Mr Dede for those words and that means more work. Where do you see yourself after now? The target is the world and beyond. Music has no border and I want to be at the front roll with African sounds. Who would you love to have collaboration with? There are too many people I want to work with. So choosing one person is like hurting myself. My first experience in music I would have loved it to be and that will be Michael Jackson. He was the first person I listened to and watching him on TV at a young age, inspired me. It inspires me a whole lot and seeing him walk the stage and seeing people faint at his appearance on stages was a whole different experience for me as a kid and that kind of ignited the passion in me. Nothing can be compared to it. And I said to myself, this music has to be. You studied Sound Engineering in school, how has that helped your career? If I was asked what other thing I would have done aside music, I would say Sound Engineering. It will still be around music, it is what I live to do.