WOMEN have been urged to pay more attention to their health, especially  their lifestyles. They are also urged to do regular screenings. A medic, Dr Folake Olaleye gave the advice at the ‘’Dance for Wellness with Olori Ajayi’’ at 56′ held in Lagos. According to Olaleye, involvement in aerobic dance session could promote good cardiac health. Olaleye also urged women to check their blood pressure, urine, body mass index, cholesterol levels, among others, regularly. She said cancers that should not kill because they are largely preventable. “Many colorectal cancers can be prevented through regular screening. Screening can find precancerous polyps— abnormal growths in the colon or rectum—so that they can be removed before they turn into cancer. Screening is crucial because when found early, colorectal cancer is highly treatable. Early stages of colorectal cancer usually present no symptoms, which tend to appear as the cancer progresses. The American Cancer Society recommends that colorectal cancer screening should start at 45,” she explained. On what to look out for as symptoms of colorectal cancer, she said, are change in bowel habits, diarrhea, constipation, or feeling that the bowel does not empty completely. Others are bright red or very dark blood in the stool. Stools that look narrower or thinner than normal. Discomfort in the abdomen, including frequent gas pains, bloating, fullness, and cramps or weight loss. The event’s convener, Mrs Tola Ajayi, who brought the women together under the umbrella of her group, Womanhood with Olori Ranti Ajayi, said the inspiration for the programme came from her personal medical experience. “I went for routine check. My Bp was OK, but I was told to do cholesterol. I did. The result indicated a slight rise, and I was advised on simple lifestyle modifications. I did and got good results thereafter. “So, I told myself, if I am doing everything medically advisable, yet has raised cholesterol what happens to some other women who do not even check at all? So, as I clocked 56, I told myself I am going to start this, to encourage more women do life modifications and stay healthy.” The women were treated to basic screenings, exercise, wealth creation talks, a no power of investments.