There seems to be no end in sight to the leadership crisis in the Ondo State House of Assembly. Two lawmakers are parading themselves as speaker. Correspondent DAMISI OJO writes on the politics of the divided house. THE crisis that has engulfed the Ondo State House of Assembly has persisted. The lawmakers are working at cross purpose. Two speakers are laying claims to the leadership of the House. Peace dissappered from the legislative arm last week. This followed the purported impeachment of the Speaker, Bamidele Oleyelogun (Ifedore) and his deputy, Iroju Ogundeji (Odigbo 1). Security men now keep vigil at the Assembly complex to prevent chaos. The lawmakers were on the floor of the of the House with the intention of conducting the routine House businesses but the hallowed chamber suddenly turned into a battle ground. They sacked officers replaced by the former student union activist, Olamide George, (Akure North) as Speaker and Abimbola Fajolu (Ile-Oluji/Oke-Igbo) as his deputy. There have been plans to change the House leadership since a year ago. But, the moves were botched with the intervention of  Governor Akeredolu. Few months ago, the deputy speaker, Iroju Ogundeji, became the target. He was about to be impeached. But, the prompt intervention of Akeredolu saved him from losing his position. The imbroglio reappeared last Friday and  consumed both the Speaker and his deputy. With nine lawmakers on their side, they still hold the baton. They are supported by the NURTW’s troops stationed permanently with their buses at the entrance of the House to protect the minority lawmakers that are supposedly been backed by the state government. Ironically,the 16 majority lawmakers led by the new ‘Speaker’, Olamide George, are temporarily operating in Ibadan,the capital of Oyo State. The impeachment was rancorous as 18 of 26 legislators signed the impeachment notice. But, two out of them, Sunday Olamide and Oluyede Olusola, said they were not part of the process. However, what is so unique in the political impasse is the interference of political thugs, led by the Jacob Adebo (Idajo) of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW). The thugs were armed with guns, axes, charms, cudgels and other offensive weapons. They invaded the House. Some lawmakers reporters and Assembly workers were injured. It was a repeat of the incident at BTO, Hall, adjacent Ilesa garage, Akure when the NURTW warlords invaded the venue of the parallel congress of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The development was condemned across the state, as residents queried the rationale behind using NURTW’s militias  to attack innocent people at any public gatherings. They decried the ‘excessive power’ bestowed on the road transporters, which was not in practice during the successive administrations. Aggrieved members of the public said there was peace when ‘Commander Wey’ and ‘Die the matter’ the past NURTW leaders were in office as state chairmen of the union. Oleyelogun and Iroju have declared their purported impeachment as null and void. They insisted that the George’s group had perpetrated illegality in its impeachment bid. The embattled Speaker said the impeachment did not satisfy the constitutional requirement of the House as signatures collated were not up to 18, which represents the two – third requirement. The Speaker said signatures of Sunday Olajide and  Olusola Oluyede were forged by the other group. Oleyelogun said “ George’s group claimed to have formed two-third as a condition to impeach the speaker and the deputy speaker,  whereas they were less in number as Olajide and Oluyede were not part of the attempted impeachment. “ He added that the authorities of the House such as the “Original Mace or Gavel, Standing Order, Book of Oath and Proceedings were not honoured in the purported impeachment. According to him, serious business were not officially done on Fridays when the purported impeachment was carried out. The ‘home-based’ lawmakers also observed that the impeachment notice only sought to impeach the deputy speaker, stressing that that the letter written to the Clerk of the House of Assembly on November, 2018 was doctored. They insisted that George’s group intended to impeach the deputy speaker and not the speaker, but failed. He added: “It was the same letter written during a previous attempted impeachment against the deputy speaker that was doctored without the consent of all members.” The lawmakers also accused  George of misleading the House to cover up an on-going investigation into his true  financial rights from the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) where he is currently serving as Vice President. The factional group described George as  fraudulent for holding two public offices and receiving pay for both, noting that panels had been raised to find out this before he led the attempted impeachment to cover up his misdoings. The lawmakers asked George to stop parading himself as the speaker, adding that the plot has failed. Oleyelogun said: ”The clerk of the House of Assembly was made to serve them unofficially under duress. Also the attempted impeachment which was already foiled still has Olamide George parading himself as the speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, which is impersonation. “It is interesting to mention that the fraudulent group has two majority leaders in person of Araoyinbo Olugbenga Joseph and Fajolu Abimbola Olutope. With this, they do not have any Deputy Speaker as against their claims. “All the above are enough evidence to proof to the citizen of Ondo State that these people are not peace loving. They don’t care to put the state in problems just for their personal interests.“ He urged security operatives investigate and prosecute members of the House who have been suspended,while those behind the forged signatures should face the penalty. However, the ‘ new Speaker’ and other 10 members, who are presently performing their ‘oversight’ functions in Ibadan, accused some members of the executive of planning to eliminate them. They added  that five members of the House in their group were being hospitalised, following the injuries they sustained during the impeachment. The lawmakers said the impeachment was irreversible, stressing that Oleyelogun and Iroju were impeached for alleged gross misconduct, financial recklessness, abuse of power and incompetence. George said the impeachment was an internal exercise within the House with constitutional backing and not targeted at anyone. He denied that the ‘new principal officers’ were sponsored by some governors and APC chieftains. The lawmaker mocked his colleagues, who he described as ‘impeached speaker and deputy’ for presiding over an Assembly on last Monday, wondering if it is possible for minority group to lead the majority. George emphasised that Oleyelogun and his group were also under suspension. As the leadership battle rages on, no one could predict the actual time the crisis will be over, considering the fact that it is the fall-out of the 2016 APC primaries and election, which created a wide gulf between the APC factions.