The Presidential Amnesty Office is stepping up efforts to maintain peace in the Niger Delta. It held an enterpreneurial conference to equip beneficiaries with skills to better their lot, writes Southsouth Bureau Chief BISI OLANIYI The administration of the late President Umaru Yar’Adua, in 2009, initiated the amnesty offer for repentant Niger Delta militants, which was backed by the government of former President Goodluck Jonathan and still being supported by President Muhammadu Buhari, to ensure sustainable peace in the Niger Delta. Most of the former “Generals” and their “boys” embraced the amnesty offer and surrendered large quantities of arms, other dangerous weapons, ammunition, high-capacity speed boats, dynamites/bombs, gunboats and bullet-proof vests, among others. The leader of Niger Delta Peoples Volunteer Force (NDPVF), Alhaji Mujahid Dokubo-Asari, who is a former President of the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), and many of his warlords, however, declined to accept the amnesty offer, insisting that they were not criminals, but freedom fighters, who wanted commensurate development in the crude oil and gas-rich Niger Delta region and empowerment of the people. The Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP), as part of its efforts to empower and showcase the beneficiaries of the amnesty initiative, decided to organise three-day entrepreneurial conference and fair between November 7 and 9, the first of its kind in PAP, at the highbrow Hotel Presidential, Port Harcourt, the capital of Rivers State. The entrepreneurial fair, with theme: “Entrepreneurial Revolution: Key to Sustainable Peace in Niger Delta,” was organised in partnership with the Port Harcourt Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture (PHCCIMA) and other partners, as part of PAP’s empowerment strategies to showcase its successful entrepreneurs to the business community. The Post-Training and Engagement (PTE) Unit of PAP has so far empowered over four thousand delegates/ex-militants, of which sample of 50 delegates were invited to the fair, described as the first phase, in many other planned entrepreneurship fairs for the delegates, while the beneficiaries had earlier been presented with starter packs to support them in their freely-chosen endeavours. One of the beneficiaries of the entrepreneurship fair, Lawrence Enoch, from Bonny Island in Rivers State, who is into fashion designing, thanked PAP for empowering the youths of Niger Delta, disclosing that he had a success story to tell and currently having two branches, with ten other youths already trained by him, while assisting four other persons, whose parents he did not know. Another beneficiary, Gabriel Amadi, an Ikwerre man, also from Rivers State, described himself as a successful fish farmer, through the PAP, while revealing that he started with 1,000 fingerlings in two tanks, but now an appreciative owner of 15,000 fishes in ten tanks. Amadi admonished the beneficiaries of PAP to be very serious and better their lives through the assistance from the Federal Government, while warning the delegates not to sell the equipment and other items given to them by PAP, stressing that if they did their jobs well, they would earn more than the N65,000 monthly stipend to each ex-militant from PAP. The fourth Coordinator of PAP, Prof. Charles Dokubo, who was appointed in March this year, also stated that President Muhammadu Buhari is committed to the development of the Niger Delta and empowerment of the people, especially the youths. Dokubo, earlier in his opening remarks, disclosed that the entrepreneurial fair was for delegates empowered in different trade areas, with operational businesses in the Niger Delta. He noted that the fair was to showcase goods and services achieved in the private sector through Small and Medium-scaled Enterprises (SMEs) of the PAP delegates, stressing that the fair would improve the businesses of the delegates by providing links for business expansion, with less dependency on the young entrepreneurs fighting for self-elevation into the market all alone, but to give them a formal support that explore potential partners in the business world, for them to seek business opportunities and collaboration. The coordinator of PAP said: “With my arrival at the PAP, I felt it very vital to improve on the empowerment project of the office, by initiating the need to showcase the young entrepreneurs of the PAP, through the fair. “The value-chain effects of the fair will serve as a motivator to other delegates in taking their businesses seriously. When the businesses are booming, it will offer opportunities for expansion, thus contributing to job creation and wealth generation, which is in line with my vision at the PAP.” Dokubo also hailed the continual support of President Buhari to not only the PAP, but also to the good people of the Niger Delta and the overall rural industrialisation policy of his administration, stating that the people of the region were grateful for the President’s unalloyed support for the Niger Delta. He also lauded the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, SAN, for immense support he had personally given to the affairs, development and stability of the Niger Delta, assuring that PAP would do all it could to bring peace and stability to the region. The coordinator commended the entrepreneurs, who against all odds, resolved to actualise the goal of the PAP, while fighting through the challenges in business start-up and were able to be showcased, pointing out that the fair was just a stepping stone to greater heights. The governor of Rivers State, Chief Nyesom Wike, in his address, also described the people of the crude oil and gas-rich Niger Delta as peace-loving, hardworking and not lazy, as being insinuated by some persons. He noted that the Niger Delta, consisting of Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta, Edo, Ondo, Akwa Ibom, Cross River, Abia and Imo States, have potential to transform Nigeria, while urging other Nigerians and people all over the world to disregard the negative narratives about the region. Wike, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Amnesty, Ken Chinda, said: “The youths of the Niger Delta are energetic and industrious. My administration will continue to support the youths. N2 billion was recently released to empower Rivers youths. N200 million is also being made available monthly to support SMEs.” Rivers governor also assured that his government would always support the PAP, while describing Rivers state as very peaceful and investors’ friendly. In his keynote address, the President of PHCCIMA, Dr. Emi Membere-Otaji, noted that the starting point would be the show of strong political will on the part of the government to develop the Niger Delta, while adopting the carrot-and-stick approach to tame the security challenges. Membere-Otaji, who was represented by PHCCIMA’s elected council member, Mrs. Edughom Hanson, said it was pertinent that the government put into action, the call by the Vice-President that oil companies relocate their headquarters to their areas of operation in the Niger Delta, making them to in tandem with the various governments, develop the region. He said: “It will be necessary to reorientate and train the people of the Niger Delta, especially the youths and community leaders, to discard the rent-seeking and entitlement mentality, about dignity of labour and to stop being hostile to any form of business activities in their localities, more so private ones that are not related in any way or form to the acquired oilfields. “Most of the key oil producing Niger Delta states are coastal, but with moribund seaports, which are in different stages of infrastructural decay, with un-dredged channels, resulting in importers and exporters doing businesses in these areas using the Western ports in Lagos for their cargo. The socioeconomic effects of ports and shipping revival in the Niger Delta cannot be overemphasised. Singapore is today a first world economy by being just a shipping hub. “To encourage shipping companies to use the eastern ports, government should commence reduction in its ports and pilotage charges to make up for the extra operational costs of the companies, occasioned by increased piracy and infrastructural deficit.” The president of PHCCIMA also stated that with the long stretch of coastline, rivers and creeks in the Niger Delta, industrial and commercial artisanal fishing should be supported. Membere-Otaji implored all stakeholders, including the oil companies, federal government, and the various states and local governments to develop and fast-track the general ease of doing business, including the provision of adequate power, security and infrastructure, among others, in the Niger Delta. Rivers Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Dr. Nancy Chidi-Nwankwo, in her goodwill message, disclosed that the state government was always willing to partner the PAP. Chidi-Nwankwo, who was represented by the ministry’s SME Director, Mr. Joseph Akara, described Rivers as business friendly with beautiful opportunities, in view of the state governor’s commitment and giant strides in infrastructural development, while urging the youths to always believe in themselves, adding that with knowledge and open hands, they would succeed. Chairman, Rivers House of Assembly Committee on Commerce and Industry, Mr. Enemi Alabo-George, a former banker, in his remarks, urged Niger Deltans to always go in the direction of wealth creation, stressing that job creation was not sufficient and urged the youths to adequately equip themselves for tomorrow, adding that it takes painstaking dedication to succeed in life. On the second day of the entrepreneurial fair, one of the resource persons, Mr. Uche Onochie, who is the President of Marketplace Apostles, said: “Pride and anger do not go with making money.” While also speaking, Chika Chinwo of PHCCIMA, urged the beneficiaries to place emphasis on excellence, hard work and further self-development, while declaring that youth restiveness, militancy and free money would not help the people of the Niger Delta. Three resource persons: Emmanuel Echewisi, a retired General Manager, Marketing and Sales of Michelin Nigeria Limited; Mrs. Adesuwa Kagho, the Southsouth Zonal Manager of Bank of Agriculture; and Harrison Osauwagboe, the Deputy Manager, Rivers State Office of Bank of Industry; addressed the delegates on the third day of the fair. Echewisi, who spoke on customer care/service, stated that if customer care fails, the business is bound to fail, describing customer care as the soul of every business, thereby producing satisfied customers, who would definitely become ambassadors of the products or services, with more money to be made, leading to retention of customers, for the business not to die, while adding that unhappy customers are like lost opportunities. Kagho, in her presentation, urged the beneficiaries to start small and grow the business with patience, endurance, perseverance, commitment and hard work, while telling them not to be afraid of making mistakes, but to learn from them and grow. Osauwagboe, a young man, urged the entrepreneurs that while starting small, they should also start in phases, know what they are doing and have basic knowledge of the business, admonishing them to always package their businesses well and continue to improve their quality. With Niger Delta youths taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the PAP, they will no longer be involved in violence, thuggery, cultism, militancy, sea piracy and other criminal activities, but to become useful members of the society. 