The Covenant Christian Centre (CCC) has organised a Young Professionals Boot (YPB) camp where 200 young people were trained on how to solve practical problems through entrepreneurship and creativity. EDDY UWOGHIREN (500-Level, Medicine and Surgery, University of Benin) reports. No fewer than 200 young people participated in the third edition of the Young Professionals Boot (YPB) camp organised by Covenant Christian Centre (CCC). The event hosted youths from diverse backgrounds. The participants were selected from over 1,000 applicants across the country. They received practical training in entrepreneurship to drive innovation and success in the market place. The aim of the training was to equip young people with skills that would motivate them to lead the transformation of the national economy. The five-day training, held at the Digital Bridge Institute in Oshodi, Lagos, saw the participants mentored in entrepreneurship, corporate career and creativity. In his address at the opening session, Pastor Poju Oyemade of CCC congratulated the participants for their “successful selection”, while encouraging them to use the opportunity to acquire skills that would change their stories. Speaking on Overcoming self-defeating patterns, Oyemade advised them to always get mentoring that would help them improve their managerial skills, saying only skills would make them to survive in the modern world. He said: “When you get to a stage in life and you feel stagnated, never be bitter by your condition. Just know that the environment has placed a demand on you to change the way you are doing things in order to experience change.” The clergyman added that though intellectual knowledge is necessary to build business,   there is the need for participants to develop boldness in order to confront any situation life may bring their way. He charged them to see themselves as problem solvers and ensure they impart the knowledge gained from the programme to others around them. Speaking on Building a successful career, Obinna Ukachukwu from Hygeia HMO told the participants that there would be a stage in their life they would need dependability, reliability and good attitude as only skills they require to build successful career. “You must understand that there is no perfect career. Rather, the ability to use your background and skills to monetise available opportunities is key to building a successful career,” he said. Obinna said told the young professionals that there is no defined career path, adding that the ability to explore available opportunities would give clarity on the right career path. He said: “Your degree is not your career. Reinvent yourself constantly before you become obsolete. You are only as good as the results delivered. Build new network and learn new skills. Execute, connect and immerse.” Other facilitators at the boot camp spoke on Building a successful business in Nigeria, Work ethics for young professionals, Core skills required for high flyers in the corporate career, Business communication and presentation skills, and Power of mentoring, amongst others. The participants also got training professional way in writing curriculum vitae, and job interview skills. The programme featured a business pitch competition in which the participants developed various business ideas and plans to execute the ideas. Two of the participants, Cynthia Ajuonuma, a 400-Level Insurance student of University of Benin (UNIBEN), and Adepoju Opetunde, a 500-Level Medical Physiology student of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) hailed the church for giving them the opportunity to participate in the training. Cynthia said: “This is the finest moment I have had in the year. The training was rich in content and gave me the opportunity to network with other participants. For me, it is a wonderful experience. Given the rich practicable content, it is not out of place to say that the facilitators are better than lecturers in tertiary institutions who train undergraduates with the outdated materials. “The reason why we have high rate of unemployment in the country is that, we operate a system in which unqualified people are employed to train students. Government should do something about this trend to arrest the trend of unemployable graduates. Having participated in the boot camp, I am grateful for the opportunity.”