Zakat, the Islamic way of wealth redistribution, can be deployed in fighting poverty and insecurity, Lagos State Deputy Governor Idiat Adebule has suggested. Speaking yesterday at the 14th Zakat Distribution Ceremony of the Zakat and Sadaqat Foundation (ZSF) at the Lagos State Secretariat Mosque in Alausa, Ikeja, Dr. Adebule said Zakat payment would promote economic equality and love. About N142.9 million was distributed to 1,516 beneficiaries at the ceremony. Mrs Adebule, represented by Lagos State Chairperson of College of Nigeria Pathologists (CNP) Prof. Fatimah AbdulKareem, said: “When we take from the wealthy to distribute to the appropriate beneficiaries, there is constant circulation of wealth such that it is not concentrated in the hands of a few. “Zakat gives rise to relative equality among mankind. It fosters feeling of love and harmony as well as cohesion within the society. In the present day Nigeria, wealth circulates among a few, while the majority languish in poverty. “The few wealthy ones, unfortunately, don’t feel secure living among the majority who are poor, hungry and angry; thus the wealthy spend so much on security when all it takes is to give out 2.5 per cent as zakat. “It is economic inequality that results in increasing crime, hooliganism and other vices in the society.  Zakat is a means to prevent all these vices in the society by ensuring social security.” Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr. Abdullateef Abdulhakeem urged the government to give legal backing to zakat. He said: “Anyone who possesses wealth must realise that he/she is a distributor on behalf of the giver – Allah. There is so much wealth within the community, but because we have failed to activate our sense of generosity, many people are suffering. “Charity will do a lot to alleviate poverty in the society. Zakat is something that even the government should give legal backing to. It will be a form of Public Private Partnership that will assist the government to get funds to alleviate poverty.” Lagos State Chief Imam Sheikh Sulaiman Oluwatoyin Abou-Nollah advised Muslims to prioritise investments in areas capable of reducing poverty among Muslims. He said: “It is important for us to invest. There is no how we can get to the level that we want to be without investing. It is key for us to invest. Zakat is about enriching the poor so that they can get to the level that is sustainable. We have a lot of challenges in Nigeria to make us surmount the economic challenge.” Former University of Lagos Vice Chancellor Prof. Bello Rahmon, who chaired the event, said investments should be based on the people’s health needs. He said: “This is one of the few events to showcase the beauty of Islam. It is an aspect of our religion that must be put to use. The level of unemployment is high. You find hundreds and thousands of graduates roaming the streets. This results in crimes and zakat is one of the ways to get this resolved. “We must continue to consider the possibilities of setting up institutions that can assist in unemployment and health challenges. We need to set up clinics that attend to ailments in our society.” ZSF Executive Director Prince Sulayman Olagunju said the foundation was worried about the growing rate of poverty. He said: “We were deeply touched seeing the number of Nigerians wallowing in abject poverty, which has been one of the propelling forces driving us to step up zakat collections on a yearly basis despite the economic situation. “Today, with the support of our zakat payers, we are pleased to inform you that N142,938,905 is being distributed to 1,516 beneficiaries in Lagos State out of the N318,152,130 zakat mobilised for this year, as at October 31. “However, we still have a long way to go as many are still lacking in basic necessities of life such as food, clothing and shelter. We appeal to Muslims to help us create jobs, by contributing their own quota to building an egalitarian society.” ZSF Chairman Dr. Tajudeen Yusuf appealed to Nigerians to join in the effort to reduce poverty. “Poverty can be eradicated in Nigeria. We are prepared to work towards its eradication. Poverty is not our own portion as Muslims, so we are not just focused on alleviating but eradicating. “Secondly, a programme titled KOSOSI Forum will be launched on December 23 through which we seek to equip our economic empowerment beneficiaries in such a manner that they become economically accountable and self-reliant.” Jaiz Charity Foundation Executive Director Imam Abdullahi Shuaib warned against the danger of not paying zakat. “Allah gave us the institution of zakat for specific purpose, but some of us are ungrateful elements. Some Muslims are capable of paying, but they won’t pay. Muslims should not be rich and poor at the same time. “Zakat is a means to bail us out. With the prevalence of poverty in our society, we must make it a habit to pay zakat. It is a potent tool for poverty alleviation,” he said.