La Liga has concluded to extend its support program in Nigeria beyond football. The Spanish League targets to provide supports beyond the round leather game through its world projects and initiatives for overall development of sports and youths. Countries across the globe including some African nations have benefited from La Liga in football support programs and other sports. La Liga team in Nigeria include; Managing Director LaLiga Nigeria; Javier Del Rio, Delegate; Guillermo Perez Castello and Media and Communications Coordinator; Ayodeji  Adegbenro made this known in Lagos at a media meet. The Spanish League has an existing Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to expose star players from the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) to elite football on Spain and train Nigerian coaches. Barcelona Football Academy which has since ranked among top rated school kids academy in the country is being facilitated by the La Liga, and its recently launched Sport Business Program with Lagos Business School are few among hallmark of support program for football growth by the league in the country. But, “We are ready to do more come 2019, for Nigerians,” Javier Del Rio said while reeling out plans to expand scope and sport initiatives for 2019 with the media. “We are ready to work with sports grounded  Non-Government Organisation (NGO), youth centered society and state and federal government inclusive in the bid to give more for all round sport support in Nigeria beyond football.” “We are all supporting and considering female football. All these are still in the offing for next year,” he added. On the global scale La Liga has clubs are also heavily involved in this mission, running various strategic projects and signing international agreements, whilst also opening academies and sporting schools. LaLiga oversees training program-mes, value-enhancing initiatives and has signed numerous agreements with international organisations. These efforts are all part of the institution’s quest to ensure that the experience garnered throughout the history of the Spanish league serves to assist the growth of the game and its values across the globe. Ex-Nigerian international and La Liga Ambassador, Mutiu Adepoju was present at the forum which also saw the Spanish League introduced a Fantasy Football App to Nigerians.