Plans are underway to launch electronic offering of shares and other securities in the Nigerian capital market in the first quarter (Q1) of next year. Under electronic initial public offering (e-IPO) and other electronic public offers, investors will get allotment and value for their subscriptions within seven days, as against the current cycle of nearly four months. Sky Aviation Handling Company (SAHCO) Plc, which opened application list for its IPO on  November 12, 2018, indicated that the issuance process will be completed in March, next year, with the listing of the shares on the NSE. Sources at the weekend told The Nation that the full automation of the offering might take off by the middle of the first quarter, citing ongoing schedules of activities for the take-off. Actualising this will involve automation of the process, approval, documentation, subscription and allotment of all issues, especially IPOs and public offers. With this initiative, investors will be able to subscribe and make payment for IPOs and public offers online. Such orders will be matched and allotted electronically and directly to the investment accounts of the investors at the Central Securities and Clearing System (CSCS) and any other designated clearing centre. The full automation will enable the primary market to operate within a designated transaction cycle, possibly within the T+3 four-day trading cycle being operated at the secondary market. The Acting Director-General, Securities & Exchange Commission (SEC), Ms Mary Uduk, confirmed that the Commission expected the committee working on the e-IPO to submit its report by the end of this month. She said the Commission would then issue guidelines and develop rules for the e-IPOs, a final stage that precedes the formal launch of any initiative. Sources, who pleaded for anonymity because of the confidentiality and conflict of interest clauses, said the initial guidelines and draft rules may be ready early next year. Then, the rules department of SEC will subject the draft guidelines and rules to public scrutiny and stakeholders’ review.  Such public exposure and review usually runs for at least two weeks, after which the Commission will review comments and make necessary adjustments and corrections to its final copy. The rules will then be presented to the board of the apex capital market regulator for its final approval, in consultation with the Minister of Finance, whose ministry oversees the activities of the Commission. SEC has no board and such rules will be submitted directly to the Ministry of Finance for approval and concurrence. After the approvals, the Commission will publish the final rules and set a date for the take-off of the implementation of the rules. “Given where we are now and the process that we know, it may take us till first quarter next year to be ready for the e-IPO, but we are moving in the right direction,” a source said. The Nation had earlier reported that the Capital Market Committee (CMC)- a consultative assembly of stakeholders in the Nigerian capital market under the auspices of SEC, had earlier this year at its second quarterly meeting set up a special-purpose committee on the full automation of the primary issuance process. The committee comprised of SEC, Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE), Association of Issuing Houses of Nigeria (AIHN), Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Central Securities and Clearing System (CSCS), Institute of Capital Market Registrars (ICMR), Capital market Solicitor Association (CMSA), Fund Managers Association of Nigeria (FMAN), and Nigerian Interbank Settlement System (NIBSS). President, Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Mr. Patrick Ezeagu, had told The Nation that the automation of IPOs and public offers will instill more transparency and efficiency into the Nigerian capital market.