The church is worried by the spate of killings, corruption and crimes in the land as the 2019 elections draw near. At a press conference the United Aladura Churches (UAC) said leaders had turned the country to one of the most corrupt in the world despite many of the being either Christians or Muslims. UAC president, Superior Evangelist S. O. Banjo addressed reporters at the Celestial Church of Christ (CCC) headquarters in Makoko, Lagos to kick off the organisation’s 14thanniversary, “We at the UAC are worried at the rising crime rate, especially the odious and most unacceptable incidence of rape and abduction, particularly of minors. The government should take steps to review the laws to ensure punishment for offenders,” Banjo said. The UAC hailed the Federal Government for not legalising sodomy and lesbianism. “Neither of the two major religions encourages such a way of life, which the Almighty God denounces as an abomination, recommending severe penalties for offenders,” Banjo said. He noted that UAC, which comprised white garment churches, would not allow criminals in its fold. According to him, they would be exposed. “Incest needs to be given attention. The perpetrators should be punished. It is against our culture, religions and sense of human decency. “The essence of the United Aladura Churches is to bring sanity and discipline into the white garment churches, and to speak with one voice against evils in the society and in government. If one of our members commits an offence, we will not hesitate to expose such a person,” Banjo said. He said the UAC, which comprises Cherubim and Seraphim Church, Church of the Lord (Aladura), Celestial Church of Christ and Fellowship of Christ Ministries, has instituted checks to discipline erring members and ministers. The UAC president said the body’s unification process prompted the establishment of the United Aladura Church in the United Kingdom and United States of America. “We were admitted at the All Africa Conference of Churches in Nairobi, Kenya.” As part of the anniversary, Makoko residents benefited from a free medical service provided by the church. The programme ends tomorrow with a thanksgiving service at the CCC, Makoko. 