Cross River State Governor, Prof Ben Ayade, has charged National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members serving in the state who would participate in next year’s general elections as ad-hoc staff to discharge their duties with absolute neutrality and firmness. The governor, who was addressing the corps members at the closing ceremony of the 2018 Batch B Stream One, orientation course at the permanent orientation camp in Obubra local government area lauded the NYSC for raising the credibility profile of the electoral process in the past. This, he said, has culminated in public confidence in the NYSC and the electoral umpire. The governor, who was represented by the Head of Local Government Administration in Obubra, Chief Bary Inyang, said over the years, successive governments had rendered adequate attention and huge investments into the programme and projects of the corps members, who are seen as partners in actualizing projects in the state. He said despite the paucity of funds, the government remains sensitive to the plight of corps members especially on security and welfare. Ayade said the aggressive industrialization of the state is not just to boost the economy, but also to justify the steps taken in furtherance of the commitment to ensure adequate opportunities are provided for capacity building of the youths through job creation and skill acquisition. He told the corps members that the people of the state were peaceful and hospitable, assuring them of security and safety across the 18 local government areas of the state. He charged the corps members to remain dedicated to the service of the nation in their various places of primary assignment. According to him, corps members have a role to play both in the integration of culture and promotion of national unity and that this could be achieved through dedication to the course that has brought them from their various states to Cross River State. He went further to advice them to avoid anything that could expose them to danger throughout their service year.