 Despite occupying the second position on the log with 9 points behind Nigeria, South Africa could be said to be walking on a tight rope following Libya’s goal feast against Seychelles on Saturday. The Mediterranean Knights came shot of spelling Seychelles with goals leaving the score line at 8-1. The currently sit on the third position with 7 points and will take on South Africa in their last match in March last year. Should they claim the maximum three points against the South Africans, they will be on 10 points and could edge the South Africans out of the second position.  Two  teams will qualify from each group. Meanwhile South Africa coach Stuart Baxter has expressed disappointment with the 1-1 draw his team recorded against Super Eagles at the FNB Stadium on Saturday. Baxter who nonetheless expressed delight that it did not end in defeat for his side insisted his team played better and should have carried the day.  The boys he further added must improve ahead of the final battle against Libya. “I am disappointed because I believe we should have won the match.  We have to do more ahead of the match against Libya” he said shortly after the match. The Super Eagles who had been tipped in some quarters to come out smoking with intent to revenge on the 2-0 defeat at home by Bafana Bafana, failed to perform to optimal level failing intermittently to create and convert chances. Interestingly it was Bafana Bafana that scored the two goals recorded in the match. Buhle Mkhwanazi had put Nigeria ahead in the early minutes of the match after deflected Samuel Kalu’s  cross into his own goal with goalkeeper   Itumeleng Khune in no position to save the situation. Percy Tau however set up an equalizer in the 26th minute of the match when he successfully displaced Nigerian defenders to create chance for teammate Lebo Mothiba to deliver with ease. Nigeria were the better team in the second-half and had the ball in the back of the net in the 84th minute after Alex Iwobi had played through Ahmed Musa, but the assistant’s flag was raised for offside. Despite the draw, Nigeria did not only maintain leadership of the group but also picked one of the tickets to Cameroon 2019 with 10 points in the kitty with the last match at home against Seychelles next on the log.       