Even as the controversy surrounding the new National minimum wage is yet to settle, the Nation May be in for another round of intense pressure as Organised Labour said they may be demanding for two years arrears if the minimum wage, having lost two years to negotiation. The Organised Labour has insisted that the in accordance to the earlier agreement of 2011, the new minimum wage was due for renegotiation in 2016, while negotiation did not start until March 2018. President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Comrade Ayuba Wabba told the visiting General Secretary of the Public Service International (PSI), Mrs Rosa Pavanelli, that the delay by President Muhammudu Buhari to transmit the executive bill on the minimum wage to the National Assembly was worrisome. He explained that Organised Labour were not unaware of the new antics being employed by state governors to ensure government renege on the recommendation of the tripartite committee, adding that members of the organised labour have already asked the President to immediately forward the bill to the National Assembly. He said Nigerian workers have made tremendous sacrifice and are going to demand for arrears of that two years we have lost because “In all fairness and justices, going forward as they are going out to campaign, we will also go out to campaign for our minimum wage. “I also want to inform you that we have passed the first hurdle and it took us almost a year to be at the Tripartite negotiating table for a figure and we have agreed on a figure of N30, 000. “That figure has been transmitted to Mr President who set up the committee and we have also told them to forward an executive bill immediately to the National Assembly. We are not unaware of the new tactics by the state governors to try to arm-twist what has already being done”. Explaining the processes that led to the N30,000 agreed upon by the tripartite committee, Wabba said six state governors were part of the negotiation process and each of them represented each of the geopolitical zones. He said public hearing was also held in the zones where the state governors were also invited to present their inputs and also a letter was written to each of the governors to send in their memoranda, saying that 21 states complied. According to NLC president, 21 state governors quoted figures 8n their memo t9 the committee, some of which were higher than even the agreed figure and also was the same with the Organised Private Sector. “So, mutually on the negotiation table, we have looked at all other factors, especially factors that were provided in convention 131 and 95 of the International Labour Organisation on the Minimum Wage in which five factors were considered. “The issue of the purchasing power parity, inflation, ability to pay, all those factors were considered and that is how our demand of N66, 500 was then agreed mutually on N30, 000. So, workers have made enough sacrifices as we have lost already two years”. Wabba condemned the plan to privatized the Pension Fund Administration, saying it was another twist by multinationals to try to access funds that they were not part off. He added that in Nigeria they have tried that severally to say they want to diversify the investment portfolio of pensions that they want to use it to build roads but we have resisted. “We have said that these monies belong to workers and if it belong to workers, it is only workers organisations and workers that would determine how these monies will be invested. “We will not allow a situation where these monies would be invested in very risked ventures, where the money will go down the drain. So we will continue to resist it, we will continue to follow the process and ensure that politician will not deep their hands into our pension fund”. He said that NLC had carried out various campaign in the support of the fight against corruption and also the whist blower’s policy, in order to ensure good governance in the country. Speaking earlier, Mrs Rosa Pavanelli who said PSI covers the public service in over 170 countries said she was in Nigeria to show support for the Trade union movement in Nigeria. Panvanelli said workers in the public service were faced with a lot of challenges especially in Nigeria, Working for months, providing services to people without being paid is something that is unacceptable and this unfortunately what is happening here. “In a country which is rich of resources that can have wealth distribute but it is oppressed by the greater international capital that want to grab the resources and forget the people who create wealth for the country. This is very wrong and unacceptable, we must ensure good governance, social justice for the Nigerian workers, we will support you anytime you call on us,” she said. 