Kano Pillars forward, Junior Lokosa, once again got recognition for his efforts in the league as the League Bloggers Awards (LBA) awarded him 2017/18 Player of the Season. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the Masu Gida, goal poacher, is the 2017/2018 Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) highest goal scorer. He is also a recipient of the inaugural Eunisell Boot Award as the highest goal scorer. Lokosa, for his efforts got N3.8 million, which represents N200, 000 for each of the 19 goals he scored during the 2017/2018 NPFL season. George Akpayen, the Media Officer of LBA, told News Agency of Nigeria that Lokosa would be adding another gong to his blistering career as the player of the season. Akpayen said that although the season came to an end abruptly and log leaders, Lobi Stars, were named representatives of Nigeria in the 2018/19 CAF Champions League, Lokosa scored the highest goals. “Lokosa scored 19 goals to finish as top scorer when the league was declared concluded after Match Day 24. “Interestingly, he scored all 19 goals in 21 matches as he missed three matches. The LBA took its decision based on statistics available as at Match Day 24. “Lokosa had a fantastic campaign right from the first round when he entered the history books as the first player to score 14 goals after 19 Matches in the top division in Nigeria. “Overall, he made significant contributions to the performance of his team and was clearly the poster boy,’’ he said. kpayen said Lokosa’s feat attracted the attention of the Super Eagles Head Coach, Gernot Rohr, who listed the Kano Pillars forward in his provisional
squad for the Russia 2018 World Cup. “Lokosa eventually made his international debut against DR Congo, but failed to make the final list to the mundial. “Lokosa is no stranger to records as he became the first player to win back-to-back LBA Player of the month award for January and February 2018 last season. “The LBA will present both awards to Lokosa on a date to be announced,’’ he said.