Leader of the House of Representatives, Femi Gbajabiamila, has said the Southwest will not drop the position of Vice President for a lesser office. Reacting to a report that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had zoned the office of the Secretary of the Government of the Federation (SGF) to the Southwest, Gbajabiamila said: “Our resolve in the candidature of President Muhammadu Buhari and Professor Yemi Osinbajo cannot be traded away for any condescending offer.” The lawmaker spoke at another edition of his empowerment programme where ICT equipment were distributed to students and youths in his Surulere I Federal Constituency. Among the equipment were 350 new laptops, 28 desk top and 28 scan printing machines. Gbajabiamila listed what the Southwest stands to gain from the Buhari-Osinbajo presidency. He said: “We stand by the offer to give us Lagos-Ibadan rail project; we stand by the offer to give us Lagos-Sango-Abeokuta Expressway; we stand by the offer that just delivered Apapa-Wharf road. We also stand by the offer to deliver Apapa-Oshodi-Oworshoki-Ojota Expressway; we stand by the fight against corruption.” Apparently mocking the manifesto of Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, the PDP presidential candidate, Gbajabiamiala said: “We reject the offer to sell the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to friends and cronies. We stand solidly behind the Buhari-Osinbajo ticket.” He added: “For 16 years, our company recorded losses in all its transactions. So, the shareholders decided to change the MD/CEO with a clear mandate to rebuild our company and deliver good returns on investments. Two or three years into their assignment, naysayers within the rank of our shareholders convoked their Dubai caucus meeting to demand for the sack of our new top management singularly for their failure to deposit our company’s returns on investment into their personal accounts.” The House Leader described the February 16presidential election as straight fight between the gatekeepers and burglars. Gbajabiamila said: “Never shall we surrender to burglars. Our people want food in their stomachs and deserve a meaningful life; we are not oblivious of these facts. So, we shall continue to fight for our people. As we engage in this fact, we will encounter pains. But I can tell you we shall conquer.” On the beneficiaries of the equipment, Gbajabiamila said: “We have taken our time to look for indigent students and youths who will not sell these laptops and computers but make use of them to better their career. “We urge parents and teachers to ensure appropriate use of the laptops and computers.” The event was attended by the Lagos Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alhaji Tunde Balogun; the Onikate of Ikate land, Oba Lateef Adams; APC Secretary, Dr Wale Ahmed; APC Publicity Secretary, Mr Joe Igbokwe and many party chieftains.