Presidential Candidate of the Peoples Trust (PT) , Mr. Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim has vowed to tackle cancer headlong if elected president in the 2019 election.  He told women group in the South West, under the aegis of Women for Hashim (WfH), that it was time the country halts the devastating effect of cancer.  He stressed that the Cancer programme is dear to him, especially after listening to his daughter, Ifeaoluwa, who said: “‘Dad, I wonder how many Nigerian women can afford this vaccine at N33, 000.00 when the minimum wage is N18, 000? Daddy, when you become president, please make it free!’”  He added that the Federal Government of Nigeria under his presidency will sponsor vaccine for all girls from age nine to age 25. According to him, medicine had taught them that when these vaccines reach women in that category, there are very remote chances that they would ever have cancer.  “So we can vaccinate against cancer and that is what I am going to do for all Nigerian girls and young women. They will have the vaccines against cervical cancer when I am elected president in 2019. As Commander in Chief, I will do it within 6 months of being sworn-in. This is a major program for women that will protect them in the future against falling ill to cancer. “I’m somebody who knows how to create jobs. I will create jobs for your children.  I will create 4 million jobs every year by removing the obstacles to investment in Nigeria because it is only the private sector that can create jobs, not the government”  He said there will be manufacturing and services jobs, apart from removing the obstacles to investment in Nigeria.  “We are going to expand the economy from the $510 billion to a $4 trillion economy. That will be achieved with the New Nigeria Economic Development Plan.”  “We will pay workers minimum wage, stop killings and unite Nigerians. Nigeria has never been divided as it is under the APC government today. We will give Nigeria a government that will unite the country, secure the land and a government where all Nigerians will be protected by the office of the Commander in Chief. This is what I promise Nigeria .Take the message to the polling units that you have a presidential candidate that is equipped to deliver.  “Tell the people of Ondo state that they have a candidate who has done business for 25 years, creating jobs all over the world and in Nigeria. I am not a parasite that has always relied on government. We have a lot of work to do in going to sell our party at the polling unit. The deciding moment is how many votes is counted at the polling unit”  The women leaders took turns to commend Olawepo-Hashim, noting that: “We want a break, as change is inevitable. We have been neglected over the past decades. We are women for Gbenga Olawepo-Hashim in 2019.”  One of the women leaders and chairperson for Women for Hashim, Mrs. Folayan Adeyemi Choice, said the PT’s Presidential candidate has already won their hearts and they would work collectively to ensure that he succeeds Buhari in 2019.  