THE Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) and the Nigerian Air Force have debunked reports of a video circulating in the social media showing terrorists attack at the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA), Lagos. It came as the Airport Police Command said yesterday that it would investigate and prosecute persons behind the video. FAAN’s spokesperson Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, in a statement, said the video was the handiwork of mischief-makers. She urged the international community to disregard such video, saying the airport is safe and activities going on smoothly. Mrs. Yakubu said the video in question was that of a simulation exercise carried out by Nigeria Air Force in conjunction with other aviation agencies about two years ago. The statement added: “FAAN will like to state unequivocally that MMIA is not under any kind of attack. The video in question is that of an old simulation carried out by Nigeria Air Force and others. “FAAN will like to advise those uploading such to desist from the act as it is not only malicious, wicked, embarrassing but also sending wrong signals to the world about the internal security of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Also yesterday, Air Force spokesman Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola said in a statement that the video in circulation was an airport security simulation exercise tagged: “Exercise Thunderbolt “, conducted by the Air Force two years ago. The statement reads: “The NAF wishes to state categorically that MMIA was not and has never been under any attack. The video being circulated shows an airport security simulation exercise, tagged: Exercise Thunderbolt”, which took place on November 8, 2016, over two years ago. “The exercise was aimed at practising NAF personnel and other security agencies at MMIA on actions to be taken in the event of an attack on the airport. “The general public is, therefore, advised to disregard the video and also endeavour to refrain from sharing or uploading unverified videos, pictures or articles so as not to cause panic. The NAF wishes to assure all local and international travellers that our airports remain safe and that they can go about their travels without any fear.” In a statement yesterday, Lagos Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, who is a Chief Superintendent of Police, said the Police Commissioner has directed the command’s Intelligence Unit to unmask the persons behind the rumour for prosecution. The statement added: “In view of the disturbing video, the authorities of Lagos State Police Command contacted the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of operations at the Airport Command and he stated that the video was that of a simulation exercise carried out by Nigerian Air Force in conjunction with other agencies at the airport three years ago. “The command wishes to assure the public that MMIA is safe and secure and not under any form of attack as wickedly portrayed by those behind the rumour.”