Nigeria may soon proffer solution to cancer, especially breast and prostate cancers, Nigerian Natural Medicine Development Agency (NNMDA) Director-General (DG), Dr Sam Etatuvie, has said. He said the agency has received an information about a Nigerian, who is treating cancer patients. “As part of its statutory function, the NNMDA sought out the senior citizen. We got talking. He was convinced of our sincerity. And he has released the composition to us; clinical evaluation is ongoing,” said Etatuvie. Etatuvie broke the news when House Committee on Science and Technology members came to the agency as part of its oversight function. The DG explained that initially the senior citizen was reluctant to release the composition of the package. “But with persuasion, persistence, openeness, and trust, he eventually released same. “And because of his age, he engaged his son to be interacting with us on the paper works, including intellectual property rights. So, everything is ongoing to ensure all the steps are taken to prove it scientifically, before it is announced to the public.” Etatuvie said Nigeria has the plants that can cure terminal diseases, but that there was the need to fund the research into them. He appealed to the lawmakers to ensure that the agency is adequately funded to enable it step up its activities, considering its importance in realising the government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) and the National Strategy for Competitiveness in Raw Materials and Products Development in Nigeria. “The Asian countries, notably China, India, and the two Koreas, have been able to develop their traditional (indigenous) health systems to international standards. This has contributed significantly, not only to improved healthcare delivery, but also national economic growth and development,” said Etatuvie. He added that the African Union (AU) and World Health Organisation (WHO) have acknowledged the potential of natural medicine, that is why it is supporting  its development. “This was achieved by the establishment and adequate support to several, but unique and dedicated natural medicine research and development institutions, such as ours,” said Etatuvie. He told the Committee that Nigeria needs to emulate the above countries and tap into the natural provisions which abounding the country, not only for improved healthcare delivery, but also for job, and wealth creation, and contribute to national economic growth and development. Noting that the money given to the agency in the past was judiciously used, Etatuvie said his agency could boast of the Upgraded Production Unit (PDU) facility, which is automatic and can calibrate syrup and cream lines, rotary rvaporator, freeze bed dryer, and tea bagging machine. “This agency has engaged in research and in-house natural products for malaria, cough, erectile dysfunction, measles, and other skin problems.The new focus is the search for cancer herbal therapy from our indigenous herbs as explained earlier. ‘’The agency has been on this work for quite a while and, of recent, the laboratory analyses and anecdotal reports has shown that the product has positive activities against cancer of the prostate and the breast. However, further clinical evaluation is required before the detail report will be made public. The new laboratory complex under construction will house the Cancer Unit,” explained Etatuvie. Etatuvie appealed for more funds to enable the agency to achieve more. “This year, the amount appropriated was N802, 710, 432; amounts released was N130, 271, 043.20; while we utilised N36, 015, 000, meaning 16.23 per cent was released,” he said. The Committee’s Chairman, Hon. Beni Lar, praised the agency for sticking to its mission of promoting natural medicine. “In this, you have passed, and it is in pursuance of the vision for the establishment of this agency, which is to be an internationally recognised research, development, documentation and promotion institute for the country’s natural medicine knowledge, products, practice, and work to facilitate its integration into the national healthcare delivery. To also contribute to job, wealth creation and national socio-economic growth and development of the country,” said Hon. Lar. She challenged the agency to stick to its mandate of research, collating, document developing and promoting the county’s natural medicine, which is defined as, “indigenous (traditional) health systems, medication and non medication healing arts, science and technology to assist contribute to improved healthcare delivery, wealth and job creation and national economic growth and development. The cancer treatment you are working on is good and gladdening still that you are following scientists laid down protocols. In all these, you have passed very well, assured Hon.