The FCT Police Command has arrested three suspects for alleged involvement in “one chance” robbery. The suspects according to the Police specialise in robbing their victims of valuables and using dangerous weapons to inflict injuries on them. The suspects are; Onyebuchi Ifeanyikwu ‘m’ 40 years, Anthony Sunday ‘m’ 35 years and Usman Ali ‘m’ 19 years and Sani Bala ‘m’ 19 years. Items recovered from them include; four sharp knives, one nail, one wood containing a nail, one screw driver, some female under-wears, one infinix phone, some jewelries, one bag containing women clothes belonging to one of their victims and a golden colour Honda Accord car with registration no: FST 662 BG. Others items are; “Two daggers, one Samsung phone and one tricycle used for their robbery operations.” Stating how they were arrested,  the Command’s Spokesman, DSP Anjuguri Manzah said: “On 10 November, 2018 at about 0200hrs following a discreet investigation, operatives of the Anti-One Chance Squad arrested one Onyebuchi Ifeanyikwu ‘m’ 40 years and Anthony Sunday ‘m’ 35 years at their hideouts in Tungan Maje. “The suspects robbed and inflicted serious injuries on a lady who boarded their car as a passenger en-route Nyanya from Arab road Kubwa on 9th November, 2018 at about 0530hrs. “Few minutes into the journey, the suspects diverted their victim to Zuba axis where she was robbed of her cash, phone, two ATM cards and other valuables before she was abandoned. She was rescued and taken to Police hospital Deidei Barracks where she was treated and discharged.” The Police said it has intensified efforts to recover items robbed from their victims which are said to be with one of their cohorts who is currently at large. On the other suspects, Manzah said: “On 2nd November, 2018 at about 0900hrs following a compliant, Police operatives from the Command Anti-One Chance Squad arrested Ali and Bala who operate in a tricycle to rob unsuspecting members of the public. “The suspects were arrested after one of their victims who were robbed by the gang at Gwarimpa axis complained to the Police operatives. The Police said the suspects will be arraigned in court upon the conclusion of the investigation.