The University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) and the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), have reversed themselves on new fees following a meeting with students’ leaders. KABIR ADEJUMO and FADLULLAH AZEEZ report. Students were shocked when the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) and Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) increased their tuition and administrative fees. At Unilorin, the 100 percent hike affected all faculties, but the amount to be paid by each faculty varies. The school described the increment as “slight adjustment”, urging students to comply with the development However, Students’ Union Government (SUG) President Seyi Animashaun said no students would not pay. The SUG leader said: “What we have woken up to is rather unexpected, shocking and challenging. This cannot stand. I have called an emergency meeting with all the Students’ Union executives and all faculties’ presidents. We shall release a comprehensive report after.” Students took to Twitter to protest the  increment and called on the management to revert to the old fees. The management denied that the increment was 100 per cent, saying the review was a ‘slight adjustment’ to previous charges. A statement by the school’s Director of Corporate Affairs, Mr Kunle Akogun, said: “We wish to put the record straight and assure our ever responsible students of the management’s good intentions. The University of Ilorin, in line with Federal Government’s policy, does not charge tuition fees. “What we have here is university charges and faculty charges. The items that make up the charges are simply fundamental and basic. For instance, examinations remain sacrosanct, same for provision of state-of-the-art health and library facilities, in addition to stable electricity and uninterrupted water supply.” Akogun added that the implication of the increment was that, what was obtainable about 12 years ago could no longer sustain the university currently. He said: “It should be pointed out that even with the slight adjustment in charges, UNILORIN is still among the lowest (if not the very lowest) charging federal universities in the country. This can be confirmed by comparing statistics of what is payable in other universities.” To ensure the increment did not degenerate into a crisis, the management called a meeting with the SUG and faculty presidents to discuss possible harmonisation of the fees. The hoopla generated by the increment was laid to rest after the meeting at which a compromise was reached by the management and students. The meeting, which lasted for more than six hours, was attended by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Academics, Prof Sylvia Malomo, bursar, Mr Abiodun Saka,  Akogun, representative of the Registrar, Prof M.A. Oladosu, Dean and Sub-Dean of Students’ Affairs Unit, others. At the meeting, Prof Malomo said the fee review was necessary because of the economic situation in the country. She explained that the school spent about N360 million on electricity yearly, and N50million to fuel the generating set powering the school. According to her, N50million is dispensed to maintain infrastructure, among other expenses. She said: “We have tried to carry on, but we cannot continue in the face of increased expenditure.” After the management insisted that the previous charges could not be maintained, the students’ leaders proposed a five per cent increment, but the school objected. An agreement on 15 per cent increment was later reached at the meeting. The management said the review would be communicated to all stakeholders. A resolution was also reached at the meeting that faculties’ presidents should meet with deans to negotiate either reversal or reduction in faculty charges. The meeting was concluded with a promise from the management of a positive feedback in due time. While the UNILORIN students were awaiting the final announcement on the fees, the negotiation between the management of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH) and SUG leaders also ended on a positive note. The school reviewed the new fees downward. “We are done with the meeting and it is positive,” LAUTECH Students’ Union president, Oluwaseun Abiodun, said in a text message to our correspondent. Under the new fees regime, 300- to 500-Levels students who are Oyo and Osun states will now pay N90,000, while non-indigenes on the same levels will pay N100,000. The fees for those in 200-Level remain N120,000 for indigenes and N150,000 for non-indigenes. Fresh students of Oyo and Osun states’ origin will pay N140,000, while non-indigenes will pay N170,000. LAUTECH, last July, announced fees increment, raising the amount to be paid by indigenes and non-indigenes to N200,000 and N250,000 from N63,500 and N72,500. The announcement led to a series of protests on Ogbomoso and Osogbo campuses. The owner states’ governments distanced themselves from the decision to increase the fees. It was against that backdrop that the management met students’ leaders last Friday. Before the increment, the school was shut down for months by workers over poor funding. The school introduced fees increment as part of the options to improve internally-generated revenue. The Dean of Students’ Affairs (DSA), Prof Sunday Adewale, confirmed the fees have  been slashed. “Yes, that’s true. The fees have been reduced,”he said in a telephone conversation with our correspondent. A member of the LAUTECH Governing Council and president of the alumni association, Solomon Onilede, described the development as positive. He said: “It is a positive one. I actually facilitated the meeting between management and students’ leaders. As president of the alumni union and a member of the university council, I believe we have to wade in and save our heritage. If everyone is tired, we can’t be tired. We have to play our part to resolve the issue.” One of the students’ leaders, Isreal Fawole, said although the demand by students was complete reversal, they accepted the reviewed fees “in order to ensure justice is done to all parties and to maintain the standard of the school.” The SUG leaders appealed to the owner states to “be more responsive to their responsibilities to the school.” The meeting had in attendance representatives of the parents’ forum, Ogbomoso leaders, Governing Council members, alumni association leaders and students’ leaders.