Ondo State government on Friday criticized the statement credited to a member of the state assembly, Olugbenga Araoyinbo  condemning the  2018 Ondo State Reordered budget. Araoyinbo was said to have described the budget as “unconstitutional” claiming that it was the cause of the failed attempt to remove the incumbent Speaker, David Bamidele Oloyeloogun and his deputy, Iroju Ogundeji. A statement by the state commissioner for information and orientation, Yemi Olowolabi said “baleful and vengeful, the notion speaks  volumes of orchestrated mischief and  calculated malfeasance all in the name of filthy politics. “I wish to put on record that it is not unusual for budget to be reordered.  This was done here in Ondo State by previous administrations and it is being done in other states in the Country. Even the Federal Government, recently, had to reorder the 2018 budget in line with some prevailing fiscal realities “What we have done now and always is in tandem with our avowed commitment to the welfare of people of Ondo State. No amount of denigrations and aspersions will halt the wheel of progress our state is currently experiencing under the leadership of Akeredolu. “The current reordering  budget exercise among other reasons had to be done in anticipation of the release of recent Paris club refund, which is to be used to pay arrears of workers salaries and pensions of retirees in the terms agreed with labour leaders. “The bill was passed to the house a couple of weeks after the Federal Government made public the various amounts due to each State as Paris Club refund. “Surprisingly, it was left unattended to by the House, even before the recent failed attempt to effect a leadership change in the Assembly”. Olowolabi said Araoyinbo’s statement clearly advertised crass legislative ignorance and a morbid desire to mislead the public. According to him ” Notwithstanding the heist and hate campaigns, the truth is that the budget size remains unchanged and any enlightened person knows that budget re ordering is a fiscal instrument used for re-allocating funds from non-performing heads to more active heads without increasing the budget” He insisted that the state government had done nothing illegal stressing that the state government has continued to hoist the flag of transparency in governance while pursuing the top agenda to transform Ondo State.