•says it will bring permanent solution to gridlock Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, yesterday lauded the federal government for the commencement of the reconstruction of the Apapa-Oshodi-Oworonshoki-Ojota Expressway. He said the project would bring permanent relief to motorists and residents over the perennial gridlock in the axis and enhance movement within the state. The governor spoke at the flag off ceremony in Apapa, held under the auspices of the Federal Ministry of Works. He said, “Whatever it is that has been taking place in this particular project has always been rehabilitation and every Nigerian should be reminded that this road has been in place for more than 40 years. “This is the first time the government at the centre is embarking on reconstruction, that means we are going to excavate everything all the way from Apapa, Oshodi to Oworonshoki and Ojota Expressway and actually reconstruct it, using concrete instead of asphalt because Lagos is below sea level; if you use asphalt, within seven to eight years, it would wash away because we are under water,” he said. “So the concrete template is being used to give us a long lasting solution to this Apapa gridlock and this road will last for more than 40 years and we believe strongly that the PPP platform that has been given to this project to allow the private sector invest their money in it being driven by Alhaji Dangote is the best solution that we can use to develop public infrastructure right now and we must commend the minister for that,” the governor said. He thanked the Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola, for ensuring the refund to the state government for some of the federal projects embarked upon, saying that his administration was already in the process of utilising same to deliver other ongoing projects in the next few months. The governor, however, used the occasion to appeal for understanding, saying that though the commencement of the project might bring some inconvenience, the end result would be a permanent solution to the gridlock that has bedevilled the area over the years.