At the inauguration of a restaurant in Abuja, aspiring entrepreneur were advised to let their passion drive them, DELE ANOFI reports At the launch of her eatery Biobak Kitchen in highbrow Wuse 2, Abuja, Biodun Obakin, who is said to love treating people to some good food, had a wonderful opportunity to offer aspiring restaurateurs some tasty advice. But every budding entrepreneur may well take heed too. Senior Pastor Sarah Omaku gave the event a spiritual footing, saying, “I don’t normally come to events like this because I’m always concerned about the money behind the project because it is most necessary to get money the right way and I am convinced about this. Biobak sought God’s guidance which came through prayers. The idea came from God, we pray it through and theirs is a desire from God which He granted with the blessing of Abraham “She gathered her money kobo, kobo, this is not stolen money, it’s from kobo-kobo, gathering her money from her sweat, from her kitchens here and there. “I came here also because Biodun is a blessing to people. I advise you that everything done in this business is done right, no short course, don’t use rotten ingredients, don’t take customers, not even your regulars over the years for granted because there are choices of over a 1000 for them to pick from. What you do will make customers keep coming back or not. You are not doing them a favour.” Speaking with Abuja Review, Biobak urged Nigerians youths have been urged to shun violence and other crimes, noting that the pursuit of entrepreneurial passion is a recipe for unemployment in the country. According to her, rather than complaining of unemployment and going into crime and other vices, the Nigerian youth must endeavour to pursue the passion for the innate God-given talent as a means of livelihood. She said the state of the economy should not be allowed to stand in the way of starting a business, while adding that starting little appears to have been a major barrier for most unemployed Nigerian youths especially, the graduates. She said: “You have to discover your passion, everybody has a passion or if I may say talent, apart from going to school, getting the degree and doing all the academic pursuit, there is always a passion. A passion will allow you do what you love to do that is inborn in you, what you enjoy to do.  So, find out what you enjoy to do, do it like a child’s play, do it like a business. That was what happened to me. I am a scientist by profession, but over time, I know that I love to cook, over time I know that I like to clean and I have been doing this all along, so your talent and passion is very important. That is number one “Secondly, I want to tell our youths the act of starting small, the issue with our youth today is they don’t realise that you don’t have to become overnight in a day, getting to realize your dreams and be fulfilled  is a process of journey. So, let our youth understand that life is a journey and you have to start small, that is number one. I want to advice our youth that it is high time they learn to settle down, to start small, to do one thing or the other and build upon it, when you build upon it and you grow God will continue to improve you until it becomes the main thing”. On how it all started and made it this far, Biobak explained that concentrating on the challenges facing the business would discourage venturing into it, “What I am doing now is like a joke and there is an adage that says; Whatever you enjoy to do, make it your business, God has helped me to make this act of cooking, this act of hospitality the business of today. Of course, the challenges are enormous, but one thing is that once you have interest in doing it, the challenges will not overcome you. Finance is number one challenge. To start up or expand, many of us are fond of borrowing in the bank, we all know what happens when things are going according to plans. But from experience, it is not the time of to be borrowing in the bank when you start small, what you have, you have to be able to manage it, Don’t go beyond what you cannot cope with. “Another challenge is staff, you know our children of today, they don’t want to do hard work, you have to do hard work in this kind of business, you cannot just start a restaurant and decide to live it for somebody to do it for you, you have to be part of your system, you have to love it, you have to do it, when they see you as example to do it, they would have no doubt to join you in doing it”. Despite being the boss, she is still involved in the day-to-day preparation of the recipe and cooking “ Of course I do the cooking, you know it is what I love to do, I may not do everything but the basic ones, I buy my stuffs, ingredient, that’s where  good cooking starts. Whatever you buy is what you cook. So the act of buying right, buying the real thing, not buying rotten tomatoes, not rotten pepper, you have to go in and buy the healthy ones that is not spoilt ones and it would bring out a good taste at the end of the day. Quality of our standard is at stake and I’m not ready to compromise that. So, being involved in daily activities is not a big deal for me, I’ve been involved and it’s just a daily routine”. “It is for this and other reasons that we have made it a family business. Yes, among my own children, I have chattered accountant, I have doctor, I have an architect but because of the nature of what I do, they grew up loving, learning and knowing to do it. It has become a family business and it is what we want to do and leave it to generations to come”.