The Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) has warmed the oil and gas security service provider, Ocean Marine Solution Limited, to hands off the OML 30 assets as its involvement is seen as a discomfort to the people of the area. The council, in a statement signed by its National Legal Adviser, Igbeta Ayebakuro  and National Spokesman, Daniel Dasimaka, objected to the methods allegedly being employed by the company to make its way into the OML 30 communities. It would be recalled that hundreds of youths and ex-agitators from the 111 communities of OML 30 had last week stormed the Delta state capital Asaba, in protest of what they described as an attempt to hijack a pipeline surveillance contract thousands of youths in the communities live on by Ocean Marine, appealing to the state government to come to their aid. However, some groups, who were believed to have been prompted by the company, came out to discredit and disown the protesting youths, insinuating that they had no right to reject the advances of Ocean Marine. While addressing the protesters during the Asaba protest, the Delta state’s Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr Peter Mrakpor, affirmed that the agreement between the operator; Heritage Energy Oil Services Limited (HEOSL) and the host communities is that pipeline surveillance job would be solely reserved for Delta people only. However, the IYC, reacting to the development noted that the it had been fed with inaccurate details of the developments surrounding the contract and noted that the company’s role in the whole drama had been that of an oppressor, working to deprive the weak of its possession, warning that it would never allow itself to be used to oppression fellow Niger Delta people. IYC had earlier been consulted to join in denouncing the protesters as not representing the region. The statement reads: “The Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide (being the champion of self-sufficiency of the peoples of the Niger Delta) will not be party to any agenda aimed at undoing our people and conning them out of the opportunities and natural advantage that accrue them. “The statement that came out of the council in the last two days, on the choice of some group of youths and former agitators from communities that fall within OML 30, who had embarked on a protest taking their plea to the Delta state government over their fears of being displaced and deprived of their legitimately guaranteed daily bread, by forces they consider to be using all means, including unlawful and brutal means, was not issued with an intent to support injustice against our own. “Though, as we earlier noted, Ocean Marine and its owner, Captain Hosa Okunbo, are also from Niger Delta and we do not believe they should be discriminated in any form, but we must state, unequivocally, that the initial information provided by Ocean Marine and its drivers was less than truthful and we are of the view that inadequate information was provided to mislead the council. “To this end, it is the opinion of the IYC that no genuine Niger Delta person or group should do anything to hurt the interest of the people of the region and in this instance, the hard-working youths and ex-agitators from the OML 30 communities in Delta state. This message is directed to Ocean Marine and its management to back off from using the current unwholesome and illegal methods they are employing to forcefully seize the pipeline security job from the current operators. We will not be used to validate oppression of our brothers.” IYC to DSS chief: Beware of politicians 