It would come as a pleasant surprise for football followers to know that Nigeria Premier league hotshot, Junior Lokosa is a rookie. Prior to playing for Kano Pillars, where he notched 19 goals in an abridged 2018 season, the Badagry-born striker played with amateur clubsides before joining Pillars in the late 2017 season playing a handful of games and in 2018 had his first full season. “I actually started my career in Lagos and played for amateur side AS Racines before I moved to Bridge FC (that’s the defunct Julius Berger). I also featured for First Bank of Lagos before moving to Kano Pillars where I’m now.” “The offer from Kano Pillars was a miracle. I was praying to God for a better team when that will crown my efforts at First bank, when out of the blue, I was offered a chance to join Kano Pillars. I didn’t plan to join Kano Pillars.” As a Lagos boy, Lokosa did not have an inkling he would have to make his premier league debut in far away Kano State. “My idea was to play with some clubs in the south western Nigeria or as far as the South South. I did not know that some scouts where following my games. Somebody just called me that Kano Pillars were interested in me and that I should travel down to Kano Pillars.” Offering deeper explanation to his ‘miracle’ assertion, he said it was as if god had prepared the ground for him in Pillars as he met with little resistance from coaches and players and got his chance to play for the first team in record time. “I remember my first game and that is why I said that it was God that prepared Kano Pillars for me. The match was against Tornadoes and for me. I scored my first goal in that match. And the celebration afterward by my teammates and coaches showed that the hands of God are in my move to Kano.” In one season, there is no doubt that Lokosa has made giant stride. He had a fantastic campaign right from the first round when he entered the history books as the first player to score 14 goals in 19 match days and scoring in six consecutive matches. At the end of the abridged season, Lokosa scored 19 goals in 24 matches. Perhaps he would have uprooted the league record of 23, if the league had been allowed to end fully.  In-fact he scored all 19 goals in 21 matches as he missed three matches. He also won the inaugural Eunisell Boot Award, which is an honour bestowed on the Nigeria Professional Football League highest goals scorer. In the history of Nigeria Premier League, it is the biggest as league hotshot gies home with N200, 000 for each goal scored. In the case of Lokosa he smile home with got N3.8 million, for 19 goals he scored during the 2017/2018 NPFL season. He became the first player to win back-to-back League Blogger Award ((LBA) Player of the Month awards for January and February 2018 season. He became the first league player in recent time to attract senior national team invitation and made the World Cup provisional squad for the Russia 2018 World Cup and eventually made his international debut against DR Congo. For this achievement, the Ajegunle player has his mother to thank. “My mother is indeed a rare woman. There are times when I felt like just giving up and she would encourage me to continue to strive. That God is watching over me and that He would send my destiny helpers to me. She prays a lot for me and I am happy she is alive to see me do well. She is my strong pillar.” The cool and calculated lethal striker who makes goal-scoring looks simple added “I don’t think there is a secret to my goalscoring form this season other than good support from my teammates and the technical staff at Kano Pillars. This has really helped me and gives me a lot of motivation to work extra hard on the pitch.” Lokosa speaks more on growing up and what the future holds for him with TAIWO ALIMI. Excerpts: GROWING UP I was born in Badagry, but my family moved to Ajegunle where I grew up. I fell in love with football at a very young age. Though, my parents did not like it at first, because they wanted us to concentrate on schooling. They wanted me to get a degree and thereafter a good job. I would go to school but end up on the field because football was popular among youths in Ajegunle.  However, when they realised football was in my blood and they couldn’t pull it out, they had to accept it. I think today, everybody in the Lokosa family is happy. I started playing on the streets some years ago on the streets of Lagos. It was actually my junior brother that dragged me along. My dad also played football but not organised at his younger years. I’ve been lucky in the sense that my family all supported me in order to find my feet. Football is also a way out for many kids in Ajegunle to have a better life and make a better life for our parents. So, when my parents saw that I was focused they gave me all their support.  Their support was in total and when my younger also followed my path, they gave him their blessing. We enjoyed their support and it is a great thing for us. My mother especially is there praying for my success and that gave me the confidence and determination to push hard. I’m happy the efforts are paying off now.  AJEGUNLE One of the reasons why I’m playing football is because I want to wear that green and white jersey of Nigeria national team and represent my community, Ajegunle. AJ City has produced many stars in the Super Eagles, talking about Emmanuel Amunike, Odion Ighalo and many others. So, I won’t be the first Ajegunle boy in the Super Eagles.  I have confidence in my ability and I believe I can do a good job for the team. There are other established strikers in the team at the moment but I believe I can help make the team stronger. I knew what I wanted. It is like a dream and I knew I must not derail from the path. It is not easy to grow up in Ajegunle because of the poverty and crime rate and youths get into trouble because of this. But for me, football was bigger than any other thing. It was in Ajegunle that somebody saw my game and took me to First Bank FC where I started playing real club football. So it all started from Ajegunle and I want to be a good ambassador of Ajegunle. KANO PILLARS I was actually picked by the chairman of AS Racines, Mr. Emmanuel Ibru after watching me in a friendly game and I would forever be grateful because that’s where it all started for me. Moving to Kano Pillars was like moving to Barcelona, Real Madrid or Bayern Munich for me. Kano Pillars are one of the biggest teams in the country. That is why I said it is a miracle. It made a big difference in my career. The fans are passionate about the game and it is a beautiful place to play football. You would be happy to play your heart out because fans appreciate you on and off the field. Moving from Lagos to Kano was not easy at first but my colleagues helped me to settle down quickly. Kano is quite different from Lagos in a lot of ways. The weather can be very cold and at times extremely hot. I must thank the older guys for helping me settle down in the team. Then, growing up in Ajegunle prepared me well for anything. Ajegunle is a tough place and I can adjust to harsh situations quickly. We don’t come last in Ajegunle. I also worked hard and was focused. I know what I wanted. Once you know what you want, you have to work hard towards achieving it. This is exactly what I am doing and God is also helping me to achieve my dreams in my chosen career. SUPER EAGLES CALL UP I am very happy getting a chance to play for the Super Eagles and got my debut against Congo DR. For me, making the Nigeria provisional list to the last World Cup was a huge lift for my career and I will forever be grateful to the coach and Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) for the opportunity given to me. It is not easy to make the 30-player squad because it’s the dream of every Nigerian player. I would have loved to play at the World Cup but God knows best. Being in camp with the big boys was awesome for me. It was a wonderful experience and I wish to appreciate everyone and my club Kano Pillars for their great support. I wasn’t disappointed that I did not make the final list because I know my time is coming. NEXT LEVEL I’m ready for the next level which is to take my skill abroad. I’ve gone to Bulgaria for trials and I understand some clubs are interested in me, but I’m not rushing in. Even clubs in Sudan, Algeria, Serbia and China want me and I would sign for what I feel will give me the best in term of taking my career to a higher level. I think the time is ripe for me and the January transfer window will bring something good. I’m going to rely on the advice of my agent and the my club before making final decision. I’m sure that is what Kano Pillars want for me. ROLE MODEL Samuel Etoo and Lionel Messi shaped my proficiency in front of goal. I love the way they score goals with confidence and so much calm. I’ve seen many goals from them and like to reenact what I have seen on the field of play. There are other good strikers like Ronaldo but Messi and Etoo are top on my list. They are my role model on and off the pitch. I draw inspiration from them to score my goals. EUNISELL BOOT AWARD I’m still thinking how best to utilize the money. In-fact I am overwhelmed by Eunisell’s determination to change the status of Nigerian footballers and the game. It is good for Nigerian league because it would encourage more goals to be scores by more players in the Nigeria Premier League. It is a big challenge for all of us in the league and we must keep improving so that other companies will emulate what Eunisell is doing here. Winning this award has brought me into the limelight and has boosted my profile. The money will also come handy to help myself and my family.