Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has said culture is critical to the healthy development of any society as its links a community’s past and the present, thereby imbuing the people with the requisite faith and confidence to face the future. The governor spoke yesterday in Lagos while unveiling a book, titled Owe: Yoruba Proverbs, written by Prof. Anthony Kila. He noted that culture evolves with time as a society faces new circumstances, confronts fresh obstacles and attains new levels of development. Ambode said the challenge is to successfully retain the best inherited traditions while making necessary changes to adjust to new realities. The governor hailed the author for writing the book, saying his efforts correlate with the commitment of the state government to champion the revival of Yoruba language. He said: “Earlier in the year, I signed into law the bill on Yoruba Language Preservation and Promotion Law, which among others, makes the teaching of Yoruba language in private and public schools in Lagos State compulsory. This is why I am appreciative of the author for writing a book on this very important subject at this time when it has become compelling for cultural renaissance in our society.” Ambode noted that the book also represents a major contribution towards rediscovering and projecting to the world some aspects of the people’s rich culture which demonstrate that the Yoruba have the innate capacity to think and respond creatively to their environment, resulting in a civilisation that is as wholesome and admirable as any other. The governor said the richness of the Yoruba language could only be appreciated through its proverbs, which he said are used to convey a specific message among others. He added that one profound characteristic of Yoruba proverbs, apart from the depth of wisdom in their meanings, is its evergreen nature in terms of relevance across all ages, ancient and modern. “Proverbs reinforce and validate our moral value system and must, therefore, be preserved and passed on to the younger generation. Once again, I commend Prof. Anthony Kila for your effort in packaging Owe in a book form towards sustaining our indigenous language. “Our mother tongue is our identity and a key component of our culture and tradition, which we must strive to pass on from one generation to another,” Ambode said. 