President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday blamed internal and external factors for the security challenges facing the country. He made the remark while receiving security report of Course 40 of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa in Abuja. According to him, the security challenges bequeathed to his administration in 2015 were threatening lives and properties. He said the NIPSS was commissioned by his administration to have a holistic view of the country’s security problems towards finding a sustainable solution to the problem. The President said: “In November 2017, I tasked the management of NIPSS with the responsibility of strengthening the nation’s internal security framework through community policing by proposing borders, policy, offence and strategy. And I think this is what the report is all about. “The decision of the government was borne out of sincere desire to find sustainable solutions to the many security challenges inherited by this administration. These challenges not only threaten the security of lives and property of our people, but also the sovereignty, territorial integrity of our country. “We are confronted by Boko Haram insurgency in the Northeast, worrisome conflict with respect to farmers and herdsmen which has resulted in wanton destruction of lives and property across the country. Furthermore, there is the crisis of separatist agitation in the South East, and militancy in the Southsouth. “The government is convinced that these security challenges are rooted in both internal and external factors. Most importantly, the government is also convinced that finding sustainable solutions to these challenges will require the support and collaboration of security agencies and communities.” The NIPSS’s report, the President noted, was timely as it came at the time his government was overhauling security strategies. He promised to study the report and its recommendations, assuring the NIPSS that the Ministry of Budget and National planning will work towards providing necessary funding for the institute. This, he said, will allow the Institute to play its role of a think-tank and prepare the country’s leaders to plan and implement innovative ideas. He explained: “I’m pleased that the participants under the leadership of the management and faculty of the national institute took their task very seriously. “Your report is coming at a time when we are changing the national security strategy by placing much emphasis on the well-being of Nigerians. “I’m using this occasion to direct relevant government agencies to carefully study the report with a view to implementing its recommendations. “I’m aware of the funding challenges of the institute in view of the need to encourage it to continue the play the role of a think-tank and also prepare leaders who will plan and implement innovative policies for the present and future of the country the Ministry of Budget and National Planning would work towards providing necessary funding for the institute.’’ NIPSS’ acting Director-General Jonathan Juma said that the process leading to the report involved series of lectures, workshops, and presentations at plenary, with resource persons drawn from directing staff, research fellows and participants. The participants, he said, undertook study tours of 12 states, six Africa countries and six other countries outside Africa to obtain a clearer perspective of internal security issues. Juma said: “I am proud to inform you that this Report is a product of thorough band painstaking engagement with relevant stakeholders and critical analysis of the issues and challenges of the nation’s internal security framework. “We are hopeful that the recommendations will be adopted by government as part of strategies to checkmate the mutating internal security challenges in the nation and to mobilise citizens to appreciate security as a collective responsibility.”