The National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) in Imo has decried the vandalism of its transformer and other equipment at its permanent orientation camp and appealed to government to come to its aid. Mr Sunday Aroni, the NYSC State Coordinator, made the appeal on Monday at the official closing ceremony of orientation course for the Batch ‘C’ Stream 1 corps members deployed to the state at the orientation camp in Eziama Obaire in Nkwerre Local Government area. He said that the vandalism, which happened early in the year, had cut the camp off from the national grid, making the camp to depend constantly on power generator for light which is cost ineffective. Aroni, therefore, appealed to the state government to come to its aid by repairing the transformer or providing a new one so that the NYSC could save some money being used constantly on diesel. He expressed appreciation to Gov. Rochas Okorocha for the “fatherly support and assistance we have enjoyed and for all he has done for us in the scheme.” Aroni commended the camp officials for carrying out their duties creditably and the corps members for keenly and diligently participating in all the activities during the course. The state coordinator urged the corps members to put into practice all they learnt during the orientation course, especially on security, communication, Igbo culture and drug abuse and control. Gov. Rochas Okorocha, represented by the state Commissioner for Talent and Youth Development and Chairman, NYSC Governing Board, Mr Ifeanyichukwu Onwueyiagba, urged corps members to shun truancy, get rich quick syndrome and take their primary assignment seriously. He enjoined them to show love to fellow Nigerian citizens in the course of the assignment and avoid divisive tendencies. Okorocha advised them to make positive use of the social media to enhance themselves. He enjoined employers of labour not to reject corps members posted to their establishments and assured of his commitment and continuous provision of amenities to the camp.