The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) said on Friday that it would soon embark on a nationwide assessment tour of tertiary institutions in the country. The National President, NANS, Danielson Bamidele, disclosed this in an interview  in Abuja on Friday. Bamidele said that the tour became necessary in view of the poor state of infrastructure in tertiary institutions across the country. “We feel that government needs to do more. “In fact we are going to embark on campus tour to document all those dilapidated structures that TETFund has failed to do with the huge sum of money given to them over the years. “We are documenting all those things. We have a committee working on it  headed by myself, we are going to move round and ascertain all these things and even present it for you to see that  the state of structures of our campuses are quite dilapidated. “With Kick backs here and there, people give with one hand and collect with left hand,  until we meet  with TETFund  and push this issues to them. “And maybe after our nationwide tour then we will be able to address properly,’’ he said. On the increase of tuition fees by some tertiary institutions, Bamidele urged the government to address the issue to reduce the burden already felt by parents and guardians. “If you go to the various institutions in this country you see tuition been increased from even N30 N35, 000 to as high as N250,000 to N300,000. “I give you example of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akumba Akoko, I will give you an example of University of Medical Sciences in Ondo town. “One just happened recently in Rivers states University of Science and Technology and it took our intervention to claim that they did not but that was what they were actually doing. “They even went as far as threatening some of our members until I was involved before they said they were not increasing and this is  something that has been persistent., “And off course this is something we feel that the minimum wage that is been paid is not even enough even the one we are agitating that they should increase is not even enough to pay the school fees of a child and yet we have parents who have two three children in tertiary institutions. “What do you expect them to do? So we feel that t is outrageous and they should off course help us acquire education instead of making every frantic attempt to keep us in illiteracy,’’ he added. NAN