In reading this article, kindly project a picture as if every woman is your daughter, sister, wife, mother, aunt or friend. By so doing, you place yourself in the position of victims or relatives of victims of the issue that we are going to discuss in this article: maternal mortality.  The matter of women dying of pregnancy-related diseases should not happen and all efforts by all stakeholders (government at all levels, women themselves, families, nurses, physicians and the  nation in general) should be geared toward the prevention of maternal (and child) deaths. Every year in Nigeria, several thousands of women die of diseases related to pregnancy. Specifically, as at 2015 which is when the latest figures were made available, about 814 of women for every 100,000 of live births die in Nigeria every year. Nigeria is in the top tier where women and children die most in the world.  This figure only relates to live births and does not include deaths of women that occur because of abortion whereby the expelled fetus was not alive at the time of the abortion. Now let us translate these figures into real numbers of women dying of pregnancy related complications. About 5.3 million children are born yearly in Nigeria. This, on the face of it, does means that several thousands of women die every year because of pregnancy. In every 10 minutes, one-woman dies because of pregnancy or childbirth in Nigeria, giving about 53,000 per year.  These women are our mothers, sisters, wives, aunties, daughters, friends and family members. Sadly, maternal mortality is higher in women living in rural areas and among poorer communities of our country Nigeria. Across the various geographical zones of the country, a diverse picture presents as follows: North East 1549 women, North West 1026 women, South East 286 women, South West 165 women die per 100,000 per year. In the case of illegal abortion, illegal abortion rate is huge and goes on even without direct involvement of qualified healthcare workers. In fact, according to Guttmacher Institute “an estimated 1.25 million induced abortions occurred in Nigeria in 2012, equivalent to a rate of 33 abortions per 1,000 women aged 15–49. The estimated unintended pregnancy rate was 59 per 1,000 women aged 15–49. Fifty-six percent of unintended pregnancies were resolved by abortion. About 212,000 women were treated for complications of unsafe abortion, representing a treatment rate of 5.6 per 1,000 women of reproductive age, and an additional 285,000 experienced serious health consequences but did not receive the treatment they needed”. The death of a woman relating to pregnancy is indeed a national tragedy. Let us now deal with conditions that causes women to die in circumstances relating to pregnancy. In discussing these conditions, this article will look at those conditions as relating to pregnancy. Women die as a result of complications during and following pregnancy and childbirth. Most of these complications develop during pregnancy and most are preventable or treatable. Other complications may exist before pregnancy but are worsened during pregnancy, especially if not managed as part of the woman’s care. The major complications that account for nearly 75% of all maternal deaths are (WHO):