The Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday refused to grant bail applications by two businessmen, Ayogu James and Ifeuwa Moses. James and Moses were arraigned for allegedly importing 1,570 pump action rifles illegally. They were denied bail by Justice Saliu Saidu, who ruled that duo would remain in prison custody till the end of their trial. The defendants allegedly claimed that the container, which had the ruffles, was full of wash hand basins and water closets. Prosecuting counsel/director in the Federal Ministry of Justice Mr. Julius Ajakaiye had opposed the applications on the basis that the alleged offence was grave. Defence counsel Mahmud Mogaji (SAN) and Wale Adesokan (SAN) urged the court to grant their clients bail on liberal terms. They disagreed with the prosecution’s contention that the case bordered on national security, adding that the defendants would not interfere with the witnesses or jump bail. But, Ajakaiye urged the court to dismiss the applications for the sake of national security. In his ruling, Justice Saidu held: “Individual liberty cannot be placed above national security. The charges against the defendants are serious, with the level of insecurity in the country such as armed robbery, kidnapping, terrorism and the rest. “Considering the nature of the charge, I can’t exercise my discretion in favour of the defendants. I hereby refuse the bail applications.” Ajakaiye informed the court of an amended charge following the inclusion of Emeka Umeh Festus (alias Amankwa), who was at large when the others were arraigned on October 11. All the defendants, including Festus, pleaded not guilty to the amended charge. The defendants were accused of conspiring with Great James Oil and Gas Ltd to import the rifles between November 6 and 20 2017 using a 1-by-20ft container marked GESU 2555208. The prosecution said they forged a bill of lading marked ISB0281398 issued on July 28, 2017 to read “Guangdong-China” instead of “Istanbul-Turkey” with intent that it would be acted upon as genuine by Customs officers. They were also alleged to have forged a bill of lading numbered ISB0281398, issued on July 28, 2017, to read: “230 packages of wash hand basin and W/C” as the container’s content. The alleged offence is contrary to section 1 (2) (c) and 1 (14) (a) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act, Cap M17 of the Laws of the Federation 2004. Their trial begins today.