The Federal Government of Nigeria has expressed support for full chemical disarmament globally. This was contained in the statement delivered at the Fourth Special Session of the Conference of the States Parties to Review the Operation of the Chemical Weapons Convention holding in The Hague, Netherlands between 21-30 November, 2018. It was delivered by Mr. Gabriel Tanimu Aduda, Permanent Secretary/Head, National Authority on Chemical and Biological Weapons Conventions, Abuja. He said: “At this occasion of the Fourth Review Conference, I wish to reaffirm Nigeria’s full commitment to the Chemical Weapons Convention, and our unflinching support to the OPCW in its mandate to implement fully, the provisions of the Convention, particularly the completion of global destruction of chemical weapons, prevention of their re-emergence, promotion of effective management and peaceful uses of chemistry, as well as promotion of economic and technological development of all states parties. “Nigeria attaches great importance to the efforts towards global disarmament, especially chemical disarmament. We reaffirm that full, global implementation of the CWC will contribute greatly to international peace and security. “The verified destruction of chemical weapons stockpiles and production facilities, including old and abandoned chemical weapons, are core objectives of the Convention. “Nigeria therefore, calls on concerned states parties and the Secretariat to redouble efforts towards complete destruction of all chemical weapons within the shortest possible time. “In this regard, we commend the Russian Federation, Libya, Iraq and the Syrian Arab Republic for the completion of destruction of their declared chemical weapons stockpiles and production facilities, as announced by the Technical Secretariat since the Third Review Conference. “We urge good faith dialogue and cooperation between the Syrian Arab Republic and the Technical Secretariat, to clarify all outstanding issues related to the initial declaration of that State Party,” he said. According to him, Nigeria also congratulated the five (5) states that joined the Convention since the Third Review Conference – the Federal Republic of Somalia, the Syrian Arab Republic, the Union of Myanmar, the Republic of Angola and the State of Palestine. “We believe that the object and purpose of the CWC cannot be fully realised until Universality is achieved. In that connection, Nigeria calls on the remaining states not party to the CWC to accede to the Convention without preconditions or delay. “We commend also, the Technical Secretariat for its efforts on Universality, within the framework of the CWC Action Plan. The goal can be better achieved with sustained efforts and cooperation of all stakeholders, thus, Nigeria urges all states parties to consider utilising their bilateral reach to influence the remaining four (4) states not yet party to the convention to quickly do so,” he added. Since acceding to the CWC in 1999, he said, that Nigeria has remained committed to full implementation of the Convention. “As we have never been a possessor state, our implementation efforts have focused on adequate monitoring, management and control of storage, trade, and transfer of scheduled chemicals. Since the Third Review Conference, Nigeria has greatly increased sensitisation of stakeholders in the chemical industry, many times via OPCW training programmes. “We have also, a comprehensive legislation currently in its final stages before parliament, awaiting passage into law, hopefully before the end of the legislative year 2018. In the pursuit of all these, Nigerian officials took part in the Influential Visitors Programme in 2017 at the OPCW headquarters. Nigerian National Authority are in partnership with the National Authority of the United Kingdom under the Mentorship Programme, which has seen two bilateral visits and is yielding positive results. “Nigeria recently partnered with the OPCW to host a “Pilot Workshop on Implementing Legislation on the Chemical Weapons Convention in Addressing Threats Arising from Non-State Actors” from 16 – 18 October 2018 in Abuja, the Federal Capital City of Nigeria, for the ECOWAS sub-Region. The 3 days’ workshop had twelve countries in attendance and it was adjudged a huge success by participants. “We commend the Technical Secretariat for the initiation of these programmes and urge continuous monitoring and evaluation to ensure their sustainable impact. We express also, our full support for the proposal of the Director General towards national implementation assessment support.” He also disclosed that Nigeria attaches high priority to Article X of the CWC, which provides for assistance and protection to victims of Chemical Weapons. “In this regard, we commend the Technical Secretariat for various initiatives, such as the Rapid Response and Assistance Mission (RRAM) aimed at developing a state of readiness, in response to a State Party which may require assistance for victims of chemical incident. We re-echo the call of the Director-General for voluntary contributions of funds and logistics for the effective functioning of this Mission.”  