Former vice president, and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar is scheduled to launch his campaign today.  Atiku, who will be 72 this month, will try to win over the electorate ahead of the presidential election on February 16, 2019. A statement issued by Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation said: “Our campaign offers a simple message: united, the people of Nigeria can begin anew, creating a prosperous and secure future and a better life for every Nigerian.”  Atiku is expected to release a policy document that will hopefully give the voting public an insight into his agenda. The statement said the things politicians say: “Our policy document focuses on creating jobs, ensuring security, growing business, developing power and water infrastructure, agriculture and education and how we will empower women. Our policies outline the goals and methods for developing and revitalising Nigeria as the foundation of our campaign. This policy document is being launched to encourage a dialogue with the people of Nigeria, inviting everyone to join us in helping to get Nigeria working again.” It remains to be seen how Atiku will get the electorate to believe him and believe in him.  There is no denying the fact that Atiku’s political trajectory mirrors a certain inconstancy. For instance, when in 2014 he left the then ruling PDP for the All Progressives Congress (APC), he had argued:  ”In 2006, as a result of my firm stand in defence of our constitution and our democracy, my supporters and I were pushed out of our party, the Peoples Democratic Party, a party that we worked tirelessly with other compatriots to build as a vehicle to restore democracy to our country. We later returned to that party in 2009 when a new leadership of the party and the country promised a new direction of inclusiveness, of internal democracy, of an end to impunity, adherence to the rule of law and respect for the dignity of members and Nigerians. Sadly, however, these promises have not been kept.” It is interesting that Atiku, the country’s second in command from 1999 to 2007, returned to the party’s embrace after his alleged ejection and subsequent unsuccessful 2007 presidential run as the candidate of the former Action Congress (AC). Against the background of his embarrassing loss in the PDP primary for the 2011 presidential election and his subsequent alleged informal exclusion from its leadership structures, he felt claustrophobic and needed a new space for political expression. Interestingly, the fresh breathing space he found turned out to be APC, which had a strong AC content, suggesting a return to familiar turf. His statement on his resignation from PDP had described APC as “a party of change committed to the improvement of the lives of our people and to the continued existence and development of Nigeria as one indivisible country.” Although he called his move “the right decision,” his destination was intriguing, especially because he bypassed the Peoples Democratic Movement (PDM), the party he claimed to have co-founded and which he is believed to have financed heavily. This seemed to corroborate the view that maybe his overriding inspiration was situational wisdom, even fair-weather logic, although he emphasised that “this is not about me”; no doubt, conscious of such damaging interpretation of his new association. It is this possibility of unprincipled changeability that darkens the integrity of his expressed purpose. The PDP treated his 2014 departure not only with cynicism but also contempt. PDP’s then Deputy National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, said:” We are waiting for Atiku to go on this voyage and to come back. He has done it before. This is not the first time and we will welcome him back when he comes, because APC cannot win election.” Then APC won the historic 2015 presidential election and Muhammadu Buhari became president. In November 2017, Atiku left the ruling party. There is no question that the issue of his presidential ambition is central to the pros and cons of Atiku’s acrobatics. It looks like he didn’t mean it when he declared: “ I will do all within my God-given powers to help the APC win elections all over Nigeria and bring true change to our country and its long-suffering people.” Being a political acrobat must come with its own difficulties, and puts Atiku in a tough position. It certainly doesn’t enhance his image.  It is noteworthy that Atiku was a prominent member of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the Third Republic, apart from his membership of PDP, his time in AC and link with PDM. Given the different ideological colours of these platforms, it is important to consider whether Atiku’s political trajectory is informed by any firm philosophy. It is too easy and unconvincing merely to talk about thoroughgoing socio-economic change and advancement. Four years ago, on APC platform, Atiku had said: “The process of building a nation, of securing and deepening democracy is indeed difficult. And it is not a lineal process. There would be alignment and realignment of political forces. There would be ups and downs and zigzags, triumphs and challenges. Amidst all that, patriots must remain focused and do what has to be done to save and build the country and serve our people better.” As Atiku gets set to challenge President Buahri and APC in next year’s election, there are many voices complaining about how the federal government has allegedly lost the plot. If Buhari is a failure, it cannot be said that APC is a success. Last year, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, an APC leading light,  declared in a bold and brilliant lecture at the National Defence College (NDC), Abuja: “We have to criticise ourselves when it is necessary, speak truth to power. We are the power; we will talk the truth to ourselves.”  The coming presidential election will show whether the voters think the Buhari administration has been teachable. The Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation said: “We recognise that this will be a vigorous and hard fought election.”  It promises to be a big battle.