A notable politician and Senatorial candidate of the African Democratic Congress(ADC) in Ondo State, Jide Ipinsagba who recently regained his freedom with four others has narrated his ordeals in  gunmen’s captivity. He was abducted  alongside four other prominent politicians at Ago Ajayi forest along Owo-Oba Akoko-Ikare road. Ipinsagba was in the forest with the hoodlums at the notorious spot they called ‘Sambisa’ for four days. The politician recently defected from the  APC to the ADC  with others were coming from Ikare Akoko after a meeting. According to him, when they got to Ago-Ajayi area around 6.30 pm on that fateful day,10 gunmen came out of the forest,took their money,hand sets,wrist watches and other belongings after shooting sporadically . He said “We trekked for more than 25 kilometres in the forest.We slept on the rock in the night but as early as 4 30 am they usually woke us up to continue the journey.They fed us with gari and water from doubtful sources for four days in the wilderness. “When they saw a boot wore by Idowu, a Personal Assistant(PA) to Bisi Ogungbemi, the ADC  chairman who was also a victim, the kidnappers alleged that he was a Special Anti Robbery Squad(SARs) officer  which he denied, but they insisted. “They tied his hands and beat him to  coma on the basis that police are their enemies and target as many have been killed in the forest.They even boasted of more sophisticated weapons like AK riffles, pistols and daggers better than what police have. “The hoodlums told us that many victims who were not ready to cooperate on payment of ransom  had met their death in the forest,they even call on us to come and see human skeleton. “When ransom was to be handed to them, they guarded us while those bringing ransom were warned not to mess up otherwise they will kill all of us.After releasing us,those who brought ransom were left behind to allow them counted and cross checked the money. Ipinsagba said the leader of the group returned his phone,but kept his blackberry phone and golden wrist watch’. He said the leader of the kidnappers confirmed that eight of his boys were apprehended during Chief Olu Falae abduction at Ago Abo farm, who according to him  are now in prison,stressing that they were arrested through phone tracking. The victim urged police to use police helicopter to regularly  survey Ago Ajayi forest,saying  many groups are there doing nefarious activities. Besides,he called for  provision of  more ammunition,while military check points should be increased along Owo Ikare road.