Plans are under way by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration to end arbitrary charges at the nation’s sea ports, The Nation has learnt. The Federal Government, it was gathered, has finished its study of the various tariffs across ports in West Africa, and determined to ensure that Nigerian ports are competitive compared to its neighbours. Speaking with The Nation at the weekend, a senior official of the Federal Ministry of Finance (FMoF), who craved anonimity, said the government was reviewing the concession agreement to make the ports attractive and competitive by eliminating the legion of arbitrary charges importers and their clearing agents are being made to pay by the private terminal operators. The President Muhammadu Buhari administration, the official said, was going tough on arbitrary charges based on the economic diversification agenda of the government. “Through the on-going review of the concession agreement, the Federal Government was determined to check the excesses of the private terminal operators by ensuring that things like arbitrary tariff by terminal operators will be checked “The review of the concession agreement by the government  will further sanitise the sector and enhance smooth operations and clearance of cargo at the ports. “Many illegal payments that contribute to making Nigerian ports  non-competitive in the West African region will soon be eradicated and the review will boost the ease of doing business initiative of the government,” the source said. The new operations rate as contained in the review agreement, the FMoF official said, cannot be circumvented by the private terminal operators. In the proposed review agreement exclusively sighted by The Nation, it is now mandatory for all terminal operators “to use their best efforts to do the following: •develop, market and promote cargo throughput and cargo-related business of the lease property in order to achieve maximum utilisation thereof in a manner that  is consistent with applicable law and prudent industry standards; and • ensure that there is no decline in the standards of the operations; •the lessee shall perform the operations in such a manner as to achieve the performance requirements in the applicable years of the term. •the lessee shall ensure that the operations rates shall be in accordance with applicable laws and competitive within the port and with other competing ports of Nigeria and its neighbours having facilities similar to the lease property. The Federal Government through the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), the FMoF official said, was coming up with stiffer penalty for any terminal operator that refused to publish it’s operations rates from time to time. “Terminal operators shall at all times publish their rates, charges and conditions of the operations as may be  directed by the lessor, the NPA or the regulator, the Nigerian Shippers Council shall make such information immediately available upon request by any person “Terminal operators shall afford to all who may request the operations uniform treatment under like conditions and shall not apply discriminatory charges on any person. For the avoidance of doubt, the provisions of this Section shall not prohibit the lessee from granting preferential rates in accordance with the provisions set out in Sub Section (e). “lf preferential rates are applied to any customers of the lessee, the lessee shall inform the lessor and if applicable, the regulator in writing of the same. If the lessor can show to the satisfaction of the regulator,  that the preferential rates applied by the lessee are discriminatory, the lessor shall have the right to instruct the lessee to apply such rates to all other similar customers of the lessee using the operations and the lease property. “ Other than in circumstances where the lessee charges preferential rates, if the lessee is not able to charge the operations rates and/or other charges referred to in sub-section (b) above to its customers, the lessee shall refer the matter to the regulator for determination of the rates chargeable. “ In the event that the lessor or any other governmental authority receives a complaint of discrimination on the part of the lessee, and the regulator, concludes after its investigation of such complaint that there are reasonable grounds for such complaint, then the lessee shall immediately cease and desist from such practices and pay any applicable penalties provided for under applicable law,” he added. To complement government efforts  in repositioning the ports for greater efficiency and competitiveness, the FMoF official said there must be synergy between  NPA and the Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC). The Minister of Transport, Mr Rotimi Amaechi, the official said, must ensure that the NPA, as  the landlord and the Shippers Council, as the Ports Economic Regulator work together for effective enforcement of the provisions of the new concession agreement. The FMoF official said the lack of necessary synergy and proper understanding between the two agencies was responsible for the impunity with which the terminal operators are violating the concession agreement. 