The Kano State Government and UNICEF have agreed to establish a new office to serve Kano, Katsina and Jigawa States to focus on addressing children issues. Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje confirmed this when UNICEF officials led by its Country Representative, Mr Mohammed Fall, paid him a courtesy visit in Kano on Thursday. He said the state government started processing the new UNICEF field office since August 2018, by proposing Magwan Water Restaurant, which was inspected by a team of professionals and fully endorsed by UNICEF. Ganduje, who was represented by his Deputy, Dr Nasiru Gawuna, said Kano was one of the most peace loving states that has been accommodating development partners and other officials from all over the world. “For Kano state, it is very clear and considering that Kano is a very peaceful state and His Excellency is doing very well in terms of security and peace of the people of Kano state, that is why we are happy to welcome UNICEF to Kano state.
“I want to on behalf of His Excellency, inform you that he has approved for a befitting facility to serve as the new UNICEF office in Kano in a choice and prime area and one of the most secured places we have in the state,” he said. He expressed the readiness of the present administration to continue to collaborate with UNICEF and other development partners towards addressing issues that affect the wellbeing of children and women.
“I want to assure you that this administration will do its possible best to fulfil all the requirements needed to ensure effective commencement of the UNICEF office and smooth collaboration with Kano state.   By the time you move your office to Kano, you will be very conversant with people of Kano and on our part we are going to make sure that you stay very comfortably here in Kano,” he added.
Fall had earlier said they were at the Government House to discuss and officially inform the state authority on the move by the UNICEF to open a field office in Kano. He noted that their physical presence in Kano would help in boosting their programmes to other parts of the country.
“UNICEF is focusing more on result. Result is linked to numbers and you know Kano is one of the densely populated states in the country, therefore, if one succeeds in Kano, you will be able to reach a large number of children even beyond the population in the state. “Some of the deprivations affecting children whether it is difficulty to access health, nutrition, sanitation and education services and all issues related to child protection, they all happen at a very large scale in mega cities or urban areas that we must work together to alleviate the sufferings of children,” said the country representative. e expressed optimism that Kano state would provide all the enabling environment and support to help in reaching out to a very large number of children in need of UNICEF’s support the most. he official further thanked the Ganduje administration for all the support and cooperation it has been according UNICEF towards the success of its interventions and support programmes in the state. NAN