The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Friday said 1,602 people perished in road accidents that occurred in September, October, November and December 2017. Speaking at the inauguration of the corps’ 2018 ember month campaign tagged, Safe Driving Saves Lives, the Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, said 2,805 crashes wee recorded in last year’s ember months. The campaign, which was inaugurated at the Igbogene axis of the East-West Road, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, was attended by Governor Seriake Dickson and all security commanders in the state. While Dickson was represented by his Special Adviser on Transport, Ebiwari Wariowei, others at the flag off were Commander 16th Brigade, Brig-.Gen. Kelvin Aligbe; state Commander, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps and heads of immigration Department of State Security (DSS). Others were the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) and commercial tricycle union among others. Oyeyemi, who was represented by the Zonal Commanding Officer, Kingsley Agomoh, said a total of 20,196 people and 4,503 vehicles were involved in the 2017 ember month accidents. He said the corps had resolved to bring down last year’s casualty figures by a huge margin through the 2018 campaign and the cooperation of all the road users. He said: “The ember months is a period of festivities and many people erroneously believe that evil forces on the roads are responsible for road crashes and fatalities. “But the struggle on the part of most people to travel to meet their loved ones that causes it and more trips on the part of commercial drivers to make more profit in preparation for the Yuletide without adequate rest are mainly responsible for the road mishap”. Oyeyemi said the corps had resolved to use the media and all public enlightenment platforms to dispel the erroneous belief and prefer a way forward for reduction and possible elimination of road traffic crashes. Insisting that the corps in its campaign would force safe driving to save life, the FRSC boss said corps officials would be strict in their conduct of vision acuity tests to check defective eyesight of drivers on the road. “There is a need for drivers to have their drivers’ license, highway codes, change from old plate numbers to new ones to ensure uniformity in the corps’ licensing scheme, which will be captured in the central database of the corps”, he said. In his remarks, the Bayelsa Sector Commander, Ikechukwu Igwe, said the campaign had taken a different dimension from a day’s activities to a three-day programme. He sand children were also integrated into the programme to carry the message of safety to the adults adding that the children would be involved in distribution of fliers to road users. He added that the children, numbering 150, would also visit the mosques, markets, motor parks and churches to sensitise road users on the need to be careful this period. Also speaking, Dickson said the road safety had done very well in the reduction of road accidents but noted that with the campaign, the corps would double its efforts in discharging their roles in the ember months. He also appealed to the corps to collaborate with other security agencies especially the Nigeria Drug Law Enforcement Agencies (NDLEA) to check intake of illicit drugs by road users. “These are the periods they carry these drugs and other arms and ammunition about. They pass through the roads and road safety should collaborate with other security agencies to tackle crimes and drug abuse”, he said.