The Ogun Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) on Thursday  said that vehicles impounded for violating traffic regulations at construction sites  would not be released until January next year. Mr Clement Oladele, Ogun Sector Commander of FRSC, disclosed this at the launch of Ember Months campaign orgainsed in collaboration with the Shell Nigeria.  The campaign was entitled : Safe Driving, Safe Arrival. He noted that for every two deaths that occurred during a crash this year, one of them occurred at construction sites. Oladele said this year had been most challenging for FRSC as road crashes were on the increase. “This development is alarming because the 214 lives lost so far this year was more than that of 2017 figure which was 210,” he said. He said over half of the crashes that occurred at various construction sites in the state could be traced to speeding. The sector commander implored motorists to be cautious at construction sites as vehicles arrested for speeding and over taking would be impounded. “Motorists should not speed above 50 Km per hour at construction sites to avoid unnecessary loss of lives. “Oladele said. He further cautioned motorists to desist from wrongful overtaking on Lagos/Abeokuta Expressway due to several diversions on the roads. Oladele commended both the federal and state governments for massive construction of roads across the state. Mr Adekunle Oguntoyinbo, Sango-Ota Unit Commander of FRSC, said that the campaign could not have come at a better time as the global attention was focused on road crashes. According to him, road crashes had caused immense damage to human and economic resources of the nation. He said that as  the festive period approaches, motorists must ensure that their vehicles were good  condition before embarking on any trip. “Motorists should ensure that their vehicles meet up with minimum safety standards before putting them on the road. “Their brake system and horn must be in good condition and also desist from using expired tyres,” he said. Oguntoyinbo also warned motorists to desist from using cell phone while driving. The unit commander reiterated FRSC’s commitment to collaborate with all stakeholders to reduce crashes and make the highways safer for the people. NAN