To inspire youths with the desire to write to develop their writing skills and discover new talents in writing, Writers Corner rewarded 25 pupils who submitted the best short stories and poems for the 2018 Rising Star Writing Competition. During the awards which held Wednesday last week at Anne’s Luxury Suite, Victoria Island, winners of both genres in primary and secondary school were unveiled. The Poetry winners in the Primary School category were: Jailyn Nsofor of Coronal Schools, Lagos (first);  Zoe Onyeke of St Saviours School, Ikoyi (second); and Segun Dada of Imperial Gate, Lekki (third). In Secondary School category, Snow George of Starville School, Abuja was first; Chiamaka Ayogu and Chijindum Nwagwu both of Louisville Girls College, Ijebu Itele, came second and third in the Poetry genre. For the Short Story genre, Primary School category, Demilade Olanere came of Living Spring School came first; Chimchetaram Udo-Okafor of The Nickdel School, Lagos, came second; and Chibuikem Chinwetalu of Ivy League School, Lagos, was third. In the secondary school category, the short story winners were: Chinyere Ofomata of Louisville Girls College, Ijebu Itele (first); Adebayo Emmanuel of Starville School, Abuja (second); and Bukola Ajani of School Masters Academy (third). The pupils were presented with Flatscreen TV, Samsung tablets, Thirteen others got honorary mention. In her speech, the CEO, Writers Corner, Mrs Uche Udoji, underscored the importance of the project. She said: “This competition showcases the admirable growth in the standard of literacy in schools. We are here today, not only to give awards to deserving winners but to inspire every child, adult and everyone desirous of being a writer to pick up and develop their writing skills as well as discover new talents in writing. We are encouraging children to challenge themselves to much note than is expected of them.” She said there was need to preserve creative writing so it does not become extinct among youths. “The future belongs to these young ones and writing is among the keys to the future. Writing paints the voice, thereby allowing children to express themselves confidently. Creative writing as we all know is the heartbeat of literacy and it is through creative writing that writers show knowledge of words and their proficiency in using them.” She also urged schools to help promote and encourage the art of writing in youths. “We implore parents, teachers, guardians and schools to place emphasis on literacy, especially creative writing, so as to ignite a love for writing and reading vin the children from a very young age.” The head of Human Resources, Green Life Pharmaceuticals, one of the sponsors of the project, Mrs Amaka Nwosisi, said the firm supported the initiative to promote literary work. She said: “Green Life as an entity is not only out to promote good health but to help improve the areas the country is a bit lacking. The project is out to help children to discover their talents and even their love for writing and poet which is something that we are gradually losing in Nigeria where some other irrelevant things are taking over our children’s lives.”