The Nigeria Police Force has revealed the circumstances that led to the death of the prime suspect, Michael Adikwu in the Offa robbery. Contrary to claims that Adikwu was murdered by personnel of the Force while in detention, the Police said he slummed in their custody. The Police also said the death of the prime suspect does not exonerate the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki who was indicted by other suspects in the case. This is contained in a statement in Abuja on Thursday by the Force Spokesman, Ag. DCP Jimoh Moshood. According to Police,  Adikwu who was a dismissed Police Man and an ex- convict  confessed to have killed 22 persons including pregnant women and nine  Police personnel and carted away 22 AK 47 Rifles at the Offa Police Divisional Headquarters during Offa Bank Robbery. The Police also explained that he was not paraded along with the five gang leaders now standing trial because he was taken out to arrest other members of the gang and recover the Rifles carted away during the Offa Bank Robbery. The Police said: “Michael Adikwu was not murdered but slummed and died in detention while investigation into the Offa Bank Robbery was ongoing. “It is also important for the public to know that the deceased Michael Adikwu ‘was not among the Five gang leaders that indicted and implicated the senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki, therefore, his death cannot in anyway vindicate Senator Bukola Saraki. “There is a post-mortem examination result in respect of the death of Michael Adikwu ‘M’ 30Yrs.” On the indictment of Saraki, the Police said: “The indictment of the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki from the confessions of the five  gang leaders namely; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salawudeen Azeez, Niyi Ogundiran arrested for direct involvement and active participation in the Offa Bank Robbery was not politically motivated as alleged by Mr. Yusuf Olaniyonu, Special Adviser (Media and Publicity) to the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki to the media, but purely criminal case. “It should be of serious concern to all, that human life is sacrosanct and  where investigation has been concluded and suspects arraigned in Court, judicial process must be exhausted and not hindered for the law to take its course in ensuring justice for the families of more than (33) innocent persons including pregnant women that were gruesomely murdered in cold blood by Michael Adikwu and the Five gang leaders investigated and currently standing trial for direct involvement and active participation in the Offa Bank Robbery, than for any individual(s) or any group to attempt futile efforts and desperate distractions to pervert the end of justice is most unfair to the families of the deceased, the State and the society at large.” Giving further details into the case,  the Pokice said: “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to the innuendo in the media on the death of a sectional gang leader Michael Adikwu ‘M’ 30Yrs (A Dismissed Police Man and an Ex- Convict) who confessed to have killed Twenty Two (22) persons including pregnant women and Nine (9) Police personnel and carted away of Twenty Two (22) AK 47 Rifles at the Offa Police Divisional Headquarters during Offa Bank Robbery on the 5th April, 2018, it is therefore, imperative that the Nigeria Police Force respond to the publication and set the record straight. “The Nigeria Police Force is conversant and mindful of contempt of Court in commenting on cases already before the Court of competent jurisdiction, however, the Force is constraint and compelled to respond to the statement from Mr. Yusuf Olaniyonu, Special Adviser (Media and Publicity) to the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki and not on the Court processes and  proceedings on the case of Offa Bank Robbery for which Five  principal suspects are now standing trial in a State High court in Ilorin, Kwara State. “For avoidance of doubt, and to correct the insinuations and wrong impressions created by the statement from Mr. Yusuf Olaniyonu, Special Adviser (Media and Publicity) to the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki in the minds of members of the public over the indictment and involvement of the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki in the case of the Offa Bank Robbery of 5th April, 2018, from the confessions of the Five (5) gang leaders namely; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salawudeen Azeez, Niyi Ogundiran arrested for direct involvement and active participation in the Offa Bank Robbery and the gruesome killing of 33 innocent persons, the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki was indicted by the Five (5) suspects who admitted in their confessional statements to the Police investigators that they were political thugs of the Senate President, Federal Republic of Nigeria, Sen. Bukola Saraki and the Executive Governor of Kwara State, Alh. Abdulfatah Ahmed. “The Five gang leaders further confessed during investigation that they are political thugs under the name Youth Liberation Movement a.k.a “Good Boys” they also admitted and confessed to have been sponsored with firearms, money and operational vehicles. “Lexus RX 300 Jeep with Reg. KWARA, KWA 143 RM with inscription SARAKI on a sticker attached to the vehicle “Mercedes Benz Compressor Reg. LAGOS, LT 496 KJA, these two (2) Vehicles were used for the Offa Bank Robbery by the Five (5) gang Leaders. The first vehicle was later registered after the Offa Bank Robbery to divert attention while the suspects were in detention. “These confessions were made before the media and the public on the 3rd of June, 2018. It is therefore, evidently clear that the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki has case to answer in the whole matter. The statement continues: “It was also discovered during investigations that three gang leaders who participated actively in the Offa Bank Robbery (i) Ayoade Akinnibosun aka AY (ii) Ibukunle Ogunleye aka Arrow and (iii) Adeola Abraham followed the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki to Oloffa’s Palace when the Senate President paid a condolence visit to Offa after the Bank Robbery. “Further investigation into the matter revealed  that all the Five (5) gang leaders have direct connection to the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki as a picture of one of the five  gang leaders when paraded by the Police was in ‘Aso Ebi’ (trouser) used during the Senate President daughter’s wedding. The Five (5) gang leaders further admitted that they attended the Senate President daughter’s wedding held in Abuja. “Consequent on all the above, a thorough and discreet investigation was concluded by the Police into the matter and all the Five (5) gang leaders namely; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salawudeen Azeez, Niyi Ogundiran arrested for direct involvement and active participation in the Offa Bank Robbery that indicted and implicated Senator Bukola Saraki, Senate President Federal Republic of Nigeria in the Offa Bank Robbery are alive and now in Court.