The House of Representatives candidate for Yagba Federal Constituency in Kogi state and founder of the Leke Abejide Foundation (LAF), Elder Leke Abejide on Monday in Kano said LAF has rounded up the last phase of the 2018 humanitarian support programmes with the payment of WAEC fees of N40 million for about 2000 students in public secondary schools drawn from the three Local Government Areas of Yagba Federal Constituency in Kogi State. Speaking to Reporters in Kano, Elder Abejide who is a front line candidate under the platform of African Democratic Congress (ADC), said the Foundation has invested about huge amount of money to alleviate the sufferings of the people in the constituency, with particular interest in promoting education, health, food security and environmental sanitation. According to him, “We will continue to assist parents and guidance in the three LGAs, who are finding it difficult to settle the WAEC fee of their wards because of harsh economic situation in Kogi State.” He further disclosed that the programme was conceived to support educational development in the three benefitting LGAs. Abejide stated that, “the Foundation embarked on the programme as a way of providing relief to most of the Parents and Guidance, burdened by poverty limiting their ability to paying the WAEC fee. The programme is a five-year plan that entails a yearly payment of WAEC fee for all the final year students in public secondary schools in the LGAs.” He added that, “in addition to the payment of the WAEC fee, the Foundation has also paid a total of about N2.2 million being extra fees that are usually paid by parents to school authorities as administrative charges for the examination. “The idea of establishment of the Leke Abejide Foundation was borne out of our quest to give back to the society through supporting socio-economic activities that are aimed at bringing smile to the face of indigent and less privileged ones in the society. “The humanitarian activities of the Foundation first started in 2004, when Foundation put in place a Free Tuition Free Scheme for students of Alu Community High, my Alma-Ata, and similar scheme was implemented at Igbo-Ero Community High School. We followed up the scheme with a Women Empowerment Programme in the three LGAs. “The core component of the Empowerment Programme was the provision of the sum of N20,000 as Business Support to over 600 women drawn from the 34 Wards in the three LGAs.” In his address earlier, Shola Adebola, Director –General of the Foundation, who give an insight into the nature of the activities of the Foundation, explained that the Foundation which is a non-religious, non-Political, non-tribal, and not for profit Organisation was conceived to assist indigent Nigerians. Adebola revealed that the humanitarian objectives of the Foundation is anchored on the principles inculcated into the Founder of the Foundation by his parents, which are: ‘Hard-Work and Fear of God’ He charged the benefiting students to take advantage of the opportunity which they have been offered with the payment of the WAEC fee, and work hard in order to be successful in the examination.