Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi has urged career women to ensure a balance between their career successes and upholding proper family upbringing for their children. The governor said the society becomes better when mothers ensure proper upbringing for their children. Ajimobi spoke yesterday in his welcome address at the opening ceremony of this year’s three-day National Women’s Summit of the Oyo State Officials’ Wives Association (OYSOWA). This year’s is the seventh edition of the summit with the theme: Against All Odds. It is holding at the International Conference Centre of the University of Ibadan (UI) and being attended by women from across the 33 local government areas and 35 local council development areas (LCDAs) in the state, religious groups, professionals bodies, corporate bodies, trade groups, non-governmental organisations (NGOs), among others. Nigeria’s first woman Chief Justice of the Federation (CJN), Justice Aloma Mukhtar, governors’ wives Mrs. Edith Okowa (Delta), Mrs Bolanle Ambode (Lagos); Mrs Kafayat Oyetola (Osun) and wife of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Dame Abimbola Fashola, were among delegates and participants at the event. Ajimobi urged women to be cognisant of the profound influence they bear on the success of the home and development of the nation. He said: “It is imperative for our womenfolk to remain committed to the course of building the family and the nation, particularly in the face of challenging times. “The future of a society starts and ends with the family. Women, historically, traditionally and religiously, play the most crucial roles in this regard. We must always remember that our greatest contribution to society may ultimately not be something we did but someone we raised. “Our government will continue to support the empowerment of women in our state and the country because we believe that when you empower a woman, you empower a generation. “I am confident that this year’s summit, like the previous ones, will succeed in its mandate of effecting favourable changes in the socio-economic, emotional and physical status of parents, families and communities through the empowerment of women in the state and all over the country.” Justice Mukhtar, who was the special guest of honour, urged women to take their rightful positions in the country. She said: “There is no limit to what they can achieve in life.” Expressing optimism that “one day, a woman would be governor in Nigeria and eventually President of the country”, the former CJN enjoined women to work hard, persevere, exercise patience and have the fear of God in whatever they do so that they can get to the top. Mrs Florence Ajimobi enjoined women to realise that “this is an era of women emancipation and liberation”. She added: “Now is the time to arise and take decisive actions for change against all odds. No longer must we be figure-heads; we must make our voices heard and our impact felt strongly against all odds. “I am glad that we have achieved several successes as a body in the last six years. We have institutionalised OYSOWA and built a new secretariat staffed with competent hands, equipped with modern facilities so that OYSOWA can continue to be a going concern. “My dear women, seven in the spiritual realm represents perfection and the theme of this years’ summit – my valedictory OYSOWA summit the grand finale, the mother of all OYSOWA summits and the very last I bow out as the chairperson – is Against All Odds. “The challenge we face cannot demoralise us because we are resilient; they are only tests of our superior ability and strength. We will overcome them and achieve our dreams and aspirations.”