Commercial activities were paralysed yesterday at Iganmu, Costain Roundabout, Ijora, Funsho Williams Avenue and other areas in Lagos Mainland, as trucks blocked highways, forcing commercial drivers to increase fares by 100 per cent. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that it was bedlam, especially at Iganmu, as articulated vehicle operators and other motorists drove against traffic, causing logjam. Lagos, Nigeria’s economic hub, has experienced traffic chaos in recent years, caused by lawlessness on highways and an apparent inability of traffic managers to enforce rules to check lawlessness. Analysts have blamed the situation on what they describe as poor governance in a mega city dotted by poor roads and bubbling with human activities. Speaking to NAN on the gridlock, some commuters lamented the inability of the Lagos State Government to find a solution to the problem. A commercial motorist, Olakunle Ajayi, described driving from Costain to Orile as a nightmare because of motorists driving against traffic. “I’m sick and tired of Lagos. Do we still have a government in this state?’’, he asked as hoodlums, popularly called area boys, extorted money from him to allow him passage. “I don’t like driving against traffic because sometimes it can be fatal, but with no other road to my destination, I’m forced to do so,” Ajayi said. Another motorist, lsmaila Ahmadu, who plies the Ojuelegba to ljora highway route, said the gridlock had ruined the business of many commercial motorists because their daily trips had been reduced. “My tricycle is on hire purchase. I have to pay to own it, but with this gridlock, I don’t know what to do. “I am tired of this hardship.” A trader, Mrs. Angela Abumeri, said she endured a long wait at Fadeyi bus stop in her bid to get a bus going to Orile. “I woke up around 4am to buy fruits from Ketu. Going home is now difficult because transporters are breaking the journey to collect double fare,’’ she said. A truck driver, who simply gave his name as Danjuma, told NAN that truck drivers resorted to blocking the roads because traffic managers were forcing them out of Lagos bridges. “Traffic managers have gone tough on us. They chased us from parking on the bridges and since we have no alternative, we have to park in the middle of the road.” Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) Chief Executive Officer Mr. Chris Olakpe said the agency was on top of the situation. He said it had been working hard to tackle the gridlock.