As the 2019 Presidential Campaign kicks off today, Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu and Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, report on the major issues that will top campaign promotions of the two leading candidates and the expectations of Nigerians AS the campaigns for the 2019 Presidential Election formally kicks off today, Nigerians are eager to know the issues the leading candidates and parties would present to electorates for consideration. Also, Nigerians, who spoke to The Nation yesterday, expressed some of their major expectations and what they would look for before voting in the 2019 Presidential Election. They pointed out that instead of the steady descent into personal attacks and mere shouting of party slogans at campaign grounds, what Nigerians want is focused discourse on key national issues. Wide calls for issue-based campaigns Announcing the kick-off of the campaigns in a statement made available to The Nation yesterday, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said, “Political parties who have fielded candidates for the February 16th, 2019 Presidential and National Assembly elections will by Sunday, 18th November 2018 (today), commence campaigns across the country. “This is in line with the Timetable and Schedule of Activities issued by the Commission and in accordance with Section 99(1) of the Electoral Act, 2010 (as amended) which provides that ‘the period of campaigning in public by every political party shall commence 90 days before polling day and end 24 hours prior to that day’. “Political parties are expected to conduct their activities in an organised and peaceful manner, devoid of rancour, hate and/or inflammatory speeches,” INEC said. Also declaring its intention to commence campaigns immediately, one of the leading candidates, the candidate of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, in a statement yesterday through the Atiku Presidential Campaign Organisation gave a hint at some of the issues that dominate its campaign: “Our policy document focuses on creating jobs, ensuring security, growing business, developing power and water infrastructure, agriculture and education and how we will empower women. “Our policies outline the goals and methods for developing and revitalising Nigeria as the foundation of our campaign.” It has been noted that since the end of the primaries, observers have expressed concern over the texture of preliminary comments made by aides and campaign organisations of the two leading candidates, the candidates of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and that of the opposition PDP respectively. The concern has been as a result of observed descent to personality attacks, a development concerned Nigerians said must be replaced with issue oriented campaign agenda. Hinting at the need to focus on issues and play according to the rules, INEC, the electoral body said yesterday that its decision to flag off campaigns from today “is guided by the provision of the nation’s constitution. The Electoral Act, as amended, states in 99(I) say, “the period of campaigning in public by every political party shall commence 90 days before polling day and end 24 hours prior to that day.” The 2019 Presidential Election has largely been defined so far by personal attacks among political parties and candidates, especially between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the leading opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). But significant policy statements and clear cut issues are being expected to be advanced by the main actors as the campaign officially begins today. And while those issues will be hashed out on the campaign trail over the next three months, some topics are destined to help define the nation’s next election. Not a few pundits are optimistic that both President Muhammadu Buhari of the APC and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar of the PDP will seek to appeal to the Nigerian electorates by making definitive proposals on how they intend to address some major concerns of Nigeria and Nigerians ahead of the polls. Urging Nigerians to be prepared to engage all the candidates for elective positions during the campaign, Adams Oshiomhole, the APC National Chairman, has said that with President Muhammadu Buhari as the party’s presidential candidate for the 2019 election, the APC is set to especially, engage the opposition PDP on issue-based campaign. Oshiomhole maintained that the party is now ready for the 2019 election, adding that the president had given a good account of himself as a leader who led by example. Giving a clue of what to expect as the campaigns kicks off, he said the APC would scrutinise the records of the flag-bearer of the opposition parties, especially the opposition PDP. This, he said, would be done with a view to bringing their past deeds to the public to enable the voters make good choices. “Nigerians must be well informed as they vote for people we want to take us to the next level. We will look at the records of the opponents. We will look at his pedigree. We will challenge them on their track records,” he said. Similarly, the PDP said that its campaign will be focused on issues and solutions that have direct bearing on the welfare of Nigerians. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said “The PDP and our presidential candidate will focus on ensuring security. We will focus on how to increase the purchasing power of Nigerians, as well as revamp our economy through strategic intervention in critical sectors, especially power, food security, road and railway infrastructure. “We will also focus on education, energy, health, water provision, and labour issues, among others. “The PDP will proffer direction to reduce cost of governance and release funds for development purposes; cut harsh tariff and tax regimes and eradicate corruption,”Ologbondiyan said. He said that the party’s campaign would be strategically centralised and streamlined.” The party said revitalising Nigeria is the foundation of the campaign. “Our campaign offers a simple message: united, the people of Nigeria can begin anew, creating a prosperous and secure future and a better life for every Nigerian. We will ensure effectiveness and responsibility our messages content, dissemination and general engagement with Nigerians at all levels.” Economy and jobs The economy and jobs are usually key issues when the debate is about electing new leaders. For instance, the 2015 election, at a time when the country was threatened with a looming recession, was undoubtedly influenced by huge consideration for post-election economy. Many pundits are of the opinion that millions of Nigerians are once again concerned about the economy of the country and would vote with this in consideration. The problem of unemployment remains a menace in spite of efforts at tackling it by the current administration; thus, the need for more jobs will be a deciding factor as people go to the polls next year. Dr. Bade Aderinwa, a public analyst and economist, speaking with The Nation at the weekend, said “2019 should ordinarily be a trim when Nigerians will concern themselves more about how food will get to their tables considering the difficulties they encountered economically this year.” Expectedly, the parties and the candidates will make serious business out of convincing the voters that they know the economic problems and job needs of the people as well as the best ways to tackle these. Already, many of the leading candidates and their parties have been talking about the economic needs of the country and how they are going to solve them. During the run up to the PDP national convention that threw him up as the party’s presidential candidate, Atiku had, in his attempt to convince the delegates of his suitability for the job at hand, given insights into some of his economic plans if elected President in 2019. “On jobs, as long as growth of the economy is driven by the oil sector, job creation is bound to suffer. To tackle the job and poverty challenges bedeviling the economy, we shall focus on four areas. “First, we shall stimulate the growth of those economic sectors which are considered the domain of the poor i. e. agriculture and micro & small enterprises. For the MSE sector, we shall set up a Venture Capital Fund to enhance their access to finance and hence their ability to grow and employ more hands. Second, we shall set up a National Innovation Fund to support budding entrepreneurs, especially young men and women with brilliant ideas. “Thirdly, we shall promote a Special Apprenticeship Programme that will support training of up to 1,000,000 youth (including the NYSC) each year in diverse fields, by local master crafts persons. While they undergo the training, we shall match them with potential employers. Fourth area of focus is the aggressive promotion of Nigeria as Africa’s leading business process outsourcing destination with potential to create two million direct and indirect jobs. Our goal is to ensure that Nigeria fully explores the vast opportunities that abound in the global market for IT and IT-enabled services to create quality jobs for our youth. Also, to lift our people out of poverty, we shall improve their access to basic services including education, health, electricity and water  by making these services not only available but affordable,” Atiku had said. And not a few analysts believe he will speak more on these as he out the boxes to campaign in the coming days and weeks. If Atiku and his party, the PDP have emphasized economy as their major campaign point, President Muhammadu Buhari and his party, the APC, have also called on Nigerians to acknowledge the “foundations the Buhari-led APC Federal Government has laid.” Prince Maxwell Ideawor, a public analyst said “Nigerians may complain of current economic hardship, but it is a fact that the APC government has succeeded in redirecting our focus on agriculture, which I believe should be the right alternative to oil-based economy. So, I think Buhari and his party will project agriculture as their solution to economic revival.” Power The unending problem of electricity supply across the country is another issue that will be topical as the campaign commences. Opinions are currently divided over how well the current administration has fared in tackling the power problem. While some will say there is huge improvement in the power supply today, others want to see more effective improvement. Of course, the parties and their candidates are aware of these opinions and will seek to exploit the situation when campaigning. For Atiku, there is a lot of work to be done in the power sector. “We shall increase power generation by ensuring full participation of private sector. We shall issue licences to enable the private sector invest in mini-grid capabilities to service local communities or local governments, states, regions or target industrial clusters. “Our electricity generation plan shall be diversified to include clean energy (hydro, solar and nuclear) in addition to natural gas. As you may be aware, the transmission infrastructure of the power sector is ageing and in dire need of investment. We shall provide incentives  including tax breaks to the private sector to invest in the development of multiple green field mini-grid transmission systems,” he once promised. As for Buhari, power, which was one of the major campaign issues with which he and his party, APC rode to power in 2015, there would be the need to explain to Nigerians what has been achieved in this critical sector. Sources said in the planned campaign policy of the president, achievements of the administration in the power sector would be laid bare. Restructuring Restructuring is one issue that is poised to lead the 2019 Presidential campaigns. As far back as April this year, PDP candidate, former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, promised that he would restructure Nigeria in six months if elected president in the 2019 elections. He said this during a question and answer session at the Chatham House in UK after delivering a lecture titled: “The Importance of Strengthening State Economic Management Systems”. He also said he would offer a matching grant of $250 million each to the 36 states of the federation to challenge them to enhance their Internally Generated Revenue. As he puts it, “Beyond institutional and administrative reforms to improve operational efficiency of the revenue agencies, the federating units will be challenged to double their efforts in rebuilding the fiscal-social contract, by enhancing service delivery in key areas such as health, education, water supply and infrastructural development. “Only this would change the predominant perception that government revenues are diverted to the private bank accounts of politicians and their cronies,” he said. Since then, the issue of restructuring has remained at the top of the agenda. Significantly, the ruling APC is not outrightly opposed to it but Buhari has challenged the proponents to explain clearly what they meant by restructuring. This shows that as the campaign kicks off, Nigerians expect to hear more about this central issue. Security With the insurgence in the northeast still raging and herdsmen killing and kidnapping not yet nipped in the bud, discourse is expected to focus on security in the next three months ahead of the 2019 elections. There is no doubt that an effective blueprint on how to better secure the country and end reckless killings will look attractive to discerning voters during the campaigns. Atiku and the PDP are already wooing Nigerians with how they plan to arrest the situation if elected. “On security, we must understand the root causes of the security challenges in the North. The full economic potentials of the region remains undeveloped resulting in high rates of youth unemployment, high levels of poverty and deprivation and income inequality.  Access to education is more restricted, resulting in more out of school children in the North than anywhere else in Nigeria. “Unless these issues are tackled, youth restiveness, sectarian violence and other acts of insurgency and terrorism shall continue to bedevil the region. My first critical policy priority therefore is to support the northern states in rebuilding their economies and opening up economic opportunities for their citizens. This will reduce frustration and alienation and minimize grievances. “We shall same time undertake a comprehensive review of our security architecture & enhance its preparedness to meet challenges. As part of the review we shall commence the gradual process of instituting state police & community policing in line with principle of restructuring,’ Atiku was reported to have promised when asked how he will tackle the problem of insecurity. For President Buhari and his party, APC, security is one issue they plan to leverage on. “The Buhari-led Federal Government has scored high in security, especially on the handing of Boko Haram. This is why APC expects to win in the Northeast,” said Ideawor. What Nigerians expect While the politicians are working hard to put together convincing messages to be delivered to the electorates during campaigns, the people are compiling their various wish lists in anticipation of the coming of the parties and candidates. So far, spokesmen of the leading candidates have assured Nigerians that they will play according to the rules. Confirming their resolve to play according to the rules, governors elected under the platform of APC after a recent strategy meeting said they will campaign strictly based on “issues” in 2019. The Chairman of Progressives Governors Forum, Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, while speaking with State House correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari said “Our election this time will not engage in castigations, we will be talking on issues. Nigerians are tired of political abuses, what we want to be talking about are issues and track records of people involved in our elections,” the governor said. According to him, “Nigerians are very wise now. Before they elect anybody, they will ask questions: what has been your track record, who were you before and who are you now and everything about you. For that reason, we are confident that 2019, APC will pull through,” he said.