The Oyo State government has explained its role in the current reconstruction of Music House belonging to popular gospel musician, Mr. Yinka Ayefele, in Ibadan, the state capital. The structure was partially demolished last August. In a statement yesterday by the Special Adviser to the Governor on Communication and Strategy, Mr Bolaji Tunji, the government said its intervention was informed by the acknowledgment of contravention of the state building code by the management of the Music House and the personal appeal by Ayefele to Governor Abiola Ajimobi. Tunji said the appeal by various stakeholders to the government as well as the preparedness of the owner of the building to rectify the contraventions, which would involve the reduction of the frontage fence line by 1.5 metres, among others, informed the intervention by the governor. He added that the parking lot at the tail end of the building, near the entrance of Lagelu Estate, had also been reduced by 10.9 metres to allow visibility. The governor’s aide said the current frontage of the building was being remodelled to become the back of the building, while its back had been converted to the frontage. In line with the recommendation of the joint committee of the state government and the Music House management, Tunji said an entrance was being reconstructed from the rear of the building to the staircase housing the ram for the exclusive use of Ayefele. The statement added: “There is also the recession of the current façade on the frontage of the building by 2.9m. The new fence will be grill fence to ensure visibility, while a staircase will be built at the basement to access the studio. “The structural elements in the building will also be strengthened, while the two projections at both ends (stair halls) of the current frontage will be retained.” The governor’s aide said the clarification by the government as well as reports credited to Ayefele yesterday, where he thanked Ajimobi and stated that the governor had “through this magnanimity helped us to right our wrong and we shall be eternally grateful to him” should lay the matter to rest. He urged those seeking to rubbish the governor’s political capital, which he built in the past seven years through purposeful governance and unprecedented achievements to look elsewhere.