On Friday, November 10, 1995, nine prominent Ogoni indigenes, including Kenule Saro-Wiwa, were hanged at the Port Harcourt Prisons on the orders of the then Head of State, the late Gen. Sani Abacha over alleged involvement in the murder of four other Ogoni citizens. South-south Bureau Chief, BISI OLANIYI reports that on Saturday, November 10, the Movement for the Survival of Ogoni People (MOSOP), celebrated the 23rd Ogoni Martyrs’ Day in commemoration of the Ogoni fallen heroes who paid the supreme price for the well-being of their people. Twenty-three years ago, precisely on Friday, November 10, 1995, Ogoni land in Rivers State lost nine prominent sons to the hangman’s noose. They were Saro-Wiwa, Dr. Barinem Kiobel, John Kpuinem, Baribor Bera, Felix Nuate, Paul Levura, Daniel Gbokoo, Saturday Doobee and Nordu Eawo. They were executed for alleged involvement in the killing of another four Ogoni sons on May 21, 1994. The four Ogoni leaders and prominent Gokana sons who were killed included Chief Edward Kobani, a former commissioner in the Rivers State; Albert Badey, an ex-Secretary to the Rivers State Government (SSG); Samuel Orage, a former commissioner in River State; and Theophilus Orage, an ex-Secretary of Gokana Council of Chiefs. They were said to have been killed in a mob action at the Gbenemene’s (King’s) Palace Hall at Giokoo in Gokana Local Government Area. Alleged to have been part of the killers, on May 21, 1994, the renowned environmentalist, Ken Saro-Wiwa; Ledum Mitee, a lawyer, who later became MOSOP President; Dr. Barinem Kiobel; and 12 other Ogoni sons were arrested by soldiers and charged with having foreknowledge of the Giokoo mob action and the murder of the four prominent Ogoni sons. The Ogoni Civil Disturbances Tribunal was set up by Gen. Sani Abacha was inaugurated by the then Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN), Justice Mohammed Bello in November 1994, to try the 15 Ogoni men. The trial began in February, 1995. The tribunal was headed by Justice Ibrahim Auta. The members of the tribunal, however, found Saro-Wiwa, Dr. Barinem Kiobel, John Kpuinem, Baribor Bera, Felix Nuate, Paul Levura, Daniel Gbokoo, Saturday Doobee and Nordu Eawo, guilty and sentenced them to death by hanging on October 31, 1995. Gen. Abacha confirmed the death sentence on November 8, 1995, while Saro-Wiwa and the eight other Ogoni martyrs were hanged at the Port Harcourt Prisons in the morning of Friday, November 10, 1995. That was 23 years ago. To commemorate the death of the Ogoni-Nine, MOSOP organised the 23rd Ogoni Martyrs’ Day on November 10. Those who are indigenous to Ogoni, friends and well-wishers of Ogoni land all over the world gathered at the Atrium Event Centre on Ken Saro-Wiwa (formerly Stadium) Road, Port Harcourt Rivers State in remembrance of the Ogoni-Nine. The 23rd Ogoni Martyrs’ Day was attended by the deputy governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Chief Victor Giadom; Nigeria’s Ambassador to The Netherlands, Oji Ngofa; the pioneer Secretary-General of MOSOP, Prof. Ben Naanen of the University of Port Harcourt (UNIPORT), who chaired the occasion; Senator Magnus Abe (Rivers Southeast); and the Project Coordinator of the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP), Dr. Marvin Dekil. Also at the event were a former Deputy Speaker of Rivers State House of Assembly, Leyii Kwanee; a current member of Rivers State House of Assembly, Dr. Innocent Barikor; and a governorship aspirant on the platform of APC in Rivers, AkpoBari Celestine; among other eminent personalities. The guest speakers Prof. Adefemi Isumonah of the University of Ibadan (UI) and Giwa Bamaiyi, a human rights activist, spoke on “Environmental Injustice, the Energy Conundrum and the Struggle of the Ogoni People: The Challenge of Sustainable Development” and “Minorities at a Crossroads: Confronting Political Inequality in Nigeria” respectively. Naanen urged Ogoni people to continue with their non-violent struggle to ensure commensurate development of Ogoni land. In his solidarity speech, Giadom, who is also the Deputy National Secretary of the APC and a former Rivers Commissioner for Works during the administration of Rotimi Amaechi, now Transportation Minister stated that there was need for justice for the Ogoni martyrs. The Rivers APC deputy governorship candidate, who also stated that he stood by MOSOP in the non-violent struggle, noted that the umbrella organisation of Ogoni people must be independent and be left out of politics, but be interested in the development of Ogoni land and empowerment of the hitherto-neglected people. He also urged Ogoni leaders to always assist Ogoni people. Also speaking, Ngofa, who is APC candidate for Rivers Southeast Senatorial District, stated that it was time for Ogoni people to take action and utilise the opportunities given to them by the hanged martyrs. He advised politicians from Ogoni to play collective politics in order to be instruments for community development. On his part, Abe stressed that Ogoni people must not continue to cry, but to convert their tears to action, while insisting that Saro-Wiwa and the other Ogoni activists did not die in vain. He admonished Ogoni people not to ignore politics, in order to get results for their agitations. HYPREP’s Project Coordinator stated that the agency was not about sharing money, but to ensure the clean-up/remediation of the polluted Ogoni environment, revealing that the actual clean-up was about to begin. He said: “The Ogoni fallen heroes paid the supreme price for the well-being of their people. They left a worthy legacy by laying down their lives for a cause they believed in. What they fought for is gradually coming to fruition, with the setting up of HYPREP, to address the issue of environmental pollution, which was one of the demands of Ogoni people, as presented by Saro-Wiwa to the Federal Government of Nigeria. “As a responsive and responsible leader, committed to correcting the wrongs that the people of the Niger Delta have suffered over the years, President Buhari immediately constituted the Governing Council, the Board of Trustees and the Project Coordination Office to pilot the affairs of a hitherto non-functional HYPREP.”. Dekil stated that going forward; HYPREP would need the collaboration of MOSOP and other non-governmental organisations in Ogoni in sensitising the people to the proper conduct before, during and after the clean-up, for the environment to remain clean. He urged Ogoni people never to allow themselves to be defrauded by criminal elements who might come to them to ask for money to be employed by HYPREP. In his welcome address, President of MOSOP, Chief Legborsi Saro Pyagbara declared that the marginalised Ogoni people in the Niger Delta had given the Federal Government up till November 30 this year to end environmental terrorism in Ogoni land in order to have a sense of belonging. He said: “Environmental restoration of our land remains a central plank of the Ogoni struggle and was one of the reasons our heroes laid down their lives. While we appreciate the efforts of the government to end the environmental nightmare in Ogoni, we hasten to add that the slow nature of these efforts are becoming far more frustrating and have the capacity to ignite a new round of conflict in Ogoni land, if nothing is done immediately. “Judged against other humanitarian interventions going on in the country, such as the Northeast intervention, in which new houses and infrastructure are springing up on a daily basis, without the noise-making and publicity stunts associated with the Ogoni intervention, we fear that the manacles and vestiges of discrimination for which these heroes laid down their lives are still with us. “It is on this note that we want to inform the Nigerian government and HYPREP in particular that anything beyond commencing remediation efforts on the ground in this month of November 2018 will not be accepted by the Ogoni people.” Pyagbara also stated that Nigerians had come to a point where they had to restructure or perish; stressing that the Ogoni-Nine died in their quest for a restructured Nigeria, which he said would guarantee equity, justice and fairness. MOSOP president also stated that it was essential to clear Saro-Wiwa and the eight other Ogoni martyrs of murder and other allegations levelled against them. He said: “The ultimate purpose of the occasion is to remember the lives and times of the Ogoni martyrs. In the same breath, we wish to use this opportunity to remind the Nigerian government to right the wrongs committed against these our fallen heroes. The process of national healing and reconciliation will not be complete until the Nigerian government clears the names of the Ogoni-Nine. The execution of the Ogoni-Nine triggered a firestorm of condemnations across the globe. “MOSOP believes that the period of this commemoration provides the government of Nigeria with the opportunity to consummate the process of national healing and reconciliation with the Ogoni people by formally clearing the names of the Ogoni-Nine of these wrongs and establish a national monument in their honour and memory. “This is the spirit with which the Nigerian government had engaged with the Yoruba people in recent times. The Nigerian government had awarded the winner of the June 12 presidential election, Bashorun M K.O. Abiola, with the highest honour in Nigeria’s geo-political landscape and declared June 12 as a national public holiday. We appreciate this gesture of the Federal Government. “We also appeal that in the same spirit of promoting national healing and reconciliation, the government of Nigeria should extend this gesture to the Ogoni people, by honouring Ken Saro-Wiwa and the other 12 Ogoni martyrs.” Pyagbara also condemned the deteriorating security situation in Ogoni land, with many of the communities now occupied by cultists and bandits, thereby making life extremely difficult for other members of the communities. He pleaded with Ogoni people who were involved in the show of shame to have a rethink and desist from the nefarious activities for the sake of the heroes being honoured. MOSOP President urged the government of Nigeria to put in place more robust security infrastructure in Ogoni land, particularly police stations, policing equipment, vehicles and personnel to provide adequate security in Ogoni land. On the resumption of oil production in Ogoni land, Pyagbara said: “In the last one year, we have seen intense pressure to re-enter Ogoni for the ultimate resumption of oil production in our land. While Shell remains persona-non-grata in Ogoni, we have stated repeatedly that Ogoni oil assets cannot be partitioned and allocated like the partitioning of Africa, to any investor without the free, prior and informed consent of Ogoni people, as guaranteed under international human rights law, particularly the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples (UNDRIP). “MOSOP vehemently condemns the attempt by the Nigerian government and its oil company collaborators to impose another operator on the Ogoni oil bloc, without seeking the free, prior and informed consent of Ogoni people or holding any meaningful consultation with the community.” MOSOP president also pleaded with Ogoni communities not to allow themselves to be deceived by any investor, stressing that it was the duty of Ogoni people to learn from their past and find a united platform which would protect their interests collectively. Pyagbara stated that what should be clear was that any investment, development or responsible oil exploitation that is people-centred and people-driven would attract the overwhelming support of the Ogoni people. The Federal Government should take the clean-up of polluted Ogoni land and empowerment of the people more seriously, thereby placing less emphasis on resumption of oil production in the area, to ensure a lasting peace in the Niger Delta.