It was a sight to behold yesterday as some senior air force officers joined Oshodi Local Government officials to clear refuse on the streets. Residents, commuters and passers-by stood on the roadside to watch them at work. The air force men were led by Air Commodore Sunday Makinde, Commander of 615 Base Services Group (BSG), Ikeja. Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Chairman Idris Muse-Ariyoh led his team for the exercise. The air force men also held free medical screening for traders on diabetes, obesity and hypertension. Makinde said the exercise was to ensure a clean environment and reduce disease. “What we are here to do today is what we call civil – military cooperation. It’s part of our Chief of Air Staff’s vision to promote service delivery and enhance civil – military relations in the country and our immediate environment. We have a medical outreach going on,” he said. According to him, the sole responsibility of the military is to protect the nation. “What the society stands to benefit from this gesture is to know that the military is for the society; that they own us and to have the feeling that the military is here for them. “The society should see us as Nigerians. We all have siblings and relations living with them. To be in the military, you must first be a civilian,” Makinde said. Describing the exercise as wonderful, Musa Ariyoh said it was an exercise for the air force men to assist their host community. “Their activities are not only about carrying guns, they also engage in humanitarian services like what we are witnessing. Despite this, they open their base for our people who have health problems to come over for free medical care. They’ve provided free health care for Oshodi people today. “They have been cleaning the areas, especially Adeyemi Street, which is a very long road. We understand that the drainage has been blocked for a very long time due to residents’ poor sanitation habit, as they dump refuse in the drainage. As you can see, we have over 200 air force men here. They are really doing a great work in our community,” Muse-Ariyoh said.