The Association of Psychiatrists of Nigeria (APN) has held its 49th Annual and Scientific meeting in Lagos, where its members proffered solutions to crises in the sector. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA reports. The mental health sector is in dire straits. With a ratio of one psychiatrist to 3.3 million persons, Nigerians hardly have access to mental health. At its 49th Annual  and Scientific Meeting held in Lagos, the Association of Psychiatrists in Nigeria (APN) members brainstormed on how to get solutions to the problem and more. With fewer than 200 psychiatrists across the country, and the profession facing a brain drain, the experts agreed the problem was bigger than they thought. According to APN President, Dr Taiwo Lateef Sheikh, despite the shortage of psychiatrists, fresh graduates remain unemployed, while others, including psychiatrists in training, leave the country. Sheikh said the problems called for concern. “This raises the questions: how will the millions of Nigerians requiring mental receive optimum care? So the theme, ‘Brain drain in mental health’, will help us in examining policies and strategies. And to scale up access to mental health services in Nigeria, including shedding light on various mental health transformations taking place in the country.” On why the choice of Lagos for the conference, Sheikh said the state is the best place to discuss germane issues, for it is the first state to work on mental health bill. “Lagos has the highest urban population in the country with a population of 25 million, according to  the UN-habitat and International Development Agencies’ estimates. It is also not surprising that it, arguably, has the highest concentration of private and public employed psychiatrists in Nigeria. Many people have achieved their  exit from the country via Lagos.   Sadly, among these are mental health practitioners – specialists and trainees – for greener pastures. This certainly depletes our already inadequate number of psychiatrists,” explained Sheikh. “For the same reason,”Sheikh said, “Lagos attracts various kinds of businesses that have produced many success stories. Unfortunately, sometimes such success also creates competition – imagined or real – in the midst of scarce resources and vulnerability to unhealthy lifestyles such as psychoactive substance abuse, highlighted by the menace of prescription drugs abuse.” He added that these further increase the risks of emotional problems, leading to manifestation of various mental disorders, especially depression and suicide. “We are all witnesses to the rising tide of suicide in the country, and especially in Lagos. I congratulate the state for leading the way to seek protection of the mentally ill and the mental health practitioners through the passage of the Lagos State Mental Health Law.  APN is asking the Federal Government to halt the brain drain in pyschiatry. “What is the essence of investing in the training of a person using tax payers money, only for same to be snatched away by another country. All that is required is to give incentives to these experts and they will stay back. No country has enough Psychiatrists, so it does not speak well for us as a country to train, only for them to exit the system or country,” Sheikh added. Local Organising Chairman (LOC) and the Coordinator of SURPIN, Lagos University teaching Hospital (LUTH, Dr Raphael E. Ogbolu said the abysmal low ratio of psychiatrists to patients must be addressed. Ogbolu said one psychiatrist to about 200million Nigerians was not good. “If we do nothing now, the situation quackery will thrive. If you don’t have qualified personnel to cater for the mental health of a people, a vacuum will be created, and those that do not have business with the subject matter will be parading themselves as psychiatrists. Complications of mental health cases not well handled will lead to increase in suicide rate. “Nigeria is the main supplier of mental health practitioners not only in Africa, but other continents. Brain drain cannot be totally stopped, but the government can do something through policies, to retain trained personnel. We are exploring how to retain a bigger chunk of what are trained, to what we are losing. “Burn out is equally affecting the practice because the psychiatrists are doing their best within the system, but it is tedious for them to practise with obsolete equipment, and inclement practicing conditions, patients paying out of pockets, and treatment being impeded. For instance, if a person is mentally sick, will output drop, leading to low income. Yet, we expect the same person to deep his hand into his pocket to pay for his mental health treatment. Where is this done?” Ogbolu added. Ogbolu said part of the way out is for mental health treatment to be included in the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) via a bill. “Mental Health Bill should be passed into law, as it protects the psychiatrists. The person being treated and the costs of treatment taken care of. Look at the criminalisation of attempted suicide. “Somebody, who is mentally sick, wants to die, but did not suceed, and the next thing is to take the person in, for 12 months’ imprisonment. That must change. That person needs treatment. SURPIN, for instance, has reached out to many people in 20 locations in Nigeria, despite it’s being situated in Lagos.” The guest lecturer, Prof Akin Osibogun, said Nigerians should build recreation centres to curtail the rising rate of suicide. “Gone are the days when people find other people to talk with. People talk to gadgets like T.V, handsets and browse endlessly these days. They bottle up so much emotion, and explode. Unfortunately, some comit suicide. “Africans have a socio-networking system where one can sit with people over drinks,  or sit on pavements in the evening and watch the world unfolds, and get inspired, or get somebody show interest in him, but that is giving way to the cosmopolitan way now. So, there is a need for socio- re-engineering to ensure the needed support system is there for each and everybody,” Osigogun said. Dr Tolu Ajomale of Lagos State Ministry of Health’Mental Health Desk, said Lagos would continue to ensure the mental well-being of Lagosians. “We have a desk in the ministry headed by Dr Dolapo Fasawe and we are open to all and sundry 24/7. The state also passed the Mental Health Bill, which will provide leadership, guidance and treatment for the people in the state,” Ajomale added. 