Tolu Caleb, a graduate of Economics is the Managing Director of Rotimax Integrated Services Limited, who was forced out by circumstances to venture into pest control and fumigation services has a riveting story to tell. He was in paid employment for some years until the first global financial meltdown of 2008, which had rippled negative effects on businesses including Nigeria, rendered him jobless. With the prospect of getting another job uncertain, he decided to set up shop as a pest control company. He speaks with Medinat Kanabe on the pros and cons of the business. Companies have over the years started the business of providing the service of fumigation in this regards creating jobs for many.  One of such is Rotimax Integrated Services, run by Tolu Caleb. According to the graduate of Economics, he was motivated towards the line of pest control business because he loves field work and because of a retrenchment that happened in his former place of work in 2008. Justifying the reason for going into the line of work,  the soft-spoken gentleman said, “Naturally I don’t like to be in an office. I love jobs that will take me from place to place. Going into pest control job was not planned as I studied Economics which doesn’t have anything to do with pest control, but I love everything environment, I love hygiene and clean environment. I am a very detailed person and don’t like to see dirt around me. “But one major incident that made me choose this part happened in 2008 during the first global financial crisis; there was a lot of downsizing where I was working. It was so bad that more than half of the staff from some branches were retrenched so I started to think about what to do,” he recounted. “Even if I was not affected I asked myself what I would have done if I was involved. At that time, there was this guy that used to come to my office then to fumigate; he was also in charge of GOA feed Apapa branch. I usually see him collect cheque of over N1million every month so I approached him one of those months and asked him about the business. Being a very friendly person he guided me and told me to go for training which I eventually did.” Still speaking on training, he said he went for training as far as South Africa in 2008 because there was no training on pest control going on anywhere in Nigeria; “in fact that is what motivated us to go into trainings on pest control and fumigation in Nigeria. “My company is the only company doing training on pest control and fumigation in Nigeria; because I benefitted from going to get knowledge before starting what I am doing, I think other people should also get trained before they start because one of the major challenges of pest control in Nigeria is proliferation of quacks. We have more quacks than professionals and people are patronizing them because of ignorance so with the training we are helping the government to reduce quacks in the country. “I have attended so many trainings in the past and just returned from one organized by the federal ministry of environment in Abuja. Training is continuous especially for our field.” Talking about the regulatory and legal requirements needed to set up a pest control agency, Mr Caleb said first there is a law that mandates that one must be licensed by the Federal Ministry of Environment before they start. Continuing, he said the agency under the Federal Ministry of Environment that makes sure of this is called the Environmental Health Officials Registration Council of Nigeria, EHORECON. “What the law says is if you want to do pest control business you must get your license from EHORECON which is the body regulating the industry at the federal level. For the state level in Lagos State you still get to deal with the Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency, in Ogun State it is called the Ogun State Environmental Protection Agency.” On association guiding the industry, he said they have the Pest Control Association of Nigeria, PECAN which has been in existence since 1987 adding that they have members across the country and it is a functional association that holds Annual General Meetings, AGM every year. “This year’s AGM is coming up next week.  Other states also have their state agencies but what the law recognises is the federal license from EHORECON,” he said. Explaining how affordable it is to start up a pest control agency, he said he can say the industry is one of the industries that allow low startups. “On the average I can say between N100, 000 to N300, 000 if you wish. You can get equipment to rent. We rent equipment to people a lot so you can start a pest control company without having any equipment. They give you the equipment; you pay, use and return. The client will not know where you got the equipment from, all he cares about is for you to do his job so N100, 000 to N150, 000 is enough to register a company, EHORECON license but every other thing can be done little by little.” He further said that as the business is growing one can invest back into the business saying that if he rents equipment to someone for N200, 000, he can take N30, 000 from that money to buy another equipment or chemical and keep it. “So on a very serious level; you need about N150, 000 to start. You can start with N20, 000 or even N30, 000 but on a serious scale, N150, 000.” Caleb whose company is 9 years old now said profit from the pest control business is immediate.  “For example, one of the participants in our just concluded training just got a job with Niger state government to help in the control of malaria programme in the state. “You can start and start making profit that same day and you can also start and nothing comes up in three months but something must come up. There are a lot of opportunities in the business. Pest will always constitute nuisance and people must seek the service of the pest control agency. “Pest constitute nuisance globally irrespective of where you are or what you do. A few days ago we were privileged to fumigate the house of Linda Ikeji in Banana Island and that is not the first time we have been to Banana Island to work so with the kinds of facilities in Banana Island, if someone calls you to say they have rats you can imagine.” Speaking about the downsides of the business, he said he will not say that there is a downside to the business because it is caused by their inability to go through the proper regulatory agency before they start the business which poses danger for them. “For this kind of business one needs a license to operate so if you are not licensed there are some organizations that will not patronize you so I will say the downside comes up when we focus on the low earners. “The Nigerian environment does not make pest control a thing for everybody but the high class. It is only a man that is well to do that will call you to come and fumigate his house when he can go to the market like the poor man to buy chemicals by himself and apply in his house. It is a big business in Abuja, Lagos and Port Harcourt because they are commercial nerves and a lot of activities goes on in these states; ordinarily it should be a big business in Nigeria but only companies that are well to do use the services. Some will say you should leave the rats to be playing around that they won’t do anything.” Caleb didn’t give a particular monthly turnover for the business as he explains that it fluctuates. He said they have 6 in-house staff and they don’t owe salaries. “One thing about this business is retaining your customers. When you do a job on the first of January the law says first of April, you are going back to do the job so there is an opportunity to go back if you did well the first time.” Rotimax Integrated Services  has branches in Lagos and Abuja but Caleb said that they are considering Port-Harcourt and Akwa-Ibom because those are states that are oil serving and value the service a lot.