 The Federal Government is set to establish two additional satellites to support the Nigeria Communication Satellite  system (NIGCOMSAT) to complement the existing NIGCOMSAT- 2. Minister for Communication, Dr.  Adebayo Shittu, who disclosed this on Thursday at the 6th regular meeting of the National Council on Communication Technology (NCCT),  in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, said this is to further  boost the Telecommunications industry. Shittu added that the Federal Government is committed to using Information, Communication and Technology (ICT) as a tool to diversify the nation’s economy. According to him, the economic recovery and massive employment generation for the teeming youths could be achieved faster using ICT Speaking on this year’s theme: “Leveraging ICT as a vehicle for economic recovery and growth, “the Minister revealed that the country’s Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) has increased from $32 billion in 2015 to $40 billion in 2018. Shittu also disclosed that the telecommunications industry has improved with active telecom subscribers increasing from 148,70million in 2015 to 162,05 million as at September, 2018. Declaring open the meeting, Governor Ibikunle Amosun said the state is committed to sustaining an ICT driven environment, adding that he would  always accord it a significant role in his administration. Amosun said his government would continue to work to channel the energy of youths into technology, and harness it as weapon of mass development. The Governor expressed worry over the unethical and unprofessional use of ICT to create falsehood and disseminate same on the social media, warning that if left unchecked, it could spell doom for a nation. He urged the government, experts in ICT and appropriate agencies to deliberate on measures to check the culture of using ICT and social media to cause disaffection, mislead  and unnecessarily heat up the polity. This, he said, would help the nation, especially now that the it is approaching the electioneering year. In his goodwill message, Post Master General of the Federation,  Bisi Adegbuyi, stressed the need for leveraging on technology and embracing its importance to solve human and national challenges.