The death of Inspiration FM OAP, Tosyn Bucknor, on Monday, has brought sadness to the Nigerian media and entertainment community, as fans, celebrities and politicians mourn her passing. The late Tosyn’s sister, Funke Bucknor Obruthe, while confirming the news on Instagram, disclosed that the OAP died due to complications from sickle cell anaemia, adding that she was found dead by her husband, Aurelien Boyer, when he arrived home on Monday night. The amiable media personality and motivational speaker, who had positive impact on people from different works of life, was born with sickle cell anaemia. “Hmmmmm…My heart is heavy…but in all things we give thanks to God,” Funke Bucknor Obruthe wrote. “My darling sister and besto Tosyn passed away last night due to complications from sickle cell. Love you.” Tosyn who died at 37, was quoted to have said during her lifetime, that she didn’t know she could make it beyond 21 years. “I am thankful because I honestly thought I would be dead by now. I didn’t think I’d live past 21 so even though I enjoyed school and life, I had no plans for after. Thankful that sickle cell is not, has never been, and will never be something to be ashamed of. Thankful for the phrase that changed my life- it is not how long you live that counts, but how well,” she reportedly said. Indeed, many have expressed how impactful the deceased life was. Comedian Seyi Law wrote: “I am not sure your energy was comparable. You were one of the kindest persons, I have ever seen. You were too adorable. You were the life of the party. “A voice that gave beauty to our radio. You were one of the best human beings, I have ever known. Tosin Bucknor, I celebrate your impacts and what you stood for. “Heaven has yet again robbed us of an angel. May your soul find peace and be beautiful in the bosom of our Lord. Rest on and well, my dearest sister,” he said. “Such horrible, horrible news,” said fellow OAP Toolz. “Don’t even know what to say. It feels so unreal saying #RIPTosyn. May God comfort and strengthen your husband and family during this sad period.” For Falz the Bad Guy, angels don’t die. He said on Instagram: “Angels don’t die, they ascend to heaven. I know you’re in a better place.” Banky W also took time out from his political aspiration to write on Instagram. “I always described Tosyn as “one of my favourite people on earth”, because it was true. I really, truly loved her. She was so full of life and incredible, positive energy…” Peter Okoye who posted a picture of himself with the late OAP also wrote, “My dear Tosyn REST IN PEACE! We will surely miss you still can’t believe.” In the words of Entertainment Lawyer, Audu Maikori, “Another painful death. I’m not sure I have the right words. No one does. Rest in Peace my dear sister @tosynbucknor. You were one of the special ones. Let’s pray for her husband, family and her numerous fans.” Also, Peoples Democratic Party Governorship Candidate in Lagos, Jimi Agbaje, said, “I just received a sad news of the passage of Tosyn Bucknor due to complication of sickle cell. Tosyn fought a good fight.” Singer, Johnny Drille wrote, “I won’t be where i am but for Tosyn Bucknor. I am eternally grateful for the time she was with us. Pray for her family to find comfort this dark time.” Funke Akindele wrote: Sad! Rest in peace Tosyn Bucknor. You were such a pleasant and happy lady.” Tosyn, a graduate of law from the University of Lagos, was born with sickle cell anaemia. In November 2015, Bucknor and Aurélien Boyer had their traditional wedding surrounded by family and friends in Lagos. Five months later, they had their white wedding in France, Boyer’s home country. Tosyn started her OAP duties with Tee-A at Eko FM. She was also an intern at Cool FM where she hosted the ‘Fun Hour Show’ on Saturdays. Bucknor joined Top Radio after her National Youth Service in 2009 as the only female handling a morning show. She worked with Top Radio for seven years where she was known as ‘Area Mama’ before joining Inspiration FM. Tosyn Bucknor, who was active on social media always shared positive perceptive of life. She was nominated for several awards, including Future Awards, ELOY Awards, and Best of Nollywood, before her demise.