The outgoing Governor of State of Osun, His Excellency Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola has restated his commitment and that of his colleagues in the South Western part of Nigeria, to Sports development and in particular football development in the Regional Integration of the South West and in its social and economic development . Ogbeni Aregbesola stated this on Saturday at the Freedom Park, Oshogbo, Osun State, while receiving the Western Nigeria Governor’s Cup from the Western Nigeria Football Forum which was led by its Chairman Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi who is also the Chairman of the Lagos State Football Association and the 1st Vice President of the Nigeria Football Federation. The outgoing governor of the State of Osun said “Football is not just a sport for recreation but an economic empowerment and social integration tool, even out of office you can be sure that I will support you all the way. I thank God that our incoming governor is here and I’m sure that he would do even more than I could have to support such a noble cause”. The Western Nigeria Governors Cup which is an U20 youth football tournament conceptualised and organised by the Western Nigeria Football Forum (WNFF)  in partnership with the Dawn Commission will be played in the 6(six) States of the South West Region. It is a tournament aimed at not only fostering regional integration but also to enhance socio economic development and empowerment as part of the agenda of the governors of the South West Region. The Chairman of the WNFF,  Barrister Seyi Akinwunmi noted that the Forum decided to go on a trophy tour of the 6(six) States of Western Nigeria in order to sensitise the entire region of this unique forthcoming tournament and to solicit the support of each of the governors within the region. He disclosed that the trophy tour which will make stops at the other States in the region kicked off from the State of Osun as a mark of respect for the outgoing governor in return for the support that he has shown for the concept of the WNFF as a tool for regional integration. Barrister Akinwunmi who called on the government of and the corporate organisations in the State of Osun and in the entire region to support the Western Nigeria Governors Cup and other programmes of the WNFF, was accompanied by other members of the forum in attendance including the host FA Chairman Chief Taiwo Ogunjobi,  Chairman of Ogun State FA and executive member of the board of the Nigeria Football Federation, Alhaji Ganiyu Majekodunmi,  Chairman of Oyo State Football Association His royal Highness James Odeniran, President of the Nigeria Referees Association, Otunba Tade Azeez and the Executive Secretary of the the forum Otunba Akin Akinbobola. Also, present were Secretaries of the State FA’s, representatives of DAWN Commission and   Ex-Internationals, Mutiu Adepoju and Olufemi Opabunmi. Upon receiving the Trophy from his predecessor, the Governor Elect of the State of Osun His Excellency Gboyega Oyetola who was present at the event alongside the Deputy Governor Elect His Excellency Benedict Alabi and other State government functionaries pledged his support for the concept of football as a tool of regional integration and development before he handed over the Trophy back to the WNFF Chairman.