Arsenal has  recorded a 2-1 victory over Bournemouth in Sunday’s clash at the Vitality Stadium to move to within one point of a place in the top four of the Premier League table. A calamitous own goal from Jefferson Lerma was cancelled out by a Josh King strike just before the break, but Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang’s close-range effort gave Arsenal all three points. The Gunners have now closed the gap to London rivals Chelsea and extended their unbeaten run in the league to 11 games – while Bournemouth remains in eighth position after suffering a third successive defeat in the top flight. Both teams started brightly on the South coast and Bournemouth should have taken the lead during the early stages when David Brooks slotted the ball past Bernd Leno from 12 yards out, but the Wales international was wrongly adjudged to have been offside when the ball ricocheted off Callum Wilson. Arsenal went straight up the other end and hit the woodwork through Lucas Torreira, whose 25-yard strike beat Asmir Begovic before hitting the Bosnian’s right-hand post. The visitors took time to grow into the match but by the midway point of the first half, they were beginning to create regular opportunities and Alex Iwobi and Aubameyang should have both done better with efforts inside the area. However, Arsenal’s goal eventually arrived in comical fashion as Lerma sent a volley from 15 yards into his own net after attempting to put Sead Kolasinac’s cross behind for a corner. Arsenal remained on the front foot with Iwobi seeing a curling effort from distance well kept out by Begovic, and it had reached a point where Bournemouth were looking forward to half time. However, the Cherries stunned their opponents by finding an equaliser in the final seconds of the first half, with a blistering counter-attack involving Wilson and Brooks being finished off by King curling a shot into the top corner of the net from 16 yards out. Both teams attempted to pick up where they had let off after the restart, but the end product was lacking and only a deflected Torreira came close to adding a third goal before the hour mark.