Senate Deputy Whip Francis Alimikhena has urged Edo State chairman of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chief Dan Orbih and the party’s senatorial candidate for Edo North, Abubakar Momoh, to wake up from “developmental blindness”. Alimikhena, who represents Edo North Senatorial District, said  he was at a loss why Orbih and Momoh have been “in mental coma for the past three years.” He said the situation of the duo required an “urgent attention for them to be delivered from developmental blindness.” Alimikhena stated this in reaction to the allegation of non-performance leveled against him by Orbih and Momoh. The PDP chieftains claimed that Alimikhena failed to execute any meaningful constituency projects in Edo North in the last three years. Personal Assistant to Senator Alimikhena, Benjamin Atu, quoted the Edo lawmaker to have said  it was obvious that “Orbih and Momoh have not recovered from the shock of my achievements in just three years in office as Edo North Senator.” Alimikhena reminded the PDP chairman that he was “elected to serve and not to enrich himself as Orbih and Momoh have been doing.” The Senator assured that he will continue to “do the bidding of Edo North people in order to deepen the state of coma that Engineer Momoh and Dan Orbih have voluntarily found themselves.” He said that it was not surprising that the PDP chieftains were the only persons that have no eyes to see his “massive developmental projects across Edo North.” He appealed to Momoh to stop parading the list of dead people as those who he offered employment in his sixteen years in office without one standing project to his credit. Alimikhena said: “I cannot stand to debate with Engineer Momoh. Momoh should go and face my projects and debate with my visible achievement and not me. I am concern about how to bring more development to Edo North and not to debate with those who have under developed our Afemai people. I have exceeded the expectations of PDP and my achievements have given them sleepless nights hence their public outcry.” 