 One of the stadia located at the port of Al-Wakrah for the 2022 World Cup in Qatar is to be ready in 2019, three clear years before the commencement of the global showpiece billed for November 21 to December 18. Dubbed the ‘Vagina Stadium’ because of its controversial shape, it has capacity for 40,000 sitting spectators and will be connected with a state-of-the-art metro system expected to move supporters from one stadium to another, allowing them to watch several games. The stadium was designed by a British Architect Dame Zaha who died of heart attack in 2016 at 65. Among her other works were the Aquatics Centre at the 2012 London Olympics, the MAXXI Museum in Italy and the Guangzhou Opera House in China. When the Al-Wakrah stadium’s designs were first released in 2013 they were said to have been inspired by the flowing shape of a dhow boat, a traditional Arabian pearl diving and fishing vessel. The drawings were topped with a structure resembling the sails of a dhow. But the images went viral with commentators suggesting the stadium looked more like a woman’s private parts. At that time Dame Zaha was angry at the comparison, saying: ‘It’s really embarrassing they come up with nonsense stuff like this” Iraqi-born Hadid, who won the prestigious Pritzker Architecture Prize in 2004, added that ‘if a guy had done this project there wouldn’t have been the same level of criticism’. The Al-Wakrah stadium, which is 12 miles south of the capital, Doha, was designed to keep out the desert heat and will also use a revolutionary new air-conditioning technology which will bring temperatures down to around 72F for the fans and players. The tournament has already been moved to the winter months to avoid the searing summer temperatures in the Gulf. As part of its legacy for the 2022 World Cup Qatar will be dismantling the stadium afterwards for it to be rebuilt in the developing world. More than 20,000 seats will be removed from Al-Wakrah and transported to countries in need of football infrastructure. Qatar is building eight stadiums for a 32-team World Cup, although FIFA boss Gianni Infantino has said he would like to expand the tournament to 48 teams, which would involve Doha co-hosting with its Arab neighbours. France won the last world cup in Russia defeating impressive Croatia 4-2 at the Luzhniki Stadium.      