Governor Ifeanyi Okowa of Delta State has advised politicians to shun actions that could jeopardize peace in the 2019 general elections. The governor gave the advice on Friday during the 87th Annual National Congress and Award of Honours of Urhobo Progress Union (UPU) at Effurun, Uvwie Local Government Area of Delta. Okowa urged candidates to shun politics of bitterness and focus on people-oriented programmes to woo the electorate. The governor said everyone should work toward free, fair and credible elections. He attributed the success recorded by his administration to the peaceful co-existence of different ethnic groups in the State. “The peace and unity that exists among the different ethnic nationalities in the state has contributed greatly to the success story of my administration. “If there is division in any of the ethnic nationalities, there will be problem; and as long as each of the ethnic nationalities are at peace with themselves, it will be easy for government to manage its affairs,” he said. Okowa urged the various ethnic nationalities in the state to continue to live in peace. He said that he believed Shell Petroleum and Development Company (SPDC) would listen to the collective voice of different ethnic nationalities and relocate to Warri, which would boost the economy of the state. “There is no doubt that the UPU is a very strong union; it is an embodiment of strength of the Urhobo people. “I thank the leadership for keeping faith with the ideals of the founding fathers of the UPU;  I must appreciate the traditional rulers who have come together to ensure that there is no division in the union,” he said. Also, former governor. James Ibori, commended the President-General of UPU, Mr Moses Taiga, and the traditional rulers for working for the  unity of Urhoboland. “The people should consider the overall interest of the Urhobo nation at all times. “As we continue to ask our governor to do more for us, we must keep the peace, which is necessary for development to take place,” he said. In his remark, Taiga commended Gov. Okowa for his developmental strides, especially in Urhoboland. He said that UPU would join forces with other ethnic nationalities to push for Shell’s returns to Warri.  NAN