An international nongovernmental organisation, WaterAid, has warned that the lives of children’s education and health was at risk due to lack of decent school toilets. It urged the Federal Government to commence action towards prioritizing sanitation for all, following a new report showing that the education and health of millions of children were threatened by a lack of access to toilets at school and at home. WaterAid, in its report titled ‘The Crisis in the Classroom’, the fourth-annual analysis of the world’s toilets, highlighted that one in five primary schools and one in eight secondary schools globally do not have any toilets. WaterAid Nigeria’s Communications and Media Manager, Oluseyi Abdulmalik, in a statement to celebrate this year’s World Toilet Day, in Abuja, the nation’s capital, said 52 percent of schools in Nigeria are without toilets while 62 million children do not have a decent toilet at home. “A shocking one in three of the world’s schools lack adequate toilets, compromising children’s human rights to sanitation and leaving them to either use dirty, unsafe pits, defecate in the open, or stay at home. “In Nigeria, 52% of schools are without a toilet and around 62 million children do not have a decent toilet at home. This means that children are being dangerously exposed to illnesses that could kill them. Repeated bouts of diarrhoea increase their chances of being malnourished, and sanitation-related illnesses result in missed school days and the loss of potential,” the statement said. Also, its Country Director, Dr ChiChi Aniagolu-Okoye, in the statement, said it was shocking that Nigeria ranked third with the most number of individuals with no access to a decent toilet. She said: “Toilets can make the difference between a child attending school, coming late or staying at home. School attendance and participation can be greatly enhanced just by providing toilets. Schools are where children learn how to become wholesome human beings and good toilet behaviour is a fundamental, yet children are going to schools with them. “It is shocking that Nigeria ranks third in the world with the most number of individuals with no access to a decent toilet. This is unacceptable and even more sad as it contributes to the deaths of nearly 60,000 children under five every year from diarrhoea. ““Without ongoing investment and a concerted effort from all decision-makers, children, who are amongst the most vulnerable in our society, will continue to miss out on their futures. Also, citizens need to change their behaviour and take responsibility for having decent toilets at home as much as they hold government accountable for providing this basic service. Sanitation is a basic right for all and can’t just be an ideal. It must be a priority.”