The Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris has directed the Anambra State Commissioner of Police, Garba Umar to carryout intense search operations for the recovery of ammunitions allegedly snatched from police officers during the Friday protest by the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The Force Public relations officer, Jimoh Moshood, disclosed this to newsmen on Sunday while parading the 33 suspects at the police headquarters, Amawbia, Anambra State. He said two AK47 rifles and one Beretta Pistol with the ammunition were snatched from the slain Police Inspector and other Police Officers wounded by the proscribed IPOB members. He said the IG also asked the CP to immediately carryout an operation to rout-out and arrest other fleeing suspects of the group who participated in the ambush of the Police personnel and bring them to justice. He reiterated the force determination in guaranteeing  law and order in the state and to bring perpetrators of violence and mayhem on the people or Police personnel to justice. “The Nigeria Police Force is deeply concerned with the security implications with regards to the renewed hostilities from the proscribed/unlawful Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) in Anambra State and the new trend of subversive propaganda from the proscribed IPOB members aimed at undermining law and order in the affected State by the group, their associates, sponsors, apologists and sympathizers. “The Force, therefore, will not tolerate this and will do everything within the ambit of the law to protect the people, ensure that law and order prevails and bring any perpetrator of violence and mayhem on the people or Police personnel to justice. “The Commissioners of Police in the States contiguous to Anambra State and their supervisory Assistant Inspector Generals of Police, their personnel and Anti-riot equipment have been placed on red-alert by the Inspector General of Police to ensure utmost safety of lives and properties and deal decisively with any group(s) or individual(s) who attempt or cause disturbance of public peace and public safety in their respective States. “The Force will continue to ensure adequate safety of lives and property of all Nigerians across the Country based on international core values and best practices and operate within the Principles of Democratic Policing, but will not succumb or tolerate criminal activities from any group(s) under any guise to cause disturbance of public peace and unleash mayhem on innocent Nigerians anywhere in the country.” He said all the 33 suspects arrested were now in Police custody in connection with the mayhem and would be arraigned in Court on completion of investigation under Terrorism Prevention Amendment Act 2013. “Members of the Public in Nnewi and other parts of Anambra State are hereby implored to go about their lawful businesses without fear or apprehension as adequate security have been put in place for their safety. “They are however enjoined to report any suspicion, unlawful assembly, and attempt or noticed disturbance of the peace in their locality to the Police through the following numbers; 07039194332, 08035078977. “The Force is hereby informing the public that Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) is a proscribed terrorist group and all activities of the group are therefore unlawful, illegal and terrorist act. Most of the paraded suspects denied being part of the protest. One of them, Evang. Sunday Ilonze said he was surprised to be identified with such acts being “a preacher of the gospel”. “I came out from the church and suddenly saw some military officers who immediately arrested me. “They were shooting and other traders started running away but I refused to join them because I know I’m innocent and also a law abiding citizen,” he said. Another suspect, Vincent Okafor, who also claimed innocence of the charges, said he was beaten up by the police before being arrested. He said, “Those who arrested me for what I didn’t do should remember that there is God who will judge everyone.”