In the last few days the camp of the Akwa Ibom State Governor Udom Emmanuel has sported a winner mien, waving everywhere they go the endorsement of the governor by former president, Olusegun Obasanjo, as their talisman for the forthcoming governorship poll. They have been so energised by the Obasanjo support that they are reportedly planning to bring in more people from outside the state for a similar endorsement of the governor. There is no debate whatsoever whether Governor Emmanuel and his handlers have the right in building alliances and seeking the friendship of anyone they fancy for the purpose of achieving their political goals. Analysts are however intrigued by the apparent confusion and contradictions; the deliberate self-tripping, the sheer lack of a sensible strategy and direction by Governor Emmanuel’s maneuvers in his bid for four more years in the Akwa Ibom State Government House. Now here is the bone in the throat. Mr Emmanuel, a governor on the opposition PDP platform, has been courting the Presidency and he is still doing so for support, if not outright adoption, and suddenly in the midst of all these effusions about and efforts at building friendly relations with the Villa, Governor Emmanuel is now trumpeting his infatuation, and worse, with Chief Obasanjo who is the number one traducer of President Muhammadu Buhari, and who has openly recruited a phalanx of naysayers against the Buhari second term bid, in addition to raising “a third force” to stop him. So what is the strategy, what sense is the deacon governor making here? Self-tripping! The claim of courtship is not unfounded. Early in the Buhari presidency Governor Udom Emmanuel was a regular fixture on the entourage of the President’s overseas trips. We cannot say whether this was induced. What we can say is that other opposition governors like the just retired Peter “the rock” Ayo Fayose and Nyesom Wike who made no secret of their opposition to the President at the time were not part of those trips. When the President was ill and was hospitalized in the UK, Udom Emmanuel was among a select crop of governors cleared to pay a get-well visit to him. Of course, the Vice-President, Yemi Osinbajo, was a frequent visitor to Udom Emmanuel in Uyo. The romance with the Villa was so passionate that the NTA, a key branding institution of the Federal Government, selected Emmanuel for an integrity award early in the year, and had the governor conferred with the award by Boss Mustapha, Secretary to the Government of the Federation, on the grounds of Aso Rock, the seat of the central government, which is controlled by the APC, a political party with which Mr Emmanuel’s PDP is in opposition. In the midst of all of this, there were reports circulating in the whisper network of Udom Emmanuel either offering to work for Buhari’s re-election in return for the President’s support to the governor for his second term bid, or lobbying the Presidency to join the APC. The speculation of the governor’s planned defection to the APC was so strong that leaders of the opposition party in the state had to issue a statement rejecting his plan beforehand, and warning him to stay where he was. This is the context in which to appraise the ongoing flirtation with Obasanjo by Governor Emmanuel. I can’t see how Emmanuel hopes to win running with the hare and hunting with the hounds. He isn’t making sense with this approach. There is no way the Presidency would not see his romance with Obasanjo as an attack on President Buhari. Many would actually construe it as a clear statement that Obasanjo is more valuable in the governor’s political calculation than Buhari. Should these scenarios hold true, would that put Udom Emmanuel’s second-term bid in good stead? Emmanuel’s maneuvers raise the spectre of inexplicable hubris. Other opposition governors, including David Umahi of Ebony State and Ben Ayade of Cross River State, who have also obviously sought to be in the good graces of the President, have not, unlike Emmanuel, gone out of their way to antagonize him. What gives Emmanuel the conceit that he can take on the President in such a blatant manner without attracting political consequences to himself? Emmanuel’s approach to issues—all issues—has always appeared befuddled. Early on while courting the President, describing him as father to all, he threatened to tear down his campaign office in Uyo, and accused him of denying the state its full due in federally collected revenue. The faux pas on the share of the state’s revenue from federal allocation must have embarrassed the state cabinet because the commissioner for finance tried to walk back government’s position on the matter by issuing a clarification, correctly explaining why sometimes there are shortfalls in allocations owing to the inevitable variations in expected and actual oil production figures upon which derivation revenue is based—a point which an accountant like the governor strangely appears to have missed. The same befuddlement is written all over the state government’s so-called industrialization policy. Supposing we take the argument without conceding that the state government is pursuing industrialisation, how does anyone make sense of such policy without enabling infrastructure? The governor-elect of Osun State, Gboyega Oyetola, in his first post-election interview with the media, emphatically said that there could be no meaningful development without adequate infrastructure. That position is a given in development economics, except in Udom Emmanuel’s weird philosophy of development. Contrary to what works globally, Emmanuel has turned his back on infrastructure development in his state. He has abandoned every single uncompleted infrastructure project inherited from the previous government. Yet he is claiming to be building industries. Neither sense nor direction! I don’t know whether the governor has ever heard of the concept, ‘Build and they will come.’ That is the concept that the rulers of Dubai have used to turn their half of the United Arab Emirates into the world’s fastest growing investment destination. Through frenzied but well-coordinated investment in infrastructure they have within two decades turned an oil commodity-based economy into an industrializing, high-growth development hub relying on the non-oil sector for 70 per cent of its GDP. Udom Emmanuel’s view of governance and politics generally is at best laughable. He does the opposite of what works in both areas. What is worse, he tinges this humbling humbug with uncommon dose of mendacity. Emmanuel’s romance with Obasanjo has vindicated the opposition in the state. At the time the governor was fawning around the presidency, the opposition warned the government in several open letters that they should not be taken in by trickery, pointing to reasons that suggested the governor was actually professing fake friendship, beneath which were dark designs for the President. So, Mr. Emmanuel’s ill-will didn’t just happen. It has a long, seedy trajectory.  But, it’s hard to see where the governor is going. What is easy to see is that he is writing a most lamentable chapter in the history of his state.