It last, President Muhammadu Buhari finally gets his West African Examination Council (WAEC) certificate after weeks of brouhaha generated by the president’s decision to ask the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to find his school leaving certificate. Many said the President would have saved the nation the drama had he made efforts to get the certificate the day he knew he would be running for election again. But, he waited till the period the certificate would be required to authenticate his candidature in the coming general elections. This is not fair enough. For how long should the Buhari’s certificate brouhaha continue to dominate public discourse? Is Mr. President comfortable about this sordid development? The President came under heavy public criticism and this is justifiable, because Buhari failed to read the public barometer to know people are looking forward to debates on how present problems facing the country could be tackled. At that time when candidates are rolling out their programmes, Buhari allowed his academic certificate to become the issue. The President, for the umpteenth time, submitted an affidavit to INEC in place of his WAEC results. In the document, he claimed that his credentials were still with the secretary of the Nigerian army. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) vilified the president for failing to tender his academic credentials. The major opposition party noted that the president’s failure to present his school certificates invalidated his claim of being a man of true integrity. A prominent lawyer, Mr Olisa Agbakoba (SAN), also said the President was about to make the same mistake he made in 2015, when he said his certificate was with the military. Agbakoba was quoted to have said: “It is a fairly serious matter that the court would have to interpret. Any Nigerian concerned with upholding the constitution could take the matter to court and they won’t be considered a meddlesome interloper in the matter. Let the court decide.” Yinka Odumakin, spokesperson of Afenifere, did not mince word when he said Buhari should compel the military, as the sitting president, to produce his original certificate as demanded by the law of the land. Odumakin, while contending that it amounted to perjury for anyone to claim what he did not have in an affidavit, said: “We expect INEC not to process his presidential nomination form until he (Buhari) releases it (certificate). He can sign an Executive Order for the military to release it.” The claim that Buhari’s original or photocopies of his academic certificates not being in his care, but rather with the military, predates his emergence as Nigeria’s leader in 2015. The military further compounded the President’s certificate controversy when it openly refuted the claim that Buhari’s O’Level certificate was in its records. Former Director of Army Public Relations, Olajide Laleye, in January 2015, told journalists in Abuja that the Nigerian Army did not have copies of Buhari’s O’Level certificate or statement of results. He however, said that records of his entry indicated that the President obtained a West African School Certificate (WASC) in 1961. Records available indicate that Buhari applied to join the military as a form six student of the Provincial Secondary School Katsina, on October 18, 1961. His application was duly endorsed by the principal of the school, who also wrote a report on him and recommended him to be suitable for the military. Buhari’s public comment about his academic certificate, certainly, was aimed at silencing his detractors and political enemies who had embarked on a mission to cast slur on his much-touted integrity. The President, during a press briefing in January 2014, disclosed that he took the WASC examination with registration number 820002. The then candidate Buhari said the duplicate copies of his academic certificates were with the military, but the original copies of his documents were missing. Days to the botched February 14, 2015 presidential election, a public interest group, the Advocacy for Societal Rights Advancement and Development Initiative (ASRADI) wrote letters to both the Nigerian Army and INEC, requesting for details of the credentials submitted by Buhari. Invoking the provisions of the Freedom of Information (FOI) Act, the group, in two separate letters, signed by its Executive Director, Deolu Oyinlola, then requested that the two institutions clear the air over the issue of Buhari’s certificates and credentials, by answering the key questions they asked in their correspondences. However, the event of last week where the registrar of WAEC personally presented the attestation of result to the President has put to rest the lingering controversy surrounding Buhari’s academic records. Those urging INEC to disqualify Buhari can now stop their agitations and face the real issues that concern Nigerians. Nigerians are hoping that INEC organise credible, transparent and peaceful elections, and ensure that the will the people prevail. It is incontrovertible that Buhari’s blundering failure to act in good conscience and produce his WAEC certificate to INEC questioned his credibility as a leader, and also impugned on his moral character. The earlier the President repudiates some of his political gaffes, the better for him and for his campaign. If there is any time his campaign of “Change Begins With Me” should have a meaning, it is definitely this period when he is going to the poll to show Nigerians that he still possesses the integrity that brought him to power in 2015. 