A Nigerian carrier, Dana Air, has extended its multi-million naira sponsorship deal with the Uyo based Akwa United FC of Akwa Ibom for the 2018/19 Nigeria Premier League season. The airline’s Media and Communications Manager, Kingsley Ezenwa, confirmed the development on Friday in Lagos. Ezenwa said that the deal was inked recently during a brief ceremony at the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo. He said: “We are back again to extend what we started last year. We believe in Akwa United and the club actually did well last season and looks good for the next season. ”We are also committed to developing sports, particularly football in Nigeria. “We are the first airline to have taken this step toward making our league glamorous, and we hope other credible organisations will follow because we believe that our league can actually get to that level.” According to him, Dana Air is not just about flying to Akwa Ibom, but contributing positively to the growth and development of the state. He also congratulated Nigerians and the Super Eagles on their qualification for AFCON 2019 in Cameroon. “We are proud of the Super Eagles of Nigeria for bringing glory to our country and for encouraging us to continue to believe in our greatness,” Ezenwa said. Also, the Chairman of Akwa United, Paul Bassey, described Dana Air as worthy partners and expressed delight that the contract had been extended for another year. “We are particularly grateful to Dana Air for this amazing partnership with our club. “This partnership has relieved us of the stress of tedious road travels to league matches, especially the Northern and Western parts of this country. “The success story of Dana Air in the Nigerian air space in the last 10 years is a clear testimony of your commitment to Nigerians. “We are proud to be associated with Dana Airlines through this sponsorship agreement. “We will be going into a new NPFL season confident that we will do well to bring glory to all our fans, supporters as well as Dana Air for identifying with and staying by us,” Bassey said.