The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) says it has partnered with other stakeholders to sensitise the motoring public on safe driving to reduce death on the highways during the festive period. Mr John Meheux, the FRSC Zonal Commanding Officer, in charge of both Ogun and Lagos States, spoke at the safety rally campaign to sensitise commercial drivers at Ikorodu Motor Parks. Meheux, also the Assistant Corps Marshal, said that it has become a tradition in FRSC to intensify patrol operations and public enlightenment as the year draws to an end. He said that the yearly ember months operations of FRSC was aimed at pre-crashes and traffic gridlocks as there used to be increase in vehicular movements on the roads. “FRSC has identified certain negative human elements that are road crash in tendencies such as speeding, dangerous driving, impatience, use of cellphone while driving and use of second hand tyres. “Information from the crash investigations disposal have indicated that these negative human factors have continued to dominate the habits of most road users. “In fact, speeding, dangerous overtaking, use of cellphone while driving, driving under the influence of alcohol/drug and impatience, have been found to be responsible for high per cent of the causes of road traffic crashes attributable to human factors. “Our target this year is to achieve zero fatality on the highways,” he said. The FRSC chief said that the zone was paying very close attention to the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Lagos-Ijebu-Ode and other corridors, especially the road construction areas at Mowe route. According to him, FRSC will be strict with the motorists in route violation on all the identified corridors during the period. Commenting, Mr Hyginus Omeje, the FRSC Lagos State Sector Commander, said that the 2018 ember months patrol focussed on zero fatality on the road. “That is why we are partnering other stakeholders to enlighten the motoring public on the effect of disobeying the traffic rules and regulations. “Using second hand tyres, drunk driving and other human factors contribute to frequent crashes on the road. “We urge the drivers to adhere to these frequent awareness and public sensitisation by the corps and create safer road,” he said. Also, the Ayangbunren of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Adewale, urged the drivers to drive safely to avoid untimely deaths during the festivities. The monarch, represented by Otunba Ayodele Elesho, appealed to commercial drivers to embark on regular checkup on their vehicles before embarking on a journey.
“I urge the drivers to drive carefully to rejoice and celebrate peacefully with their families and love ones. In his remarks, Mrs Feyisola Adiyelogun, the Sales Manager, Montana Industries Nigeria Ltd., also advised the drivers to purchase original tyres instead of going for fairly used tyres. Adeyelogun said that most of the fairly used tyres were not good for Nigeria weather. Commenting, Mr Gbeminiyi Animashaun, the Chairman, Road Transport Employers Association of Nigeria (RTEAN) Majekodunmi Park, Ikorodu, thanked the organiser of the rally, saying that his members would benefit more on the awareness. Animashaun also advised his members to ensure they make use of the opportunity to enhance safer road during the festive period. FRSC and Guinness Nig. Plc had also partnered to sensitise and educate the motoring public on drunk and reckless driving to avoid crashes during the yuletide. They had on Tuesday organised a public enlightenment and sensitisation rally for the commercial drivers at the Kogi Motor Park Mangoro Agege, Lagos.  (NAN)