More people are embracing the reading culture in Bayelsa State. The hitherto-fading culture has been brought back by a former state Chairman of the Association of Nigerian Authors (ANA), Michael Afenfia. Afenfia is using the Mechanics of Yenagoa to bring back the culture of reading. Mechanics of Yenagoa is an online series on places, culture and people of Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital. The seasonal fiction expounds the happenings in the capital city, using a versatile character, Ebinimi. The author deploys modern communication technologies and the new media to tell his stories. Realising that the internet has been blamed for the fading reading culture, Afenfia compels readership through the internet. He publishes his series online and gets it delivered to people in various social media. Through the strategy, the readership and followership of the Mechanics of Yenagoa has tremendously increased globally. Recently, young creative writers gathered in Yenagoa to read some series of the online publication. It was an event that attracted many young minds, who curiously wanted to behold the face behind the interesting episodes of Ebinimi adventures in Yenagoa. Those who gathered at an event Centre in Yenagoa were captivated as an ace broadcaster; Lishman read some of the stories sonorously through his smartphone. The reading evoked mixed feelings on the listeners, who sometimes laughed, grinned and smiled at the follies and ambitions of Ebinimi, the protagonist. It afforded the listeners opportunities to reflect on the significance of some places in Yenagoa. The entire reading period was made lively by a comedian, MC. Inyanga, who intermittently punctured the process, to bring the issues in the story home. Afenfia further answered questions from the people. “How does he find time to write despite his busy schedules as a speech writer to Governor Seriake Dickson?” they queried. “I don’t know how l do it. I take advantage of my morning hours. Those who clean offices in Government House usually meet me in the office because I resume very early. Even when waiting for a meeting to begin, I use the opportunity to write”, he said. Afenfia gave his audience cherry news. “The Mechanics of Yenagoa has attracted wide readership. It has won the interest of the African Magic. Very soon, Ebinimi will be translated into a real character to be watched on television by people”, he said. Recalling the first episode of the series, he said: “The first episode was about this time last year. It is amazing how the followership has grown. We have people reading from all over the world. We have feedback from the United States of America (USA), the United Kingdom (UK), Malaysia, Lagos and Abuja among others. People just wanted to read each episode. It has grown beyond my imagination. “The interest and the feedback have been very encouraging. That was why when we ended season one in September this year, l thought we could take a long break and start season two by January, 2019 but people kept calling that they could not afford to wait for such a long time. We had to premier season two. “People are impressed by the novelty of seeing the story unfold before their eyes and seeing the character, Ebinimi developing week after week. Also the fact that they can make suggestions and give their feedback even as the story unfolds and then they see those feedbacks being implemented, have also kept the story alive. “Most of the stories we get here are about Lagos, Abuja or places people are familiar with. There is novelty about the Yenagoa story, a story from a part of a country that such stories don’t usually come from. “So, it is almost as if people are in Yenagoa and they can begin to live their Yenagoa experience even though they are not in Yenagoa. Bayelsa has produced many great writers who have placed the state in the map of creativity. But this has cemented the position in the map. There is still that relevance. Yenagoa is still relevant and mentioned in this format every week”. In each episode, Afenfia said he tried to incorporate developmental projects executed by Dickson, especially for people reading from outside the state. He said people living outside Yenagoa could read about some places such as Kpansia, the new airport and the diagnostic centre. He added: “It is written in a way that doesn’t come across as government propaganda. But they can just see it gradually being impressed on their mind that Yenagoa is really changing. There is also the aspect about the new Bayelsa. The governor keeps talking about building a new Bayelsa. “The reading is an opportunity to see the new Bayelsa; a new Bayelsa where young creative writers and even older ones can come together like this and discuss, have a conversation about how to move the state forward, and to have a conversation about the art. “They could have been gathered anywhere else doing other nefarious things but they are here today. It has helped to change the narrative about the perception people have about the state”. Harping on the reading culture, Afenfia said: “This event also helps in boosting the reading culture. There is much complaints that the reading culture is dying. The internet has taken the place of what used to be books. “But not forgetting these platforms, we have been able to take advantage of modern technology. So, even from your smartphones, you can catch up, read up the Mechanics of Yenagoa. So, we are sustaining that reading culture taking advantage of modern technology. You can go to the link, read the story and get educated and entertained. “Clearly, this is like a counter-narrative because it is possible there is a place where such narrative on insecurity is going on. There is this other part of town where young people are not afraid; they are gathered and they are having intelligent discussions about the future of Bayelsa and they are doing things to put the state on the map of creativity. This part of Bayelsa exists and we want people to know that this part of the state exists. Indeed, this is the new Bayelsa”.