 The police in Lagos have arrested 40-year-old Mukaila Aliu for alleged sexual assault on a teenager who could neither hear nor speak. Aliu, a resident of 17, Peluola Street, Mafoluku, Oshodi was apprehended on November 19, a year after committing the alleged offence. The suspect was said to have been on the run since November 10, last year when he allegedly lured the victim under the guise that he wanted to buy noodles for her. The 16-year-old victim was said to have followed Aliu to an abandoned shop along Oshodi Road where he raped her. Passers were said to have caught him in the act but the suspect fled and had remained in hiding until November 19, when he was seen demanding levy from a property developer claiming to be an ‘Omonile’. Unfortunate for him, a worker at the site recognized him and alerted the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Makinde who arrested him and handed him over to the Gender Section of the command for further investigation. Confirming the incident, spokesman for the command Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) said the suspect would be charged to family court on Friday. Aside Aliu, Oti said the command also arrested a 56-year-old guard identified as Bello who allegedly raped his daughter every night and then forced her to drink contraceptives. He said: “The guard  used to work at a school in Lagos. I will not give his name and that of the school for the sake of the survivor. “But the suspect was reported by the school authorities that he had been having sexual intercourse with his daughter who lived with him in a room security post apartment given to him by the management. “According to the survivor, her father sleeps with her every night. Thereafter he gives her contraceptives to prevent her from becoming pregnant. “We also arrested one Chika Okafor, 39, a resident of  3/16 Oketa Street, Mende, Maryland who on October 17, raped a 15-year-old girl and shaved her pubic hair. “The teenager ran from home because her mum threatened to beat her for losing an important item. The suspect got her into his car and took her to a beer parlour where he convinced her to take some liquor. “Being her first time to indulge in such habit, the girl was completely knocked out after guzzling several bottles of alcoholic drinks. Seeing the state of the survivor, he took her to a hotel at Oshodi. “At this point, the little girl whom he had completely undressed told him to let her be because she was a virgin but he still went ahead and shaved her pubic hair, defiled her and went away with the shaved hair. “The following morning, the suspect took her to his friend’s place in Maryland and had his way with her the second time. He thereafter took the survivor in his car and dropped her at the nearest location to her parents’ house. “The girl narrated her ordeal to her mum and she immediately petitioned the Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal who ordered a manhunt against the perpetrator. He was arrested on November 24 by detectives attached to the Gender Unit of the Command. All the suspects will be charged to family Court on Friday.”