•Says Nigeria will see end of sect Despite the increasing onslaught by the insurgents, Boko Haram, President Muhammadu Buhari has assured that Nigeria will prevail over their deadly activities. The President also expressed deep shock over the killing of military personnel in Metele village of Borno State by Boko Haram terrorists. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President said that immediate measures are being taken to ensure that the loopholes which led to the fatalities are blocked once and for all. This is coming as the Nigerian Army yesterday confirmed the attacks by the Boko Haram terrorists on troops of the 157 battalion at Metele. The confirmation was made through a statement by the Army authority in Abuja at the weekend. Reacting to the tragic incident, the President said that his administration remains ever committed and focused on the security of military personnel and other citizens. He said “No responsible Commander-in-Chief would rest on his oars or fold his hands to allow terrorists to endanger the lives of its military personnel and other citizens. “Our loyal forces have proved their strength over the terrorists and we are ready to give them all the needed support in terms of equipment and manpower to succeed in ending the renewed threat. “In the coming days, I am engaging the Military and Intelligence Chiefs in extensive discussions on the next steps we shall be taking.” he said The President noted that fighting terrorism has taken a global dimension, which necessitates international collaboration among states facing similar security challenges. He reassured Nigerians of his continued commitment to their security and of his efforts to sustain the momentum in the previous significant successes recorded against the terrorists. He, however, advised Nigerians against making a political capital out of national tragedy, stressing that members of the armed forces are one family who are commonly committed to the security and safety of all Nigerians. The Nigerian Army while confirming the attack however debunked the video been circulated in the social media, asserting it was fake. The Army described the attacks as unfortunate, but urged Nigerians to exercise caution regarding the death of the fallen heroes in that there are laid down procedures to be followed on the matter. The statement reads, “The attention of the NA has been drawn to several social media, print, electronic and online publications about the recent attack on 157 Task Force Battalion at Metele. “Whilst it is true that there was an attack on the location on 18 November 2018, it has however, become necessary to correct several misinformation being circulated with regards to this unfortunate event. “It is important for the public to note that the NA has laid down procedures for reporting incidents that involve its personnel who fall casualty in action. Out of respect for the families of our gallant troops, the NOKs are first notified before any form of public information so as to avoid exacerbating the grief family members would bear, were they to discover such from unofficial sources. “Furthermore, it suffices to observe that several social media, print and online publications have been brandishing false casualty figures as well as circulating various footages of old and inaccurate BHT propaganda videos and alluding same to be the attack on 157 Task Force Battalion. “Whilst it is understandable how such misinformation can spread in this era of social media frenzy, the spurious circulation of some of these videos only contribute to further propagate the propaganda intent of the terrorists; to misinform the populace and portray themselves as what they are not. “So far, the situation is that the location is under control as reinforcing units have been able to repel the terrorists and stabilize the situation. “The NA sincerely, wishes to thank the various arms of government, MDAs and sister security agencies that have stood with her in these trying times; by commiserating with the families of the fallen heroes who have paid the supreme price for the defence of our dearly beloved country. “The necessary support being given the NA by the Federal Government and the goodwill of the Nigerian populace will undoubtedly continue to spur the NA towards the ultimate defeat of the highly degraded BHTs.” 