Nine out of a hundred residents in Taraba state and the entire Northeastern region are drug addicts, suffering from substance abuses, wife of the Taraba State Governor, Anna Darius Ishaku said on Tuesday. She spoke in Jalingo at the one-year anniversary/fund raising ceremony of the Hope Health Centre, a medical centre her NGO -Hope Afresh Foundation (HAF) established for the rehabilitation of victims of substance abuse. “Statistics from studies on substance abuse in Nigeria has placed the Northeast region, to which Taraba state belongs, in the fifth position with the statistic of 8.54 percent. “This means about nine out of of 100 persons, suffer from drug abuse,” she said. Mrs Ishaku said her Hope Health Centre came about from a state-wide sensitisation campaign and workshop on the dangers of substance abuse by her Foundation. She added that she collaborated with key related bodies such as the NDLEA, NAFDAC, State Ministry of Youth and Health and some individuals who were either victims or relatives of victims that had success stories. “This sensitisation revealed the enormity of the problem of substance abuse in our society and the lack of remedy or where parents and victims could go for help and solve their problems,” she said. The Taraba First Lady revealed that, to prepare grounds for possible solution, her Foundation (Hope Afresh) collaborated with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime (UNODC) which came and carried out a symposium and and training for stakeholders and personnel in the treatment of persons with substance abuse disorder. She noted that only a few were able to access the services of the centre, because the venture is capital intensive because of the accommodation and feeding of the patients, apart from medication. She appealed for donations from individuals and the public sector and asked the State government to consider in its 2019 budgetary appropriation the establishment of the rehabilitation centre for its service to be highly subsidised. They were donations from the local government councils, ministries, groups, agencies and  special aides as well as the governor. Governor Darius Ishaku donated N6 million and promised to vote the sum of N100 million for the Hope Afresh Foundation in the 2019 budget. He said the Hope Health Centre should be built at the state’s Specialist Hospital as a government facility for all Taraba people. “I want us to leave behind a legacy when we shall leave office. I believe in landmark achievements. The Health Centre is not our own, it belongs to Taraba and all its people,” the governor said. There were testimonies by those who have been treated and rehabilitated by the governor’s wife’s heath programme. 