Outside Calabar, the Cross River State capital, shaku shaku dance may not mean anything to market women and small business owners. But on Tuesday, November 6, 2018, Governor Ben Ayade’s enthralling shaku shaku dance steps at the inauguration of the first Cross River Micro- finance bank in the state capital, got some rusted waists cranking as market women shrugged off weariness to dig it out with His Excellency. Seeing their workaholic governor, who many indigenes of Cross River State have given various nicknames such as, “Salary Master”, in appreciation of his prompt payment of workers’ salaries; “Mr.Project”, in recognition of the industrialisation policy of his administration, and “Digital” in reference to his modernisation of governance, on the dance floor was the elixir that stirred the women into action. Obviously, nothing could be more stirring than the goodies the Micro- finance bank offers the women. It was, therefore, no surprise that “macro-votes and macro-victory for our digital governor” wafted from the crowd, giving the musical displays a blend of soul-stirring rendition of a pledge, chorus and music! Such was the dramatic setting at the inauguration ceremony. The facility with a N500 million start-up capital courtesy Governor Ayade, is the first ever state-owned Micro-finance bank in the state and the governor is optimistic that the bank will contribute immensely to the state’s economic growth. Paying glowing tribute to women, Governor Ayade urged them to take advantage of the services the bank offers to better their economic lot. Licenced by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), the Cross River Micro-finance Bank will open offices in every local government in the state. For a state saturated with small-scale businesses whose operators are not equipped enough or qualified to access soft loans from traditional mainstream banks, Cross River, according to industry watchers, is on a sure footing for business growth with the establishment of the Micro-finance bank. According to the governor, at the heart of the establishment of the Micro-finance bank is the need for financial inclusion for all indigenes of Cross River State. The bank, he said, is a credible platform for small business owners to be financially stable and independent instead of depending on the government. “Our interest is to bring value to humanity, to make people feel the dignity of mankind…this bank is not intended to make money but targeted at helping women, the vulnerable and the physically-challenged; and to encourage them that there is always a banking sector that can provide for them,” he said. In order to cater for the economic and business interests of the category of Cross River State indigenes mentioned above, the Cross River Micro-finance Bank is structured to charge zero to five per cent interest on loans as the criteria for loans include ownership of a farm land, being a civil servant and ownership of a market stand. Going forward, the over 3,000 members of staff of the state-owned garment factory as well as members of staff of local government across the state are among the immediate beneficiaries of the financial freedom the Cross River Micro-Finance Bank offers as they have been requested to immediately open accounts in the bank to enjoy the benefits of loans. “For all young men, as we offer you appointments and create jobs for you in this administration, you will now put food on the table and with hands on the plough as the micro-finance bank will be available to give you loans for you to do that 30,000 hectares of cocoa, to give us over 60,000 hectares of rice farm that we are looking for, or organic bamboo plantation to feed our toothpick factory,” the governor said. Boki Local Government Area which lacks an institution or bank will be the first to get a branch of the Cross River Micro-finance Bank. The ground-breaking ceremony for the branch is slated for next month. “I promised Boki that I will bring an institution because the area is too big not to have an institution. I hereby implement the promise I made during my campaign,” the governor said, adding that, “it is now left for Boki sons and daughters through the Secretary to the State Government to choose a location where we can set up the micro-finance bank in Boki”. Some indigenes of the local government present at the inauguration ceremony could not hide their joy at the prospect of the area hosting a banking institution. One of them who identified herself as Catherine, a fashion shop owner, described Ayade as a promise keeper. Her words: “Our digital governor is a promise keeper. Here today, he has, again, demonstrated that and given Boki people yet another reason to queue behind him during the governorship election next year. For giving us a micro-finance bank, we will give him macro-votes!” Chairman, National Association of Micro-finance Banks in Nigeria, John Owan praised  Prof. Ayade for pioneering a state-owned micro-finance bank: “We are happy to have a new baby born into the industry as all micro-finance banks in Cross River State before now were privately-owned. Having seen the state-of-the-art facilities here, I have no doubt that those who patronise this bank will not regret doing so”, he said On his part, Cross River State Controller, Central Bank of Nigeria, Sampson Esua, pointed out that Ayade has made the job of CBN easy as the bank has several packages to offer those who patronise it. 