The partnership between David Fayele and Nimota Aregbesola claimed the first title at the 50th Asoju Oba Molade Okoya-Thomas Table Tennis Cup after emerging winners yesterday in the mixed doubles event. With precision and a good understanding of each other, Fayele and Aregbesola proved bookmakers wrong with a convincing 3-0 (11-5, 11-3, 11-9) win over the duo of Olajide Omotayo and Tolu Durosimi-Etti to lift the trophy this year. A delighted Fayele believes the win would inspire him for the men’s singles title. “I feel so delighted winning this title with my partner. It was not really easy playing with our opponent but all the same, I thank God for this great achievement,” said Fayele. Also, the youngsters participating in the championship believe the tournament would fire them up to fulfil their dreams and aspirations. The players specifically of Indian Language School (ILS) besieged the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium with the hope of sharing from the mouth-watering prize at stake this year. An excited Reyna Kurian of ILS said “I feel so great competing for the second time in this tournament and I thank the sponsors of this great event for putting this together. I always get inspired by my coach who has been the one training me in my school for seven years now, he has always been my role model in the game of table tennis. I was born in Lagos and I am currently living in Lagos.” The Indian aspiring players like 13-year-old Parthiba Sinha said “I feel so good coming to participate in the tournament and also been the third time competing at the Asoju Oba championship. I hope to get a price this time around because I have always lost all my games in this competition” “I have been playing this tournament for three years now and I am so delighted even though I always get scared when playing. I have lived in Lagos for eight years now which I am still in the city, I am looking forward to winning some matches though I am playing for fun,” 12-year-old Ronak Iyei said. 13-year-old Yak Sharan added “I always feel nervous when playing which I am trying to overcome, I have participated four times in this championship, and I live in Lagos because my dad works in Lagos. I feel good winning my first match despite I was scared.”