Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Nasarawa Sector Command, has urged drivers to rest after four hours of driving.
Mrs Faustina Alegbe, the state sector commander, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NANt) in Lafia on Wednesday that the move would prevent fatigue and accidents on the roads. Alegbe tasked drivers to take a minimum of 15 minutes after every four hours of driving to relax and energise themselves.
“I want to use this medium to advise drivers to endeavour to take a break after every four hours of driving. At least, drivers should take a minimum of 15 minutes rest before continuing driving. “The time will afford them the opportunity to rest and assess their driving. The drivers can also use the 15-minute rest period to check the vehicle.
“The rest period and checking of the vehicle will ensure that they arrive at their destination safely. Taking this break is very important because it prevents fatigue which is a factor that causes accidents on our roads. “We are harping on this break because we want our drivers to always be alert and fresh while driving,” she said.
The Nasarawa state FRSC sector commander also advised drivers to minimise conversation with passengers while driving.
“Anything form of distraction can lead to accident, a good driver even while chatting should not be distracted on the highway.   “So, I want to urge passengers not to distract drivers with arguments, but keep them alert with light talk.“Use of phone while driving is distractive, even eating while driving is dangerous. So, I am appealing to both drivers and passengers to be safety conscious while in a vehicle transporting them to their destinations,” she said. Alegbe, however, said the state command had commenced the ‘ember’ months’ campaign.
She appealed to all road users to inculcate the habit of constantly maintaining their vehicles before embarking on a journey. “I want to draw the attention of all road users to the fact that the ember months’ period is a period when the weather is very hazy and foggy.
“So, road users have to imbibe safety precaution with regards to road usage. “They should ensure that the head lamps are very bright and in good condition, they also should check the brake of their vehicles before they embark on journey’’ she said NAN