There are fears that the rate of unemployment among the youth is becoming alarming. People are worried that the situation may become volatile. There are views that the current crime rate is a fallout of the youth being unemployed; therefore they engage in several anti-social vices such as robbery, kidnapping, internet scam, bullying and cultism, among others. Individuals and corporate organisations have joined forces with government at all levels to improve the situation. However, experts maintain that until youths-friendly policies and programmes are evolved to tackle what has been termed chronic unemployment situation, policing efforts to halt the development may be a mirage. They also argue that for criminal activities engaged in by the youth to be curtailed, there is need for crime prevention, which they said is the attempt to reduce and deter crime and criminals. They agree that governments must go beyond law enforcement and criminal justice to tackle the risk factors that cause crime because it is more cost-effective and leads to greater social benefits than the standard ways of responding to crime. Stakeholders also maintain that crime prevention is the most potent attempt to reduce or deter crime and criminals. There should be measures intended to reduce or inhibit criminal activity, especially by implementing programmes to deter potential offenders. In the circumstances, Northwest Petroleum and Gas has joined forces with government and communities in Cross River State in evolving ways through which youths would be meaningfully engaged to prevent them from having criminal tendencies. This it did through sponsorship of this year’s Northwest Unity Cup Soccer competition in Ishie Town; a community in Calabar Municipality Local Government Area. For the town, it is another moment of excitement as Northwest Unity Cup competition kicked off in the area penultimate week. This year’s edition of the soccer fiesta is the third. It was aimed at checking the crime rate among youths in the various communities in Calabar Municipality, as well as the state in general. Chairman of the organising committee of the tournament, Ntufam Donatus Etim said: “One of the reasons we introduced this tournament was to engage the youth. Traditionally, Calabar is a football city. The football tradition was getting gradually diminished. But having understood what strength soccer has in the lives of the youth as well as the elders, especially the spectators; we deemed it necessary to bring back the culture of football. “In the present crop of Super Eagles players, you will find out that you don’t have one player from Cross River State. Why is it so? Even when the children have strong talents, they cannot go further because they do not have anyone to encourage them. In Calabar currently, football pitches have turned into residential areas. “Secondly, you will recall that Calabar Municipality was known in a very negative form, where cultism, kidnappings and all sorts of vices took the front burner. So, we thought if we brought these boys together and they have a sense of purpose, they can be playing. All through the period the tournament ends, you will not witness any form of crime in any part of the municipality.” Etim said the competition has succeeded in curbing crime in the state as well as boost youth participation in sports. “This is also a platform for these young men to launch themselves and it is courtesy of Northwest Petroleum and Gas. We are grateful to them and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Dame Winnie Akpani. If she did not approve of the competition, it would not have held. From the tournament, talents have been discovered and they have moved to Rovers Football Club of Calabar and other senior teams. It is a breakthrough and a platform for these boys to launch themselves,” he said. Etim, who said the competition, hosted at the Ishie Town Stadium, had 10 participating teams, representing the 10 wards of Calabar Municipality, said the event has also boosted economic activities in the area. “However, the players can come from anywhere. Football does not understand any other language than love and unity and that is why we are here,” he said. A representative of Northwest Oil and Gas, Salihu Labaran, said they would continue to sponsor the annual event, even as he pledged to consolidate on the gains already attained. He called on other corporate organisations to emulate the gesture so that “together we can develop the country.” A representative of the State Government, Mr Eric Anderson, who is also the Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, praised the initiative, saying it would take a lot of young men off the streets. “This is fantastic. It is happening from my own state constituency and local government and deserves every support. It is good for us because you can imagine how many teams you have and how many young men are involved in it. This will help us take some of them off the streets. “The engagement is wonderful. Once you are able to bring someone out to prominence on a personal ground, the person shies away from ills such as drugs and so on. Once someone is known as a good footballer or even plays at all, he knows that he is in the eye of the public and would shun vices. So, we need more of this kind of event to engage the youth,” Anderson said. Ex-Nigerian International, Mr Etta Egbe, who is also the Technical Director Rovers Football Club of Calabar, said the third edition of the tournament was a remarkable improvement from the last two editions. “We hope we can improve upon it and achieve the aim of this competition, which is to discover younger talents that would do us proud in the future. Some players from the previous editions have migrated from here to the leagues. We have a lot of them that have passed through this exercise that are playing in the bigger leagues now. I am impressed with the standard of play. If we continue like this, we would go places,” Egbe, who is also the Vice-Chairman of the organising committee, said. Head Calabar Free Trade Zone, Godwin Egbe, an Engineer, urged youths to take sports seriously, as it is one way to create unity, find new friends and also keep the body fit and strong. Member Representing Calabar Municipality in the Cross River State House of Assembly, Ntufam Efa Esua, praised organisers of the tournament, which also seeks to expose talents.