Dear Reader, I welcome you to this wonderful time in God’s presence! I have discussed on the Origin of Marriage and Covenant Responsibilities in marriage. Today, I want you to Beware Of Divorce! Enjoying a loving family is God’s utmost desire for you and your family members. It is His design from the very beginning of creation.  There is nothing impossible for God to do. No matter what mistakes you may have made in the past, God is set to restore you. He is faithful. If you will just turn to Him and begin to fulfill your own part of the covenant (walk in His path of righteousness), you will experience His miracle touch in your life and marriage. In the beginning of the institution of marriage, divorce was not a part of this original plan and was never supposed to be a part. The Word of God says, Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh (Genesis 2:24). Note the word “Man … shall leave, cleave and become one flesh”.  He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so (Matthew 19:8). What is divorce? Divorce means legally ending a marriage. It is when a couple (husband and wife) decides that they cannot continue to live together as husband and wife. They no longer find any joy or interest in each other.  Divorce can be likened to marital amputation.  It causes a lot of grief, pain, and wound that only God can heal.   Even when a wound is healed, the scar remains, and in most cases, for life.  Give no place to divorce. Remember, prevention is said to be better than cure.  When there is challenge in your home, divorce should not be the first option that comes to mind.  Rather, it is important to first identify and analyze the challenge. God hates putting away! What God says He hates, you should hate too.  What God has joined together, nothing should put asunder.  The Word of God says, For the Lord, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away (Malachi 2:16). I want you to know that divorce was not God’s original plan for marriage from the beginning.  There are a lot of divorce cases in all our societies today.  The breakdown of the family unit is one of the greatest calamities our society faces today.  The partners themselves go through a lot of pain and agonies and their children go through turmoil and devastation.  God views husband and wife being bound together in a permanent marriage relationship, and nothing should be allowed to put them apart. As I have said earlier, family life has divine origin. It is not man-made, but God-ordained. For you to enjoy a living family, God has to be at the centre of it. If God is at the centre of your family, divorce should not be considered as an option for you because of pressure or marital tension. Divorce is not legally ending a marriage only, but putting death where life once was. To enjoy a loving family therefore, divorce should not be entertained. For those about getting married or yet to be married, be very careful. My husband used to say, “To be slow and sure is better than to be fast and foolish”. My husband and I courted for 6 years and throughout that time, we did a proper study with all sincerity of each other’s character, vision and goals. If you are not contemplating divorce, then there is no need to rush into marriage. Take your time; be sure of what you are getting into. If it is a living family you desire, prepare yourself for it and enter into it with God’s backing and certainty. To rush into marriage without God as the centre, is to violate the first requirement for enjoying a living family. And in such a case, whatever you meet in that home, you signed for it. But I want to tell you that God has a better plan for you than divorce. Divorce is not as easy as it sounds. In case you are reading this article right now and you are considering divorce, you have thought there is no way out.  Hold it! Who knows, this might be the reason God gave you the opportunity of reading a material like this.  If only you will accept and follow God’s master plan, your story will change for the better!  Or are you already divorced? Do not allow a sense of condemnation to overwhelm and destroy your colourful future.  God can still perform His wonders in your life.  God is a Restorer! He will restore your marriage.  Below is a testimony that will boost your faith: “I read your article in the newspaper.  In fact, I have seen a lot of changes in my life, which prompted me to give this glorious testimony of the wonderful works of our Lord Jesus Christ. I got married in 1977 as an unbeliever, before I joined the police force in the year 2000.  But somehow, my marriage broke up as a result of so many things.  But God rebuilt the marriage from the advice and instruction I got from your article. I congratulate you for your effort in enlightening young men and women concerning their marital lives, so that their marriages will be peaceful and successful”-  Mr. Udual, A. I see God giving you your own testimony too! You need the grace of God upon your life to be able to stay put in your covenant marriage.  You can say this prayer and be born again: Dear Lord Jesus Christ, I come to You today. I am a sinner. Forgive me my sins and cleanse me with Your Blood. I accept You as my Lord and personal Saviour. Make me a child of God today. Thank You for delivering me from sin and satan to serve the living God and thank You for accepting me into Your Kingdom. Congratulations! If you prayed this simple prayer of faith with me, you are now born again and a child of God. He loves you and will never leave you. Read your Bible daily, obey God’s Word and seek Christian fellowship (John 14:21). With this, you are guaranteed all-round rest and peace in Jesus’ Name! Call or write to share your testimonies with me through contact@faithoyedepo.org, 07026385437 OR 08141320204.  For more insight, these books authored by me are available at the Dominion Bookstores in all Living Faith Churches and other leading Christian bookstores: Marriage Covenant, Making Marriage Work, Building A Successful Home and Success in Marriage (Co-Authored).