The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), on Monday, called on the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola to revoke contracts of non performing power supply stakeholders. MURIC made the call in a statement issued to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos. The group accused the Electricity Distribution Companies (DISCOs) of sabotaging efforts of the Federal Government to boost electricity supply to Nigerians because it worked at cross roads with the interest of government. Prof. Ishaq Akintola, Director, MURIC making reference to a recent protest by electricity consumers in Lagos, said that protests were being staged in various geopolitical zones of the nation because customers were not satisfied. Akintola recounted the ordeal of electricity consumers on the Iba axis in Lagos where power supply was for about six hours daily. He accused the EKDEC, some DISCOs and greedy politicians of frustrating the impact of the good work which President Muhammadu Buhari administration had been doing. The director appealed to the Minister of Power, Mr Babatunde Fashola, to come to their aid. “We are really suffering. It is high time the Federal Government called the bluff of the DISCOs. “If it is true that the contract of the DISCOs will be expiring this month (November, 2018), we strongly advise that the contracts should be revoked. These DISCOs are not on the same page with the current administration. “They are cogs in the wheel of progress. Let them go back to their avariciously gluttonous politicians and superfluously voracious capitalist bourgeoisie. “For the sake of microscopic clarity, we affirm that the concern of MURIC is the welfare of the masses. We are greatly concerned that the DISCOs are supplying darkness instead of light. “We are concerned as socio-intellectual jihadists seeking 24-hour electricity supply to Nigerians, freedom for the oppressed, food for the hungry, healing for the sick, clothing apparels for the naked and shelter for the homeless. “We remain oppressed until these welfare objectives are attained. The struggle for better life for the poor masses is a noble jihad and we will not abandon this great path,’’ he said. Akintola said the residents of Iba were suffering, adding that activities of the huge academia population on the axis were also distorted by lack of adequate power supply. “The case of Lagos State University (LASU) is pathetic. Although the university’s visionary, purposeful and dynamic leadership has taken the university to world class status with several initiatives; lack of regular power supply constitutes a potent threat to the sustenance of LASU’s current enviable status. “In an effort to ensure regular power supply in Ojo campus, the University management spends a humongous amount every month on diesel and maintenance of the big generators which are installed all over the campus. This eats deep into the coffers of the university. “Apart from students who are in the hostel and who must use electricity at night, LASU students also read on campus during the night and this poses another big challenge. “It is the height of sadism to give consumers light in the daytime only,’’ he said. He called on the EKDEC to turn a new leaf, describing the performance of the DISCOs as disappointing, adding that they worked at variance with the passion of Fashola. “MURIC will not hesitate to spearhead a massive but peaceful demonstration against them if they do not perform. “We urge the federal government to put an end to the DISCO’s contracts as quickly as possible because they have failed Nigerians,” he said. He said that MURIC delegation met with EKDEC management in Iba area about eight months ago to lodge complaints of having power supply for an average of six hours daily at night but the trend had continued. He explained that dissatisfied residents dragged EKDEC to court over a year ago. According to him, EKDEC treats consumers in high brow areas like Ikoyi with special respect but treats those in Iba area with contempt. That is class segregation.