The Lagos State Theartre Arts Association has has given its support to the Lagos State Alliance for Democracy (AD) governorship candidate Chief Owolabi Salis in next year’s election.

The theater practitioners’ chairman Mr. Faniyo Omololu, who spoke at a conference in Ikorodu said the AD candidate is well travelled and connected, noting he was the best candidate for the job. 

He added that Salis had the major attraction that endears the group to him, given that he would facilitate peoples’ oriented development projects.


“We know him, we know his capacity and what he can do, he has traveled up and down almost every country in the world, so we know what he can do, and what he has been doing.

“That is why I came here to endorse him as the next governor of Lagos State by God’s grace.”

Salis who was the guest lecturer at the conference said there was urgent need to improve on the condition of living of the common people.

He said: “My lecture harps on the living standards of the commoners in Lagos and I have really dealt with it terms of their basic needs because the
government needs to address the basic needs of this less privileged people, the commoners, grassroots people.

” Now I tried to look into the health situation because there is so much widening gap on health matters in Lagos, a lot of rich people are okay but poor people buy antibiotics to address some of the problems they are facing.

“Look at housing, for the past 20 years there has been no housing for less privileged people and rich are the only one living in comfort, there are a lot of commoners living under the bridges, we are going to address that if we win this election.

“On food, lot of people are hungry because the economic situation is so bad, the grassroots people that most of them
have no.

“There is a systemic slavery going on trying to use our people for violence while they take their  own children abroad, taking good care of them, but the children of the less privileged people are being empowered into violence.”

The AD candidate said his endorsement by the theatre practitioners was an indication that there would paradigm shift in the polity ahead of 2019. 

“Theatre Art practitioners endorsement is  important because they are the face of the people. They are the less privilege ambassadors because a lot of people love them. The artistes and the musicians command the peoples’ respect.

“I lived in Newyork for over 20 years ,I know the theatre practitioners in Nigeria are the best in the world. The Nollywood acts practical movies and I know that a lot of nationalities in America watch the movie for their health.

“Even myself sometimes when I put the movie in ten minutes you just get hooked up hours you be on it in order to pass time.” Speaking the traditional ruler of Igbogbo kingdom, HRM Oba Abdul-Semiu Orimadegun Kasali the Emugoriade 1Adeboruwa of Igbogbo Kingdom said Salis’ influence touches on the people.

“High Chief Owolabi Salis is undoubtedly an illustrious son of Igbogbo and we can attest to that fact, he has no doubt made us proud and we wish him well in his aspiration.”