A 400-Level medical student of the Imo State University (IMSU), Ekenedirichukwu Ahaneku, was selected by the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) to participate in a global Primary Healthcare summit in Astana, Kazakhstan. At the event, Ekenedirichukwu, a CAMPUSLIFE reporter, led discussion around impediments to youth participation in primary healthcare delivery. CHUKWUEBUKA OSUJI (400-Level Library and Information Science) and NOEL OSUJI (300-Level Medicine and Surgery) report. Youth groups and students working for the realisation of Primary Health Care (PHC) across the world gathered at Astana, Kazakhstan for a three-day global health conference focusing on building partnership to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The event, organised by World Health Organisation (WHO) and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF), was held to commemorate the 40th anniversary of an international declaration in Alma-Ata, Kazakhstan, which recognised the importance of primary healthcare. Nigeria’s Ministry of Health also supported the programme. Health professionals, including the WHO Director-General, Dr Tadros Ghebreyesus, Kazakhstani Minister of Health Salidat Kairbekova, attended the event with representatives of health ministers of signatory countries and health organisations. Participants discussed ways to redesign some of the concepts and original principles of primary healthcare. The event served gave signatory governments opportunity to renew their commitments towards achieving universal health coverage. The conference featured a session tagged: Youth pre-conference, aimed at showcasing youth engagement in PHC, their challenges and barriers impeding the realisation of primary healthcare in their respective communities. Participants in the side discussion engaged private healthcare providers about the roles of the youth in realising the visions of PHC through policymaking, practice and strategic implementation of global policies. They also discussed how they could leverage opportunities to bring about change. A 400-Level Medicine and Surgery student of Imo State University (IMSU), Ekenedirichukwu Ahaneku, who represented Nigeria at the conference, led the discussion during youth preparatory workshop tagged: Our future, our health, held on the first day as part of the conference session. During the plenary attended by 30 youth representatives, Ekenedirichukwu addressed the poor level of youth engagement in primary health care. Ekenedirichukwu, a primary healthcare volunteer and member of Nigerian Red Cross Society, is the Executive Director of Blas Innovative Minds, a social enterprise that has objectives to educate and improve capacity healthcare workers. The discussants resolved that there was need for incentives that would facilitate greater participation of youths in primary healthcare delivery across the world. Their resolutions were added to the recommendations issued by the organisers at the end of the summit. On the second day, the event featured general sessions, which focused on revitalising primary healthcare to achieve universal health coverage and how the government can take revolutionary approach to advancing the course. Participants agreed that a large number of countries, especially the third world countries, had done little to improve access to primary healthcare in line with the global target. Ghebreyesus described the level of achievement of PHC in developing countries as “appalling” and “sad”, while admonishing government representatives to seek ways through which their countries could improve access to healthcare for people at the lowest rung of society, who cannot afford expensive services in private hospitals. On the third day, the discussion focused on actions that should be taken towards the actualisation of accessible and effective healthcare and leveraging viable economic policies that would encourage investment in healthcare. The participating medical students had an opportunity to have one-on-one engagement with the WHO Director-General and Kazakhstani Minister of Health to discuss their resolutions at the youth workshop as well as prevalent issues affecting primary healthcare in their communities. After the plenaries ended, the participants gathered for social show in which they displayed their cultures. They also visited some primary healthcare organisations in Astana, Kazakhstani national museum, and some heritage sites. The event ended with a dinner at the Astana Opera. Ekenedirichukwu, who is also a CAMPUSLIFE reporter, described the event as “inspirational”, saying he learnt tips to make him improve his capacity to bringing about change in the way primary healthcare is delivered to Nigerians. He said: “My activities have always been directed towards the promotion of primary healthcare. This fetched me the opportunity to attend the conference. My attendance was fully sponsored by UNICEF and I see this as a rare opportunity. I will continue to champion the implementation of Astana Declaration in Nigeria in order to ensure that young people contribute to the promotion of primary healthcare.”