Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa has recommended devolution of powers as the fastest way to bring about development and growth. Obasa made the recommendation in a remark at the opening of the ongoing consultative meeting on the Review and Harmonisation of the Standing Orders and Rules of Business of the State Houses of Assembly in the Southwest, holding at Park Inn Hotel, Abeokuta. He said: “While the oneness of Nigeria is non-negotiable, one thing we will need to speedily work on is the issue of devolution of power vis-à-vis fiscal federalism. Nigeria is made up of diverse ethnic groups which have similar goal of moving Nigeria to the Next Level but at times have different ideas on how to achieve it. “No doubt, centralisation of power at the Federal level as it exists currently in Nigeria is not the most ideal approach to accomplish genuinely necessary rapid development. Devolution of power from Federal Government to state and local governments is the way to go.” Stressing the need for devolution of powers, Obasa noted that the Federal Government was detached from the people at the grassroots. He said devolution of power will not only enhance development, take dividends of democracy to the doorsteps of rural dwellers. Obasa explained: “It is obvious to all and sundry that Federal Government is simply too far away from the masses and cannot cover the whole country in an effective manner.  There is an in-built limitation on what a government so far away from the people can achieve. People in each locale know their area far much better than a federal minister or president located in Abuja. ”The only panacea to some of our present economic challenges as a nation is through restructuring where every state will look inward to generate revenues to take care of their individual needs. “For instance, if individual states are constitutionally empowered to generate and distribute power, it will aid massive industrialisation, which is a catalyst for technological advancement and economic development. “The present Nigeria Police system is inadequate to address our enormous security challenges in the country. Hence, it becomes imperative to have community policing, which is the hallmark of state police.”