Couples can improve their sex life by walking regularly, an expert, Dr. Ibrahim Oreagba, has said. Oreagba, an Associate Professor at the Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology, College of Medicine University of Lagos (CMUL), spoke during a Walk for Life and Peace organised by Human Concern Foundation International (HCFI), in collaboration with the Centre for Global Peace Initiative in Lagos. The walk, led by Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr. Abdul Hakeem Abdul Lateef began at Jibowu bus stop through Maryland and back to Jibowu. Participants were offered free health service after the walk. Oreagba, who heads HCFI, said: “Walk deflects diabetes, prevents obesity, lowers blood pressure, gets you off medication, fades fibromyalgia pain, helps beat breast cancer and reduces the risk of stroke.” He added that walking regularly “gives an optimal life, a life of peace and tranquility. There are certain hormones in the body that we call endorphins, they are also known as feel-good hormones. Each time you do exercise, these hormones are produced.” Oreagba hailed the pharmaceutical companies and individuals who made the walk possible. Walk for life, he said, was designed to raise the health consciousness of people and serve as a practical keep fit initiative. Dr. AbdulLateef urged Lagosians to embrace exercise in order to live healthy lives. Lagosians, he said, should change their lifestyle by taking a minimum of 10,000 steps everyday. “Walking everyday is a way to a new life. It strengthens the body’s defence mechanism. Many people are addicted to drugs and these drugs have a lot of side effects. What we need to do is a change of lifestyle by taking a minimum of 10,000 steps everyday. It is a way to a new life,” he said An Associate Professor at the American University of Nigeria (AUN) in Yola, Adamawa State, Dr Luqman AbdurRaheem, said the walking culture was dying in the society. “Whenever we organise walk, we make sure we tag it with the current situation in the country. This time, as we are walking for life, we are also walking for peace.  We have decided to promote peace and tranquility as we are doing the walk, due to communal crisis and war in some parts of the country,” he said. Jaiz Charity Foundation Executive Director Imam Abdullahi Shuaib urged Lagosians to take their health seriously because a healthy man is a wealthy man 