The Migration Enlightenment Project Nigeria (MEPN) has called on the federal government to increase consular support to Nigerian irregular migrants in transit and destination countries. The group said this in a statement signed by its co-directors – Kenneth Gbandi and Femi Awoniyi. “Migrants stranded, especially in transit, are left totally to the mercy of the very traffickers who took them to their precarious situation. “According to international organisations, the ensuing desperation make most migrants take reckless risks to escape their seemingly hopeless situation in the transit countries, where they are exposed to exploitation and often horrendous human rights abuse. “This explains why many migrants still take the suicidal risk of boarding rickety boats in their bid to cross the Mediterranean to safety in Europe, which is why migrants continue to die daily in the Mediterranean Sea. This year, more than 2,000 migrants, many of whom are Nigerians, have drowned. “Despite the more than 15,000 migrants who have been returned to Nigeria since the beginning of last year, thousands of Nigerians are believed to still be stranded outside the country in different transit countries, especially in Libya, Morocco and Egypt.” International humanitarian organisations have said the number of people in Libyan detention camps has risen dramatically this year. According to MEPN, Libya’s Foreign Minister Mohamed al-Taher Siala recently estimated that around 30,000 irregular migrants were currently held in detention centres in Libya “and around 750,000 outside.” He disclosed that Tripoli was working with the EU to send the migrants to their home countries. “But unfortunately, some of these countries – many West African countries – refuse to take them back,” said Siala. The MEPN reiterates its call to the federal government to demand access to Nigerians detained in Libya and make renewed effort in collaboration with international organisations to repatriate them back home. “The time has come for ECOWAS member states to collaborate on a common contingency plan that will enable the bloc‘s citizens in distress in North African countries to get assistance from any member state’s embassy or consulate,” said MEPN. “Such collaboration will reinforce the protection of ECOWAS’s citizens and will be a strong sign of Community solidarity. “If irregular migrants are provided the necessary consular protection, more lives could be saved, say experts. “In view of the suffering of irregular migrants and the dangers that most are exposed to in the different transit countries in which they’re presently stranded, the time for Nigeria and ECOWAS to act is now.”