Mouthpiece of Northern Nigeria, the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and one time chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna state, Alhaji Yaro Makama Rigachikun have reacted to the former president Goodluck Jonathan’s claim that the north betrayed him during the 2015 presidential election. ACF and the former PDP chairman in their separate reactions to the former President’s book ‘My transition hours’, said Jonathan himself did not honour his words by jettisoning the PDP zoning arrangement which favoured north in 2015. The ACF National Publicity Secretary, Muhammad Ibrahim Biu who reacted on behalf of forum said, “even though I have not read the book, however it is on record that Jonathan contested the 2011 and 2015 against the zoning arrangement of his party that zoned the presidential slot to the North. “Therefore, his assertions that Northern leaders and socio-political groups in the North worked against his presidency is rather odd, considering the circumstances at that time. Yet he won the Presidency in 2011 and the ruling party also secured 25% in some states of the North in the 2015 presidential elections. “It may interest you to know that his party has since admitted the oversight in the party’s 2015 winning game plan. This clearly means that leaders should always honor their words with deeds if they want to earn the respect of their followers.” He said. In the same vein, former Kaduna state PDP chairman and Northern Elder member, Alhaji Yaro Makama Rigachikun said two factors were responsible for Northern elites dumping former President Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 elections. Rigachikun who had defected to APC prior to the 2015 general elections disclosed that the first reason the North rose against Jonathan in 2015 was the fact that the former President had taken oath of office twice. According to him, “He was sworn in when late Umaru Yardua died. He was again sworn -in, in 2011 when he won that year presidential election. To the Northern establishment he was sworn in twice which was in tandem with the constitution. “So, to allow the former leader to be sworn in for the third time was against the spirit of the constitution and the Northern establishment would not take that.”
According to the Northern Elder, the second reason was the issue of suspicious and distrust because the Northern establishment believed that the former leader had a hand in Boko Haram. However, he contended that event later proved that the former leader was not behind the insurgency, saying, as a former member of APC we came to realise that Jonathan hands was never in Boko Haram. Instead the PDP chieftain remarked that  the issue of Boko Haram is still very much around us, saying,  even the  President Buhari is still grappling with the issue of insurgency.