All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) chieftain Senator Victor Umeh has unfolded his re-election bid in Anambra Central District. How far can he go? Micheal Jegede examines his chances in next year’s election Former National Chairman of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) Chief Victor Umeh was sworn on January 18 as the senator representing Anambra Central District. Umeh’s inauguration followed a tortuous legal battle, which lasted for almost three years, before the rerun that produced him as a legislator. In next year’s elections, can he retain the seat? can he beat his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Congress (APC) challengers? Former House of Representatives member Uche Ekwunife, a former Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain, was declared winner of the 2015 poll by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). But,  Umeh rejected INEC’s verdict and headed for the tribunal. At the Enugu Division of Court of Appeal, the apex court for National Assembly election matters, Ekwunife’s victory was quashed on December 7, 2015. Thehe electoral agency ordered to organise a rerun within 90 days from the date of the judgement. The PDP was disqualified from participating in the exercise. However, the rerun did not hold until January 13, Another Court of Appeal had to rule on litigations arising from the refusal of the PDP to accept its disqualification on November 20, 2017. The Appeal Court verdict, which came from the Abuja Division, gave INEC the nod to go ahead with the rerun election excluding PDP. Due to the prolonged legal tussles, the Anambra Central seat was vacant for over two years. During the period, the people of the district had no senator in the Red Chamber Ten months after Umeh’s assumption of office, he is back in the field to seek for re-election. Has Umeh lived up to the expectation of his people? Does he deserve to be given another opportunity in 2019 to enable him serve for four years? To many people, he erstwhile APGA’s helmsman has done well to deserve the mandate of his constituents for another term. His activities in the last 10 months in the Red Chamber have been outstanding. The astute politician, wasted no time in getting used to the process and business of lawmaking, as observed from his input to discussions, and sponsorship of motions and bills. To the APC and PDP candidates, Umeh’s performance is low. But, his supporters disagreed. To them, the people of Anambra Central are pleased with Umeh, as he is evidently doing them proud with quality representation. Like he did as a delegate at the 2014 National Conference, where despite his late entry, he demonstrated boldness in championing the cause of the Ndigbo, Umeh has been a potent voice on issues affecting the Igbo nation in the short period he has spent in the Senate. Many groups have endorsed his re-election bid. Umeh’s supporters are of the view that his return in 2019 will preserve the noble jobs he has begun in the Upper Chamber, while arguing that no other candidate  courageous to do better. Ekwunife, Umeh’s main political rival, would be standing as a candidate. But, in the 2019 Anambra Central senatorial election, loyalists of the estate manager and surveyor are fully confident that their man will carry the day. In rerun poll, he won in all the seven Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the senatorial zone. One of the groups that have endorsed Umeh’s second term ambition is the Ndigbo United for Democracy (NUD). The NUD noted that it would do Ndigbo a lot of good to allow Umeh to “continue his remarkable, superlative and excellent legislative duties that have deepened the nation’s democracy.” The group maintained that his performance within a short time in office remains an eloquent testimony that he is the best man to represent Anambra Central. NUD added: “His motions on ‘The Urgent Need to include the Eastern Rail Lines in the Nigerian Railway Development Project, Illegal Confinement of Underage Offenders and Infants in the same prison with Adult prisoners, Increase in armed roadblocks along major expressways in the South East geo-political zone’- which he seconded the motion sponsored by Senator Mao Ohuabunwa, showed a leader in touch with the feelings of his people.” It urged “the good people of Anambra Central Senatorial Zone that produced this outstanding grassroots political icon to vote massively for his candidacy in the forthcoming Senatorial election. “Nigerians need courageous patriots with the milk of human kindness in the Senate who will give direction to the ship of the Nigeria state in our collective efforts at building a strong, progressive and prosperous democratic nation.” Other groups that have endorsed Umeh include: Nigerians for Democratic Action (NDA), Ogilisi Foundation, an Igbo socio-cultural organisation and Traditional Prime Ministers Council (TPMC) in Anambra State. Members of all these groups are in total agreement that Umeh, who co-sponsored the bill for the establishment of a Federal University of Education, in Aguleri, Anambra State, with Senator Stella Oduah, has done well to merit another term. The ex-APGA boss has remained a strong pillar in the party and a force to reckon with in Anambra politics. He is applauded for his philanthropic activities. Umeh has been described as a compassionate leader who derives joy in ameliorating the suffering of the poor. His Education Foundation Scholarship Programme, which came into existence over 10 years ago, has made significant impact on the lives of many youths, who ordinarily may not have been able to acquire education. Umeh has awards for his many contributions to nation-building and sustenance of democratic growth. His impressive outing in the Senate earned him the Anambra State Council of the Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ) Man-of-the-Year 2018 Award and the 2018 Best Senator Award in Overall Motion by the Senate Press Corps in the National Assembly.  