The couple could improve their sex life by walking regularly, an expert Dr. Ibrahim Oreagba has said. Oreagba, an Associate Professor at the Department of Pharmacology, Therapeutics and Toxicology in College of Medicine University of Lagos (CMUL), said this during a Walk for Life and Peace, organised by Human Concern Foundation International (HCFI) in collaboration with Centre for Global Peace Initiative in Lagos at the weekend. The walk that was led by Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs, Dr. Abdul Hakeem Abdul Lateef began at Jibowu Bus Stop to Maryland and back to Jibowu. Hundreds of participants were also offered free health service after the walk. Oreagba, who heads HCFI, said aside improved sex life, “walk deflects diabetes, prevent obesity, lowers blood pressure, get you off medication, fade fibromyalgia pain, help beat breast cancer and reduce the risk of stroke.” Oreagba added that regular walking “give an optimal life, a life of peace and tranquillity. There are certain hormones in the body that we call endorphins, they are also known as feel-good hormones. Each time you do exercise, these hormones are produced.” He commended the pharmaceutical companies and generous individual who make the walk possible. Work for life, he said, is designed to raise health consciousness of people and also serve as a practical keep fit initiative. Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr Abdul Hakeem AbdulLateef urged Lagosians to imbibe the culture of exercise so as to live healthy lives. Lagosians, he said, should change their lifestyle by taking a minimum of 10,000 steps everyday. “Taking walk everyday is a way to a new life. It strengthens the body defense mechanism. So many people are addicted to drugs and these drugs have a lot of side effects in the body. What we need to do is a change of lifestyle by taking a minimum of 10,000 steps everyday, it is a way to a new life,” he said An Associate Professor at the American University of Nigeria (AUN) in Yola, Adamawa State, Dr Luqman AbdurRaheem said the walking culture is dying in the society. “Whenever we organise walk, we make sure we tag it with the current situation in the country. This time around as we are working for life, we are also working for peace.  We have decided to promote peace and tranquillity as we are doing the walk, due to communal crisis and war in some parts of the country,” he said. Jaiz Charity Foundation Executive Director Imam Abdullahi Shuaib urged Lagosians to take their health serious because a healthy man is a wealthy man “If you want to be wealthy, then you have to thread the part of being healthy. You need to know your physical status and your health status and this is one of the things that the foundation has been doing over the years to ensure that Nigerians keep fit in order to be wealthy,” Shuaib said. 