Works and Housing minister, Babatunde Fashola, and Transport minister, Rotimi Amaechi, are among the most ingenious of President Muhammadu Buhari’s ministers in selling his re-election ambition. This of course is not to discount the combative, wholehearted and aggressive marketing embarked upon by the national chairman of the ruling party, Adams Oshiomhole. But in sheer ingenuity, few ministers can hold the candle to Messrs Fashola and Amaechi. Whereas some ministers and supporters constrain their enthusiasm in a manner that indicates their inner doubts and perhaps too the pawky caution intellectuals are accustomed to, the two ministers let go with a fervency that is at once troubling and infectious. Mr Amaechi, a former governor of Rivers State, is used to the animated display of enthusiasm, an attribute that helped him, in his second term especially, battle his political opponents in the years of rebellion against the Goodluck Jonathan presidency. It is not surprising that he is bringing those attributes in the service of the Buhari presidency, particularly the president’s re-election ambition. Mr Fashola’s charismatic style is harder to explain. But notwithstanding his aloofness, the Works minister’s rhetorical flourish and preachy and didactic manners are as beguiling as Mr Amaechi’s earthy humour and accessible style. On Tuesday, however, Mr Fashola took the liberty of unfurling, with panache and logic, a verbal treatise on President Buhari’s second term ambition which his watchers found truly confounding. He used to act as a technocrat, and administer as a disinterested ruler. Now, finding himself having to prove his political skills, he has begun to act thoroughly involved, eager and even remorseless.  His new form came to the fore early in the week when he inaugurated some 5,000 foot soldiers for the Buhari/Osinbajo campaign in Lagos. During the ceremony, he needed to tackle a few knotty political questions. Hard-pressed to explain why there seemed to be a dissonance between the APC’s promise of change in 2015 and the seeming lack of change today, the minister averred that although the APC promised change in 2014, the party did not promise to do it in four years. Brilliant sophistry. And recognising that the Southwest could once again determine the outcome of the presidential election, he threw a bait to the Yoruba, suggesting that the re-election of Buhari would guarantee that power would come to the Southwest in 2023. Mr Fashola said much more. Hear him: “As a Southwest indigene, I will vote for the Buhari/Osinbajo ticket because my people stand to gain more from it. The Southwest is currently occupying the position of the vice president. We have three sitting ministers and many different federal appointments from the present administration which we cannot afford to lose…The APC has done more in three years than 16 years of PDP administration, yet they say president Buhari is too slow. President Buhari is taking Nigeria to the next level. We are going to the next level. The 2019 presidential election is a choice between going back and moving forward to the next level and also a choice of whom Nigerians can trust with their money. Buhari has inaugurated a structural infrastructure fund for road construction. N15 billion has been released for the continued construction of Lagos-Ibadan expressway.” Mr Fashola’s logic is both faultless and irresistible. The PDP is still in a quandary just how much concession to make to the Southwest. They have talked of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), but little else thought to be of any serious significance. The presidential and vice presidential positions, should the PDP win, will go to the Northeast and Southeast. So, Mr Fashola’s reminder may help jog the memory of his fellow south-westerners to remember what they would lose should they take their 2019 balloting decision with levity. Undoubtedly, the Southwest will do a cost-benefit analysis in order to determine how they would vote, whether to stick to their current gains or hanker after the birds in the bush. It is, however, unlikely that the Works minister does not recognise the implication of reducing both the presidency and the decision about whom to vote for to the crass politics of distributing political pork. It is untrue that the APC has done in three years more than the PDP in 16 years, as Mr Fashola asserted. But, really, how can anyone challenge the incontrovertible fact that the Southwest has gained much more under this administration than it gained under the three PDP administrations of the past 16 years? If regional gains are all politics is about, then the Southwest will find little difficulty in voting for President Buhari next year. But if far more noble and lasting benefits are considered — and the Southwest has the depth to expertly make the right assessments — they are unlikely to find it easy to do what both Mr Fashola and Mr Amaechi expect of the electorate, particularly the Southwest voters. But the Works minister can take consolation in the fact that no matter how cracked his prism is, the Southwest is not the only region trapped in the sectional mindset. Both the North and the Southeast have also immersed themselves in sectional calculations, computing just what they stand to gain as the gravy train rumbles on over Nigeria’s rough and treacherous political and economic terrains. They recognise the more ennobling virtue of seeking and fighting for the national interest, but they lack the foresight and discipline to include that interest in their politicking. There is indeed little anyone can do, as far as the 2019 elections are concerned, to rouse Nigerians to higher ideals. If, as the APC and PDP leaders have shown, their leaders are shamelessly not encumbered by issues of national interests, and if in their short-sightedness these leaders cannot envision how that noble interest can deliver high positions and immediate pecuniary benefits to them, it is pointless preaching to the already damned ordinary voter to beware of their own private and ignoble interests. It is not clear who Mr Fashola was addressing when he spoke that Tuesday about voting President Buhari so that the Southwest could retake the presidency in 2023. The Southeast is desperate for the prize; a few ambitious politicians in some zones in the North hanker after it; and the so-called minorities also pant for it, believing that they are best placed to look selflessly after the national interest in the most patriotic and unaffected way. The pro-Buhari/Osinbajo campaigners whom Mr Fashola addressed can hardly be bothered about his 2023 calculations. On the contrary, it is a calculation Mr Fashola probably designed for politicians like himself. His principal, whom he is campaigning for, never respected zoning in all his attempts at the presidency. So, come 2023, the elections are likely to become an all-comers’ affair. They will not be circumscribed by the politics of Elections 2019. What is most probably true is that for politicians like Messrs Fashola, Amaechi, Oshiomhole, and other top APC leaders eager to get President Buhari re-elected, their own interests are more at stake than any other thing, not whether the APC government returns to office in 2019 to complete projects. Indeed, for most of them the prospect of leaving office and sinking into the gruelling nothingness some of their colleagues have found themselves is too depressing and damning to contemplate. They will, therefore, go at this presidential election hammer and tongs. They will not contemplate any other outcome but victory, and no other fate but one that does not injure their person and future. Yes, Mr Fashola’s prism may be cracked, but as far as he knows, no cracks are visible, and his vision and perspective cannot be more peerless and immaculate than any he has ever taken advantage of.