Ahead of next year’s governorship election, Igbos resident in Cross River State under the aegis of Ohanaeze Ndigbo,  have endorsed Governor Ben Ayade for a second term. The socio-cultural organisation also conferred a prestigious award on the governor. Presenting the award at the Abraham Ordia Stadium, University of Calabar, venue of the 28th anniversary of Nna Ndigbo of Cross River, President of Ohanaeze Ndigbo in the state, Ugorji Nwabueze, said the honour was in recognition of Ayade’s achievements in the area of industrialisation. He said: “This award from the five Eastern states is in recognition of your achievement and contributions to the growth of Cross River especially in areas of industrialization.” He added: “It is also in appreciation of your good performance while exhibiting good strength to the Igbos.” Receiving the award, Ayade thanked them for the honour, saying he respects the dexterity, value, capacity, integrity, honour, intelligence and the philosophy of hard work, which the people have continuously portrayed. The governor, decked in full Igbo regalia, a red cap and walking stick,  said: “If we have given land to have Nasarrawa and Bogobiri areas, it is also important for us to have an Igbo city. The Igbos are indeed the real blood that drives our economy. So, not to make a special provision for them is to neglect the realities of the times. The governor noted the  the association’s request for land. He directed the Commissioner for Lands to make land available to the socio-cultural organisation. Ayade said: “I will want Ohaneze Ndigbo, Cross River branch, to liaise with my Commissioner for Lands, he will take you to three locations, make a choice of one, we will allocate it as Igbo city,” he added. Extolling the spirit of enterprise among the Igbo, the governor who described them as “the great Israelites of Africa,” said that “the security and social calmness that we enjoy today in Cross River is because the Igbo people have continuously supported us with mercantile activities, creating jobs and so many opportunities that have allowed us to have peace.” On the opportunities available at the Industrial park in Calabar, the state capital, Ayade said “the industrial park that we have set up has over 42 industrial plots with water, electricity and road provided. He added: “Whether you come by the instrumentality of a collective whole or as an individual, once you are Igbo with the capacity to set up a factory, we shall give you a piece of land to commence the construction of your factory at no cost to you at all.” “In Ayade Industrial Park, I assure that the Igbos will have five major plots, free of charge to commence construction of factories provided each of the factories can employ at least 20 people of which at least 10 will be Cross Riverians,” adding that “once you make that provision for me, please come over, take your piece of land, start construction, we will issue you a certificate of occupancy but you must start construction within three months.” On the complait about over taxation of petty traders raised by the leadership of the Igbo, Ayade described it as illegal and unacceptable, saying that he did not approve it. He urged the people to resist the extortionists, stressing that his administration has a tax control law that regulates tax and exempt people who do low income businesses. Ayade said: “No government that is responsible can tax its people to prosperity, prosperity comes from intellectualism, it comes from hard work, it comes from agility of the muscles and therefore the mechanical taxation of your people is negativity to the economy.” 