Gov. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu of Ondo State says priority attention should be given to children in view of their importance to the nation and the future of the society. Akeredolu made the assertion in Akure on Tuesday when the Children Management Committee of the Ondo State Radiovision Corporation (OSRC) and Orange FM paid a courtesy visit to his office. The visit was part of activities marking the 2018 World Children’s Day. The World Children’s Day is a day chosen by United Nations Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) to celebrate children worldwide. The governor said: “You are the future of the nation and we are prepared to work and interact with you as we go along. “This government will continue to do all it can to support all your requests.’’ He advised parents to talk to their children and not to only talk about them. Akereolu said that today’s children had the opportunity and access to better innovations, particularly computers, unlike in the past which was full of analogue lifestyle. The governor urged children to embrace agriculture as well as hygienic lifestyles. He also encouraged children to champion the fight against open defecation as Nigeria emerged second on the global list of countries with open defecation. According to him, the state government is committed to providing a conducive environment for learning. “I enjoin you to get involved in extra-curricular activities outside reading and the classroom. “Everything is not about academics or about reading; we have more to learn than just reading. “Your curriculum should not just limit you to books. There are a lot of activities like sports that make you a better person. “Don’t just go to school and come out. Let the school goes through you, ‘’ the governor said. Earlier, Miss Nifemi Obalokun, the One-Day Chairman, Management Committee of OSRC and Orange 94.5 FM, commended the governor for inspiring and supporting the initiative of the OSRC & Orange 94.5 FM and UNICEF. Obalokun, also a student of St. Louis Girls Grammar School, Akure, said the day was set aside by the UN to review its attention to and relationship with children. She lauded he governor for his infrastructure interventions, construction of educational facilities, expansion of health programmes, workers’ friendly policy, job creation and commitment to the society’s progress. Obalokun said it was sad that the world, particularly Africa, might suffer a gloomy future due to the dangers to which children were exposed to. She called for protection, education, encouragement and planning for children. NAN