Relying on the massive infrastructure development it had recorded in terms of roads, urban renewal and mega schools, and considering that the incumbent Governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, is a grassroots mobiliser, it was expected that his party, the All Progressives Congress, should have an easy outing during the recently concluded gubernatorial election in Osun State notwithstanding the aggrieved defectors from the party on account of the outcome of the direct primary considered free and fair. In addition to massive infrastructure development, Ogbeni Aregbesola administration had surpassed many in the country in delivering unique, visionary, pioneering milestone Social Protection Programmes and various pro-poor people initiatives in consonance with his Six-Point Integral Action Plan that have revamped the economy and yielded many fruits. For instance, under Rauf’s watch, Osun emerged as the state with lowest poverty incidence in Nigeria by the latest United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) reports. This fact is confirmed by the National Bureau of Statistics. Between 2010 when Aregbesola reclaimed his mandate from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and 2017, Osun poverty index has dropped from 37.5 percent to 10.9 percent. This year, it is the state with the lowest unemployment rate of 6.7 percent. Rauf Aregbesola’s government has lifted over 700,000 people out of poverty. So, what went wrong with a high-flying party with a large-looming incumbent that went confidently into the 22 September 2018 Gubernatorial Election? Firstly, confidently riding on its stated track record among other considerations, the APC did everything, pre-election, to guarantee a level playground for every political party to ensure free, fair and credible election not mindful of parties with nothing to offer but are grandmasters of process corruption and manipulations. Secondly, whereas all is well with granting every political party access to erect billboards, posting and pasting campaign materials at every nook and cranny of the state, giving unfiltered access to the state broadcasting media outfit and the use of big screens at major junctions in the state capital for political parties’ sponsored campaigns and adverts, the ruling party should have realised that it had to stand guard, vigilantly and firmly, in the aftermath of the massive monetisation of the Ekiti elections, with vote buying carried to a new height. Even in the face of visible evidences and the clarion call of the PDP  “dibo ko sebe, dibo ko rale” “vote and cook stew, vote and buy land”  the APC simply dismissed the emergent threat and continued to confidently bank on its manifest achievements. It is instructive to note that while other major political parties  APC, ADP and SDP were vigorously campaigning, attending debates to present and canvass their programmes and manifestoes to seek for votes from the electorate, PDP did not. It, instead, divided the state into nine zones with formidable anchors to source for electorate with valid voters’ cards and their details such as ward, polling units and telephone numbers. The work was made easier by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) which gave out voters list to all political parties before the election. How the electorates were reached and settled has already been reported. Lessons for future elections The clear lessons of the election must be learnt by all as the general elections approach early next year. For one, the pervading material poverty of the majority population, among who are the electorate, have made good governance a secondary consideration in election matters. Parties whose traditional stock-in-trade was ballot snatching and writing bogus results, have moved on with the ICT age and advancing template of the electoral guideline, and scientific vote buying and corrupt inducement of voters, right from party primaries. Parties that are reliant on following through the rules while banking on integrity and achievements are all in patent trouble with those that have nothing to offer but are masters of manipulations. The sad reality is that however clinical the procedure is, once there is pervading poverty of the majority and a party enamoured to corruption and mindless of the rules, the people will never be able to conscientiously decide the outcome of election, especially in favour of good governance, democratic advancement and social progress.