A LOCAL chapter chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Ogun State has accused the party’s governorship candidate in the Gateway State, Senator Buruji Kashamu, of working for the opposition. “The senator’s mission is clear – create problem in the PDP and pave the way for the APC to retain power, even when it is clear that the people are yearning earnestly for a new vista and a new government by the PDP,” the chieftain, Mr. Akinlade Segun, said in a statement. But, Kashamu had in letter to the PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus, insisted that he did no wrong as all his actiones enjoyed judicial backing. In a November 4 letter to Secondus, the senator accused the party chair of failing to call the actors in the Ogun PDP dispute for possible reconciliation. He said the party chair erred by faulting INEC’s recognition of the Adebayo Dayo-led Ogun PDP in his November 1 memo to the electoral umpire. Akinlade said that the senator has succeeded in destabilising the PDP by unilaterally throwing himself up as the party’s standard bearer in next year’s governorship election. In a statement titled: “Time to tame Kashamu and his nuisance”, Akinlade alleged that a highly-placed person on the corridors of power was backing the senator to have his ways. He wondered how a party member who was suspended twice and expelled for undermining the party could be recognised by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) as the PDP candidate. The statement reads: “Twice, he has been suspended; once, he has been expelled from the PDP over several unabated anti-party activities. The PDP said it ‘took disciplinary action against Kashamu and his co-trabellers for hobnobbing with the All Progressives Congress (APC) in ways that were detrimental to the interest of the PDP.’ “In all the times Kashamu got suspended and expelled from the PDP, he always found his way through the judiciary to get court injunctions to upturn the decision of his party.” According to Akinlade, the senator was out to tarnish the image of the judiciary “as he boasts in public of knowing his way around the judiciary to get whatever court injunction he wants for any situation. He said something must be down to stop the senator from always using the judiciary against the party, as the trend could stain the judicial system. “In all of these, observers have also argued and posited that Kashamu couldn’t be doing all thess onslaught without back up from highly placed people in the government, Akinlade said. On the claim that Buruji made be an opposition’s agent working against the PDP interest, Akinlade said:  ”He is doing their bidding and they are in return robbing his back with the necessary support he needs to destabilise the PDP. “His latest is his emergence as the governorship candidate of the PDP in Ogun State. How did that happen? Where did he hold his primaries? Who conducted the primary? These are questions begging for answers.” The senator announced his emergence at the weekend as the governorship candidate of the Adedayo Bayo-led faction of the PDP, adding that the factional party chair was expelled by the PDP alongside Kashamu few months ago. His latest action did not eliminate any element of surprise. It only justified allegations that Kashamu has been working for the APC to the detriment of the PDP.  