Efforts are on by the Nigerian Law Reform Commission (NLRC) to review federal laws to ensure they meet today’s realities. NLRC Chairman Kefas Magaji speaks on this, the contentious debate over death penalty and other issues in this interview with Eric Ikhilae. How do you react to the argument that, with the National Assembly, your agency is unnecessary? The society is dynamic, and the law also has to change to meet up with the dynamics of the society, so that the law can remain relevant. Otherwise, the society will be far ahead, and the law, trailing behind. So, the essence of the commission is to make sure that we keep track of the development in the society, so that our laws can remain updated. The Laws of the Federation that we have is the Laws of the Federation 2004. From 2004 till now, there are some of these laws that have been amended. There are some provisions of existing laws that the courts have pronounced as inconsistent with the provisions of the Constitution. There are also some laws that the courts have declared inconsistent with one another. Our duty is to review/revise/reform the laws that fall into these categories. During law review, we remove such laws from the statute books. Also, in a review exercise, you remove all obsolete laws, you merged amendments that have been made, so that you can have one single body of law. Law revision exercise also involves $correcting typographical errors and changing some identified ambiguous expressions. The essence is to ensure that the law is clear, direct and simple for the understanding of every reader. In June this year, the NLRC started  reviewing the Laws of the Federation 2004. How far have you gone? After we obtained the needed approval of the President, we engaged in a three-level approach to executing this project. First, we engaged consultants, who did the first level of work. What they did was to look at the current Laws of the Federation, the different amendments that have been made and identify where those amendments would apply. That stage has been concluded. We have constituted a group of experts, who are now reviewing what the first working group did. The idea is to come up with the law that is so precise and the law that presents the law as it is. The group has about one week to round up. The third stage will involve experts in legal drafting, who will do the actual drafting of these amendments into these areas that have been identified. We will also engage editors, who will do the editorial works, to make sure that there are no errors. The intention is to have the meanings of the laws, as intended by the National Assembly, preserved and protected. Are you implying that the ongoing revision will not be completed this year? We were working to achieve that, but it does not appear we will make it. The reason is simple. The challenge we have was with the first working group. It took a while for us to collate all the laws that have been passed by the National Assembly from 2004 till now. We also had problem getting copies of gazetted laws from the Federal Government’s printer. We were at the National Assembly, the Supreme Court and the Federal Government’s Printing Press and other places. So, it took us a long time to be able to generate these laws. We found that there were laws that were missing in the 2004 edition. We have tried to include them in this edition, because any law that has not been repealed by the National Assembly, even if it is not included in our body of laws, it is still part of our laws. So, it was in the process of getting the laws that were missing in the last edition and the ones made by the National Assembly, between 2004 and now, that we lost a lot of time. That was when we knew that record keeping in this country is not as good as expected. So, when do you hope to bring this exercise to a close? When do we expect the new Laws of the Federation? When we receive the work of the group of experts, we hope to, by the first week of December, assemble legal drafters and the editors. We already have the soft copies of all these laws. So, we do not envisage much delay. We expect that we will conclude this stage by the end of December. And then, we will move to the stage of printing. We are looking forward to early next year for the conclusion of the exercise, all things being equal, including funding. Don’t you get discouraged that your suggested reforms, which you are expected to submit to the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), for transmission to the National Assembly by way of Executive Bills, are mostly unattended to? We are not discouraged, because some of our recommendations are adopted by the National Assembly. We have reformed so many laws in the last five years and some of our reports have been adopted directly by the National assembly. There have been cases where, after we have submitted reports of our revision of some laws to the Attorney-General of the Federation, and the National Assembly, invites our contributions to its efforts to review similar laws, we simply present the reports we had submitted to the AGF. We have done so in many occasions. A recent example was when the Speaker of the House of Representatives constituted a committee to review and reform the entire laws of the Federation. I was a member of the committee and we made our reports available to the committee. It adopted most of the reports and presented them to the National Assembly. Works are still ongoing on the process of the amendment at the National Assembly. So, the work of the commission is finding full expression in terms of enactment by the National assembly, even though not through the Attorney-General, but through another avenue. I must say, therefore, that the products of the commission are not wasted. Would you subscribe to the argument that your commission will perform better if removed from the control of the Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation? I don’t really blame the Attorney- General for some of the commission’s problems. The main problem is that the presidential system, which we have adopted, is a marriage of the British Parliamentary System and the American system. In England for instance, the Law Reform Commission, submits its reports to the Attorney-General, who is also a parliamentarian. In that case, when you submit a report to the Attorney-General, it is as good as submitting it to the Parliament, because ministers come from the Parliament. But, in Nigeria, the Attorney General is not a member of the Parliament. When you submit a report to him, instead of him submitting it to the Parliament, as is the case in England, he submits it to the Executive. That is why we have a little challenge. However, I am happy to inform you that a process is ongoing to reform our law (the NLRC Act) to make provision for us to re-submit to the National Assembly, reports already submitted to the Attorney-General and on which he (the AGF) did not act within six months. By this arrangement, we will still remain part of the Executive, reforming laws for this arm of government, but in the event that the Executive fails to utilise the reports we are submitting, and since we are funded with public funds, our report should go to the National Assembly for their adoption, to prevent wastage of resources. The Bill to that effect has been passed by the Senate. What is left is just for the concurrence of the House of Representatives. Once that is passed, it will reduce out major challenges. The law establishing your commission did not limit you to reforming only Federal laws. It allows you to assist states or a group of states, who seek your services in such areas. How often do you get such request? We have not had any state made such request in recent times. This is because some states have constituted similar agencies. So, they allow their reform commissions to do any reform to their laws instead of engaging us. But, from time to time, we invite the states’commissions to assist them through training. We have also proposed laws for states to adopt. For instance, the Penal Code, which is applicable in the North and the Criminal Code, applicable in the South. There is the Criminal Code, federal provisions, that apply at the federal level. There is also the Penal Code provisions that apply at the federal level. What we did some years back, was to reform the Penal Code, federal provisions. But we did not limit our reform proposals to those federal provisions. We went through the entire provisions of both the Criminal and Penal Codes and we came up with a model for the states. The idea is that, if the Federal Government adopts our proposals, each state can then adopt, with necessary modifications, to suit its peculiar needs. We also came up with the idea of sentencing guidelines to guide judges in imposing punishments on convicts. We discovered over a period of study that there were discrepancies in nature of punishments given for similar offences. This is because the components of the laws that deal with sentencing give the judges some level of discretion. So, before now, this discretion has been used without defined parameters, which results in the imposition of various sentences for the same offence. So, the sentencing guidelines are meant to address this challenge. Although the guidelines were prepared for federal courts, some states have also adopted them.  There are other innovations that we came up with, which states have now adopted. How much are you involved in the reform of the Electoral Act to allow for an improved electoral process? It appears the National Assembly is more interested in the reform of the Electoral Act. So, we have not really been contacted to reform the Electoral Act. But, we have been invited to participate in the public hearings conducted for the amendment of the Electoral Act. There are so many bodies that have interests in the reform of the Electoral Act and they have made so much inputs. We have been invited to participate in the reform processes initiated by the National Assembly and its committees. But we, as a commission, have not undertaken a reform of the Electoral Act. How do you assess the success of the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (ACJA) since its inception in 2015? What aspects of the Act needs to be tinkered with? I will say we were part of the making of the ACJA, because we made contributions in many ways, including provisions for plea bargain, non-custodial sentence, among others. Certainly, there have been challenges with the implementation of some aspects of the Act. We expect that, as we keep applying the Act, areas that require reforms would become more glaring. We cannot afford to amend every little error detected, because of the cost implication. It is better to allow the law to run for about five to eight years before any reform could be made. You know the implementation too is gradual. So, we cannot be in haste in addressing any challenges identified now. Let us apply it for a while. How do you react to the argument that delay in the justice administration process is more as a result of human problem than inadequacies in existing procedural laws? I think it is more of human problem. This is because, despite the various provisions in the ACJA that are meant to address the problem of delay, we still have delay in many of these criminal cases. The point I am trying to make is that the law has made adequate provision, But, the human element within the process, is where you currently have problem. For me, the problem is not with the law. Can we then advocate the levying of punitive costs as a way of discouraging lawyers from adopting dilatory tactics? I do not think so, because the problem too is not always from the lawyers. I was into private practice for 23 years before my appointment here. So, you will agree that I am familiar with what goes on out there. You see, there are times the clients do not pay on time. So, the lawyer will try to delay a while to see if the client is able to pay. Sometimes, you discover that the client is not responding as fast as you expected. He is not providing the necessary documents and information on time. There so many other challenges that contribute to delays. But, the bottom-line is that some lawyers do not want some of these cases to be disposed of in good time, because they may not make sufficient money, if the cases are promptly determined. If you want to impose heavy fine as a way of discouraging delays, you will find out that you are punishing the clients, who end up paying such fines. It is only in few cases that lawyers are asked to pay fines. What is your take on the call for the abolition of death penalty? You see, for me, I support death penalty. Now, it depends on where you are looking at death penalty. There are people who are serial killers. For instance, a man has killed two, three, four or five people, and he is sentenced to death. And then, you say no, he should be released. Are those he killed not also human beings? For me, he should also be killed if there are sufficient evidence that he has been a serial killer. There are situations where the conviction is because the judge’s hands are tied. For instance, where a person commits murder and his senses were impaired as at when he did the act, but there was no evidence to show such impairment, either from the prosecution or the defence, on which the judge could rely to acquit him. In such a case, you do not have to kill him/her. But, there are cases where it is very glaring that the murder was premeditated. A person buys a gun, searches for the person, who is your target, he finds him and then shot him dead.  And such a person is tried and convicted for murder. Then, you say such a person should not be killed because of human right? For me, I do not believe in such a position. We should be able to differentiate issues. The different circumstances would dictate whether or not a murder convict deserves mercy. Even some of the religions prescribe that, if you kill, you should be killed too. 