Guinness Nigeria Plc has donated breathalyser kits to the Zone 5 Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps to promote safe driving during the Yuletide season. It said the kits are to assist the FRSC test drivers’ level of drunkenness on the highway. Manager, Guinness Nigeria, Benin Plant, Mr. Alli Bayo, said in the last 14 years the company has been partnering with the FRSC to create awareness on the need for drivers to avoid drinking while driving. Bayo, who was represented by Mr. Everest Ogohnim, Packaging Manager, Guinness Nigeria Plc, urged stakeholders in the transportation sector to make firm commitment to never drink and drive by signing the #JoinThePact wall. He said the pact was a global initiative by Diabeo and is expected to collect 150 million signatures by 2015. Manager, Sustainable Development and Alcohol in Society, Ms. Titilola Alabi said the breathalyser kits were to test the level of alcohol taken by drivers while on the highways. Zone 5 Commander of the FRSC, Kehinde Adeleye, warned that any driver found culpable of involvement in road crashes would spend the next Yuletide and New Year in prison till January 15, 2019. His words: “We had instructions from our national headquarters in Abuja that any driver we arrested in this ember months period will not be released until after January 15, 2019. “In addition, we will have mobile courts virtually in all routes. If mobile courts are in session and any driver was found culpable of causing road crashes, and he or she was arrested will remain in prison custody till January next year. “The idea is that we have been struggling from January to December to make our daily living. It is our responsibility to make our families not to think it is advisable to spend Christmas and New Year in prison custody or to have the means by which we make ends meet seized from us by government.” he said. He commended the management of Guinness Nigeria Plc for the donation of breathalyser kits to the agency with a view to testing drivers’ level of drunkenness on the highway. He noted that with the equipment, a lot of drivers will find themselves in prison custody during Christmas and the New Year periods.