African Movie Channel Original Productions (AMCOP), a production arm of the leading African entertainment and movie channel, African Movie Channel (AMC) has restated the original aim of promoting and telling true African stories that connect to the audience globally through grooming young outstanding talents. This was made known at the recent launch and private screening of its new movie, ‘Something Strange’, at the Signature Screen Hall, Film house Cinemas Lekki, Lagos. The event was attended by Nollywood big wigs like Paul Igwe, John Njamah, Daniel Oriahi, Ola Producer, Uche Nwaefuna, Mofe Okorodudu, Rekiya Yusuf, Soji Adeyemi, Mama Zeus, Efeturi, Muyiwa Awojide, Ijeoma Grace Agu, Scarlett Shotade Gomez, Nikky Ufondu, Charles Novia, Denrele Edun, Sandra Eze, Abosede, Don Omope, Xploit Comedy Group, Akin Salami and many others. Through its three television channels – African Movie Channel (AMC), AMC Series and Nolly Africa – AMC it has maintained an international presence in its mission to entertain its viewers with gripping movies, series, talk shows and more. Speaking at the event, a founding director, Lola Onigbogi disclosed that the birth of AMCOP demonstrates AMC’s dedication and passion for excellent in African storytelling by home-grown talent, in so doing adding its own distinct voice to African entertainment and will see no less than 20 exclusively-owned fantastic movies added to its library in a short time. He added, “It has been an incredible experience working with these filmmakers, and AMC look forward to working with even more talented filmmakers, to provide the kind of content blend that our modern African audiences demand.” Yvonne Dublin-Green, AMC’s Head of Channels, commented that, “the creation of AMCOP has been a long time coming and is a natural progression for AMC. As a global player, it has always been important that the content we create is of superior quality, and we have made sure we partnered with filmmakers, actors and actresses who are of the highest caliber to join us on this journey.  We have always been interested is fostering and showcasing African talent, and AMCOP is the perfect opportunity to bring that about.” AMC started content production in 2016 with extremely popular AMC Movie Talk which is currently in its second season. Other AMC original productions include Blogger’s Round Table, Nollywood 360 and Screen Patrol; it also produced its first drama series, Asunder (a 64-episode series) in December 2017. Including the movie, Something Strange, which was screened at the launch event, AMCOP will be adding to no less than 20 exclusively-owned movies to its library from carefully selected filmmakers such as Jade Osiberu (Isoken), Paul Igwe (Dance To My Beat), Ola Producer (5ive), Ema Edosio (Kasala), and Daniel Oriahi (Sylvia) and more, who share AMC’s vision and innovative approach to filmmaking. AMC channels’ viewers will be the first to watch the new and exclusive AMCOP movies. Scheduled for the holiday season at the end of the year, the movies will begin to air every Friday from December 7, 2018.