A professional saxophone player, Olu Alabi popularly called Olu Jazz has said some Nigerians saxophone player needs to up their game as most saxophone players in Nigeria are not playing the right way and needs to improve. Olu Jazz made the call during his mentorship session for young Nigerians saxophone players held for beginners and intermediate saxophone players recently in Lagos. The training according to OLUJAZZ is geared towards helping young and aspiring people become better saxophone players. OLUJAZZ in interview said he got inspired to organize the training after the noticing that a lot of Sax players in Nigeria need improvement. “I started playing sax in the 90’s. It wasn’t all rosy for me though as I had to quit school after I couldn’t afford money for my tuition fee. There was a time I didn’t have a personal saxophone for 3years after learning, but i thank God that everything is going as planned now and I have I spent two years training on saxophone in America.” “I decided to oganise this training after noticing that most saxophone players in the country needs upgrade on their sax skills and it also a form giving back to the society and it was why the lecture was organised for free to young sax players. I see this as an alternative to provide job to young once, just like i also make my living through this instrument.” On how he got the name Olu talkative, Olujazz said the name became a household name after ace comedian, Kofi, said he talked too much on the sax. Also, Issac Gerrad a singer and song writer said he has been playing the saxophone for the last nine years. He said, “I have been a professional R&B singer for the last 10years. I play drums and this training is opportunity for the younger generation.” “I have worked with Falz, Tiwa Savage, MI, Sound Sultan and i believe music itself is a work and if you keep on working hard, at the end of the day you will get there”. A student of Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAB) participant at the training, Boluwatife Ojo said the organizer; OluJazz has been a very good mentor to him. According to, “I have been playing this instrument for past four years now and what has really helped me is meeting sax players like with Yemi sax, Yori Omole, and other professional saxophone. A saxophone engineer in interview The Nation, Akintoye oluwaseun said young saxophone players need to learn from professionals’ sax players. “I am a sax repairer and I have worked on all types of saxophone. I also play saxophone, though for fun as I prefer repairing. I have been working on saxophone for the last sixteen years.” “I learnt this work from Y.S Akinbosun who once worked with Fela Anikulapo Kuti. I know every single part of this instrument. I know fault of  the sax I already know the faulty parts, once I have my tools am good to go no matter the problem of the saxophone I’ll fix it.” “I have worked with Yemi sax, Yori Omole, Olu Jazz, Segun Atoyebi, Lagbaja, almost all popular professional saxophonists in Nigeria.” Akintoye said. Oluwaseun further advice young saxophone player to learn from professionals, keep rehearsing and be committed. 