The Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK) in Awka, Anambra State, has established a teaching centre of the Confucius Institute at the Federal College of Agriculture, Ishiagu in Ebonyi State. This followed a signing of a Memorandum of Understanding by the UNIZIK Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Joseph Ahaneku, and the Provost of the college, Prof Justina Mgbada, for the setting up of an institute for Chinese studies in the college. Speaking during the tour of the facility, the VC explained that the institute would afford people within the catchment area an opportunity to learn mandarin, noting that it would go a long way in assisting most of them in doing business with the Chinese. Prof Ahaneku said the establishment of the teaching point is in line with his administration’s resolve to give the Chinese programme a national outlook. He urged the people of Ebonyi State to utilise the opportunity that the programme offers. Former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Chief Anyim Pius Anyim, who graced the event, donated an executive Peugeot 506 car to the institute to assist Chinese teachers discharge their duties. The provost, Prof Mgbada, expressed joy on the fruition of the MoU, which, according to her, appeared impossible at the outset. She praised the VC for his tenacity, which, she said, led to the success of the partnership. Prof Mgbada assured the VC of the college’s resolve to abide by the regulations of Hanban – Confucius Institute headquarters. Being the first non-affiliated institution to be accorded the privilege, the provost said the college would live up to expectation. In the entourage of the VC to Ishiagu include the Deputy VC for Academics, Prof Charles Esimone, his counterpart in Administration, Prof Carol Arinze-Umobi, UNIZIK Director of Public Relations, Dr Emmanuel Ojukwu, and some staff of the institute led by their Director, Prof Yu Job. In a related development, UNIZIK hosted the Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) Arts Exhibition contingent from Hunan University of Traditional Chinese Medicine. The exhibition was held at the university auditorium. Receiving the team led by Prof Wang Jun Wen, Prof Ahaneku, said the visit would open opportunities for collaboration with the university, especially in the area of medicine. Prof Wang thanked the VC for his support to the institute, expressing optimism that the partnership would yield good fruit. The event featured variety of Chinese music, drama, kung fu and martial arts presentations from the TCM contingent and students of Confucius Institute.