Technology is increasingly dictating how society lives and does business. To this end, Lagos State Government is grooming young people on how to programme and design solutions that can make life better. Beneficiaries of the training displayed their skills with mobile apps showcased during the 2018 CodeLagos Hackathon. KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE reports. With the mobile apps developed by young people for the 2018 CodeLagos Hackathon the state may be moving closer to its smart city dream. CodeLagos was launched by the government, under the Office of the Special Adviser, Ministry of Education, in 2016, as an  initiative to teach one million young people coding skills by 2020. Special Adviser on Education Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh said Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s mandate to the ministry was to develop a mass of young professionals, who have the requisite skills to participate in an economy driven by technology. “For us in Lagos State, CodeLagos is our response to ensure that Lagos continues to prosper as a city because we know technology will play a huge part in the future prosperity of Lagos.  So, in 2017 the Governor of Lagos State, Aknwunmi Ambode, launched CodeLagos and we’ve been climbing since then.  Our vision is simple, one million Lagosians will learn to code by 2020,” he said. Since then, the government has opened 648 coding centres in public and private primary and secondary schools as well as tertiary institutions; and 46 centres in public libraries, and other private spaces that lent their ICT centres for the initiative. The coding centres have been training pupils/students and others in python, scratch and Oracle’s Alice and Greenfoot  (to primary and secondary learners), and JAVA, web development and blockchain technology (to out-of-school learners) three times a week.  They are taught by over 4,000 facilitators trained by the government to deliver the CodeLagos curriculum. That effort led to the development of some mind blowing Apps that were rewarded last Thursday at the Landmark Event Centre during the CodeLagos Hackathon. The coders were challenged to come up with Apps that could address pressing problems facing Lagos in waste management, farming, healthcare, transportation, energy, education and finance, and design how they could generate income. The Recycle It App, was adjudged the best in the junior category of the competition meant for learners from school-based coding centres.  It was developed by a team of six pupils from the Badagry Senior Grammar School, one of the six schools in the final, to address the Herculean task of waste management facing the state. The team, Clean Environment, told the judges that the App would help people recycle waste they would have otherwise thrown away and earn money in the process.  The App would serve as an interface – linking sellers of waste to potential buyers, who would use such waste as raw materials for industrial purposes. Gabriel Chijioke, an SS3 pupil of the school, said the App would be useful to everyone as they would learn to recycle and make money in the process. “The Recycle It App helps people recycle their waste and sell them; and helps companies get materials in a stress-free way. Materials like metal, glass, plastic, and paper can be recycled.  People can post what they have to sell and be contacted by those who want to buy it,” he said. Chijioke added that the use of the App would make the environment cleaner as people learn to make money from the waste they generate. “Very soon, it will be very difficult for citizens to dump wastes when they know that it can be useful to them.  With Recycle It App, you can sell your waste for cash,” he said. With its Health Emergency App, the team from the Government Technical College (GTC), Agidingbi, Ikeja, sought to make it easier, faster and safer to get accident victims to access healthcare.  The App came second in the junior category. The App, which team leader, Michael Ndefom, said could call emergency services and the police at the click of a button, was also designed to link users to nearby hospitals via Google maps.  He also said the App could teach users lifesaving first aid tips, using audio, video or text to apply on accident victims before an ambulance arrives. According to him, the App could generate as much as N13 million yearly in advert earnings if adopted by many people. In third place was Quick App by the team from Childville School, Ogudu – the only private school team in the final.  The App, designed to be all-encompassing, has features to help users learn about nutrition, check their Body/Mass Index (BMI), remind them about their prescriptions; link them to doctors for quick consultations, and link them to emergency services when needed, among others. The three other Apps developed by the junior teams are: Health Plus App by the team from Ibeju-Lekki Senior High School, Ibeju-Lekki, to help patients book appointments to avoid spending long waiting hours in hospitals, review healthcare services, call emergency services and learn about healthy living; MoClinic by Keke Senior High School, Ifako, Ijaiye, which provides itinerant healthcare to communities and Kato Waste Management App by the team from Government Senior Model College, Kankon, which operates an Uber-like interface that allows users to call waste truck drivers to dispose of their waste. The judges praised the six schools for their impressive ideas developed into Mobile Apps that could address problems in the society. One of them, Oreoluwa Lesi, who runs Women Technology Centre (W.TEC), said the Mobile Apps were viable and could become mainstream if further developed and adapted. The Recycle It team from Badagry Senior Grammar School, was rewarded with laptops.  First and second runners-up, GTC Agidingbi and Childville School, got tablets. In the senior category of the competition for coders from the Out-of-School centres, 18 teams presented their Apps. But it was Team Sharkbyte that won the N2,000,000 star prize for developing a smart gas indicator that can check the level of gas in a cylinder. The App, also designed with a fire and gas leak sensor to prevent home accidents, provides notification when cylinder should be refilled. CodeDivas came second with their wellness App.   They got N1,000,000 with tech incubation. In third place was Secured Wellness Challenged (SWC) for their mental health Solution App. The SWC came up with a chat box for “virtual friends to vent giving visitors a high level of expressibility. The chat box gathers patterns in conversations and tracks stress level, refers therapist, and the like. The SWC team was rewarded with N750,000. Bank-Olemoh said the CodeLagos Hackathon was proof that the programme was achieving the aim for which it was designed. He expressed joy that beneficiaries of the initiative were coming up with creative ideas. “The exciting thing for me is all the winners were part of our CodeLagos programme.  So, it shows that we are adding value, changing lives and we are achieving our purpose to create a work force that is smart to drive a smart city like Lagos, ” he said. In his speech, Governor Ambode, represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Oluranti Adebule, said CodeLagos was a proactive government policy to make Lagosians more productive. He said: “Available data shows that Lagos State contributes 25 per cent to the national GDP despite being the smallest in land size.  We contribute 65 per cent through the tourism and hospitality sector.  Also, Lagos State generates over 70 per cent of international and local air aviation revenue and not less than 50 per cent of national energy consumption. “For a state that compares favourably in economic potentials with the top five national economies in Africa, the necessity for the state government promotes ‘coding’ as a socioeconomic and human capacity development strategy is obvious.  The result of the CodeLagos Hackathon competition will justify our strong belief in adopting technology as a vehicle to deliver strategic development for the benefit of our people.”