Prof. Adebayo Ninalowo, Chairman, Governing Council, Lagos State University (LASU) has said that the recent dismissal of 20 staff of the university is in accordance with rule of law. Ninalowo made the disclosure in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on the sidelines of the university’s maiden long service award held in Lagos on Tuesday. He was reacting to the Sept. 8, 2017 ratification by the council dismissing 20 staff of the university over various alleged malpractices. The sacked staff include 15 academic staff and two non-academic staff, while two others were demoted. Others were three academic staff dismissed over alleged sexual misconducts as approved by the council on Oct. 4. Ninalowo said “The recent dismissal is something that has to do with the law of university. “It is not something that has to do with the governing council or anybody, but something to do with, if you are law abiding there is no way allegations will be leveled against you. “Where allegations are leveled against anyone in relation to the extant regulations of the university and in conformity with best practices, we investigate. “If the allegations of infraction of the law are established in any way, we refer to the prescription of the law. “If the law prescribes reprimand or dismissal, so shall it be. It is not a decision of an individual,” he said. Ninalowo said matters relating to human development anywhere in the world must follow self-discipline. He said anywhere there was deficit of self-discipline, institutional discipline must be applied. According to him, where institutional discipline is applied, then people must be answerable before the law. “It is the rule of law that is binding on all and sundry and same suggests that individuals should be treated in fairness and justice equally,” he said. Meanwhile, the council has approved the promotion of 49 Academic Staff and 200 Non-Academic Staff into various positions. At Tuesday’s event, 543 staff of the university who have spent over 20 years received various awards. Ninalowo added that the 10th Governing Council under his leadership would keep taking steps to reposition the university for efficiency and better service delivery. NAN