The House of Representatives has urged the Federal Ministry of Agriculture to include Aquaculture in the practice of agriculture to govern the fisheries and aquaculture sector. This was sequel to a unanimous adoption of a motion by Reps Awaji-Inombek Abiante, Douye Diri and Randolf Brown at the plenary on Wednesday. The house said that the ministry should formulate plans, strategies, policies and programmes for fisheries development. The green chambers also urged the ministry to guide fisheries economic reform, implement and monitor fisheries laws, regulations and international/bilateral fisheries agreements. Earlier, Abiante said that agriculture was the main base of human lives as daily living directly or indirectly depended on agriculture. He said that it resulted in the provision of food, fuel, furniture, raw materials for factories and flood control. Abiente said that Nigeria had failed to make transition from the traditional definition of agriculture and as a result, had not kept pace with the growth and transformation of the agriculture value chain. He said that the country had failed to leverage on the many opportunities inherent particularly in aquaculture. According to him, the volume of global trade in aquaculture value chain is in excess of 200 billion dollars. The lawmaker said that fisheries departments were in the top ten leading aquaculture in countries that had created exclusive entities for fisheries or autonomous Bureau of Fisheries. “Nigeria can set an ambitious goal of becoming a leading country in aquaculture; specifically in the productive development of its coastal marine environment by taking a more serious interest in the development of its aquaculture sector and providing equitable funding. “The need to provide incentives to the estimated one million indigenous artisan fishermen and small-scale fish farmers using old equipment and outdated practices and scale them up into diverse set of industrial fisheries practices using modern technologies for the growth and sustainability of aquaculture,” he said. According to him, with a coastline of more than 850 kilometers and numerous rivers, including West Africa’s two largest canals and tributaries, Nigeria has huge geographic potential for aquaculture. Abiente said that Nigeria is blessed with a large resource base of waterways spanning 10,000 kilometers and that 28 of the nation’s 36 States can be accessed through water. He said that it was an ideal situation for large-scale fisheries development of diverse marine fish species. The Speaker of the house, Mr Yakubu Dogara, told the Committees on Agricultural Production and Services and Legislative Compliance to ensure compliance. He also directed the committees to report back within four weeks for further legislative action. NAN