Some years ago, the Crescent University, Abeokuta, introduced a scholarship scheme named the Bola Ajibola Scholarship for Academic and Moral Excellence after the founder of the university, Prince Bola Ajibola. During the 10th convocation of the 13-year old institution penultimate week, Prince Ajibola expressed joy that the scheme had produced many brilliant scholars “whose education may be truncated due to lack of finance.” “I am glad that one of those beneficiaries has performed so exceedingly well as to be the best graduating student of today: Ayokunnumi Tiamiyu, congratulations”, Ajibola said. Ayokunumi Tiamiyu graduated with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.91 in Microbiology. The 21-year old now holds the record of the highest CGPA ever produced by a student of the university. At the event, she thanked Judge Ajibola for scholarship which came at a time she could have dropped out because of her parents’ inability to pay her fees. “I had already lost hope of continuing my studies at Crescent University. I was almost requesting for my transcript to seek admission into a public university when I learnt about the Bola Ajibola Schoalrship for Academic and Moral Excellence.  That was In 2016, when I was in 200-Level with a CGPA of 2.95. “A few months later, I got a call from the school to come and apply for my scholarship – that he had spoken to the Vice Chancellor about it” she said. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Ibraheem Gbajabiamila assured Ms Tiamiyu she would get the scholarship but must maintain her first class grade throughout her studies, a feat she achieved. Ms Tiamiyu, who was offered automatic employment by Judge Ajibola, praised him for his generosity and selflessness. In his speech, Ajibola, said graduates of the institution were doing well professionally and academically post-graduation. “The atmosphere of learning and quality of Faculty has continued to ensure that our products compete with the best available anywhere in the world. “Since the first graduation, products of Crescent University have been doing us proud in employment, entrepreneurship and further studies,” he said. Ajibola referred to products of the university as a galaxy of stars shining forth for the entire world to see.  He added that the university’s slogan, “Our First Class is World Class” had proven to be true considering the successes recorded by the university’s products in other universities around the world. Speaking on the invitation of Judge Ajibola to motivate the graduating students, an alumna of the university, Rafiat Raji, who graduated with a First-Class, said she had been able to demystify what she referred to as delusion among her friends and colleagues who looked down on graduates from private universities by her outstanding performances in her Master’s degree at Robert Gordon University, Scotland as well as in her corporate life. “if you allow anybody to downgrade your certificate because you graduated from a private university, that is your fault”, noting that Crescent University had nurtured her to be able to stand shoulder to shoulder with graduates from any university around the world,” she said. A total of 424 graduated at the event from Colleges of Law (BACOLAW), Information and Communication Technology (CICOT), Natural and Applied Sciences (CONAS), Environmental Sciences (COES), and Arts, Social and Management Sciences (CASMAS). Of the number, Prof Gbajabiamila said 30 graduated with First Class; 171, Second Class (upper division); 156, Second Class (Lower division); while 67 had Third Class. The university also graduated 17 students with Master’s degree from Departments of Accounting, Mass Communication, Economics, Chemical Sciences and Banking and Finance. The Proprietor’s prizes for the best behaved male graduating student went to Salako Abdulmutallib while Arowona Islamiyyah clinched the proprietor’s prize for the best behaved female graduating student.