Over the years, the development of the Niger Delta region has been a contentious one. Various governments have taken several steps towards bringing development to the region without much to show for the billions of Naira sunk for the region’s development. But the government is committed to genuine development of the area. MIKE ODIEGWU reports that to get the region workable, the Federal Government has evolved new approach to Niger Delta development. The Niger Delta Region has been described as a volatile one. Experts have maintained that the volatility of the region results from human capital, economic and infrastructural underdevelopment. Those indigenous to the region claim they are short-changed as they do not benefit from the resources in their milieu which are said to contribute up to 80 per cent of Nigeria’s wealth. It is not as if the Federal Government is not committed to the development of the region, as successive administrations have taken some steps to ameliorate the debilitating situation. Billions of Naira had been invested in the region, yet there is no equitable development. Instead, the money meant for development of the region is alleged to have been misappropriated by those in charge of affairs. While the wealth of politicians in the region grew in geometric proportion, the general interests of the Niger Delta is said to drag in arithmetic progression. But the government is committed to genuine development of the area. It is in this regard that stakeholders agree that the formula must change. They believe that there must be a different approach to developing the region and money meant for projects in the Niger Delta must be used for the purpose it was meant. The desire to evolve a new template for development compelled Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo at the instance of President Muhammadu Buhari to tour states in the region. The tour gave rise to the Niger Delta New Vision. The new vision Stakeholders who attended a conference organised recently by the Office of the Vice-President in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, observed that the New Vision was not a talk show. It is a product of the 16-point agenda submitted to the Federal Government by the Chief Edwin Clark-led Pan- Niger Delta Forum (PANDEF) and the Buhari’s 20-point agenda for the region. The new vision is likened to new pills developed by the Buhari/Osibanjo administration as antidote to the region’s endemic poverty and underdevelopment. At the workshop, which was attended by civil society groups and journalists, resource persons demonstrated the practicability of the new vision. They also explained the Strategic Implementation Work Plan (SIWP) for the new vision. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Niger Delta, Mr. Edobor Iyamu, explained the vision and gave reasons for the new approach in tackling underdevelopment in the region. He said: “There hasn’t been a coherent strategy in what is happening in the region. How do you hold agencies accountable in what they are doing? Billions of Naira had been invested in the region. But you don’t see the results. “The government decided to change the delivering modalities; new ways of doing things in a way that can be verified and encourage citizenship participation. We must rethink our institutions’ process of delivering; holding them accountable; tracking development and avoiding duplications of projects”. Explaining the work plan, he added: “It is a tool that focuses on objectives and outcomes. It lays out what every agency say they will do. All the 16-point agenda were assigned to responsible agencies. Issues that have to do with fiscal federalism and other political issues are not reflected in the plan”. He said that 475 projects were captured in the work plan, adding that each project was assigned to a responsible ministry or agency. Iyamu further explained that the projects amounted to over N2 trillion. He said the agencies and ministries meet periodically to review progress made on each project. As a result of the importance attached to the projects by the Federal Government, he said the Vice-President is the Chairman of the inter-ministerial committee. “The Vice-President chairs the inter-ministerial agencies. He holds every minister accountable. This is to demonstrate the importance we attach to the development of the Niger Delta. We want to see overall improvement in the quality of lives and promote economic activities,” he said. Iyamu noted that in the new vision, all stakeholders and levels of government were expected to play various roles. He said communities must be disposed to peace by identifying and weeding off troublemakers within their ranks. “This is because without peace, there will be no development”, he said. The presidential aide enumerated the giant strides already attained in the region under the new vision. He cited the Maritime University, Okerenkoko Delta State as one of them. According to him, the work plan ensured commencement of academic activities in the university following the admission of 300 students. Modular refineries are springing up at different parts of the region under the new vision, Iyamu said. “I have visited three of them. They are at different stages of completion. Some will be completed before the end of the first quarter next year. One may be inaugurated before the end of the year”, he said. Iyamu also referred to the Ogoni clean-up as one the achievements under the new vision, saying the actual cleaning would commence soon. He said the workshop was organised to sensitise the people and solicit their co-operation in changing the Niger Delta narrative. Modular refineries It was clear at the workshop that following the promise of Osinbajo when he toured the region, the Federal Government intended to make communities in the Niger Delta hubs of oil and gas activities. One of the projects being vigorously pursued to realise the objective is establishment of modular refineries. Really, modular refineries are springing up in the region. Engineer Rabiu Suleiman, the GED/Senior Technical Adviser to the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ibe Kachikwu, on Refineries and Downstream Infrastructure, exposed the participants to series of activities to bring such refineries on board. He said: “There is very serious commitment ongoing. Government is determined to establish refineries in the region. In Bayelsa State, there is Azikel Refinery and for the fact that about two of these refineries will soon be inaugurated, it is an indication that the project is winning. “One is at Kwale in Delta State. It is owned by one company called OPAC. It is a 7,000-barrel capacity refinery. Currently, it is about 90 per cent mechanically completed. “Another one is in Rivers State. It belongs to the Niger Delta Petroleum Development Company (NDPDC). The company made the first conventional modular refinery of 1,000 barrels that has been running for about four-and-half years. The company is now building two other modular refineries. One is 5,000 and the second one is also 5,000. “The first 5,000 is also mechanically being completed. If you go to Onne Port in Rivers State, 47 containers of refinery shipment belonging to the company is already at the port and they are undergoing clearing. At the end of December, they will be in possession of all these materials and finish installations for the final mechanical completion of these refineries. “We just went to Imo State where Walter Smith, a marginal field operator, is putting 5,000-barrel capacity refinery. We went for the ground-breaking ceremony about a month ago. They have already sent him the parking list of all the equipment. They are passing it through custom clearing to collect the waiver that is required so that they don’t pay custom duty as approved by the government. So, it is a reality. This is a promise fulfilled by the government. “Nigerians are somehow impatient. Refinery is something that you design, get the site, do environmental impact assessment, which requires two seasons. It means it takes at least one year before you can say that a place is good enough to site a refinery. “Then you go into the design, processing, manufacturing, securing the funding which is the key challenge. Everybody wants to do modular refinery. The assumption is that it is easy, it is cheap. But it is a very serious engineering and technology-intensive thing that requires time”. To underscore its seriousness, Suleiman said the Federal Government waived custom duties for anybody building modular refineries. He said $8 million customs waiver was granted to all imported equipment for modular refineries. “We have reduced the licensing period. It takes only two weeks. There is no ambiguity. We have further secured $500 million with Nexim Bank to give financial assistance to such operators”. Suleiman, a former Managing Director at the Port Harcourt Refinery said the objectives of the modular refinery initiative were to promote availability of petroleum products in the country and promotion of socio-economic development and employment generation in order to stop restiveness, thereby sustaining peaceful co-existence in the Niger Delta. Aside those benefits, the Minister’s aide said it would also increase local content in the Niger Delta and mitigate or eliminate negative environmental degradation associated with illegal refinery activities, crude oil theft and pipeline vandalism. He said it would further help to conserve foreign exchange utilisation for the importation of petroleum products. Ogoni  clean-up Under the new vision, the Federal Government has mapped out modalities to comprehensively clean Ogoni land. In his presentation, the Coordinator, Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP), Dr. Marvil Dekil, said the project was relocated to the Ministry of Environment. He said the government also changed its governance structure. He noted that not all Ogoni land was impacted by oil spill, adding that the project focused only on degraded environment. He said the indigenes were brought into the project. According to him, most of them had been trained as scientists. He said: “We started with impacted communities. Our work is gradual and we are expanding. It is not correct to say that all body of water in Ogoni is contaminated. Our mandate is to focus on impacted communities. There are many business opportunities involved in this. “We have trained high level manpower in Ogoni to manage the activities. We trained Ogoni scientists. We did further engagements with stakeholders. It is wrong to say that nothing is happening in Ogoni land. The scientists are now working to provide potable water for the communities. All the water facilities have been identified and more than 90 per cent are not functional”. New Vision Website Unveiling of the New Vision Website formed the highlight of the event. It contained the Niger Delta projects. A click will reveal all the projects being executed in the region, their locations, costs and contractors. It will further reveal their levels of completion. The initiative is part of the new vision which was aimed at introducing transparency into activities in the region. Unlike before, projects can be monitored by stakeholders and money released to the region can be tracked by anybody. The website was inaugurated by the Special Assistant to the President on Communications Projects (Niger Delta), Office of the Vice-President, Mr Arukaino Umukoro.