Nigeria will soon have a World Health Organization (WHO) approved reference laboratory for confirmation of test carried out in the country. Currently, test are sent to Dakar, Senegal, WHO reference Centre for West Africa for confirmation of suspected outbreaks of diseases. Speaking on Monday, on the Elimination of Yellow fever Epidemics (EYE), strategy on the current campaign on suspected yellow fever outbreak in Edo state, the Executive Secretary of the Primary Health Care Development Agency (PHCDA), Dr. Faisal Shuaib said that the government is prioritizing the idea of a WHO reference laboratory in the country. Nigeria is one of the 27 countries in Africa with high risks of yellow fever. Shuaib noted that with the level of works out into it, the laboratory should be ready in the next six months. He said, “We are prioritizing it but no matter how difficult it is to set up a laboratory, it makes no sense that with all the human and material resources we have in Nigeria, we have to go to Dakar for co formation. Again this is part of the rot that has taken place in the health sector over the last few decades. “There use to be a time that we would produce yellow fever vaccine in Nigeria. Now we don’t produce any vaccine in Nigeria again. These are the problems we have with successive government that have not prioritized technology. And you aware that this government has a board that is focused on local vaccine production. This board will ensure we begin to produce vaccines again within the shortest possible time. In terms of laboratory in Nigeria, where we can confirm cases of yellow fever. We are looking at a timeline of six months. We will do whatever it takes to ensure that this is implemented within the next six months. “The federal government has prioritized the  set up of this mechanism to ensure that we get a reference laboratory. With NPHCDA working with NCDC, we feel is something that is committed to make happen. There should be no excuses, no reasons why Nigeria should not be confirming yellow fever cases in Nigeria,” he said. He also noted that the country is targeting 90% immunization coverage through the mass campaign programme. While noting that 21 states are classified as high risk, Shuaib said that the country has enough stock of preventive vaccines against yellow fever. He stressed that the goal of the yellow fever preventive mass vaccination campaign is to “reduce yellow fever transmission. He also revealed that the ongoing campaign is the third in line with government efforts towards achieving a total coverage of the country. He therefore assured the general public that all the agencies involved are working swiftly to contain the spread and prevent further outbreaks.