The world has changed; and it is still changing on a daily basis. Who would have imagined twenty years ago that the demography of the world would witness a radical shift the way it has happened. In January 2013, Christine Lagarde, president of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) addressed the World Economic Forum in Davos, calling on global economic policymakers and politicians to “reflect on some of the megatrends shaping the future.” Among the four cardinal megatrends highlighted, she gave attention to the seismic shift in demographics that is currently being witnessed in the global youth bulge: “Sixty per cent of the population in the Middle East and North Africa is under 30. It is 70 per cent for sub-Saharan Africa. Again: either a great opportunity or a source of instability.” In Lagarde’s opinion, for us to navigate our way into the future world, global political economy cannot ignore the youth. As a student of human society, I am inquisitive about understanding the broad forces defining our age, and how we can harness the potentials of young people to alter the world for the better. This challenge is not just for young people in other parts of the world. It also applies to young people in Nigeria in a fundamental way because of the crisis of unemployment that is staring us in the face today. Worldwide, we are living with a generation of people who have enormous potentials because they are globally connected and have a social consciousness because of the breaking of barriers which this global shift has engendered. Ours is a world that hosts an impressive array of inspiring young people with bustling energy, creativity, restlessness and imagination, and who are ready to make big social impact. By the sheer nature of their individual accomplishments and service to humanity, today’s young people are personifying the time-honoured maxim that young people are the conscience of the world and the drivers of social change. The Arab Spring is a classic example. The emergence of this global youth culture is one of the significant features of the new world order whereby young people of divergent national and social backgrounds, living in far-flung corners of the world are united by the same social habits, dress codes, taste for music and language clichés, and are fans of the same musical and sports celebrities. The wide distinction that was 50 years ago between the dress code and social habits of young people in Los Angeles and Lagos, and the significant difference we had between the kind of music enjoyed by young people in Ibadan, Sacramento and Delhi have all disappeared today, thanks to the revolution in information technology. Who would have predicted twenty years ago that Nigerian music will be getting the global attention it now has? I recollect reading an article by David Wraight, a gifted Australian social exponent, public speaker and writer who is the CEO of an international youth advocacy group known as YFCI. In that article, Wraight contends that we are witnessing today the emergence of a globalised generation of youth, often referred to as the Millennial Generation. As globalisation and modern technology continue to shrink our world, we are presented with a new landscape that contains amazing possibilities for world change. People are connecting worldwide as never before – particularly young people – and are overcoming cultural, geographical, language and ethnic barriers with ease. There is an emerging ‘global consciousness’ and young people want to be a part of it. No longer are we talking about one nation of youth being mobilised and empowered, but we now have to grapple with the implications of a ‘globally connected’ youth community mobilising to bring about world change on a scale never seen before. On the idealisms of this globalised youth generation, Wraight wrote: “They believe that they can change the world for the better, but they are unsure what they should change the world to; so they search for an ideology or system of belief to use as a foundation for the change they seek. They are actually searching for something worth living for and dying for. They are optimistic and idealistic with a deep desire to make their mark in the world… They are no longer prepared to be spectators watching the world go by, but want to be ‘players’, to get their hands dirty, to make a difference. They are knowledgeable about the affairs of the world and very mobile, travelling as much as resources and opportunity allow.” Today, a social media revolution has unfolded before our eyes, forever changing the way people connect in the world. This media revolution has created platforms, forums and networks for young people to become increasingly interconnected. With the power of technology, young people from across the globe are reporting on youth issues, with an emphasis on voices that are not ordinarily heard in international mainstream media. Young social entrepreneurs are partnering with one another and sharing ideas and visions on how they can harness their vitality and create a world in which everyone counts. Many international organisations that have come to recognise that the youth of today are particularly receptive to social networks are now offering more participatory roles for them to brainstorm on crucial issues and challenges facing the global human community. In many developing countries, social institutions are placing young people at the cutting edge of change and development priorities, giving them an opportunity to make their voices heard as innovative change makers and agents who can find workable solutions to the world’s developmental challenges. As a result of the passion, resilience and commitment of today’s generation of young people, a brave new world is taking shape before our very eyes. It is a new world, radically different from the world prophesied by Aldous Huxley in his 1932 book titled, ‘Brave New World.’ While Huxley predicted the emergence of a world in which big biotechnological revolutions would carry the news of the day, the brave new world we are witnessing today is of another kind. It is a world where young people at the frontiers of global imagination, innovation and positive change are harnessing their remarkable potentials to alter the world around them for the better. The eager and adventurous unemployed young are indeed the ‘shock troops’ in the destruction of the old social order everywhere. The essence is the combination of energy, frustration and discontent. What all such movements have in common, is a genuine indignation at the social institutions that have begotten and then cold-shouldered them, a quasi-military organisation and the resolve to seize power for themselves embodied in their leaders. A wise and powerful government would at any cost anticipate and avert these destructive activities by providing various and interesting new employment and the necessary condition for a satisfyingly successful life for everyone. These young people are life; we neglect them to our peril. Today’s youth are coming together to devote their lives to common causes. They are no longer satisfied with just being passive spectators. They are often very suspicious of dogmas and averse to rigid traditional rituals. They are generally more existentially inclined. They are hungry for love, for truth, for beauty, for life and for spaces to unleash their creativities. They are looking for real role models who embody these ideals. They want to see living models of truth among members of the adult society rather than be preoccupied with a grandiose dissertation on truth. And the beauty of it is that they can pick role models across national boundaries because of their interconnectedness to major developments around the globe. The earlier the government starts thinking of providing level playing fields for these barrier breakers the better for us. Alternatively, we risk an implosion we are least prepared to handle.