the Canadian Governor-General, Ms. Julie Payette has praised the Nigeria Space Research Development Agency (NASRDA) for sustaining Nigeria’s space programme. According to her, technology should be used to break new grounds. Turning to the students and NASRDA three Space ambassadors earlier introduced by the Minister of Science & Technology, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, she challenged them to study and work hard so they can play major roles in space in the future. The Space Ambassadors were selected through a competitive exam in the Sciences from primary, junior and senior secondary schools throughout the country by NASRDA. Daring the students in general and the space ambassadors in particular, Payette, an astronaut herself who had flown two missions to space said: “Maybe you will come and work with them (NASRDA). Maybe you will fly in space or maybe you will go and build hotels in space. Maybe some of you will join an astronaut programme and you will fly not only in space but to another planet or to the moon and help construct a base, a school or house.” The Governor-General was speaking at NASRDA Conference Hall to students selected from different primary and secondary schools in Abuja and other space enthusiasts during her visit to the agency recently. She said, “We are here to witness a partnership with Nigeria in trade, in commerce, in innovation, technology and culture. We are supporting many programmes both in Abuja and Lagos especially in youth, innovation and technology; three areas that Nigeria is well equipped in.” She later donated some of her personal mementoes from space to the NASRDA Space Museum. In his remarks, Dr. Onu said her visit will not only help strengthen the relationship between Nigeria and Canada but will also help encourage young Nigerian girls and women to study Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics. On his part, NASRDA Director-General, Prof. Seidu Mohammed said Nigeria and Canada have been working together for several years. “Some of our junior colleagues here have done internship with Canadian Space Agency. Space creates a major platform for collaboration.  Space has supported the world in creating new opportunities; looking at the health of crops and helping us to monitor climate change. We believe we have contributed more to human civilization.”  