In the crude oil and gas-rich Niger Delta and other parts of Nigeria buildings still collapse. Experts insist that with the right mix of cement with other components to produce standard vibrated blocks and concrete; the use of high quality cement and other building materials, an end to the ugly phenomenon will be realised. They also maintain that the menace has led to the loss of lives of many innocent persons and property worth billions of naira lost. While speaking at the third BUA Cement’s workshop for stakeholders in Port Harcourt, Rivers State penultimate week, the Regional Coordinator, South-south of the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Alhaji Abubakar Babaji, stated that it would be impossible to talk about quality, without considering standards. He urged the stakeholders to always place emphasis on training and retraining. The workshop, which was aimed at reducing building collapse in the country, had as its theme “Optimising Cement Usage to Achieve Better Quality and Yields of Block,” and was organised in collaboration with the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and SON. Some top officials of Obu Cement Company Limited, makers of BUA Cement attended the workshop from the Okpella, Edo State base. Present at the event were Area Manager/Deputy Director, ITF, Port Harcourt, Iwunze Amaka; General Manager, Sales and Marketing, BUA Cement, Nasiru Ladan; Quality Control Manager, BUA Cement, Adeyinka Adesola; Terminal Manager, BUA Ports and Terminals, Rasheed Ogunade and Regional Manager, BUA Cement, Abiola Akarolo. At the end of the workshop, blocks and concrete makers were presented with BUA Cement’s branded working equipment. Alhaji Babaji said: “Block is not the only component of building. We also have iron rods, cement and water, among others. Water for construction and block making must be clean, just like the drinking water. If you use salty water, it may cause problems. Not only blocks are responsible for collapse of buildings, but they contribute. Standard is about minimum requirement. Block makers must always follow the standard. “SON encourages businesses to grow by reducing charges to industries. This is because we want to encourage them to work, since we are not after revenue. We want to serve the nation by ensuring that standards are maintained. We place more emphasis on sensitisation/correction than clamping down on individuals or organisations that refuse to adhere to standards. We do not like to destroy products, but we do not compromise on adherence to standards.” Babaji also admonished Nigerians to always engage professionals in construction works and never to patronise quacks to avoid building collapse, stressing that vibrated blocks are much better that hand-made ones. Also speaking, SON’s Head of Civil and Building Construction Department, Mrs. Edith Fiberesima advised that blocks should not be moulded at the mercy of the sun, but under shade, with water to be sprayed on moulded blocks the next morning, in order to harden properly. While speaking at the workshop, Ladan pledged the commitment of BUA in producing high quality cement, which he said would help to achieve better quality of blocks and other products. He said: “Port Harcourt has always been our home. We began from here and we became popular, strictly because of the quality of BUA Cement. It is one thing to have good cement; it is another to mix it properly in combination with other materials. “With the issue of building collapse in Nigeria, various researches show that it is as a result of either not using the right cement or bad mix. So, we are here to let the block makers know the right mix of cement with the right materials to produce the highest quality blocks for public use. When good blocks and concrete are produced, the issue of building collapse would have been properly addressed. “Currently, we are at the verge of completing our second line in Okpella, Edo State. With the second line operational, you are assured that there will be increase in cement production and supply to Rivers State and other neighbouring states, to satisfy the demands of the people.” Ladan also described BUA Cement as the king of strength/the king of cement, which according to him, sets faster with unsurpassed yield. Ladan noted that regular workshops and interactions were not only with the block makers, but distributors and retailers of BUA Cement also benefiting. This, he said, is to ensure adherence to standard and quality. He described competition as the beauty of any business, with open market to benefit all the stakeholders, while the producers of cement would always give the best to the end users in terms of quality, price and distribution. He added: “The more competition you have, the better for the general public and the economy.” The general manager also identified electricity and transportation as major challenges facing the cement industry. He, however, maintained that the quality of BUA Cement is exceptional. Also speaking, the Quality Control Manager of BUA Cement, Adesola, revealed that the unique selling point of BUA Cement is its quality. He warned that the sand for block making must not be clay, dirty and should not have organic matter; clean water should also be used, adding that if hollowed block is too thin, it might lead to building collapse. He recommended standard moulds. Area Manager of ITF noted that the agency was established in 1971 by the regime of Gen. Yakubu Gowon to train Nigerians in order to be able to take over the mantle of leadership, particularly for capacity building. Amaka also urged Nigerian leaders to always follow their words with actions, even as she called on the people to embrace change, since the world is now a global village. The Head of Accounts of ITF, Kennedy Odisika, called on Nigerians to always insist on high quality, saying: “The first enemy of your business is your lifestyle. If you are not disciplined, nothing works. You must have passion for your business. Consider your attitude to your customers. No worker is too bad that you cannot manage.” A seller of cement/block maker, Mr. Christopher Okoro, said BUA Cement is the best as he has used it for many years. Another block maker, Mrs. Blessing Eke, described the event as rewarding, even as she suggested that it should be held regularly.