The Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) yesterday graduated 3,548 students amid fresh calls on the Visitor to the institution, President Muhammadu Buhari, to restore Management sciences courses that were delisted from universities of agriculture three years ago. Its Chancellor and Obong of Calabar, His Eminence, Edidem Ekpo Okon, Abasi Otu V and the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council, Dr. Aboki Zhawa, called for the restoration of the courses. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Kolawole Salako, said the university will today confer honorary Doctor of Letters on Nobel Laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka and distinguished Historian, Prof Toyin Falola, at the convocation ceremony where postgraduate degrees and honorary degrees will be awarded. Giving a breakdown of the graduating students, Salako said 113 graduated with First Class honours degrees; 1,327 in the Second Class Upper Division and 1,533 in the Second Class Lower Division. The vice chancellor, who hosted the first convocation ceremony when he assumed office on November 1, last year, described the graduates as the best and their degrees well deserved. Congratulating the graduands, Salako urged them to uphold the university’s core value of academic and moral excellence in their endeavours. He added that “these will distinguish you among your peers and make you very good ambassadors of the university”. Explaining the rationale behind the honorary degree of Doctors of Letters on Profs Soyinka and Falola, the vice chancellor said: “There is a nexus between Science and Humanities. “We are emphasising this as we confer the honorary degree on the men who made their marks in Humanities. Even at this convocation ceremony, Prof Falola, who doubles as our convocation lecture, demonstrated this in the lecture, titled: Food and Us: Poverty, Policies and Politics.” On Prof Soyinka, he said: “We feel honoured to project Ake, the Years of Childhood to Ake the Year of Honorary Degree Award. “The former, a book, was published in 1981 and 1988 by Wole Soyinka. Here we are with the latter, an event, in 2018.” 