Senate Deputy Minority Leader, Sen. Emmanuel Bwacha (PDP-Taraba South), has expressed optimism that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) would win the forthcoming 2019 Presidential election. Bwacha, in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Abuja, said PDP had 70 per cent chances of winning elections in most part of the country. “The PDP has a greater chance of winning the Presidential Election in 2019 if it is a free and fair election. “The matter is beyond President Muhammadu Buhari as an individual because the electorate will vote people on the basis of who they are and their performance in office,’’ Bwacha said. He said the chances of any elected official to be returned depended largely on how the electorate feel about them, saying that elected officials were supposed to be the messengers of the people. Bwacha said that there was no secret between him and the people of Taraba South Senatorial District, saying “that is my staying power and I have become a phenomenon in my district. “For instance, I have a scholarship scheme that has been running since 2003 and of course the youth empowerment scheme that I run to strengthen youths who have interest in farming. “This I do through the provision of farm implements. “I have made available some tractors to them and it is yielding result because prior to the party nomination, a number of them actually contributed money to purchase my primary nomination form. “This is outside of other areas like the health sector, construction and employment opportunities. “Basically we are doing our best to ensure that we leave our footprints on the sands and to the glory of God we are touching the lives of our people.“ He said that as part of efforts to boost agricultural activities in Taraba State, he sponsored a bill for the establishment of the National Institute for Soil Science in the state. The lawmaker said that the institute had since been established and it was contributing immensely to agricultural development in the state. “Similarly, the Federal University we have in Taraba has gone through some couple of challenges. “The legislation that brought it in place suffered some set back and I had to bring back the bill to ensure that I get it going,’’ he said. (NAN)