President Muhammadu Buhari has confirmed the appointment and re-appointment of some heads of parastatals. This was disclosed in a statement issued by Olusegun Adekunle, Permanent Secretary (General Services Office), Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation on Friday in Abuja. He appointed Mr Folashodun Shonubi as the Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria with effect from Oct. 17 for an initial period of five years. Others are Mr Banire Adeyemi as Part-Time Chairman, Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) with effect from Oct. 17 for an initial period of five years. Mr Sule Bassi was appointed Secretary, Nigerian Diaspora Commission with effect from Oct. 19 for an initial period of four years. Sen. Abba Ali and Mr Mohammed Sagir were appointed as Members (Non-Legal Practitioners), Federal Judicial Service Commission for an initial period of five years with effect from Oct. 24. The President appointed Mr Kasali Yomi as the Director/CEO National Centre for Agricultural Mechanization (NCAM), Ilorin for initial term of four years with effect from Oct. 28. Also appointed was Dr Olufemi Oladunni as the Director/CEO, Agricultural and Rural Management Training Institute (ARMTI), Ilorin for initial term of four years with effect from Oct. 28. Mr Clement Nze was appointed as the Director-General, Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency with effect from Oct. 28. Mr Clement Isong was appointed to replace Mr Thomas Olawore as Member, Board of the Petroleum Product Pricing Regulatory Agency (PPPRA) with effect from Oct. 28. Mr David Nyikyaa was appointed as the Secretary, National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission with effect from Nov.1. Buhari also appointed Mr Obinna Ogwuegbu as the Secretary, Special Investigation Panel for Recovery of Public Property with effect from Nov. 2. Dr Akinrinola Akintunde was appointed as the Provost, Adeyemi College of Education, Ondo State for an initial period of four years with effect from Nov.6. He re-appointed Prof. Emmanuel Fasakin, the Rector, Federal Polytechnic, Ile-Oluji, Ondo State for a second and final term of four years with effect from Nov. 6. The president also appointed Mr Obadiah Nkom as the Director-General/CEO, Nigeria Mining Cadastre Office for an initial term of four years with effect from Jan. 12, 2019. Buhari enjoined the new appointees to serve the nation with all sense of responsibility, honesty, diligence and promote good governance in the discharge of their duties.