There is yet another cruelty creeping out of Nigeria and this is calling the morality of whole country to question. Just when children are still basking in the euphoria of the commemoration of the International Day of the Girl-Child (IDGC), a highly demoralising news broke, exposing the ordeal of little Elizabeth Ochanya Ogbaje, a 13-year-old girl who died after being violated in multiple times by her caregivers -Mr Andrew Ogbuja, an employee of Benue State Polytechnic in Ugbokolo, and his son, Victor Inalegwu, a student of the Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi. The young victim suffered Vesico Vaginal Fistula (VVF) after she was multiply violated by Ogbuja and his son. The condition led to her death, following the pain and suffering. The young Ochanya paid the supreme price for being born into a society that still has no pragmatic policies to secure the future of the girl child. Ochanya, like every other girl of her age, deserved care, love, education and a future to behold; not the gift of VVF from perverted elements in a society she hoped would help raise her to become a woman with great purpose and promise. I am lending my voice to demand justice for Little Ochanya. I wish to draw the attention of Nigerians and the international community to the fact that girls in Nigeria, nay Africa, still face ordeals that snuffed life out of Ochanya ever day. The future of the African child is being aborted by sexual abusers, child labourers and other criminals who are exploiting the innocence of the young people for their personal gains. The Nigerian government must consider Ochanya’s eventuality a slap in the face of our social and justice system as a nation. We have have failed to provide the needed security for the Nigerian child. Let the justice system show itself strong and rise up to the challenge of dispensing justice swiftly regarding this dastardly act of incest and forceful violation. Let all guilty of the crime against Ochanya be made to face the full wrath of the law to serve as a warning for pedophiles and perverts exposing African child to danger. May the soul of little Ochanya and all young girls who died after suffering this cruel fate. The society must rise and seek justice for the late Ochanya.