Nigeria-born Afro pop star, Oluwatosin Oluwole Ajibade, better known as Mr Eazi, has launched ’empawa’,  an initiative set up to find and support Africa’s next batch of superstars. Interested participants are to submit their work for evaluation by Eazi and industry experts via Instagram with the hashtag #empawa100, stating their country of origin. The deadline for submissions is Saturday, December 15, 2018, after which Mr. Eazi will pick 100 artistes who will each receive a grant of $3,000. This funding will be used to produce 100 music videos with a production crew across Africa. 10 of the 100 finalists will be selected to fly to South Africa with Mr. Eazi to partake in a three-week incubator programme and mentored by popstar Raye and renowned producer Diplo, amongst others. Participants will also have the opportunity to record their songs in a state-of-the-art recording studio and shoot their videos with a professional film crew.  From these 10 finalists, Mr. Eazi will choose a select few to perform at ‘Ghana Party in the Park’ in London next year, alongside himself and other superstars. It was in 2014 while Mr Eazi, the initiator of ’empawa’, participated in a tech accelerators programme, 440.ng that he got his big break. “All it took for me to start my career was a video that cost me $1,000; a career that has allowed me to tour the world, own a business and employ over 100 people,” the afro pop star said. “I have funded four videos for artistes in the past two years, thereby creating immense opportunities for them. One of those artistes was recently nominated for a BET award, so this is ultimately the real motivation behind this cause – providing opportunities for emerging artistes as well as mentoring them to have the knowledge to become music entrepreneurs like myself.” The ’empawa’ initiative was launched in Nairobi and Kampala on November 14 and November 15 respectively, in Dar es Salaam on November 16, Accra on November 19, and in Lagos on November 20. Mr Eazi, who has hits such as Bankulize, Skintight, Shitor, Hollup, Sample You and ‘Dance for Me, feat Eugy’ recently released his mixtape, ‘Life Is Eazi – Vol.2: Lagos To London.’ Earlier this year, he toured four Canadian  cities for his #HappyBoyTour.