Mr Adams Oshiomhole, the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman, has said that the people of Kwara will retire Sen. Bukola Saraki, President of the Senate from active politics in 2019. He said this on Monday in Abuja, while speaking with newsmen at the end of a meeting of the party`s National Working Committee (NWC). Oshiomhole stressed that the way the people of Kwara voted in Saturday`s House of Representatives by-election in the state, was an attestation that they were tired of Saraki mismanaging their political life. “I am sure Saraki would be politically retired by the good people of kwara whom he has mismanaged their economic and political rights over the years. “I am very excited about that and we think that this is something worth celebrating and we took time to celebrate it today,” Oshiomhole said. He added that the APC was proud of the fact that since the assumption of the party`s current NWC which he headed on June 24, it had not lost any major election. Oshiomhole further added that the party`s victory in Saturday`s by-election in Bauchi, Kastina and Kwara states was a prove that the APC was still the preferred party of Nigerians. “More outstanding for me and the APC, both the leadership and the membership, is the humiliating defeat that Sen. Bukola Saraki suffered in the hands of Kwara people. “What the people of Kwara have done to him is that they are going to politically bury him come February next year and he has seen the first warning,” he said. He said that Kwara people, based on the outcome of the election, had dealt with Saraki a political blow. This, he said, was most humiliating since Saraki was the acclaimed leader of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara, and had recently led elections in other states. “Here is a native doctor who was busy going to other states, now unable to heal his own people in his own state, that defeat in Kwara is most outstanding,” the APC national chairman stressed. He said this was particularly so, because the candidate who won the election was not put in place by anybody close to Saraki. He, however, said that the APC would not accept a Nigerian variant where a minority party presided over the affairs of the National Assembly, saying that it was not right. (NAN)