WHY shall we stop piracy? This question best highlights the thoughts of an average pirate of intellectual property in Nigeria, especially at the notorious Alaba International Market, Lagos. And if you ask why not, they say to you: have you seen anyone being criminalised for piracy in Nigeria? Indeed, no person, since the evolution of Nollywood in 1992, has been jailed from the series of arrests and prosecutions of suspects. What this means is that the Nigerian Copyright Council (NCC), since it was inaugurated in 1989, and changed to Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) in 1996 to conform to emerging trend in global copyright administration and enforcement, has not succeeded in sending just one suspect to jail over piracy. It therefore becomes clear why piracy is the most lucrative business in Nigeria. A business whose cost of production is entirely on the right owner, but whose distributors’ only risk is a paltry fine when prosecuted, or perhaps 10 percent ‘settlement’ when caught by law enforcement agents. Imagine burgling someone’s home and making away with N20million naira, and when you are caught, you only need to expend 10 percent of what you stole to free yourself. I hear that the five suspected movie pirates who were apprehended in Alaba in December last year, have been freed. This appears to be foiling the first battle put up by the incumbent Executive Director of the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), Adedayo Thomas, few months after assuming office. Here, we find the board trying to appeal the case when it should have been the other way round. It is the same sad story for Nollywood in over two decades of an industry whose huge potentials as employer of labour, tool of cultural exportation, and alternative source of GDP has been threatened majorly by intellectual property theft. It is not a good sign that the effort of the task force set up by the NFVCB which sometimes worked in the dead of the night to put five suspects; David Chukwudi, Austin Igboukwu, Ugochukwu Ukwuagu, Chukwuka David and Ndu Celestine in the dock is amounting to naught. The suspects who allegedly committed the offence under the guise of trading in the popular Alaba market, appeared at the Federal High Court, Ikoyi in Lagos, charged with copyright infringement, on Thursday, November 30, 2017. Chukwudi, David and Celestine were charged on 11-count charge bordering on copyright infringement and use of premises to promote copyright infringement. Igboukwu and Ukwuagwu were charged on 13-count charge also bordering on copyright infringement. In the first charge, the prosecutor, Barrister Kehinde Oluwole from the Police Force Headquarters, Abuja, said that Chukwudi, David and Celestine committed the offence on August 14, 2017 on the premises of the Alaba International Market, Lagos. Chukwudi, David and Celestine, however, pleaded not guilty to the charges. Igboukwu and Ukwuagwu, who were charged on 13-count charge bordering on similar offences, also pleaded not guilty to the charges. They were alleged to have committed the offences on August 12, 2017 also at a shop in Alaba International market. The offences contravene the provisions of Sections 58 of the Nigerian Films and Video Censor Board Act, 2004 and Section 20 of the Copyright Act, Cap 28, Laws of The Federation, 2004. But if we feel that the cases were lost because they were being championed by the NFVCB whose main jurisdiction is not piracy but unlicensed works and unauthorised distributions, what do we say were responsible for the failure of the NCC to put prosecuted suspects behind bars? In March 2016 for example, the NCC in what many thought was the beginning of real legal battle failed to jail its suspects. Following the arrest of one Emmanuel Eze Obasi, two other suspects; Ogbonnaya Nwite and John Abbah were picked up in their homes and led to their replicating studios in Alaba market where about three bus-load of unauthorised movie titles were recovered. The arrest followed a tip-off and subsequent sweep on the market by popular film marketers; Mr. Gabriel Okoye, aka Igwe Gabosky and Mr. Norbert Ajaegbu with the assistance of Inspector General of Police (IGP) Mr. Solomon Arase’s team from the Area E Command, Lagos. As the pirates continue to win these legal battles, it becomes clear why these intellectual property thieves operate like a legitimate cabal, bringing the right owners and law enforcement agencies who have attempted to wield their force to their knees. And, as the monster that dealt a monumental ‘wreck’ on legendary comedian and filmmaker, the late Moses Olaiya, aka Baba Sala, seems to have grown into an institution, there appears to be no hope in sight for Nollywood because there is indeed no measures to stop the pirates.