Kings Kedron, Technical Director, Roller Sports Federation of Nigeria (RSFN), on Monday rated the skaters from Lagos State as the best in Nigeria and could match their own in Africa. Kedron gave his assessment in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) at the closing of the Lagos State Rollers Sports Association (LSRSA) Championships in Lagos. The two-day championships, held at the National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos, ended on Sunday. The championships had over 200 participants with from Lagos and neigbouring states of Ogun and Oyo, but the host got all the prizes at stake. Kedron in his assessment of the performances of the skaters said that the athletes had never been found wanting in any competition. “For me, I will rate the performance of the skaters as almost 100 per cent because they always give it all in any championships both at home and abroad. “We have talented skaters in Lagos, not minding that skating as a sports in Nigeria has its root in Lagos, so, we are not surprised with the level of performances displayed by the skaters. “The skaters here are doing great with the type of training they are exposed to and judging from the past event they have attended. “This competition is also a means of showcasing them to the world, their ability and the level at which they are, in which they did not disappoint,’’ he said. Kedron said that skaters from Lagos State always take the lead at any international meet they attended, adding that they had the highest number of medals in Nigeria. “To stamp their authority as the best in Nigeria, skaters from Lagos State dominated the last two editions of the West Africa Skating Championships in Republic of Benin in 2016 and Togo 2017. “In Republic of Benin Championships 2016, Lagos State skaters took five gold out of nine at stake and in 2017, the same tournament, held in Togo they also got five gold. “They have proven to be the best in terms of energy and skills. So, I hope they continue the dominance in years to come,’’ he said. The competition had 76 medals, while certificates of participation was awarded to all skaters that competed in the championships.