Nigeria can win the anti-corruption war through its youths,  the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), chairman Prof. Bolaji Owansanoye said yesterday. Youths, he noted have, the drive to curb corruption, which is hampering the country’s progress. Owansanoye, spoke at the inauguration and revitalisation of Students’ Anti-Corruption Clubs (SACs) in secondary schools in Lagos State, with the theme: “Anti-corruption club as the vehicle for building a culture of integrity among youths.” Students, Owansanoye said, were considered stakeholders in the fight against corruption, adding: “The SACs’ initiative will serve as a vehicle to project the values taught in the classrooms and groom students in practical behaviour. “Thus, value re-orientation is the core focus of formation of anti-corruption clubs in secondary schools. “This is the vehicle through which the commission is educating young minds on the fundamentals of anti-corruption.” Owansanoye, represented by Mr. Shintema Binga, the zonal commissioner for Southwest, said the club members were expected to be whistle-blowers, challenging and reporting lack of integrity. He hailed the efforts of a group, the Youth Alive Foundation (YAF), which is providing funds for the inauguration of SACs. Programme Coordinator YAF Lagos State chapter Mr. Chamberlain Etakuctoh said the association would support public institutions in combating corruption, imploring parents and guardians to allow their children and wards to join the club. A director in Lagos State Ministry of Education, Mrs Titilayo Williams said the initiative would reduce students’ falsification of results and involvement in exam malpractices. Children Anti-Corruption Initiative (CACTI) Coordinator Omololu Akinwande, urged youths involved in SACs to be ready to fight corruption. Akinwande advised ICPC to set up a special unit to fight Internet fraudsters (yahoo boys). The Director, National Orientation Agency (NOA), Mr. Waheed Ishola, said he was happy that some students were ready to chase corruption out of the country. He commended the organisers of the programme and enjoined youths to spread the message to their colleagues. The secondary schools that participated in the event are Kings College, Lagos, Yabatech Secondary School, Yaba, Dominion College, Alimosho and African Church Model College, Ifako-Ijaiye. Others are Pacey Manuel College, Abule-Egba, Aladura Comprehensive High School, Anthony Village, Ogunsanwo Memorial College, Iju and Lagos African Church Grammar School, Ifako-Ijaiye. 