The nation’s economy remains largely underdeveloped despite enormous human and material resources due to faulty policies and programmes that have proved ineffective to correct the anomaly since independence. According to Professor Akpan Ekpo, various policies, programmes and strategies meant to address economic development in the country have not yielded the desired result due to faulty design and implementation. Ekpo, a professor of Economics and Public Policy and Director General, West African Institute for Financial and Economic Management (WAIFEM) who let this out at a Lecture delivered during the 2018 Nigeria Eminent Personalities and Corporate Awards (NEPAC) held recently in Lagos, bemoans that “The painful experience was the abandoning of comprehensive economic planning which would have accelerated growth and development by successive governments.” “Stakeholders like government, senior policy-makers, technocrats, private sector and the elites knowingly or otherwise conceptualised, formulated and implemented half-baked market capitalist ideas without success. The elites, overtime, have captured the state for their own self-interest. “Even the experiment of democratic government has been a disaster. In sum, both military and civilian rule have not produced the desired results of making life better for millions of Nigerians”, Ekpo recounted. The professor who was also former Vice Chancellor, University of Uyo stated that while millions of Nigerians still lack the necessities of life, unemployment rate has become unprecedentedly high at about 30 per cent of the total population, of which about 56.5 per cent are youths while the necessary infrastructure for growth and development are greatly lacking. “The irony is that the economy has earned large revenue and foreign exchange from the export of crude petroleum”, he lamented, wondering why the huge revenue from oil has not been utilised to grow and develop the economy like other countries of the world have done. On the way forward, he advised that this is the right time for the country to diversify knowing fully well that crude oil which is generally known to be a wasting asset and non-renewable and revenue therefrom is subject to the whelms and caprices of the global market. “There is no doubt that government, policy-makers and other stakeholders are aware of the danger of running a monoculture economy based on crude oil export hence the call for diversifying the economy. “No responsible government would plan the long-term development of its economy based on exogenous source of revenue. Nigeria has no control of oil prices as well as the quantity to be produced and export,” he warned. He regretted that double digit lending rate was difficult for investors to borrow invest, make profit and pay back at that rate, stressing that the economy was experiencing jobless growth scenario and the output loss cannot be underestimated. “The economy was operating at an under full-employment output. It should be stated that the increased contribution of the service sector to the growth of GDP does not imply that the economy has progressed from the primary to the tertiary sector skipping services. The service sector in Nigeria is rudimentary and of low quality,” he maintained.