The Lagos State University (LASU) is now issuing certificates to graduates, mostly of its rested external campus system (part-time programme). The graduates have until January 1, next year to collect the 32,522 certificates in university’s possession or pay a fine. Graduates share their challenging experience working without certificates. KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE, FLORENCE UDOH and ADERONKE SONAIKE report. Since the Lagos State University (LASU) resolved last month to release 32,522 certificates in its possession, its graduates have been flocking the institution’s Ojo campus for collection. Once they pay the N5,000 processing fee, provide evidence of non-indebtedness, notification of results, final clearance and other necessary documents, their certificates were released to them.  Though the process has not been without hitches – as many graduates complained about the stress they are going through – they were relieved to get their certificates years after graduation. Many of those collecting their certificates are products of the LASU external system programme – which ran campuses in various parts of Lagos State between 2002 and 2017 when the National Universities Commission (NUC) banned the programme and directed the university to operate Open and Distance Learning (ODL) mode of education instead for those who seek to combine work with studies. When the centres were in operation, it was a herculean task for students to get their results not to talk of certificates. Two former Vice-Chancellors of the university, Prof Lateef Hussain (2005-2010) and Prof John Obafunwa (2010-2015) complained about the pile of backlog of certificates they had to sign daily. However, when he came on board last year, Prof Lanre Fagbohun tackled the problem headlong. He set up a task force set up to sort out the issues relating to backlog of results.  This task force identified students who had fulfilled all requirements for graduation; those with outstanding courses; those that had abandoned their studies;and those not offered admission. The exercise helped in clearing the backlog of non-processed results and issuance of certificates.  The institution has set up special office to attend to the disbursement of the certificate weekdays until January 1, 2019. The Principal Assistant Registrar/Head, Certificate Unit, Mr Olabode Akinrimade, told The Nation that hundreds of candidates had come forward since the campaign started on November 12. He said: “A good number of them come around on a daily basis to collect their certificates. But the truth of the matter is that we still have this much in our custody which should not be and that is why the university management thought it wise to go about this exercise publishing it on its website and also running some jingles on some radio stations within Lagos to ensure that the attention of our graduates are brought to this situation that we are in. I will still want to implore them to please come and pick their certificate.” Even if the graduates do not have all documents required to claim their certificate the Principal Assistant Registrar said they would get help at the unit. He said: “The current administration has tried to put in place some measures to attend to graduates that  are unable to produce all these documents we are talking about.   If a graduate misplaces his clearance, final clearance certificate he could go and swear to an affidavit provided he has a notification of result, provided the university can establish that yes he indeed graduated which we can confirm from our convocation list and through his academic records by way of his academic profile.  All these documents are in our custody.” Akinrimade said the institution would convince the world that certificates are now ready on time in LASU. “The painful part of all this is what we hear especially from the news of our graduates complaining of not getting their certificates, so we are, by this exercise, trying to confirm that LASU as at today is able to make available the certificates of our graduates as when due,” he said. He added that the N15,000 penalty coming into force after January 1, 2019 was not to make money for the institution but to encourage graduates to come up for their certificates.  He said perhaps more graduates would be motivated to apply for their certificates if the institution stops the issuance of notification of results, which he said has a lifespan of two years. “A penalty fee of #15,000 seems punitive in the sense that yes they will pay N5,000 if they come on time and N15,000 later. So the N15,000 is actually to get them to come forward and pick this thing and not because the university management intends to make money. But the idea is to ensure that they should come forward and on time to take their certificate from the university “We are considering a situation where we would stop issuing notification of result. Notification of result has a life span of two years and after two years or before the expiration of that two years, we expect  a graduate to have approached the university to pick his certificate but our experience is that once they obtain their notification of results, and probably get jobs or are engaged in one form of endeavour or the other, they do not come back for the certificate and that is what has led to the this. So I believe if we stop the issuance of the notification of result, it would prompt graduates to come forward to pick their certificates as and when due,” he said. But Notification of Results has not served many of the graduates who collected their certificates when The Nation visited the university at various times last week well. They lamented loss of jobs, demotion, and loss of further education opportunities all because they did not have their certificates. Asagba Omorigbo Mary, who graduated in 2009 said she could not pursue further studies abroad because of an error on her notification of results and transcript and lack of certificate. She said: “I had issues with transcript because there was a mistake in the notification of my result.  My name were not correct, so I wrote a letter to the Exam Director, they made the correction and gave me my notification of result in my correct name. Later I did a transcript for revaluation in United Kingdom [UK] and by the time they sent my notification of result to UK, the names were not correct which means they did not correct the mistake in my profile, so it could not be used because it did not match my passport and they rejected it and my application for visa was suspended. “I almost wrote a letter to the Vice Councellor because some people working in the Exam Director Unit are very rude, impatient, they talk to you anyhow, they shout at you they bully you until I found a friendly one that helped me,” she said. Are Fausat Omoniyi, graduated in 2011 and since then could not get a job because she did not have a certificate. “I graduated in 2011.  I studied Business Administration.  I am doing nothing for now due to lack of certificate.  I tried collecting it before now but they did not attend to us. Anywhere I went to look for work they will ask for my certificate and since I did not have anything to showcase, I was not employed,” she said. One graduate of Banking and Finance who did not want to be named, said he lost his job because he had no certificate. “Where I worked before I was sacked. My certificate really affected me. It affected my job and it also delayed my promotion before I was laid off,” he said. Olukanni Kehinde Samuel, a Computer Science graduate since 2012, said the certificate would prove to his employers that he indeed studied Computer Science. “Of course I was pressurised at my work place. I have been pressing for this certificate since last year because of the company has been asking me to show my certificate. “There was even a time that a lawyer came to the company and that was when I had to push seriously for the certificate. We had one litigation issue then so the lawyer was now asking me the course I studied and my certificate. It was like they didn’t believe that I went to school or have a certificate. But now that  I have it, it is enough evidence to prove to them,” he said. Olawoye Abiola, a graduate of Economics Education (2014) said she has not had issues in the job market because she was self-employed.  She expressed joy getting her certificate. “I am self-employed and I am happy to have my certificate because it is unlike before that you will have to wait for like four or five years before you will get it. I applied for certificate April this year and I got it this year,” she said.