More than 90 international media, technology, business and government and community leaders from 21 countries gathered in Livingstone on November 19 for the fourth Bloomberg Africa Business Media Innovators summit (ABMI). The summit  explored the issues and challenges impacting the future of media in Africa under the overarching theme, ‘Africa 2025: The Media Landscape of the Future’. Convened by Bloomberg Philanthropies and hosted by Matthew Winkler, Co-Founder and Editor-in-Chief Emeritus, Bloomberg News and Scott Havens, Global Head of Digital and Media Distribution, Bloomberg Media, this year’s summit focused on key themes impacting the evolving global media landscape, including business models of the future, how to finance a rapidly changing industry and media’s opportunities and obstacles in The Fourth Industrial Revolution. Participants will also hear from a group of young disruptors on their experiences and predictions about the future of African media. “As African economies continue to grow and play an increasing role in the global economy, the need for robust, accurate business journalism and financial analysis is more important than ever before,” Matthew Winkler, Co-Founder and Editor-in-Chief Emeritus, Bloomberg News said. “Every year, this summit leads to dynamic and engaging discussions about the current state and future of African media; I am looking forward to participating in these conversations over the coming days.” Speakers at this year’s convening include media owners, senior editors, investors, business leaders, government officials and community leaders from countries across the continent and beyond, including: Angola, Botswana, Ethiopia, Ghana, Madagascar, Mali, Nigeria, South Africa, Uganda, U.S.A. and Zambia.  Honorable Dora Siliya, Minister for Information and Broadcasting Services, Zambia, opened Monday’s program with a welcome address. “We are pleased to host Bloomberg’s Africa Business Media Innovators summit here in Zambia,” said Honorable Dora Siliya, Minister for Information and Broadcasting Services, Zambia.  “As Zambian and African economies continue to evolve and grow more complex, it is key that journalism across the continent develops accordingly. I believe in the transformative power of the media and I am confident that the conversations taking place today and tomorrow will help us continue to drive growth.” The latest edition of ABMI follows successful gatherings in Ghana (2017), Kenya (2016) and South Africa (2015), where international media owners and operators, investors and government officials addressed the importance of a robust financial journalism sector and the value of data and data-related technologies to drive international investment and economic growth. The annual event series is a component of the Bloomberg Media Initiative Africa (BMIA), a pan-African program launched by Michael R. Bloomberg to strengthen media capacity, promote innovation in the sector and improve access to high-quality data and information on the continent.