A non-government organisation (NGO), the Centre for Research, Information Management and Media Development (CRIMMD), says it has trained 4,053 women in vocations through skill acquisition, within two years. The Managing Director, Dr. Raphael James, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Lagos that women were the focal point of the NGO’s empowerment “because I believe empowering a woman means empowering the nation.” He said the women were trained in vocations such as fashion designing, beading, Ankara craft, catering, make-up and music without financial commitment. “CRIMMD has been in existence for over 14 years. As a non-political, non-government, non-profit making but standard research developmental institution, we serve the public in the unique capacity of being, at once, the intellectual incubator, think tank, health farm and information bank. “As an intellectual developmental institution, CRIMMD reaches out to the public through participation in seminars, workshops, publications, conferences, excursions, humanitarian services, courtesy visits and awards presentation to deserving Nigerians. “We started the skill acquisition arm of the centre in 2016 for women because we want to ensure women and the girl-child are financially independent and self-reliant. “We believe this will help guard against every form of maltreatment they can be exposed to. “Since inception of the centre in 2016, we have trained 4,053 women, and we hope to still train as many people as will indicate interest,” the CRIMMD boss said. He said it had engaged resource professionals to get the women equipped and ensure that its objectives were actualised, adding that the training was free for participants. James urged women to acquire skills and stop complaining about joblessness, saying their lives will be better when they become creative and hardworking. According to him, more skills will be added to those being taught currently, encouraging more women to enrol on the skill acquisition class. 