Based on his antecedents in the last general elections, when he gave the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode a run for his money, the choice of Jimi Agbaje as the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State in next year’s election was adjudged to be the best for the party, under the circumstances it finds itself. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE examines his chances. JIMI Agbaje is back on a familiar terrain. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate in Lagos State has made two efforts in the past to clinch the number one position on the platform of the Democratic Peoples Alliance (DPA) in 2007and the PDP in 2015. But, he lost on both occasions. The last effort was unarguably the toughest ever held in the state since the return to democratic rule in 1999: Ambode won with a margin of over 150,000 votes. The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate polled 811,994 votes, while Agbaje got 659,788 votes. As a result, the PDP candidate cannot be underrated. Some observers say the pharmacist-turn politician has a good chance, given that his opponent, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu of the APC is just testing his popularity. Indeed, Agbaje has vowed that he would defeat Sanwo-Olu. He said Lagosians are ready for a change. He added: “This time around we intend to take over Lagos in 2019. It is clear to us in Lagos that Lagosians are looking for freedom which the PDP is prepared to offer.” Agbaje who picked the PDP ticket, after defeating Deji Doherty with 1,100 votes during the party’s primary. His performance at the primary improved the rating of the party’s flag bearer. Those who monitored the primary said Agbaje scaled through despite the stiff opposition to his candidacy by some top PDP bigwigs in Lagos. They say he is now formidable and would make remarkable improvement in the coming election. But, the party has put behind it any misgiving before the primary and is working in accord to ensure that the PDP wins Lagos. Attesting to the unity existing in the party, Agbaje said the structure of the PDP, which has been in the opposition since 1999, remains intact and that he was working to expand its base in some critical areas. He said: “The strategy is to expand that base in a way that we have every assurance that we are taking Lagos. There is a lot of confidence and don’t forget that in 2015 and irrespective of what happened, that base is still intact. “Those that voted for us are still there for us. For those who left us, we have really felt anything and it will not affect us. We have not had defection from the PDP in the last few years.” But, other observers believe that the PDP candidate had the best chance of winning four years ago, when his party was at the helms at the centre. Based on the fact that the ruling APC has dominated the polity in Lagos State close to 20 years, with structures fully entrenched across all strata, defeating the party in 2019 would be difficult. The party’s chances appear slimmer this time around, owing to the series of setbacks the PDP has suffered in the last three and half years. The party is still battling to regain lost grounds, following the defection of its former chairman Moshood Salvador. Salvador defected when he alleged that Chief Olabode George framed him up and that he could no longer stay in the same party with him. Salvador who announced his defection at the Agege Township Stadium said he was joining the ruling party with thousands of his supporters who are in all the councils in the state. The former chairman said his defection signaled the death of the opposition party in Lagos State. He said Lagos was now a one party state. If Salvadors remark is anything to go by, then, Agbaje’s efforts is not likely to succeed in 2019. Analysts rates Salvador very high; they say he is a grassroots mobiliser. Thus, his defection is likely to have negative consequences on the PDP in the 2019 election, because since the party lost power at the centre one of the few financiers of its activities in Lagos had been Salvador. Speaking on whether the party can win Lagos, its senatorial candidate for Lagos East, Princess Abiodun Oyelusi, said Agbaje has all it takes to deliver. She maintained that the party’s flag bearer was the best among the candidates who want to take over from Ambode. She said Lagos East was still lacking in infrastructure and that some of the achievements credited to the ruling party are cosmetics. Her words: “Can you imagine there is no General Hospital in Imota. What that means is that when people are sick, they have to travel to Ikorodu for medication. “The last time I went to Ibeju Lekki, I saw a primary school by the road side; no fence, nothing. The children are at a great risk. These are the thing we can do with constituency funds. But, the APC had painted the picture as if everything is working in Lagos. I can assure you that Agbaje will win Lagos for the PDP.” The emergence of former Vice President Atiku Abubakar as the presidential candidate of the PDP is believed to be a good omen for Agbaje’s candidacy this time around. Atiku during one of his visits to Lagos before the primary said he would ensure that Lagos returned to PDP. If the threat by the former VP is anything to go by, the APC would have to work harder to maintain its dominance in Lagos. A source said the former Vice President is throwing his weight behind the Lagos governorship candidate to boost his own chance in 2019. He said the PDP governorship candidate is leaving no stone unturned to kick off the campaign, once the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) gives the go ahead. Agbaje had urged his supporters not to undermine INEC act on campaign, noting that is campaign would be based on issues. He said: “To my supporters and well-wishers, I understand that we are anxious to get this campaign on the road, but it is important that we are also mindful of the bigger task ahead, which is not just winning an election but about changing the mindsets and sending strong messages across that it would no longer be business as usual. “If our goal is to bring reform and order to governance, if our mission is to fundamentally transform the way government works for the greater good of our people and not a few vested interests, then, we must begin by setting an example by obeying instruction. “So, I implore everyone to please hold on to those wonderful banners, posters and boards until December 1, when campaign commences. We have an opportunity in this election to really make it, it’s about the people of Lagos and not our personal egos.” The PDP National Vice Chairman (Southwest), Dr. Eddy Olafeso, said the party would coast to victory in 2019. He said the APC was in crisis, noting that the ruling party would not resolve the challenges that characterized its recent primaries nationwide, including Lagos State. Olafeso said the opposition party would take advantage of the division within the ruling party. He said the PDP was working hard to embrace aggrieved members across party lines to key into the party’s project in next year election. He said: “The rumble in the ruling party will affect it and, therefore, the PDP’s chances are very bright. Again, despite the mandate given to the APC by Lagosians, the people are yet to reap the dividends of democracy.” Olafeso said the purported division between PDP stalwart, George and Agbaje was not true. He noted there was no rancour, stressing that George was a loyal party man who believes in the development of the PDP. He said: “We are putting ourselves together, we are reconciling our differences. Given the quality of our governorship candidate Jimi Agbaje victory is assured. “Chief Bode George is a foremost party leader; he is a party man to the core and we taking his leadership serious. Even if there are differences, this does not mean the foremost party leader wants our party to lose the governorship election. Whatever is peddled from any quarter is over exaggerated.” At a strategic meeting by the APC Lagos West Buhari Campaign Organisation, its Director General, Salvador, urged the party not to underrate anybody in the 2019 election. He reiterated the need to dislodge the PDP in areas it won elections in 2015. He noted that the APC must unite to ensure what happened in the last election is nipped in the bud. Salvador said: “There is need for unity; those who have grudges must forget it.