Former House of Representatives member,  Opeyemi Bamidele, has urged all stakeholders in the electoral process to ensure a successful 2019 general election. Bamidele, who is the All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate in Ekiti Central said all eyes are on Nigeria as the whole world is interested in the outcome of next year’s general elections. He urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to conduct the elections in a way that would impress Nigerians and not the ones that would massage the egos of few politicians. According to him, politicians, especially those belonging to the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), must avoid actions that could truncate the country’s democracy in the polls. The former federal lawmaker spoke on Friday at the funeral of his late father, Pa Stephen Ogunjuyigbe Bamidele, held at Babamuboni Memorial Anglican Church in his native Iyin-Ekiti, Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government area of Ekiti State. The burial was attended by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu represented by former minister, Mr. Ademola Seriki and Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi and his wife, Erelu Bisi, former APC Interim Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, APC Deputy National Chairman (South), Otunba Adeniyi Adebayo, among others, who also graced the event. Bamidele said it would be a great disservice to over 180 million Nigerians for a few politicians to destabilize a process that was targeted at turning around the lives of Nigerians, in a bid to protect their interests. He saluted the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for setting machinery in motion to ensure that the electioneering campaigns, which began on November 18 are issue based. Bamidele said: “Those who are politicians in Nigeria are less than five per cent of the total population. So, it would be a great disservice to our dear nation for a few to plunge the entire nation into crisis just because they want to win election.”