Now, we are at the center stage of Teachers Day. By this I mean the time to recognise only some of those men and women, who have helped in the work or  lifestyle  to  advance popularity and advance of National Medicine. I call them the FRONTIER people, who were not satisfied with the existing order, the Establishment, and either through transcendental callings for which they had preparations for prior to their appearance on earth or through personal experiences, which they sought to share, began  to push for the expansion of knowledge which the establishment, of course, often rejected and for which it sought to punish them. I mention some of them so often in this column that you’d think they are all that there are to Natural Medicine. We will remind ourselves of some of them again today, before bursting into the wider ocean as it were. One of my early contacts in the 1980s through his book was JETHRO KOSS, author of BACK TO EDEN, an advocacy for natural living and natural resolution of illness. This book tells of his experience when, during his training as a naturopath, he undertook internship in a morgue (mortuary). When autopsies or post-mortems were carried out, he said, it was discovered almost always that many organs of the body were inflamed prior to the death. Thus, he took away the knowledge, which he passed on to his patients and readers, that inflammation was a possible cause of death. When you stop one nostril and you try to breathe with the other and you discover it is partially blocked, that is inflammation of the sinuses and a suggestion that inflammation may be going on elsewhere. So, today, thanks to Jethro Koss, you may wish to ask your doctor to check you up for inflammation. In medicine, inflammatory diseases are surfixed with .. itis. Among them are arthritis (joints), Carditis (heart)  neuritis (nerves), colitis (colon), sinusitis (sinusses). These conditions call for the use of anti-inflammatory herbs. Dr. ROBERT ATKINS was a rebel in the house of orthodox medicine. He campaigned against the use of drug for routine and other ailments and preferred food factors such as vitamins, minerals, amino acids, anzymes. I  learned from  him  how a  supplement  such as L-TYROSINE may help in depression by improving the body’s production of Dopamine, one of the brain’s neuro-transmitters grossly depreciated in this  condition. Dr. Atkin was educated at the University of Michigan and the Cornell University medicine schools and specialised in cardiology and internal medicine. When he began to speak against unbridled use of drug medicine and began to introduce natural medicine to his patients, the American medical establishment fought him. With threats to deny him advertisement patronage, the media and printing press began to close the doors against Dr. Atkins. So, he set up his own printing press, saying some of the top shots in the Establishment were among the dullest medical students in his class. He set up his own printing press and published many books, including the first in 1972, Dr. Atkin’s Diet Revolution, which gave him world-wide acclaim, selling more than 10 million copies, and ranking among the world’s best 50 selling books at that time. His other best sellers include Dr. Atkin’s Nutrition Breakthrough and Dr. Atkin’s Health Revolution. Another book, Dr. Atkin’s New Diet Revolution spent more than one year on New York Times best-seller book list. He warned Americans that a high carbohydrate diet was the cause of their illness because these foods were refined and deficient in minerals and vitamins and enzymes, mega doses of which he advocated for the daily diet. While other doctors suggested avoidance of fats, he supported the consumption of essential fatty acids, a deficiency of which is widely recognised by doctors today to be among the causes of many degenerative diseases, including cancer. I ran into the first book of Dr. Atkin’s in a small unsung bookshop in Obanikoro, Lagos,  in 1980 while searching for knowledge on Alternative medicine, which may cure my grandmother’s breast cancer. Her doctors had said there was no cure for cancer. I did not want her to die. I  looked up to her as mother from the age of nine when my mother died at childbirth. This book was titled: Dr. Atkin’s Vita-Nutrient Solution. It is subtitled: Nature’s answer to Drugs. It inspired me to become hungrier for other solutions of Mother Nature to illness. Dr. WILLIAM LANE got the world talking about Shark Cartilage. He undertook a study on Sharks in Iran and found that, among fish species, it was the least affected by any cancer. So infinitesimal was the occurrence that he titled the first book on his findings SHARKS DON’T GET CANCER. He attributed this feat to the cartilage of Sharks. He was roundly condemned by his colleagues, who said if one Shark in a million had cancer, that book title was inappropriate and misleading. At the time of Dr. Lane’s publications, cancer doctors and researchers were searching for anti-angiogenetic medicine. Dr. Lane  offered Shark cartilage. He was snubbed. But he persevered, despite being labeled a “quack”. America, his country, literally rejected his offer. But Fidel Castro  of Cuba invited him for trials with terminally ill  cancer patients. The United State CBS television network followed him in the Cuban project, as some medicine watchers suggested, with a view to laughing at him if the venture failed. But, alas, Dr. Lane laughed last. Today Shark cartilage is used in many inflammatory conditions, especially arthritis as it provides in addition, Chrondrotin and Glucosamine, bone joint nutrients, which not only inhibit inflammatory but also support regrowth of damaged bone cartilage. Dr. LINUS PAULING won a Nobel prize two times for his outstanding work on Vitamin C and molecular health. Where conventional medicine prefers no more than about 60mg daily for adult individuals, he suggested mega doses. Today, some physicians go up to about 1,000mg or 6,000mg depending on the  severity of the condition, especially HIV and cancer. Dr. Pauling, arguably the father of modern vitamin C research, thought the environment had become so seriously polluted today that 60mg of Vitamin C per day for an adult was like a toy. When some of his colleagues ridiculed him, his only memorable reply, for me, was that “time will tell”. Time has, indeed, separated the wheat from the chaff, tinsel from gold. Many of the critics died in their sixties or seventies while Dr. Pauling lived to be about 103 years only, paradoxically, to die of cancer. But he outlived them all, nevertheless. Dr. KARL FOLKERS has been researching CoQ10 or Co-Enzyme Q10 since about 1952. So, quite naturally, he is seen as the father of CoQ10 research. He showed that energy – producing sections of a cell called mitochondria need CoQ10 to grow in number and size and to have energy to be able to produce energy. So, in condition of weakness or fatigue, CoQ10 is like an oxygen bail-out bag. He found that heart disease occur when CoQ10 levels in this vital organ fall below a certain minimum level and that gross deficiency may cause a heart failure. In a landmark Danish experiment which he carried out with some conventional doctors who wished to find out if minerals, vitamins and other food factors could help recovery of sick or damaged cells, about 36 terminally ill breast cancer patients were given 90mg of CoQ10 every day along with other food supplements. No changes were observed for about three months. Then, the unexpected happened. One woman unilaterally raised her dosages to 190mg daily. Before you could call Jack Robinson, the terminal breast cancer disappeared. The researchers were amazed. The news made other women adjust their dosages upward as well, and similar results were achieved. The researchers concluded, among other things, that CoQ10 may have energised cancer cells, which were naturally weak to utilize their P.53 gene to destroy themselves. In every cell, the P.53 gene exists and is called the suicide gene. When a cell becomes cancerous, the duty of this gene is to make it commit suicide in a process called apoptosis. Why cancer cells do not do this is said to be because they have lost the energy requires to do it. Today, thanks to Dr. Folkers, CoQ10 is given at a daily dosage of 90mg to 100mg for hypertension or for maintenance of health, 200mg for moderate illness and 300mg for fibromyalgia, HIV/AIDS and cancer. This is not the entire CoQ10 story. Adult cannot use the ubiquinone brand of CoQ10 well, and, so, lose quite a chunk of it. But the ubiquinol variant  is more readily available. Dr. MAX GERSON suffered severe migranes which kept him out of work in a German hospital for about half of the month until a nursing assistant advised him to try fruit and vegetable juices, which cleared it all up. He studied these juices, found their healing power was potassium, healed many seemingly intractable diseases, including cancers with them, concluded that all growths, including cancers, arose in potassium deficient cells, got a Congressional hearing for the financing of his research, but lost by marginal votes to the drugs industry. More about him and his work can be learned on the internet. Newcomers By newcomers, I mean those contributors to the advancement of natural medicine or integration of orthodox and alternative medicines we may not have been hearing of on this page. Welcome, ladies and gentlemen. They are old breed and newbreed frontiers men and women. I begin with … SAMUEL  THOMPSON (1769 – 1843). Arguably the most powerful medical herbalist in American history, he developed a following of about three million people and was the first person to publicly attack drugs medicine in the United State. He gained his knowledge from neighbours and personal experience. His well known medicine, forula No 6 capsicum myrrh tincture, which was listed in the United States pharmacopeia, is prescribed by some herbalists even today. SYLVESTER  GRAHAM  (1794 – 1851) lived about100 years ahead of today’s knowledge of the importance of fiber in the diet. White flour bread was popular in his time. He condemned this dietary culture. In 1837,  he released a treatise titled: BREAD AND BREAD MAKING in which he canvassed adoption of dietary fiber, initially suggesting a diet of only raw fruit and vegetable and moderating it later to boiled rice, lukewarm potatoes and wheat bread. At that time, wheat had not been genetically modified. He encouraged home bread-making and made Graham Bread for sale. He used no yeast, and egg but molasses and beets. He preached Genesis 1:29 dietary lifestyle. He taught cold baths and out-door exercise. Bakers and butchers did not like him because his teachings threatened their business. In 1847, they stormed a Boston hall in which he was speaking. This event forced him into early retirement and, perhaps, his death four years later in 1851. RUSSELL THACKER TRALL (1812 – 1877) This was a medical doctor, friend of Graham, writer and educator. He pushed hydrotherapy and natural hygiene. In 1844, he opened a water cure house in New York. Which offered vegetarian meals, hydrotherapy and a gym. By the 1860s, he added a health food store service which offered Graham bread, whole grains and cereals. Energy Medicine In the 1990s, I became interested in energy medicine, which made sense to me because of out- of body -experiences (OBE) I had had in the 1970s which made me to begin to seek the deeper meanings in all events. In 1999 or thereabout, I reviewed the book of Dr. Norman Sheally, a surgeon, and Carolyn Myss, a journalist and Psychic healer. They wondered if modern medical science would accept in the 2000s that a human spirit lives inside every physical human body and breathes life into it. Before them there had been other energy medicine teachers and workers. The Rev. Rosalyn Bruyere founded, in Carlifonia, the HEALING LIGHT CENTER CHURCH. When  even  nurses studied magnetic healing. In Florida, Barbara Brennan Ph.D., ran a school for healing service. Cardiologist Dean Ornish was reversing heart disease with diet, yoga and meditation. It was an honour to me to have been linked to the works of Dr. Chritine Northrop M.D., through book gift by my wife, Dayo. Dr. Northrop had been practicing gyneacology for about 35 years when I read the first of her books I got. That book, her best selling, was titled: WOMENS BODY, WOMEN’S WISDOM. It was one of three books published in the 1990s by mainstream or orthodox doctors on the relationships between human energy fields and medicine. Judith Orloff M.D., published a book on clairvoyance as it relates to the practice of psychiatry. The book was titled: SECOND SIGHT. Then, psychiatrist and neuroscientist Monalisa Schultz M.D., published the book AWAKENING INTUITION. It explains that there are hidden healing powers in the body-mind network, which can be released and deplored for healing. By the 1980s, Dr. C. Norman shealy was paving the way for the introduction of herbal medicine and energy medicine to orthodox medicine. He had spent the 1970s in preparatory work for this cross – fertilisation of ideas, especially with the training medical intuitive. He undertook  studies with Carolyn Myss, which have been mentioned many times in this column. Together, they wrote the book THE CREATION OF HEALTH. In the 1970s, Dr. Shealy’s effort as and the work of  other people resulted in the founding of AMERICAN HOLISTIC MEDICAL NURSES ASSOCIATION. At Greenwich University, Dr. Shealy instituted a first degree programme in energy medicine. Currently, energy medicine is being taught in about 50 medical schools in the United States with emphasis on the role of prayer and religious devotion. Even the Journal of the American Medical Association (JAMA) is yielding ground. In November 1998, for example, JAMA devoted its whole edition to Alternative Medicine. The list of our teachers in Alternative Medicine is too long to mention here. There are Dr. Paul Bragg and his daughter, Patricia. Nigerians who enjoy the Bragg brand of Apple Cider Vinegar (with Mother) will appreciate them more if they read about them from their books and other writings. We cannot forget Dr. F. Batmangheliay, author of YOUR BODY’S  MANY CRIES FOR WATER and YOU’RE NOT SICK, YOU’RE ONLY THIRTY. From detention in an Iranian concentration camp, he discovered in  the absence of drugs that water could cure many ailments. There is Dr. Emoto of Japan. He taught us that water responds to our emotions and that, because our body is about 75 per cent water, our emotions have serious effects on our biochemistry and health. Thus, anger, unkind words, dark thoughts,  moodiness e.t.c are depressing whereas hearty laughter cleanses dross and is uplifting. Dr. Jenson cures his patients with fruit and vegetable juices. William Dufty wrote SUGAR BLUES. Any-one, who reads it and loves himself or herself will not touch table sugar with a long pole. Dr. Herbert M. Shelton wrote FASTING CAN SAVE Your life. It shows how the body consumes degraded tissues during a fast. Dr. Devendora Vora, who has just passed on, wrote HEALTH IN Your hands. The book teaches how diseases may be cured with simple, gentle pressure on the “switches” of organs connected on certain parts of the body. The pH MIRACLE comes from Dr. Robert O. Young and Shelley Redford Young. There is FISH OIL, THE NATURAL ANTI-INFLAMATORY written by Dr. Joseph C. Maroon and Dr. Jeffrey Bost. There is a series. … HERBS THAT HEAL, FOODS THAT HEAL and VITAMINS THAT HEAL by J.H. Bakhru. There is how TO KEEP SLIM, HEALTHY AND YOUNG WITH JUICE FASTING by Dr. Paavo Airola. WITH grateful thanks to these researchers and physicians, we can sit back today and evaluate their work and sacrifice in terms of the impact it has had on the United States and Europe, changing the preference of mankind from man-made medicine to Nature-made or Natural medicines. According to the National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine (NCCAM)  “more than 42 per cent of Americans use Alternative medicine to address their health and wellness concerns,” says www.energymedicineuniversity.org. it adds: “The budget for NCCAM rose from two million dollars in 1993 to $50million in 1999. In addition, Americans spent more than $28 billion on these therapies in 1998, exceeding out of pocket spending for all US hospitalisations. The Journal of the American Medicine Association reports a 48.3 per cent increase in total visits to Alternative Medicine practitioners between 1990 and 1998. A 1994 published survey revealed that more than 60 percent of doctors from a wide range of specialties recommended Alternative modalities to patients at least once. The same study also reported that 48 per cent of those doctors used Alternative modalities themselves. Nearly 85 per cent of US medical schools offer elective courses in Alternative and Complementary Medicine or include it in required courses. In 1993, the New ENGLAND Journal of Medicine reported that more than 34 per cent of Americans have used some form of Alternative Medicine. A 1998 follow-up study showed that this figure increases to 42 per cent of all Americans. “A ground breaking move  was made by American Board of Holistic Medicine (ABHM) in December 2000: the first ABHY Board Review of Holistic Medicine. The art , science and practice of holistic medicine was presented in Denver, Collorado. Approximately 200 MDS sat for the ABHM examination”. The website provides the details of where the proceedings are expected to journey from there. Once again, thank you, all my teachers.