Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on Tuesday inaugurated state wide campaign committee for his re-election on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party(PDP) ‎with Engineer Bello Suleiman as chairman of the main committee. He said the party was fast strengthening its popularity ahead of forming government at both state and federal levels. ‎Tambuwal while inaugurating the committee at the conference hall of the newly commissioned International Conference Centre, Sokoto said the party would through the various sub-committees would engage in campaigns to every nook and cranny to persuade and attract people’s support for the party ahead of 2019 polls. According to Tambuwal” PDP remain a platform for people with focus, resilience and accommodating. “Our party is an all-inclusive platform for both young, old, youth and women.” The governor however, seized the space to dispel rumour going round he was on a 40 day leave. “I have not embarked on any leave. I am in Sokoto with you. I am not going anywhere‎. “I want all and sundry to know that my life and survival are in the hands and control of God”, he stated. Also speaking, former Governor Attahiru Dalhatu Bafarawa noted that the massive support being enjoyed by PDP in the state was a reflection and result of Tambuwal’s untiring efforts. Bafarawa who contested the ‎party’s presidential ticket alongside Tambuwal said the party would continue to move from strength to strength adding” we have no other dependable platform and overwhelming support of large followership than in PDP. “I urge every one of us in the state to be committed to our 2019 dreams and rally support  for Tambuwal and his running mate as well our presidential candidate, Atiku‎ Abubakar for victory.” Earlier, Alhaji Ibrahim Milgoma, state PDP chairman observed with joy the large crowd of followers describing it as a good omen for the party’s candidates at all levels. “We are resilient towards our dream of emerging victorious”, he pointed out. Meanwhile, those in attendance include Deputy Governor Mannir Dan Iya, former deputy Governor, Mukhtari Shagari, Alhaji Ummaru Kwabo A.A, the state SSG, party leaders, members of the state executive council‎ among numerous others.  