•Ex-governor to return for trial Nov. 30 Former Abia State Governor Orji Uzor Kalu has hailed Nigerians who have shown concern about his health condition as he recuperates from a medical procedure in Germany. He also reaffirmed his respect and faith in the judiciary, declaring that members of the Bench deserve respect and that their decision in court “must be respected until set aside at a superior jurisdiction”. Kalu said: “I have the highest respect for the personnel and processes of our judicial system. Indeed, I’m a faithful adherent of the dictum, which states that ‘no height is high enough to stand on to disrespect the judiciary and no depth is deep enough to be used as an excuse for such dishonour.'” The ex-governor underwent a successful surgical operation in Germany last month. His absence in court, following the medical treatment, had caused Justice Mohammad Idris of the Federal High Court to revoke his bail. In a thank you letter from Wiesbaden, Germany, Kalu expressed thanks to President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, former heads of state and People’s Democratic Party (PDP)  presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar for identifying with him over his health condition. He also thanked All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole and his People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Grand Alliance (APG) counterparts, Uche Secondus and Victor Oye and others for reaching out to him on his hospital bed. Apparently reacting to the revocation of his bail by Justice Idris over his absence in court as a result of his medical treatment in Germany, Kalu said: “All right-thinking citizens must condemn reckless commentaries on social media or the pages of newspapers that potentially threaten these ideals. Any inappropriate commentary on the decision of Justice Mohammed Idris to revoke my bail is not acceptable to me and should be discontinued, irrespective of the positive dispositions of the propagators towards me. “The highest demonstration of affection or loyalty to me will best be measured by the degree to which this admonition is heeded. Our judges deserve unqualified respect and the sanctity of their decisions must be respected until toppled at a superior jurisdiction.” Explaining his absence in court, he said before he travelled for medical treatment, he notified the relevant authorities, while expressing his commitment towards the conclusion of his case. Said he: “I ensured adequate notifications were delivered and acknowledged by the relevant organs before travelling with my wife for my medical treatment in Europe. Unfortunately, the court case involving my humble self and others, which was adjourned sine die on the last date on which the matter came up for hearing, was subsequently listed for hearing on a new date, which conflicted with the already scheduled critical surgery appointment.” He said he had, on three occasions, postponed such “medical appointments in order to present myself in court”. “I had always placed this matter over and above all other personal considerations because defending my personal integrity and uprightness supersedes all other personal interests,” Kalu said. Saying that it was expedient he travelled for the medical treatment, Kalu said:  “However, my deteriorating health condition and the emergency status it assumed made it absolutely imperative for the doctors to insist on carrying out the necessary medical procedure without further delay.” On his commitment to the court processes relating to the fraud case instituted against him and others by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Kalu said of 64 court sittings he had attended 62, saying his absence in the last two sittings was due to critical ill health. Kalu gave notice of his resolved to return to Nigeria to comply with the court order revoking his bail. “I will, therefore, return to Nigeria on the 30th of November, 2018 before returning to Germany on 10th December, 2018 and 22nd January 2019 for further medical examination,” he said.