The Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN) has sealed up 326 pharmacies and patent medicine vendors shops in Niger state for not meeting up to the requirements of the council. The Director, Inspection and Monitoring, Pharmacist Anthonia Aruya said 17 pharmacies and 309 patent and proprietary medicine vendors shops were sealed while 19 compliance directives were issued. Aruya said this while briefing newsmen in Friday after a one week monitoring exercise by the Drug Distribution Inspection Committee (DDIC)  to pharmacies and patent medicine vendors across Niger state. She said that not all the sealed premises were illegal outlets as some were sealed for non-renewal of licenses while others for violating the scope of practice. Aruya revealed that stakeholders in Niger state engage in the sale of medicines with complete disregard for laid down guidelines put in place. “Adherence to approved scope of practice in terms of training and approval was largely non-existent as people without requisite knowledge or skills to handle medicines in their facilities abound. Improper handling of controlled substances was observed. “Few persons were found to be unable to communicate in English, a situation that could result in a plethora of treatment misadventures with grave public implication. ” The Director emphasized that the council is not out to witch-hunt anybody stressing the need for all pharmaceutical facilities to register and annually renew their licenses with the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria. She added that facilities that are not subjected to regulatory control cannot be guaranteed to offer acceptable services to the public pointing that the integrity of medicines in such facilities cannot be guaranteed to be of the same quality, efficacy and safety as described by the manufacturers. “Anyone wanting to set up a pharmacy or a patent medicine shop must meet with the guidelines and go through the rules. Drugs are like poisons and must be carefully handled. ” Aruya then advised the public to source its drug needs from registered and currently licensed pharmacies and over the counter medicines from registered patent and  proprietary medicine vendors shops warning that drugs sold in unregistered outlets cannot be guaranteed to be genuine.