Director-General of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Brig-Gen Suleiman Kazaure has warned Corps members in the country who will be working as electoral officers during next year’s general election to be neutral while carrying out the all important national assignment. He stated this at the Ebonyi State Permanent Orientation camp, Afikpo while addressing the 2018 Batch C Stream 2  Corps members who are presently undergoing orientation course in the camp. The DG, who was represented by Mrs Victoria Okakwu, a Director in charge of PRS at the National Directorate of NYSC Abuja urged the present crops of corps members to maintain the integrity of the Scheme as the 2014 set who he said did the service proud during the election. He advised the Corps members not to get entangled with politicians as this could affect their ability to carry out the electoral assignment creditably. “You must remain unbiased at all times as you carry out this all important National assignment. Know that the future of the country is at stake and the integrity of the Scheme is also at stake, so you must do everything to ensure a free and fair election come next year”, the DG said. The DG warned that any Corps Member who violates the electoral law will be dealt with accordingly. Briefing the DG, the State Coordinator of the Scheme, Mrs Ann Ibe said that at the end of registration, a total of 1681 Corps members were screened and registered comprising 936 males and 745 females. “76 of the females were either pregnant or nursing babies and so had to be leave the camp after registration either on instant relocation or to their homes within Ebonyi state”, she added. The State Coordinator further informed the DG that 55 Corps members with health issues were released to go home on instant relocation, “Six cases of biometric failure were recorded during the registration process and this has been reported to the ICT Department at the National Directorate Headquarters Abuja”, Mrs Ibe added. The DG later presented cash prices to the dance, karate, band and guard groups for their colourful displays during the event.