The Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) has said Nigeria will get it right when the Federal Government restructures the federating states and allows them to develop at their own pace. Addressing reporters yesterday in Lagos, its Publicity Secretary Yinka Oguntimehin said it is important for stakeholders in the country to raise issues that have direct impact on the development of the nation. The OPC chief noted that Nigerians deserve the right to vote for political parties or candidates who have something reasonable to offer the nation. He said: “Nigeria can only get it right with restructuring. The coming election will definitely come with various challenges and opportunities. Some of the opportunities will be for us to align with the yearnings of the masses on who becomes the President of this great nation and is ready to bring to the table a policy direction that can impact their lives positively. It is also our duty as a group to promote the ideals of restructuring.” The OPC publicity secretary said the beauty of restructuring is all-encompassing, adding that the best would come to Nigeria through restructuring. Oguntimehin said: “It is sad that we are still borrowing money to finance the budget, particularly at a time the elections are about three months away. It is sad that majority of Nigerians are suffering, despite the abundant human and material resources that are abound in the country. “It is sad that Nigerians are suffering at all levels; yet, we need to promote ideals that have human face. That is what restructuring is all about.” Oguntimehin disclosed that the group has no preferred candidates among the various political parties that are jostling for political offices, especially, the position of the Nigerian president, adding that OPC will gladly support candidates that truly believe in the ideal of the group. “We are very much on top of the current situation in the political milieu. We are watching the political developments as they unfold in the country. We believe in the struggle to promote the cultural identity of the Yoruba race. We believe in the struggle to liberate the Yoruba nation as it is being promote consistently by our amiable leader, Aare Gani Adams, therefore, we will never compromise our values as a self-determination group”, he explained .