It’s no longer news that President Muhammadu Buhari is seeking reelection to remain president and commander-in-chief beyond 2019. He has even moved against all odds, challenges and discouragement standing between him and realising the goal. Not even the advice of former President Olusegun Obasanjo early this year could stop him from pushing for his reelection bid. All coast got clear for him to run for reelection when he got the support of members of his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and emerged as the Presidential flag bearer for the 2019 elections. While the February 2019 election is fast approaching, Buhari now has other parties’ candidates, led by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Presidential candidate and former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, to contend with. It is also not news that the President has been enjoying the support of die-hard supporters within the country towards his reelection bid. But what is new now is the supports coming to him from unexpected quarters. This time around, the support for the President is coming from Nigerian youths living in France and other parts of the globe. Although many Nigerians in France and outside Nigeria may not have the power to vote directly for President Buhari in the coming 2019 Presidential election, but they are putting in place strategies and action plans to ensure Buhari retains the number one Nigeria’s political seat in 2019. Part of their plans is to sway the support and votes of their relations, friends and loved ones living in Nigeria for President Buhari during the election. While many of them claimed they have never had it so good like under the Buhari’s administration, some of them have decided to follow up with their relations and friends on telephone and internet to garner the support for Buhari. Others have also decided to physical relocate to Nigeria in the periods leading to the elections to boost support for the President. Speaking with journalists in Paris last week Monday at the end of President Buhari’s interactive session with Nigerians living in France, the Director of Projects for Friends of Nigeria (FON) Europe, Unity Ivongbe, said “I think Mr. President is doing a good job, and the diaspora is also proud of him. “We are constantly in touch with Nigeria and we have a sense of the pulse of the society. They are yearning for more change, they are yearning for more improvement in their welfare, which I think the President is tackling key areas of the society. “Just because change does not happen overnight, there is need for more time so that most of what he is doing can become more pronounced. So, I will just say to the President, ‘Well-done and there is room for improvement.’ “It’s about making people to see that governance and government is not a one day thing. There is need to continue some of the things he started, that hopefully will translate to tangible impact on the people, because the people don’t care about statistics. “We feel the pulse of the society at home because we are very well connected. We are hopeful that things can get better and more people will get dividends of democracy in Nigeria.” he added The Chairman of APC in France, Mohammed Olanrewaju Balogun, spoke further on the new plan to get more votes for the President. “I want to express my appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for what he has done in just three and half years. Honestly speaking, I’m very frequent in Nigeria, it’s not what I read in the newspapers or hear on the television, I’m always regular in Nigeria because I always come for meetings. “We have a lot of changes in Nigeria today and at the same time I can tell you the transformation going on in Nigeria today is what you could never have imagined in the last four, five years despite the price of oil in Nigeria at the time this administration came to power. “Despite selling oil at a cheaper rate today, there is a lot of success story being recorded. Look at the trains, look at the roads, look at the bailouts to states. “These are the things that have not happened in Nigeria before. So the monies allocated to projects are being spent wisely. Today, we are all seeing it and people in diaspora are very very convinced about the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari. “In my last discussions with the France Ambassador to Nigeria, I was asking him what does Brazil has that Nigeria does not have that they were giving Brazilians visas free to Europe. He couldn’t give me an answer but ended up staring at me. “I told him, trust me, after eight years of President Buhari’s administration, Nigerians will come to Europe for free because many of them, by the time they come, they will only come for shopping and they will go back to Nigeria because Nigeria is one of the most vibrant and lovely country on the planet. “This is why I cannot be far away from home. President Muhammadu Buhari has done a lot and we really need to commend him. It is only a blindfolded person that will not see the transformation going on in Nigeria today. “We love him, we appreciate him and we promised that we will do call back home, just like we did in 2015, we will rally round Nigerians in the diaspora, they believe in him. “I can tell you that one person in diaspora can convince at least five people in Nigeria. So, we are using that as our mechanism to make sure that he is reelected in 2019 and the project continues.” he said On his part, the Vice President and co-founder of FON Europe, Abiodun Odunuga, said “We understand that it’s being three and half years or more and he is trying to lay a good foundation for the next four years. The average Nigerians don’t really care about policies, what he cares about is stomach infrastructure. “Development is not a one off thing, and so many foundational steps have been taken in the last three and half years. As long as good progress is being made, we will support change all the way.” he stated Apart from support of those physically present at the interactive session in Paris last week Monday, a website put together by a young Nigerian, Rotimi Edu, based in America for Buhari/Osinbajo reelection was also presented to the President by the Senior Special Assistant on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, who was recently nominated Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the National Diaspora Commission. From the presentation, the website creator disclosed that he will also exploit the YouTube as part of his contribution to the Buhari/Osinbajo campaign. Stressing that the website goes beyond the conventional social media campaign, he said “I believe that this website will give you President Buhari connection to young people in the country and across the world ….. “This will be a source of centralized information to show Nigerians the progress that have been made in the last three and half years under your administration. “It will also be a good platform to show to Nigerians the agenda of your administration in the next four years. This will take your campaign to the next level using social media.” he added By the elections campaign timetable outlined by the electoral umpire, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), these supports are definitely coming at the right time. But the Buhari/Osinbajo camp will also be praying that these diaspora supporters really match their words with actions towards retaining the number one seat in 2019. 