The prospects of athletics in Nigeria were on display at the annual inter-house sports competition of International School, University of Lagos (ISL) with school house dominating the one-day championship held at the Sports Centre, University of Lagos (UNILAG). At a colourful ceremony witnessed by friends and parents of the students, Green House dethroned the defending champion, Congregation House (Purple) with 14 gold, eight silver and seven bronze medals. Registry (Red House) finished second with nine gold, eight silver and 11 bronze medals, while Bursary (White House) placed third with six gold, six silver and three bronze medals. Last year’s champion, Purple House came fourth with five gold, five silver and 13 gold medals, Chancellery (Yellow House) ended fifth on the table with five gold, three silver and four bronze medals, while Senate (Blue House) finished sixth with two gold, 11 silver and three bronze medals. In the march past event, Yellow House amassed 74 points to win gold medal, Green House took the silver with 71 points and Red House gathered 70 points to settle for the bronze medal. In the same event, White House finished fourth with 67 points, Purple House, fifth (66 points), and in sixth position was Blue House (65 points). Speaking at the occasion, the Principal of the school, Dr. M. B. Malik said the essence of the occasion was to help the children discover their talents. “Sporting activities form a very important part of school life. Apart from providing the children with an opportunity to compete with one another, it also gives the school the opportunity to discover new talents. “It is also a time for bonding and friendship outside the classrooms, especially between members of the same house as they plan together to outdo one another in sports and march past. If at the end of the day you lose, that will not be the end of the world, at least you will have the satisfaction of having done your best to represent your house,” he said. Chairman of the occasion, Mr. Friday Ebojoh said aside the fact that sport is good for the health, that there was need for the students to have an overall development, as sports may also give them the opportunity to discover their talents aside academic.