The La Liga Santander said that it is working towards becoming second most popular football league in Nigeria, after the Nigeria Professional Football league (NPFL). The football body revealed this in a media briefing in Lagos, on Thursday. According to the Managing Director, LaLiga Nigeria, Javier Del Rio, La Liga has signed numerous agreements with international organizations with the aim of developing football around the world “Spanish football’s governing body and its clubs aim to develop the local game internationally, while working to become the second most popular competition in each country, behind the respective domestic leagues.”  He said “This operation is based around the following four lines of action: institutional relations, the training of players and coaches, protecting the integrity of the game and social responsibility. “In terms of institutional relations, LaLiga has secured over 30 agreements with federations, leagues and other institutions in countries including the United States, Argentina, Portugal, Nigeria, South Africa, Thailand and Japan. “These partnerships enable the organization to explore potential cooperation schemes and projects involving the sharing of knowledge and ideas,” Del Rio noted. Del Rio further said that La Liga has for three seasons entered into a partnership with the Nigerian Professional Football League (NPFL) that allows both Nigerian clubs gain access to the management of the successful Spanish clubs. The Nigerian U-15 team, according to Del Rio has also benefited from regular the partnership same as the women’s league, the NWFL. He further said that the league “is ready to do more fore Nigeria. We are ready to work with sports grounded  non-government organization (NGO), youth centered societies, the state and federal government inclusive in the bid to give more for all round sport support in Nigeria beyond football.” In another development, the league also announced its partnership with the Lagos Business School to organize and offer sport management courses in Nigeria. The briefing also had in attendance, former Nigerian midfielder, who is curently the ambassador La Liga Nigeria, Mutiu Adepoju, with the league introducing a Fantasy Football App that can be downloaded on google playstore. 