A new e-commerce platform, Wepay, at the weekend in Lagos, said Nigeria’s e-commerce potentials are yet to be fully tapped. The firm said the entire continent still has a lot of space for the money spinning trade called e-commerce. Its Managing Consultant, Akin Kehinde, who spoke with The Nation in Lagos, said there is a new e-commerce wave blowing across the continent which cannot be ignored, adding that as one of the leading adopters of Information Technology (IT), Nigeria cannot be pushed aside. He said: “The recent upturn in e-commerce enterprises across Africa is revolutionising not just the retail market but also businesses in general. The growth potential of this niche, as demonstrated by several e-commerce firms underscores the enormous opportunity untapped in this space. As one of the Africa’s leading IT market, Nigeria has seen a rapid surge in the development of e-commerce businesses. Wepay with our USP (unique selling proposition) will further drive these initiatives. “Wepay as a platform that offers a wide range of products including the latest mobile devices available at cash or credit term payment option driven by a robust credit check technology. We are focused on driving the best customer experience leveraging after sales and support as our expertise in the industry.” According to Kehinde, the Wepay platform was designed to deliver to Nigerians the same world-class services their counterparts in the developed countries of the world enjoy in the area of online shopping. “We have benchmarked our services in line with the likes of Amazon as a world class leader in the e-commerce space. We pride ourselves as a platform that offers a widest range of products including the latest of the mobile devices available at cash or credit term payment option driven by a robust credit check technology. It is our focus on driving the best customer experience that informed our leverage in the after sales end of the business Wepay offer both brand new and certified pre owned devices on the platform, this differentiates us from other existing ecommerce platform,” Kehinde said. Also speaking, its Chief Client Services Manager, Martina Medac, assured that the platform had done its homework to ensure that both the backend and logistics speak to each other for smooth operation. According to Medac, Wepay platform has created a number of various pickup locations or the option to and have these devices delivered to them at their various locations nationwide within the shortest time possible. “We have a robust customer care system driven majorly by the best technology ensuring timely resolutions and effective tracking of results and customer feedback. Wepay will be available nationwide. We are working on that. Wepay is an initiative of BODC Trading and investment Company Limited, our focus is empowering digitalisation in Nigeria with special focus on financial inclusion through flexible payment solutions. General Manager, Operations, Abayomi Fashe, said the firm’s USP is driven by its slogan: “Smarter way to Shop”. He said the platform offers the customers extended warranties of three to six months beyond the manufacturer’s warranty, screen protection insurance, opportunities for device upgrade as well as trade- in programmes and much more. “Extended warranties and after care services that come with the Wepay e- commerce platform to include repairs and maintenance of customers’ devices, free accessories like battery chargers, Bluetooth earpieces, hands-free cords, beautiful device casings, external speakers, pouches, table holders etc. “Our platform will offer the customers extended warranties of three to six months beyond the manufacturer’s warranty, screen protection insurance, opportunities for device upgrade as well as trade-in programmes “The recent upturn in e-commerce enterprises across Africa is revolutionising not just the retail market but also business in general. The growth potential of this niche, as demonstrated by several e-commerce firms showcases the enormous opportunity under tapped. As one of the continent’s leading IT market, Nigeria has seen a rapid surge in the development of e-commerce businesses. Wepay with our USP, will further drive these initiatives,” Fashe said.  