ABOUT three in five cities with populations  of more than 500,000 people are at high risk of natural disaster, a United Nations’ Department of Economic and Social Affairs (DESA) publication has found out.  The information is contained in a just released data booklet titled: “The World’s Cities in 2018″. According to the publication’s findings, 679 of 1,146 cities inhabited by more than half a million people are vulnerable to cyclones, floods, droughts, earthquakes, landslides or volcanic eruptions. Combined, these cities are home to 1.4 billion people–a third of the world’s population. The booklet drew on projections from DESA’s “World Urbanisation Prospects: The 2018 Revision” report and noted the importance of understanding urbanisation trends as being key to implementing SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities). The data booklet offered a definition for the term “city,” distinguishing between administrative boundaries, those delineated by “contiguous urban areas,” and broader metropolitan areas that feature a degree of economic and social interconnectivity. The means of defining a city, it stressed, affects the assessment of its population, with metropolitan areas being home to significantly larger numbers of people than the “city proper” as defined by an administrative boundary. The publication noted that the world’s cities are growing in both size and number, with most megacities–defined as having more than 10 million inhabitants– being in the global South. Nine of the 10 cities projected to become megacities by 2030 are in developing countries. In a news release, lead author of the publication, Danan Gu, DESA, emphasised the importance of cities, noting that urban areas produce approximately three quarter of the world’s economic output. The study, he highlighted, aimed to better understand cities’ vulnerability, in order to both protect human life and limit economic and infrastructural damages from natural disasters. Key to doing so, he added, is ensuring preparedness, good governance and resilient infrastructure. However, these features are more commonly found in cities within high-income countries. Thus, with most of the world’s fastest growing cities being in Asia and Africa, the study revealed a gap, and a need to ensure that cities in developing regions are resilient to natural disasters. DESA’s press release pointed to a recent report by the UN Office for Disaster Risk Reduction (UNISDR), which found that only one high-income territory in the past 20 years ranked in the top 10 for economic losses as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP). 