Pan Nigerian women survive breast cancer?  Yes, was the resounding answer, as  50 women who have had different stages of breast cancer trooped out to share their survival stories. Gathered at the Sheraton Lagos Hotel, Ikeja, the survivors with organisers of the event with the theme:  ‘Celebrating our Pink Heroes’ were the staff of Polaris Bank, and other well meaning personalities, and survivors’ families. According to the bank, the event was in further demonstration of its unwavering commitment to global and national efforts to stem breast cancer among women, and so it has raised its support for breast cancer survivors in Nigeria by hosting 50 of the survivors to end-of-year get-together. Group Managing Director/CEO of Polaris Bank, Tokunbo Abiru said love and care demonstrated to breast cancer patients and survivors have enormous positive influence on their physical and mental wellbeing. Abiru said safety and healthcare are good pillars of Polaris Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), explaining that the bank in partnership with its CSR partner, Care Organisation Public Enlightenment (C.O.PE), would continue to ensure reduction of breast cancer in the country through increased awareness, advocacy and support for both patients and survivors. “For us at Polaris Bank, our commitment to the fight against breast cancer is unwavering. We have consistently demonstrated this by drawing public awareness to the menace in addition to sponsoring free screening for women in conjunction with C.O.PE Foundation”, he said. Represented by Segun Opeke, the Directorate Head, Lagos Business, the Polaris Bank boss said the key objective of hosting the survivors was to afford them an opportunity to publicly share their experience, educate more Nigerians about breast cancer, encourage women living with breast cancer to see the positive side of life, and to demystify the stigma associated with breast cancer. Abiru said, “By coming out publicly to talk about their experience, our survivors and heroes have offered an enduring therapy to all persons currently battling the disease and a re-orientation to those who think it’s a stigma to experience cancer. I daresay that the stigma of death on account of secrecy is indeed worse.” Speaking about the bank’s footprints on breast cancer campaign, the CEO revealed that over the last 10 years, the bank in partnership with C.O.PE has covered four key milestones namely prevention, detection, treatment and advocacy. These include provision of free screening opportunities for over 15,000 women including female staff members of the bank, and the donation of two ultra-modern breast cancer screening machines (LogiQ C2 and Mind Ray Ultra-Sound System) to enhance quality diagnosis and clinical practices. He said others include sponsored treatment of over 30 indigent cancer patients, and the 10-km walk at two different locations within Lagos metropolis with over 2,500 participants to draw public attention to cancer scourge. Abiru, while lamenting the high prevalence of breast cancer in Nigeria, appealed to corporate organisations and other  stakeholders to support ongoing efforts to lessen the burden to the barest minimum.” President/CEO of C.O.PE, Ebunola Anozie said the get-together was a platform to thank God for the life of the survivors and to appreciate Polaris Bank for its support to breast cancer patients in Nigeria. “This year, we decided to bring it here to say thank God and to exchange gifts as well. I also appreciate our sponsors, Polaris Bank; they have been with us for nearly 20 years now. For some time, we had difficulty getting the required support for the women; some of our women used handkerchiefs, some used tissues to fill up their bras. But we thank God for the support of Polaris Bank. They were able to donate prosthesis that ensured they lived better lives”, she said. A breast cancer survivor, Nnenna Obasi, in her testimonial disclosed that she was diagnosed with breast cancer in 2013, and by seeking immediate medical attention and with the support of family and organisations like C.O.PE and Polaris Bank, she overcame the scourge. She stressed the need for early detection and immediate medical attention as well as healthy feeding and healthy lifestyle including staying joyful as important steps to overcome breast cancer scourge. Obasi added that being diagnosed with breast cancer did not indicate the end of life, and commended Polaris Bank and C.O.PE for the support, care and encouragement to get back their life. Chairman of Board of Trustees of C.O.PE Foundation, Prof. Osato Giwa-Osagie, who was represented by a Trustee,  Engr. Dapo Abe, said the organisation was established in 1995 with the vision to reduce mortality rate of breast cancer through advocacy, treatment, research and education. 