The Ondo State Assembly has accused the State Governor, Rotimi Akeredolu of interfering with the legislative functions of the State Assembly over Paris Club Fund recently released to the State. Majority Leader of the State Assembly, Hon. Araoyinbo Olugbenga, while addressing the media at the weekend in Abuja blamed the Governor for inducing selected lawmakers to reorder the 2018 budget solely because of the fund. The lawmaker queried why the State Governor had to use the minority members of the State Assembly including two suspended and allegedly impeached Speaker of the Assembly to hurriedly recall and further passed the state 2018 appropriation. Olugbenga, who spoke alongside the Chairman, House Committee on Information,  Rt. Hon. Olotu Fatai described the act as illegal and such that could jeopardize interest of the state. According to him, the recalled budget was passed by eight lawmakers who were less than two third of the entire Assembly, thus unconstitutional to laws of the state. His Words: “Ondo state people are not incapacitated not to ask deep questions about the Paris club fund after thought explanation. The fact that six members and two suspended and impeached ones presided over the financial matters call for questions. “Minority members cannot reorder the budget so speedily even as government urged and induced them financially to do so. There were spending incurred outside the existing 2018 appropriation law. We asked to be allowed to vet the budget performance for proper accountability in line with rules out the house but the government became jittery.” He alleged further that, “the impeached and suspended leadership have been too compromising against the interest of the masses. All the invasions done to ensure the forceful passage of the governor’s reordering is in direct connection with the NURTW illegal activities within the hallowed chamber”. However, the lawmakers called for the intervention of appropriate authorities and urged the state governor to obey the principles of separation of power in government.