….PDP inciting public against police – APC  The Bayelsa State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of unholy alliance with the police ahead of the 2019 general elections. The state Chairman of PDP, Cleopas Moses, in a statement alleged that the leaders of the APC in the state turned the office of the Police Commissioner, Joseph Mukan, to their operational political base. But the APC in a statement signed by its Publicity Secretary, Doifie Buokoribo, said the PDP was irresponsibly inciting the public against the police. Cleopas, described the office of the police chief as critical to security maintenance and the preservation of state stability, but lamented it had been tainted with political bias in Bayelsa. The PDP Chairman claimed that the conversion of the office of the Commissioner of Police to the security wing of the APC was the first manifestation of the political mission of the Joseph Mukan in Bayelsa. He said the opposition APC in its desperation for political control in the state started colluding with the police chief to weaken the security apparatus in the state for selfish political purposes. Cleopas asserted that the unholy alliance between the commissioner and the APC culminated in an upsurge of cultism in the state. He said that the action of the police boss was not unexpected as he was sent to the state to prosecute a dirty political assignment which he stressed would be resisted by the Bayelsa people. While acknowledging that the Inspector-General of Police has the right to deploy his men, Cleopas queried why Mukan was posted to head Bayelsa State Police Command for a record three times, if there was no ulterior motive. The PDP Chairman said that a police commissioner, whose posting was allegedly influenced by the APC and who identifies with the publicity apparatus of the party’ could not be trusted with the security of Bayelsa. He said: “We made it clear to Nigerians a few days ago that this particular police commissioner was posted to Bayelsa to intimidate PDP supporters to join APC, destabilize the security and stability of the state for political purposes ahead of the 2019 elections. “This unholy alliance, he stressed is fueling the upsurge of activities of cultists who are mainly APC members. “Since he was posted to Bayelsa State, his office has become an annex of the APC headquarters as members of the party have relocated to the command to plan how to destabilize the state by weakening its security. “Nigerians should Note that this particular CP has been transferred to Bayelsa State for the third time, and we as a party wonder why this particular CP out of the many in this country is the preferred commissioner for Bayelsa? “The last time he came he was accommodated by APC leaders in Abuja and Yenagoa, Former Governor Timipre Sylva and the Minister of State for Agriculture, Hen. Lokpobiri.” But the APC, however, condemned the PDP for a serial show of irrationality and fear since the recent posting of a new commissioner of Police to the state. Buokoribo said that PDP took its phobia to an alarming extent of now creating frightening scenarios and plotting “low level fiction” all in an attempt to incite the populace against the police. He described as indecent and reprehensible that a party in control of government and power in the state could be so frightened by a lawful routine security posting, with no evidence of infraction that it would begin to provoke unlawful behaviour among the population. He recalled that not long ago, under the Governor Seriake Dickson government, his personal friend and member of his party, PDP, was posted to the state as Commissioner of Police. The APC spokesman said despite apparent injustices, APC never resorted to PDP’s current attempt to provoke public anger against the police and cause anarchy. He accused the PDP of having something untoward up its sleeves and fearing that the new police commissioner would not condone such. He said: “As usual, the PDP has not provided any evidence to support this low level fiction. We consider it indecent, reprehensible and ungodly for a political party that is in control of government and power at the state to serially incite the populace against the police. “We are in a democracy, and the PDP must know that it has to respect all the institutions of law and order. The PDP cannot decide for the Inspector General of Police whom he should appoint as Police Commissioner in the state. “Except there is something they are not telling us, the PDP is not in a position to say it is only someone they can do business with that must be Police Commissioner in the state. “The PDP is taking its objection to the posting of the new Bayelsa State Police Commissioner, Joseph Mukan, beyond the red lines. It has become a joke taken too far. “The Bayelsa APC is a party of peace-loving people committed to democracy and the progress of Bayelsa State. Like President Muhammadu Buhari, we would like to take the state to the next level. We have nothing to gain in the event of a breakdown of law and order in the state. “We cannot help but wonder with alarm what unlawful acts the PDP plans to engage in this time, which they fear the new Police Commissioner, unlike their friend and party man, would not condone. To us, the new police commissioner is doing very well in the state. “Indeed, we commend him for reaching out to all the critical segments of society, especially the youth, in his attempt to rid the state of crime and criminality. “Similarly, we salute Police Commissioner Mukan for apprehending the suspected killers of Miss Seifa Fred. Fred, a first year student of Niger Delta University, was killed recently in Yenagoa. We call on the people of Bayelsa State to support and cooperate with Police Commissioner Mukan”.