The Nigerian Football Federation, NFF will inculcate the Natasha Akpoti Foundation soccer talent hunt tournament that will further empower the youths through football. NFF President,  Amaju Melvin Pinnick who disclosed this while flagging off the maiden Grassroots Soccer Talent Hunt organised by the Social Democratic Party candidate for Kogi Central Senatorial District, Natasha Akpoti promised that NFF will work towards sustaining laudable soccer talent hunt program organized by the Foundation. Pinnick said the initiative is inline with the federation’s cardinal program to bring soccer opportunity to the grassroot. He further stated that North Central is key to development of football in Nigeria, promised a greater attention towards the region especially with the coming on board of Natasha Akpoti Soccer talent hunt. “This event gives me relief to achieve one of my cardinal objectives of bringing soccer opportunities to the downtrodden. “North Central is key to development of football in Nigeria and I want to appreciate every stakeholders for their continued support to our reelection success, this we will reciprocate with focusing more in developing football from this area”, Amaju said. “I want to come here next year and I believe that in two years time some of your players would be in the U-17 and U-20 national teams as well as the Super Eagles.” On her part, Natasha Akpoti stated that football and sports generally are the strongest tool to empower youths across Kogi State who has amazing skills but remained untapped. “It might interest you to know that every evening young boys and girls take over all the fields across Kogi State to exhibit amazing skills, but they don’t have the opportunity to take their game beyond their communities. It is because of them and many others that this dream is coming true today.” Natasha also reiterated her commitment towards developing abundant talent that have not been exploited in Kogi not only in sports but other areas such as the creative industry.