The ongoing 2018 edition of the All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA), is being broadcast live on DStv and GOtv. The event started on Wednesday, 21 November, and will round off on Saturday, 24 November. A statement by MultiChoice says the festival, which is in its 5th year, is being held in multiple locations in Accra, the new host city till 2020. This year’s main event will be hosted by a trio led by Ghana’s polyglot MC Anita Erskine, Pearl Thusi from South Africa and US-based Ghanaian Actor/Comedian Michael Blackson. The Awards will be screened live on DStv channel 196 to all DStv customers and on channel 29 on GOtv MAX and GOtv Plus. DStv customers across the continent can also stream the events live on the DStv Now app on their mobile devices as well. AFRIMA is the biggest music awards show in Africa with participation of over 700 artists across the continent. “MultiChoice is proud to use the power of entertainment to connect our customers across the continent. We believe by sharing the magic of this award ceremony and its allied events with the world, we will not only be celebrating the rich musical diversity of our continent but supporting Africa’s creative industries into becoming a more vibrant, economic powerhouse,” said Martin Mabutho, Chief Customer Officer, MultiChoice Nigeria. Other activities scheduled include the Africa Music Business Summit – a combination of musical conferences and trade expos which will bring stakeholders in the creative and arts industry together to discuss the business of music in Africa. There is also the AFRIMA Music Village, a music concert and cultural festival which will be aired live to millions of African music lovers across the globe via a network of over 80 broadcasters. The AFRIMA Music Village will witness live performances from African artists like P Square, Shatta Wale, Wiyala, Falz, Diamond Platinum and over 40 more African musical greats. Nominees in the regional and continental categories are battling it out for the coveted AFRIMA 23.9 karat gold-plated trophy. The Regional Category, which consists of Best Female artistes and Best Male artists in the five regions of Africa features 79 nominees, while the Continental Category which honours exceptional work in different African music genres, boasts 260 nominees with both categories making up a total number of 339 music professionals and songs nominated for the 2018 edition of the continental awards. 