President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday swore in the Chairman and 12 Commissioners of the Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He charged them to address all obstacles inimical to the image of the service. The President also enjoined them to tackle issues detrimental to effective service delivery by the nation’s civil service The civil service, he said, must be re-positioned to enable it discharge its assigned responsibilities for efficient implementation of government policies. He said “In recent times government has observed some developments that are inimical to the image of the service and detrimental to efficient delivery of its responsibilities. “The Federal Civil Service must therefore be repositioned to enable it fulfills role in honestly executing government policies. “Considering your respective backgrounds your appointments were predicated on your wealth of public service experience. “I, therefore, have no doubt that you are equipped to reposition the civil service to respond efficiently and professionally to its responsibilities. “In this regard, you must ensure that government’s recruitment drive is conducted in a transparent and fair manner to attract the appropriate capacity of skilled personnel to the civil service while maintaining and motivating new recruits,’’ he said. He stressed that the civil service is saddled with the onerous responsibility to formulate and implement policies and programmes of government through which benefits of governance are delivered to the citizenry. He said the civil service had remained a central institution to any government and the engine room for helping the executive to deliver good governance. “It must therefore put in place a sound system for appointments, promotions and discipline of personnel that will respond to the direction of government,’’ he added. President Buhari reminded the chairman and the commissioners of the three cardinal objectives of his administration, which he said included security, improve economic and fight against corruption. He, therefore, charged them to support initiatives aimed at delivering on these and shun practices that run counter to the delivery of the set objectives. He congratulated the chairman and the commissioners for their appointments to perform roles most critical to the success of the government. The chairman of the FCSC, Alhaji Yakubu Ingawa, who spoke to State House correspondents after the swearing in ceremony, pledged that the new members would discharge their responsibilities diligently. Those sworn in along with the chairman included Mr Moses Ngbale from Adamawa; Waziri Ngurno from Borno; ; Aminu Sheidu fromKogi; Simon Etim from Akwa Ibom andBello Mahmoud from Jigawa. Others were Ahmed Sarna from Kebbi; Iyabode Odulate-Yusuf from Ogun; Shehu Danyaya from Niger; Fatai Adebayo from Oyo; Ejoh Chukwuemeka from Anambra; Joe Poroma from Rivers and Ibrahim Mohammed from Kaduna.