  The Registrar of Joint Admission and Matriculation Board(JAMB), Prof Ishaq Oloyede has declared that a sustained war against corruption and corrupt practices could free the nation’s resources for rapid investment and development. Oloyede said he was particularly shocked that the examination board, JAMB,  could generate as much as N9bn into the coffers of the federal government, an indication of how far the nation could go if corruption tide is stemmed. The JAMB Registrar disclosed this on Tuesday while delivering the 10th convocation lecture of the Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ijagun, Ogun State. Oloyede recalled that when the then Finance Minister, Mrs Kemi Adeosun, called him on phone to say the board should be able to generate N200m or N300m, he said he was initially frightened because of the  past record of JAMB on remittance. Speaking on the convocation lecture  titled: “For Whom Much Is Expected, Enough Should Be Given: Making A Case For Nigerian Teacher,” he identified corruption as one strong impediment to having sufficient resources to move the country forward. He said: “In terms of corruption I have seen how very wicked we are against one another in this country. I don’t even respect many people with big cars because I have information about them. “After my appointment, the Minister of Education called me and said from information available you should be able to generate N500M for the federal government. “The former Minister for Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun who is also from Ogun State also called me and said your office should be able to give us N300M or N200M. I was really wondering how this was going to work given the past record of JAMB. “I am however surprised that JAMB had N9bn left for the federal government. In fact, I could not sleep, I will again go and check to ensure there were no error anywhere. Look at what this huge amount will do to our economy.” He said this informed why he was of the strongest view that the ongoing fight against corruption must be sustained and supported by all Nigerians to get things working again in the country. Prof Oloyede described President Muammadu Buhari as man with untainted integrity whose commitment to fighting corruption remained undoubted and should therefore be supported to return the country to path of sanity and progress. The former Vice Chancellor of University of Ilorin described teachers in the country as the worst paid in the world urging government at all levels to address this deficiency for greater efficiency and productivity as no nation rises above its investment in education. He said: “Education is everything as without it there is nothing. It appears evident that we may continue to drift on uncharted seas as long as society pay pittance to its moulders, the teachers. It is high time we paid attention to the goose that lay the golden eggs because for whom much is expected, enough should also be given”. Earlier, the Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof Abayomi Arigbabu. disclosed that the institution produced  2,723 graduands at its 10th convocation including 256 postgraduate degrees in various disciplines. Arigbabu added that of the graduands,  23 of them made the  First class list.