The Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development has organized a training program for over 200 farmers across the 44 Local Government Areas of Kano State on Good Dairy Practices.  The 2-day training which began on Wednesday in Kano was organized in collaboration with a private firm, L&Z. Declaring the training open, the Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Agriculture, Dr. Abdulkadir Mu’azu said it was aimed at improving productivity in the livestock sector in the country.  The Permanent Secretary was represented by the Assistant Director, Commercial Ruminant and Dairy Production of the Ministry, Mr. Hakeem Bolaji. He added that the participants would be trained on how to improve the milk productivity of their animals, and improve their knowledge on the kind of food and drugs to give their animals during the dry season.  “At the end of the two day training, the beneficiaries are expected to pay attention to learn more on the modern way of livestock productivity”, he added. Earlier in his remarks, the Kano State Director of Livestock and Poultry Services, Alhaji Uba Yusuf commended the Federal Government for choosing Kano to benefit from the initiative, and efforts in supporting Agriculture and livestock sector.  According to him, livestock plays a vital role in providing food in form of animal protein, employment and income generation and income generation. He noted that the growing Nigeria’s population means that the “demand for livestock products such as meat, egg, Dairy, and leather will subsequently increases correspondingly to population rise. “In view of the above, therefore, the urgent need to increase animal production cannot be overemphasised.”   According to him, several Government interventions to turn Agriculture to business have yielded meaningful results, likewise the bold steps taken in making Nigerian Dairy sector a profit making industry.  He explained that in order to derive benefits and take full advantages of government economic diversification, stakeholders must be abreast with issues, gaps, existing challenges and mitigation approach in the sector.  “It is in this regard that the Federal Government in pursuance of its statutory mandates continue to build capacity through trainings, workshops and seminars across the geo-political zones of the country”, he said.  In an interview with NAN, one of the participants from Doguwa Local Government Area of the state, Malam Haruna Mu’azu commended the federal government for the training. According to him, at the end of the training, the participants including women are hoping to improve the productivity of their livestock through adoption of modern methods. NAN