The 2019 presidential election may still be more than two months away, but it has brought the peace of two prominent Nigerian families under severe threat. It is not the best of times for former Nigerian President, Gen. Olusegun Obasanjo, and his erstwhile spokesman, Chief Doyin Okupe, as both are on the verge of losing the loyalty of their children on account of the second term ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Obasanjo and Okupe are pitted against their sons, Olujonwo and Ditan, as they root for the success of former vice president and presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Their two children, on the other hand, have not only publicly declared their support for Buhari, they have vowed to join the sitting President’s campaign train and work very hard for his re-election. Never since the days of David and Absalom has the power and influence of a father over his son been so openly challenged or rebuffed. Yet it is a kind of humiliation the two fathers rarely deserve, considering that they have paid their dues not only as politicians but also as statesmen. Obasanjo, a major actor in the civil war that threatened to tear Nigeria apart between 1967 and 1970, a former head of state and former president, has already suffered enough embarrassment from family members after the stinker of a book his eldest wife wrote on him and the widely reported allegation by his eldest son that he slept with his wife and so was responsible for the collapse of his marriage! Okupe, a medical doctor by training, has found so much fulfillment in politics as a former presidential spokesman, former senior special assistant to the President and former governorship aspirant that he may now not be able to recognise a syringe. Losing the love and loyalty of his son to a presidential candidate outside his own political camp is the least he deserves after sacrificing his profession for governance. The tag of a bastard he brought upon himself in the run-up to the 2015 presidential election should not be compounded with the loss of his son’s attention. Apparently haunted by the wrongs he might have done his son in the past, Okupe was reported as saying that Ditan’s decision to canvass support for Buhari while he, the father, remained at the forefront of the campaign for Atiku’s presidency was a deliberate act aimed at taking his own pound of flesh. Happily, the young man has declared that he has a larger heart than his father imagines. Hence, his support for Buhari has nothing to do with whatever differences existed between him and his father but a decision that was based strictly on patriotic fervour. Ditan, who said he decided to pitch his tent with Buhari because he is the kind of leader Nigeria needs at this point, has since followed up his hand of fellowship with a public appeal to his father, asking him to channel his energy to drumming support for Buhari instead of Atiku. In a post he published on his Twitter handle, Ditan said: “I have said repeatedly that my decision was not based on revenge. I’m not even sure if my father is officially a PDP member or if he is actually on their campaign, but I will like to give my father @doyinokupe who I love, an open invitation to join the winning team now.” Both Obasanjo and Okupe should count themselves lucky that their sons have laid their hearts bare in the matter rather than act like the children of a polygamous headmaster of a primary school in one of the northern states who contested a councillorship election some years ago. At the polling unit where five of his wives and 16 of his children voted, the man recorded only eight votes. Burning with rage at the realization that some of his wives and children had betrayed him by voting for rival candidates, he summoned a meeting of all the family members, seeking to know who the traitors were. But when he asked the family members who voted for him to raise their hands, it was everybody that did! Unfortunately, the poor man had no way of verifying members of the family who voted for him or those who did not, because it was secret ballot. Disappointed and confused, he resorted to raining curses on his wives and children who did not vote for him during the exercise. But that notwithstanding, a major pillar of Yoruba culture, which borders on a child’s obedience to his father will be exposed to danger if the examples of Ditan and Olujonwo are allowed to catch on. That is why all the elders of Yorubaland must come together as a matter of urgency to address this clear and present threat to the very foundation of their culture. The two elder statesmen must be reconciled with their children either by asking the children to join their fathers’ camp in keeping with the dictates of tradition or asking the fathers to join their children’s camp for the sake of good thinking.