Three secondary schools in Cross River State on Thursday received the Endowment Book Fund Prize worth $5, 000 from the West African Examination Council (WAEC) for emerging the best at the 2017 West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE). The schools were Assurance Community Secondary School, Obubra, who came first; Hillcrest College, Calabar, the runner up; and Federal Science College Ogoja that came third. Also the three best candidates in the WASSCE for School Candidates, 2017, in Nigeria were honoured with the National Distinction Awards accompanied with cash prizes. They were Miss Isabelle Irabor (1st), Miss Favour Etuonuma (2nd) and Miss Adenike Adedara (3rd) Chairman of the Nigeria National Committee (NNC) of the West African Examination Council, Dr (Mrs) Lami Amodu at the formal opening of the 56th Annual General meeting of the Committee in Calabar yesterday said the awards were not based on academic excellence alone as the winners were also found not have been involved in any form of examination malpractice duding the examination. Also, 14 members of staff of the Council in Nigeria, who have served meritoriously for 20 years without blemish, received Long Service Awards. Amodu said the awards were the Council’s way of expressing appreciation and gratitude to dedicated staff, who contributed to the Council’s success and growth, without compromising their integrity. She said the Nigeria National Committee is the highest policy-making organ of the Council in Nigeria. Amodu disclosed that the Council has deployed a new technological solution called Item Differential Profile to tackle the menace of examination malpractice. “Nigeria National Office in particular has taken Information and Communications Technology to improve its service delivery. These, among others, include the online registration of candidates for both WASSCE for School Candidates and private candidates. This development has enabled the Council in Nigeria to achieve 100 per cent migration from paper based to electronic based enrolment of candidates for its examinations. The deployment of Quick Response Code on our certificates, thereby making it impossible to falsify certificates issued by the Council,” Amodu said. Head of the Nigeria National Office of WAEC, Mr Olu Adenipekun, appreciated the support and cooperation received form the government and people of the state in hosting the meeting.