Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) Lagos Central Area Comptroller Lateefat Olaitan Giwa is dead. She is 48. The late Giwa died in her Luck Fibre, Ikorodu, Lagos residence yesterday morning, 44 days to her daughter, Hameedat Oyindamola’s Nikah,  (wedding). On October 4, she sent her daughter’s wedding invitation message to her colleagues, friends and family members. The message reads: “Dear Sir/Ma, I humbly invite you to the Nikah and Engagement Ceremonies of my daughter as she is joined in Holy matrimony on 15th December 2018. Venue @Ikorodu Town Hall. Time: 10am Islamic Time . Aso – Ebi is available on request.  God bless you!!!  Ire – Ayo, a kaari waa oooo. Invitation (card) will follow later.” According to LASTMA Public Relations Officer Hassan Mahmud, the late Giwa was full of life throughout Wednesday in the office till early Thursday morning when death came calling. “Giwa like others before her has gone back to her creator, Allah, and her journey in life came to an end at the age of 48,” he said. Many who gathered for her internment in Ikorodu around 2pm were shocked when her remains were brought out for Janazah (prayer for the deceased). The late Giwa’s remains were wrapped in white clothes. She attended Holy Child College, Obalende and bagged Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Bio-Chemistry and Master in Transport Management from the Laos State University (LASU). She joined Lagos State Government as a scientific Officer II in 2000 before she was seconded to LASTMA, the same year as one of the agency’s founding members. She was once Head of Operations Olowu Zone, Area Commander Ikorodu before she rose to the position of Area Comptroller, Lagos Central. The position she held till her death. LASTMA’s General Manager Olawale Musa described her as a dedicated, loyal and committed officer. Musa said she will be missed by all. According to him, Giwa’s death has created a vacuum that will be difficult to fill, “especially now that all hands are on deck to maintain sanity on our roads.” He prayed to Allah to grant her soul a place in paradise. The LASTMA chief commiserated with the deceased’s family and prayed that God give them the fortitude to bear the “irreplaceable loss.” LASTMA Chief Executive Officer Chris Olakpe, a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), described the late Giwa as a seasoned professional and committed traffic officer with quality leadership skill. Olakpe said she has made her mark in life and left a footprint in the sand of time. The LASTMA boss urged colleagues and family members to solace in the fact that she lived a worthy and fulfilled life. The late Giwa was survived by widow, Lukman Giwa, children and grandchild. 