It is bad enough that the Owerri-Port-Harcourt Road, which once took about 45 minutes to drive from one end to another, now takes four tortuous hours. Worse, hapless commuters are often robbed, raped and kidnapped few kilometers from an army facility. OKODILI NDIDI reports It was once a smooth stretch. Heading Port Harcourt from Owerri, you arrived in the oil city in 45 minutes or one hour, at worst. Those were days of bliss. There was hardly a robbery incident, and certainly no kidnappers waiting to pull you into the thick bush and ask for ransom. Not anymore. Despite the feat celebrated in the fight against kidnapping in the Southeast by security agencies, the menace is far from over these days. In fact it has taken a disturbing dimension in the last few months. Daredevil kidnappers have devised new tactics of abducting their victims. Now they operate a notorious den located in one of the thick forests along the Owerri-Port Harcourt Road, turning it into one of the most dangerous routes in the entire Southeast. A journey to Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, on the Owerri-Port Harcourt Road, which of course is supposed to be the shortest route, is now a nightmare. Commuters that ply that road often end up in the den of the kidnappers. The modus operandi of these men of the underworld is to divert vehicles and the occupants into the bush where they are robbed, raped and kidnapped for ransom. Investigations by The Nation revealed that the kidnappers who are often armed with sophisticated weapons often lay ambush at a particular failed portion of the road around Nkaraha in Ohaji-Egbema Council Area of Imo State, a border community from where they pounce of vehicles that slow down to navigate through the bad spot. The route is not only prone to criminal attacks but has also become a vicious death trap for travellers as a result of condition of the road, which has been abandoned by successive contractors. In the last three months, no fewer than 40 travellers were kidnapped along that stretch of road including five members of the National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) who were travelling to Rivers State from Ondo State for their orientation. Other victims were a serving local government chairman in Anambra State and his son (names withheld), a female Magistrate in Imo State (name withheld), church choristers who were travelling to Port Harcourt for a programme, a lecturer in the Imo State Polytechnic and his wife, among other victims. The high rate of kidnapping and armed robbery on the route may not be unconnected to the spillover of criminal activities perpetrated by militants who were operation in the creeks of Imo and Rivers state before they were dislodged. Majority of the unrepentant militants have found a safe haven in the forest around the Port Harcourt-Owerri Road. Another factor that may have contributed to the rise in criminal activities along the road is the deplorable condition of the 80km road. Before the road collapsed, it took between 45 minutes to one hour to drive from Owerri to Port Harcourt but now it takes an average of four hours to make the trip. At various points along the road, articulated vehicles that have broken down are abandoned, increasing the risk factors. Several lives have been lost in ghastly motor accidents on that route as a result of the poor condition of the road. The Commandant of the Imo State Command of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Kayode Aremu said that the Command has locally improvised means to control traffic and reduce speed on the route to ensure that accidents are avoided. He said, “We have done road audit and identified possible crash points and we have posted our officials permanently on those identified points to ensure that road users do not infringe on the places. We have also reported the result of the road audit to the authorities to ensure that palliative repairs are carried out on the failed portions. We have also flagged off the ember months’ campaign where motorists were enlightened to take caution at this particular time.” The risk is even higher at night. It is a near suicide mission to embark on a journey through that road any time from 7pm. These criminals usually dressed in military camouflage often mount roadblocks to deceive travellers who mistake them for security men. Most confusing is the fact that the 34 Artillery Brigade of the Nigeria Army Obinze is just few kilometers from the ambush point, in addition to various police checkpoints that are scattered along the road. When contacted, the acting public relations officer of the 34 Artillery Brigade Obinze, Lieutenant I. M. Bawa said that the Army is on top of the situation. He said, “The Army is on top of the issue, action has been taken, soldiers have been deployed. If you travel through the road now, you will discover that we have up to six Army checkpoints on that road alone. The soldiers have been directed to thoroughly check every suspicious vehicle and to act fast when they discover anything”. Assuring that the situation will soon be arrested, Bawa said, “The hoodlums will be dislodged very soon but the major challenge is that the people don’t inform us on time when the kidnappings happen so that we can act quickly. There is no way we can know what is happening between the checkpoints unless we are told. We have commenced the enlightenment of the people on the need to come forward with credible information that will the Army arrest the hoodlums but very soon it will be over, even before the yuletide”.