Practitioners and critical stakeholders in the Nigerian marketing industry have been advised on the need to weave local stories into marketing campaigns for lasting effect on the consumers Delivering the keynote speech on the Power of Storytelling at the 2018 edition of the Advertisers Association of Nigeria (ADVAN) annual awards for Marketing Excellence, renown filmmaker Femi Odugbemi said the act of marketing and storytelling are interwoven as both are working together to tell a captivating story. “A brand must not just tell story, it must speak to things that matter to us, promote education, human growth and development,” Odugbemi noted. Winning brands glowed in the euphoria of the night as the 8th edition of the annual awards held at the Civic Centre, Victoria Island, Lagos, producing winners across categories and brands. The Ultimate winner, Molfix was followed by Indomie and Power Oil as the first and second runners-up respectively. Molfix also carted home three others awards which included winnings in the Experiential category, Digital/Social Media Marketing and in Corporate Social Responsibility category. Hypo bleach won the Innovation category of the award, while TomTom won the Digital/Social Media Marketing category. Other winners at the awards include Power Oil (Corporate Social Responsibility category); Airtel (Campaign of the year); Malta Guinness (Consumer Promotion); and Milo as the winner in the New Brand/Brand Revitalisation category. Similarly, Nigerian Breweries’ Heineken won as second runner-up in the digital/social media marketing while Goldberg became second in the Experiential category and “33” Export came third in consumer promo category. Earlier in her welcome address, the president of ADVAN, Mrs. Folake Ani-Mumuney, said she was happy to see the vision which was birthed 25 years ago wax stronger. She added that the awards for marketing excellence which the association has successfully run for eight editions are designed to reward exemplary marketing initiatives and encourage best practices in the industry. “Setting of standards and benchmarking exemplary marketing is the principal motive behind the establishment of this award. It is an opportunity for brands to shine and show their marketing successes,” she said.