No fewer than 200 widows of fallen heroes of the Nigerian Legion from Anambra State would be empowered by the state chapter as part of activities marking its year’s end celebrations. The Anambra State Chairman of the Nigerian Legion, Major Elder Nwankwo Joseph Ifeanyichukwu, who dropped the hint, said the empowerment was targeted at ameliorating the plight of the widows and to take care of their immediate families. Members of the Legion comprise ex-servicemen, some of whom still render security services to the country in various ways. Many of them help in the fight against Boko Haram, some even killed in the course. Ifeanyichukwu said widows of Legion members would be given grinding and sewing machines, farming tools and other inputs, consumables and cash, among other items. He requested the women in the state to register with them so they would be captured in the exercise. He solicited for concerted effort and financial assistant from both the government and public spirited individuals to carry out the lofty project, which he said, would be held annually. According to Ifeanyichukwu, the celebration which would take place at the Prof. Dora Akunyili Women’s Development Center, Awka, would be declared open by the state governor, Willie Obiano. Lamenting lack of an administrative office for the legion in the state, the chairman further appealed to the governor to approve a land anywhere in the state capital to enable them start building the state secretariat of the Legion. He said, “Non-utilisation of the previous parcel of land allocated to the legion opposite the government house by Group Captain Garba Rufai (Rtd) for the previous administrations of the legion made the state, the only state in the south east that exists without a secretariat. “We need financial support from both the government and public spirited individuals. We want government to improve on their welfare package for us. “We will also want the governor to provide an SUV car for the chairman or replace the Legion’s bus that is now in bad shape and as well, enlist us as one of the beneficiaries of the community project initiatives organised by his administration. “We have given much to the world and nothing should be looked on as too big to be given back to us in return,” he appealed.