Effective implementation of  Child Right Act by key stakeholders would help tame child labour across the country, the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) said at the weekend in Lagos. The agency said it had started intensive advocacy with stakeholders to enhance nationwide domestication and the effective implementation of the Act. Its Director-General, Julie Okah–Donli, said the advocacy include interface with the National Assembly, governors, state Houses of Assembly, the judiciary, relevant professional bodies, diplomatic communities, the media, civil society organisations, international partners and other key stakeholders. She said: “NAPTIP as an agency created by the Federal Government for the protection of children from trafficking, child labour and abuse, has commenced purposeful advocacy across the country on the need to enhance the understanding and implementation of the Child Right Act. “It is sad to note that many individuals, organisations and even a group of people have continued to hide under one form of corporate protection or the other to abuse children. “I just received some concerned youths recently and their testimonies about the level of child abuse and violation by some highly placed individuals were heart breaking.  “It has come to the knowledge of the Agency that even some of our children who were believed to be protected under the custody of revered educational institutions are the worst victims. It was gathered that administrators of those schools have continued to feast on the innocent children at will.” She said the worst scenario is the case of children rescued from some difficult environments due to insurgency who are further subjected to unimaginable level of sexual abuse and exploitation by the very personalities that have sworn to protect them. “The big question that is begging for answer is why is it that when there is a global economic recession and financial crunch, it is the child that is given out to work as domestic helpers and in hazardous places and he or she bears the brunt? Why is it that when there is a sexual desire within the family, it is the child that is sacrificed? This must change,” she said. She said NAPTIP has commenced a nationwide advocacy to drum support for the accelerated implementation and domestication of Child Rights Act across the country. “Already, we have kicked off consultations with stakeholders at all levels. Our operatives have been dispatched to those areas and establishments where the rights of Nigerian children are being taken for granted. These include those confined institutions, quarries, cocoa plantations and other areas,” she said. While calling on policy makers across the country to consider the plight of children when formulating policies, the Director–General called on children to always speak out when abused so that help can come their way speedily.