Leadway Assurance Managing Director/CEO, Mr. Oye Hassan-Odukale, has emerged HR Champion of the year at the 2018 HR People Magazine Award. The award was bestowed on Hassan-Odukale at a colourful ceremony, which held at Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos and was well attended by top HR professionals and leaders across different sectors in the corporate world. Receiving the award on behalf of the CEO, Mrs. Kunbi Adeoti, Human Resources Director, Leadway Assurance described the award as a result of Mr. Hassan-Odukale’s unwavering commitment to the promotion of human capacity development in the organisation. “Mr. Oye Hassan-Odukale understands the need to build a formidable workforce as a critical factor to the success of an organisation. The key lesson for us is that we do not to relent, continue to do more and raise the bar. We must continuously build upon the HR strategy and initiatives that have brought us this far and look inwards to re-invent our drive towards building a unique organisation with fantastic people experience. Employee experience is an underlying factor in our Talent Management Strategy as positive experience and building leaders remains our top priority. “Once we are at this point, you can look back and be rest assured you are making a difference in the life of the workforce, giving them meaning as they whole heartedly achieve company objectives day-to-day,” he said. The award comes on the back of Leadway’s recent recognition as the Best Insurance Company in use of ICT at the 2018 BoICT awards. Leadway Assurance is one of Nigeria’s foremost insurance service companies with a reputation for service efficiency and customer reliability. The organization is committed to bridging the financial protection gap and increasing the rate of insurance penetration in Nigeria. The HR People Magazine is a foremost magazine dedicated to human resources and people development profession in Nigeria and Africa at large. The HR People Magazine Awards is one of their initiatives and celebrates excellence in the HR profession as well as top people, initiatives and strategies that have excelled in various organizations.