Retired senior civil servants in Osun State have offered themselves for further service. They expressed worry about what they called declining and poor quality of service delivery in the public sector. The retired civil servants noted that though this was not peculiar to Osun State alone, their voluntary service to the state would enable it re-invent the civil service. The retired officers, under the aegis of Association of Retired Heads of Service and Permanent Secretaries in Osun State, addressed reporters at the weekend in Osogbo, the state capital, ahead of public presentation and launch of a book. The association’s chairman, Chief Moses Inaolaji Aboaba, said the retired officials were ready to re-invent the civil service to enable it regain its lost glory and move close to what it was in the defunct Western Region. He urged the state government to partner the association, saying though “we might have exited the civil service, we are vibrant and can still be of assistance to any sitting government in the state”. Aboaba added: “Instead of using consultants, who are not familiar with the system, we would support the government with our wealth of experience. The civil service is our constituency and we are concerned about its development-oriented role.” According to him, among the reasons for the compilation, editing, publishing and presentation of a book, titled: The Civil Service as a Cornerstone for Development in The State of Osun – The First 25 Years, is to launch an aggressive but non-violent campaign for efficient and effective service delivery by public servants. He regretted the “intense politicization of civil service in Nigeria,” blaming the development on successive military administrations in power. Aboaba said: “Militant incursion into politics has done so much damage to the civil service. During the Murtala/Obasanjo military era, the civil servants, who had been working with contentment and dedication, were suddenly thrown out of service. It became worse with the Gen. Ibrahim Babangida regime, which turned the permanent secretaries into political positions by calling each of them a director-general. “Some of these situations have whittled down the role of the civil service as an agent of social change and transformation. So, its role as a front desk in the functioning of government’s civil service must be re-invented to claim its lost glory.” The chairman said the book would be presented to the public and launched on Thursday, June 21, at Atlatis Civic Centre on Ring Road in Osogbo with Governor Rauf Aregbesola expected at the event. He said the occasion would be chaired by Prof Olu Aina while the book will be reviewed by Prof Mayowa Oladoyin. The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Eniitan Ogunwusi, is expected to be the royal father of the day. Past military and civilian governors in the state and their deputies are invited to the programme as well as civil servants from Level 12 are to be led incumbent Head of Service to the event.