Osun State Deputy Governor Grace Titi Laoye-Tomori has mourned the death of Sub-Sahara Africa’s first woman chartered accountant, Mrs Grace Titi Laoye-Tomori. In a condolence message, she said: “I received the news of Chief (Mrs.) Olutoyin Olusola Olakunri’s sudden demise with a great shock, albeit in total submission to the will of God. I join innumerable host of other Nigerians’ home and abroad to commiserate with the immediate and the extended families, friends and well-wishers, neighbours and the entire Owo people, who loved her dearly, and onto whom she showed unconditional love. “Although death is the compelling end of all, Mrs Olakunri did not show signs of a woman about to leave for the great beyond, nor exhibited fatigue or reluctance while attending to her usual daily routines. It was, therefore, difficult to imagine that she will be leaving so soon! “While I am sad about the temporary separation, that she has gone to be with her maker, I refuse to grieve, because her life was excitingly fulfilling, and therefore, worthy of all celebrations! “Mrs. Olakunri was a worthy matriarch, an accomplished professional/technocrat, a pathfinder, a mentor, a confidant to many, a pillar of support, a caring family woman and a fervent and devoted Christian activist/soldier for Christ, who served God and humanity in varying capacities in her lifetime. “As a professional, she was a leading light, and she showed the world, dedication, perseverance, integrity and loyalty in service, as she brought her rare leadership, administrative qualities and rich experience of life to bear in the daily administration of the various public institutions she headed at varying times. “She was an epitome of moderation, humility, fairness and her faith, passion for work, diligence and spirit of excellence stood her out among her peers. She led an exemplary life, supremely defined by the virtues of hard work, discipline, honesty, vision, humaneness, love for humanity and faithfulness to the service of God Almighty…” “Undoubtedly, she will be greatly missed, particularly by her husband, Chief Olakunri (SAN), her in-laws and members of her ‘noble professional’ constituency – the Institute of Chartered Accountant of Nigeria (ICAN). “My heart goes out to the immediate and extended family members and I pray that God will grant them all the fortitude to bear this great loss. “On behalf of my family and myself, please, accept my sincere and deepest condolences.”