Organised labour has urged Nigerians to reflect on how the forthcoming general elections could be conducted devoid of violence. Trade Union Congress (TUC) President Comrade Bobboi Bala Kaigama said Nigerians should embrace the virtues of personal sacrifices, piety and self denial. He called for dedication, discipline and diligence. He said the deficiency of these virtues were the fundamental reasons why countries that we were at par with in the 1970s have all left us behind, noting that the time to look beyond all “artificial social, political and economic divisions, including minor ethnic and religious differences in the society is now,” Kaigama said. He implored Nigerians to be patriotic and strictly allow the cardinal principles of their respective religions to reflect in their dealings, as they remain the only way to ensure peace and unity of the nation. “We should exhibit oneness to be able to stand strong together through diverse difficulties and challenges. We must focus on the things that bind us together. That is the new Nigeria we want,” Kaigama stated. Nigeria Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) President Prince Williams Akporeha urged Nigerians to spare a word of prayer for Nigeria in the face of various economic challenges as the campaign for the 2019 national elections gathers momentum. “On our part, we will strive to do everything within our powers to maintain industrial peace in the country while we urge the government and relevant agencies to guarantee fairness, justice and equity on issues that have to do with workers’ welfare,” he said. He, however, called on the Federal Government to ensure that other parts of the harmonised version of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB), which has just been passed by the National Assembly, are speedily passed to help recover and maximise the industry’s operational capacity. The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) President, Ayuba Wabba, noted that in view of the divisive political currents flowing all over Nigeria and mainly driven by irresponsible politics, it is important that Nigerians learn that united in love and sharing, the country stands divided in prejudice and hate, it falls. He said: “As we gradually approach another election year in 2019, we urge all Nigerians to intensify prayers for national peace and work towards a violence free and credible elections. It is our prayer that in the 2019 elections, the will of the electorate will prevail and be respected. “Well, in the midst of harrowing general inflation, Nigerian workers have soldiered on in self-denial, dedication and diligence as partners in the onerous mission of nation building. The government can make workers’ load lighter by quickly approving the demand of organised labour for a New National Minimum Wage,” he said.