 The Federal government has been advised to expand and entrench transparency and rule of law in its fight against corruption. Prof Rotimi Suberu of the Department of Political Science, Bennington College, Vermont, USA gave the charge at a lecture organised by the Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy (ISGPP). He spoke on ‘Constitutional Foundations of Political Corruption in Nigeria and a Reform Strategy.” The seminar was chaired by Prof Ayo Olukotun of the Department of Political Science, Olabisi Onabanjo University, Ago Iwoye, Ogun State. Suberu, in a statement by ISGPP yesterday, said political institutions as drivers of corruption were the most decisive and most amenable to formal constitutional reform. He regretted that these institutions are often neglected in scholarly and policy discussions regarding anti-corruption reform. Suberu suggested that policy measures be put in place to effectively depoliticise, deepen and strengthen the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). He explained that a constitutional amendment or legislation to grant public access to official assets declarations will build upon the initial enthusiasm generated by government’s whistle blower policy; alleviate some of the burdens on the bureau charged with verifying disclosures; and give the public a direct stake in fighting corruption. He also said that there should be a transfer of responsibility for oversight of the FOI Act to a depoliticised and autonomous office of Attorney-General, which should be delinked from the political office of Minister of Justice. Suberu stated that National Assembly has not passed enabling laws to make public officers’ assets declarations “available for inspection by any citizen of Nigeria” as required under the 1999 Constitution, adding that, perhaps, the right of inspection should have been directly and fully guaranteed under the Constitution, rather than subjected to statutory codification. He said: “Code of Conduct Bureau has discouraged publications of assets declarations in the absence of relevant enabling law. “Challenges also plague the NEITI framework, where a presidentially appointed, rather than civil society-directed, National Stakeholder Working Group, has focused on disclosures of revenue payments by oil companies to the government, while giving relatively limited attention to transparency in critical areas like licensing, contracting, revenue management, and planning, and budgeting. “Consequently, the governance of the Nigerian oil sector remains opaque.” In a remark, the Executive Vice Chairman of ISGPP, Dr. Tunji Olaopa stated that corruption in Nigeria’s context was mostly viewed with fiscal lens, adding that: “there is a need to deepen the view by interrogating the issue of political corruption especially as it manifest through the manipulation and exploitation of political institutions.” He said the aim of the day’s seminar was to look at the aforementioned issue as well as how political corruption plays out in the deliberate weakening and violation of the value foundation of political institutions “in a nation where the essence of everything including the meaning of eternity where we would all be at the end of time is politicised.” 