The United Nations (UN), in partnership with Cycology Club, a 300-member non-profit organisation, has marked the first ever International Cycling Day in Lagos. UNIC Lagos Director Ronald Kayanja said the UN declared the International Cycling Day to encourage the use of bicycles as tools of empowerment. He said people including women and youths could use bicycles to move their products to the markets. According to him, in line with the Millennium Development Goal (MDG) 13, the use of bicycles will help to reduce carbon monoxide emission from the massive use of cars as means of transportation. It will also encourage urban cities to create routes for bicycles just as there are for cars. He said the idea was also to encourage young people to embrace the riding of bicycles which was prevalent in the past. Cycology Club Captain Bimpe Olufemi, who addressed reporters after leading members of the club on a bicycle ride in Ikoyi, on Saturday, said it was to promote a healthy lifestyle. “Cycology is a cycling club with over 300 registered members. It was founded in 2011 by a few cyclists to promote cycling as a healthy lifestyle and create awareness on social issues. “Other cycling organisations have been birthed as a result of Cycology, many of which we have strong collaborations with: African Cycling Foundation and Sustainable Cycling Foundation, to mention a few. Together we have worked very hard to deliver aspects of the World Bicycle Day initiatives as stipulated by the United Nations,” Olufemi said. She said the cycling world, which started off as a small community, was fast growing, adding that government bodies were beginning to take cognisance of the development. “There are indicators that suggest ongoing discussions at various levels of government to change the landscape of cities like Lagos, Abuja into environmentally friendly cycling cities. Not only does this make sense financially because of its positive health impact on society, but it also reduces public transportation dependency thus opening up opportunities for growth in rural areas.   