Widely acknowledged brand strategist and vast entrepreneur, Charles O’Tudor is gearing up to hold the second edition of the most anticipated Charles O’Tudor Brand Master Class Season Two (COBM02). The event which coincides with O’Tudor’s 47th birthday is a special birthday anniversary give back to the society and its first edition which held last year had 460 entrepreneurs in attendance. The anticipation and clamour for participation since O’Tudor unveiled plans for the second edition has consistently been on the rise. Just like the first edition, the ‘Charles O’Tudor Brand Master  Class’ will feature stirring and innovative sessions where partakers will be led on how to plan, build and implement a winning brand from brief to creation and implementation.  In one of his social media posts, O’Tudor said the brand master class is for “entrepreneurs who are passionate about growth, who desire real impact and are hungry for improvement. Entrepreneurship has been found to be capable of making greater impact on the economy and nation, the quality of life of her people through economic growth, employment generation and repositioning Nigeria as an emerging economic giant. It’s for these reasons that I have chosen to give back to Nigeria through the CharlesO’Tudor Brand Master Class Series For Exceptional Entrepreneurs”. As part of the build up to the event, some of the speakers have been unveiled and it seems O’Tudor want this year’s participants to learn from other successful world renowned brand strategists. British born Claudine Moore who owns an impressive PR and communications career that spans top global agencies and Fortune 100 brands across multiple markets has been confirmed as one of the speakers.  Claudine has held senior leadership roles in agencies such as McCann Erickson (MRM) and Grey. She was also the US Regional Director, Media, Marketing and Business Development for PR giant, Hill & Knowlton Strategies. Also confirmed as one of the speakers is Musheer Alambert, who has over 12 years of experience in financial industry, working on assignments in North America, Europe, Africa, and the Middle East. Most recently, he led multinational engagement teams to manage audits for the National Bank of Abu Dhabi across its global network, which extends to 150 locations and 18 countries, and has assets over $100 billion. The last but not the least is Nigeria’s Chukwuka Monye, the Managing Partner of Ciuci Consulting and Director General of Delta Economic Summit Group. Chukwuka is an innovation strategist, corporate development and consumer intelligence expert. One of the event’s sponsors, African Wealth Report has also volunteered to sponsor the best five entrepreneurs with the most resounding business plans to Switzerland to gain more skills acquisition. Air Peace will also be giving out five free local return tickets to outstanding entrepreneurs who can distinguish themselves in their chosen fields. Charles O’Tudor has earlier announced that he will be hosting 1007 entrepreneurs this year selected based on viability of their businesses and the submitted rationale behind their desire to be at the ‘Master Class’, after applying online at www.charlesotudor.com/register . The event is scheduled to hold on June 20, 2018 by 10am at The Coliseum, Lekki. Charles O’Tudor is Africa’s premiere brand strategist and engagement consultant. Over the years,  he has enriched the branding landscape with his innovative approach to brand building across all sectors of the economy. An alumnus of the prestigious wits business school in South Africa, he is the Principal Consultant of ADSTRAT Brand Management Consultants, a firm renowned for its out of box approach to brand strategy and engagement. He is an accomplished author, public speaker and thought leader.