The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Monday opposed an application by a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Mr. Dele Belgore praying the Federal High Court in Lagos for permission to attend his daughter’s graduation in the United Kingdom. Belgore is on trial with a former National Planning Minister Prof Abubakar Suleiman and former Petroleum Resources Minister Mrs. Diezani Alison-Madueke (who is said to be at large). EFCC said they “directly took possession of the sum N450million,” adding that they “reasonably ought to have known (that the money) forms part of the proceeds of unlawful act.” It also accused them of “indirectly” using the sum of N450million on March 27, 2015 and making cash payment of N450million, which exceeded the amount authorised by law. Belgore, through his lawyer Mr. Ebun Shofunde (SAN) prayed the court to order the release of his passport to enable him to attend his daughter’s July 4 graduation as a medical doctor from the University of London, UK. The SAN said he also plans to visit his doctor in the UK for a medical check-up in the last week of August. But, prosecuting counsel for Rotimi argued that since Belgore had a pending application urging the court to quash the charges, he had no right to seek favour from the court until his application was decided. He asked: “Can a party challenging the validity of proceedings be asking for favour from the same court?” Justice Rilwan Aikawa adjourned the application, as well the pending one challenging the charge, for hearing. The judge granted Sulaiman’s application to change his counsel from Chief Tunji Ayanlaja (SAN) to Mr. Tayo Oyetibo (SAN). A lawyer from Oyetibo’s law firm, Mr. Olaniran Obele, appeared for Sulaiman Monday. In the nine-count amended charge, EFCC accused Alison-Madueke, Belgore and Suleiman of making cash payment of N10million to a Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) in Kwara State Dr Emmanuel Onucheyo. The commission said they also paid N10million to a Commissioner of Police in the state Garba Saliu. According to EFCC, they allegedly made the payments on March 27, 2015 without going through a financial institution. The sums, the commission said, exceeded the amount authorised by law and violated Section 1(a) and Section 16 (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) (Amendment) Act of 2012 and punishable under Section 16 (2) (b). The defendants were also accused in the amended charge of making cash payment of N61, 656,000 to Isa Biu on the same day, exceeding what is authorised by law. EFCC said they also paid N87, 962,000 to Sola Adeoti and Hajiya Dankaka on the same day “without going through a financial institution.” According to the commission, Mrs. Alison-Madueke, Belgore and Sulieman, on the same day, made cash payment of N50million to one Sheriff Shagaya, an amount exceeding what is authorised by law. They pleaded not guilty. Justice Aikawa adjourned until Thursday for hearing.