An Ikeja Domestic Violence and Sexual Offences Court yesterday heard how a wife caught her husband Folorunso Oluwaseun, 52, sleeping with their daughter on their matrimonial bed. Oluwaseun, a technician, who lives at 30, Popoola Street, Ishawo, Ikorodu was arraigned on the February 8 on a two-count charge of defilement and sexual assault. He pleaded not guilty. Led in evidence by the prosecutor, Mr Babajide Boye, a witness, Sergeant Olakunle Orebe attached to the Gender Unit of the Lagos State Police Command said the victim told the police that her mother caught her father in the act four years after he started sleeping with her. The witness said the woman was not aware of what was going on until 2016 when she caught the defendant with their daughter. He said the woman relocated from Lagos to Ibadan with her other children, a boy and a girl because of the incident. Orebe said when the victim relocated to Ibadan, she started teaching in a school. When Boye sought to tender the statement of the defendant in evidence, the defence counsel, Mr Worer Obuagbaka, objected to its admissibility on the grounds that it was obtained under duress. To untie the knot, Justice Sybil Nwaka ordered a trial-within-trial. During the trial-within-trial, Orebe denied forcing Oluwaseun to write his confessional statement. He said: “I cautioned him before he wrote the statement and I told him he was entitled to legal representation.  After he wrote his statement, I read the statement aloud to him and he affirmed the contents”. Orebe said Oluwaseun was neither handcuffed nor chained when he was brought from Ikorodu to Ikeja. “I did not torture, beat, slap or threaten him, he understood the statement when I read it aloud and he signed it. My superior officer, Abimbola Williams an Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) read the statement again to him and he affirmed making the statement and the superior officer signed,” he said. Oluwaseun gave a different version of how his confessional statement was obtained. Led in evidence by Obuagbaka, he said was in his house when the police came to arrest him. He said on arrival at the station, he was told to respect himself or he would be handcuffed. He said when they got to the Police Command, he was given a paper to write his statement about what happened between him and his daughter. Justice Nwaka adjourned till June 28. 