An Ikeja Special Offences Court yesterday sentenced a 27-year-old man, Raphael Omotayo, to one year imprisonment for impersonating a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN). Justice Mojisola Dada found Omotayo guilty of a one-count charge of impersonation after he changed his plea to ‘guilty’ . The defendant, who was initially arraigned on February 5, by the Economic and financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), had pleaded not guilty. Delivering judgment, Justice Dada noted that an EFCC operative, who led the team to arrest the convict in his house in Egbeda, Lagos on August 27, told the court that laptops, phones and modems were recovered from him. “However, the defendant has changed his plea and I found him guilty and he is hereby convicted accordingly. “The defendant is thereby sentenced to one year imprisonment for impersonating a Senior Advocate Of Nigeria,” Justice Dada said. The sentence, she said, would run from the date of his arrest. Before the judgment, the prosecuting counsel, Mr A.A. Adebayo told the court that the commission amended the charge after the convict entered into a plea bargain. “My Lord, the defendant has decided to enter into a plea bargain and we are in court today with an amended charge. We urge the court to allow him take his plea,” he said. The convict pleaded guilty when the amended charge was read to him. In his allocutus, his counsel Adeniyi Quadri urged the court to be lenient with his client. Quadri said Omotayo has shown remorse, learnt his lessons and resolved to be of good behaviour. “I have had the opportunity to interact with the defendant my Lord, and I can tell the honourable court that he is a changed person. While he was in prison custody, his wife gave birth to a baby boy and he has not had the opportunity to see his child since he was born. I urge Your Lordship to temper justice with mercy.” Omotayo was first arraigned by EFCC for parading himself as a SAN. EFCC also said Omotayo was found to be in possession of some fraudulent documents, where he also claimed to be Michael Blacks. The documents obtained from Omotayo’s computer, EFCC said, revealed that he pretended to be a SAN in order to defraud an American, one Juliet of an undisclosed amount of money. Suspecting foul play, Juliet petitioned the EFCC, which swung into action and arrested him.