Some Badagry residents have threatened to stop paying their electricity bills if they are not supplied pre-paid meters. They staged what they called “No pre-paid meter, No payment” protest to draw attention to the epileptic electricity supply in their area. They said they had been experiencing irregular power supply in  Magbon in Olorunda Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of the state. The Magbon landlords and Tenants Association, comprising about 50 communities from Check-Point to Ile-Epo, Araromi, said members were in “shackles of enslavement.” The Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC), the group said, denied its members pre-paid meters, sent them “outrageous estimated bills” and threatened them with disconnections. The group’s chairman, Adeshina Aribifo, said: “All we need is regular electricity and pre-paid meters to read the amount of power that is consumed. Our mumu don do. We own the wires; we bought the poles and the transformers. We also paid EKEDC a huge amount of money for the installation, yet nothing good has come out of Nazareth. Enough is enough. We are using this medium to tell EKEDC officials that failure to comply with our proposition, they should not come into any of the communities that make up Magbon for disconnection, instead they can disconnect the light from the line fuse.” According to the chairman, the area has about 40 transformers. The association, he said, was prepared to liberate its communities from the exploitation. The national chairman, Alhaji Rilwan Ojora Akinolu, urged EKEDC to be guided by the provision the 1999 Constitution on the billing system. “It is called Methodology of Billing, which means EKEDC officials have to do their rating by either the use of pre-paid meter or a functioning meter, not just by calculating off-hand. Why will a 10-room building using pre-paid meter consumes N5,000 worth of power in a month, while another building without pre-paid meter is billed N20,000, sometimes, N30,000 for the same period?” Reacting, EKEDC District Manager for Agbara Sunday Oyeide said the firm’s position was that any community not forthcoming in terms of patronage would not get pre-paid meters. He implored the community to encourage its residents to pay their bills regularly.