Students are excited by President Muhammadu Buhari’s assent to the Not-too-Young-to-Run Bill. They praise him for keeping his promise to sign the law, which has opened up the political space for youths. Students urging the political class to leave office for youths, writes TEMITOPE YAKUBU. Youths have made a headway in their clamour for political inclusion.President Muhammadu Buhari has signed the Not-Too-Young-To-Run Act, opening the political space for the young to run for public office. He signed the law in line with his Democracy Day promise. The bill, which was passed by the National Assembly, 10 months ago, amended Section 131(b) and Section 65 (a) and (b) of the 1999 Constitution on ages for seeking elective positions. It reduced the ages for contesting for President from 40 to 35 years; and House of Assembly, 30 to 25. It retained the ages of 35 and 30 for the Senate and House of Representatives. The President signed the law in the presence of some youth leaders led by the Youth Initiative for Advocacy, Growth and Advancement (YIAGA) founder, Samson Itodo, and National Co-ordinator, Faruk Ibrahim. The President described the law as “a landmark progress” for the nation, noting that the activism that led to its passage  showed that the youth could achieve anything they desired if they worked for it. He canvassed for additional amendment to reduce the age limits for governors and senators, which were proposed, but not carried. He added that the signing of the law was not the end of the journey, but the beginning of more work to be done in engaging young people in governance. In their reactions, youth and students’ leaders hailed the President for keeping his promise, urging him to replace old people in his cabinet with youths in line with the law. A youth consultant and key figure in the Ondo State chapter of Not-Too-Young-To-Run movement, Oludaisi Omokungbe,  said the law would make young people realise their leadership potential quickly, rather than being referred to as leaders of tomorrow. He said:“It will reduce the level of hooliganism in our politics and bring about increased participation of youths in political process. This is because youths will now have the consciousness that we too can get elected into various political offices in the country rather than being errand boys and area boys for old politicians. “For me, the law comes with a huge responsibility, because we must now live up to expectations as responsible and energetic leaders. It is a call for more actions and we are ready to harness our knowledge and initiate ideas that will engender economic growth and national development.” Oludaisi said he was confident the nation was set to witness a major leadership shake-up in political and economic spaces. Similarly, Comrade Farouk Lawal Umar, the Zone A coordinator of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), said the presidential assent to the bill has reinforced his belief that youths should not wait for the future to be leaders. He, however, said it was not yet Uhuru for young people until they forge a comsis”. The development, he said, has presented an opportunity for the youth to become more active in political process. He said: “It is time we rescued our nation from the hands of the ineffective politicians, who have successfully plunged this country into development crises. For us in NANS Zone A, the Not-Too-Young-To-Run agenda can only be effective when we support the revolutionary ideas of young people who are vying for various political offices. Our objective can only be achieved if we shun money politics and support credible, tested and competent youths to take up leadership of this country.” Also speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, Comrade Chuks Obele, Special Assistant to Anambra State Governor on Students’ Matters, said the law has pulled down “key hurdle” preventing the youth from joining politics, noting that it would give young people opportunity to bring their wealth of knowledge to bear in governance. According to the former NANS leader, the law should be an opportunity for youths to stand together and leverage their population to cause fundamental change in political leadership. Obele said: “This is a wake-up call for students to shun cultism, thuggery and violence in their daily lives; this law has given us a responsibility to be active in politics and stop being used as thugs to derail our democracy. I appeal to political parties to give the much needed support to young people interested in contesting for political positions.” To Comrade Godson Okereke, NANS Zone B coordinator, the signing of the bill into law by President Buhari was timely and will serve as political awakening to young Nigerians. “It has, to an extent, stirred up the consciousness of youths and students in area of seeking elective offices, but that is not enough because majority of young people are financially incapable to execute political campaign, even though we are excited about the bill,” he said. Godson believed that the government was insincere in its approach to open the political space for the youth, noting that the president and most of state governors had failed to appoint youths within the new age limit into their cabinets. He said: “Personally, I believe the new law does not have the political will required for youth participation in governance. The only way I can be sure that this move is sincere is when we start seeing the president and governors appointing young people into sensitive positions. “As women are given certain percentage to balance gender equality, let the youths also be given this opportunity. It is only then the Not-Too-Young-To-Run agenda would be highly productive and meaningful. I am excited that age is no longer a hindrance against young Nigerians, but we must be sincere as a nation if we really want the young to contribute meaningfully to governance.” Former Senate President of the National Association of Polytechnic Students (NAPS), Comrade Lukman Salahudeen, was of the opinion that the law should naturally make old politicians retire and leave the space for young people. He said the present crop of politicians are bereft of ideas and innovation to lead the country in modern times, saying opportunity should be given to the youth to run the country. He said: “Having witnessed five general elections in this democratic dispensation, people would agree with me that the richest candidates get the party tickets and carry the day at the end of general elections. None of the previous elections we have had was never free, fair or credible as history has it that only 1993 election was the last credible election Nigeria held. “Now that we are all qualified to run age-wise, what young people can do to beat the old politicians in their game is to collect their money to gain access to power. The money collected can be used to effect the needed change in our method of governance.” Delta State University (DESLU) Students’ Union Government (SUG) President, Okpako Oghenevwegba, said the bill showed President Buhari’s commitment to the dreams of youths to realise their leadership potential. He said: “This good deed by President Buhari will encourage the youths to employ all positive means to actualise our dreams to be part of political process and governance. We don’t want to be stereotyped as political thugs anymore. We are now partners in nation building.” Sodiq Muritala, a member of the Federal Polytechnic, Ado-Ekiti (ADO POLY) Students’ Caretaker Committee, said President Buhari deserved accolades for signing the bill into law. According to him, the president has demonstrated that the youth should no longer be spectators in nation building. He urged students to support youths vying for elective positions and encouraged them to participate in electoral process. Acting President of the University of Benin (UNIBEN) SUG, Ifeoma Okogwu, described the development as “a democratic victory” for the youth and students. Ifeoma called for caution, noting that development may be a gimmick by President Buhari to regain young people’s support in the wake of the backlash that trailed his recent comment against the youth. Federal University of Petroleum Resources, Efurun (FUPRE) SUG president, Emmanuel Ohanwe, described President Buhari’s intention to sign the bill as “a political strategy”. He asked: “Why should the president sign the bill and still plead with young people to postpone their campaigns till after 2019 election? This alone showed that this is a political gimmick to deceptively project a pro-youth impression which never exists.” Emmanuel advised the government to adjust the cost of buying nomination forms and run political campaign.