Prof. Fola Lasisi of the University of Washington, Seattle, U.S., on Thursday emerged the 10th President of the Nigeria Academy of Engineering (NAE). The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Lasisi took over from Prof. Oluseun Maduka, who served from January 2016. Lasisi, a civil engineer, emerged the president at the academy’s 2018 Lecture and Investiture, in Lagos. The lecture had the theme: ”Current Development in Nigeria’s Water Resources Sector”. Lasisi was the pioneer Vice Chancellor of the University of Uyo, Akwa Ibom, and chairman, Committee of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian universities (1996 – 1997). He was a Senior Consultant, ENPLAN Group and Director, Pilot Finance Ltd. He is a Fellow of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (FNSE), Fellow of the American Society of Civil Engineers(FNIAE), and Fellow of the Nigerian Institute of Management (FNIM). NAN reports that NAE was incorporated as a private company limited by guarantee in September 1997, for the purpose of promoting excellence in technological and engineering training and practice to ensure technological growth and economic development of Nigeria. in his investiture speech, Lasisi said that he would continue with programmes put in place by his predecessor. “We will take off with a retreat by the new council to plan how to expand for more effectiveness. “The immediate past president put up a programme for the development of a technology village, through a committee I chaired, and for continuity, this will take off in my term. “There will be cooperation with all stakeholders in engineering, such as the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria (COREN), Association of Consulting Engineers of Nigeria(ACEN),” he said. He said that without technology and engineering the country would not move forward. Lasisi called for cooperation with international and national academies to focus on three challenges which he listed as energy, infrastructure and food security. According to him, quality engineering education is at the centre of these. He said that a strategic plan would be used to determine short, medium and long term programmes of the academy. Lasisi congratulated NAE fellows inducted at the event, and encouraged them to serve the academy selflessly. “It it true selfless service that the academy can make a difference. “The academy is ready to continue the pursuit of the great dreams of our founding fathers,” he said.