Private medical practitioners have called for collaboration between government and private medical practitioners to restructure, rebuild and save Nigeria’s ailing health system. The President, Association of General and Private Medical Practitioners of Nigeria (AGPMPN), Dr Ugwu Odo, made the call at a news conference by the association and the World Organisation of Family Doctors (WONCA), in Lagos. The conference was to commemorate World Family Doctors Day (WFDD), to acknowledge the role and contributions of family physicians in health care delivery. The 2018 WFDD theme was: “Family Doctors: Leading the Way to Better Health’’. According to Odo, government’s collaboration with private medical practitioners is the only assurance for Nigerians to have affordable and accessible quality health care. “Family doctors are a very special group of doctors because they provide the most essential daily health care needs to the highest number of the population. “They are also the longest-serving, as well as the longest-staying doctors in the lives of people, especially because they provide comprehensive and continuous care. “On a day like this, family doctors across the world mark their great work in advocacy, clinical governance, health care development and promotion by way of corporate social responsibility to the society. “We are all encouraged to replicate this at state and individual hospital levels,’’ Odo said. “We commend our governments at the federal, state and local levels for what they have done in articulating a health system for Nigeria. “However, a lot still needs to be done in the health sector because our health care institutions are still very weak and unsustainable. “The determinants and indicators of a functional primary health care system, which account for over 80 per cent of the needs of the population, are not strongly in place. “Governments must budget more for health, at least 17 per cent of the annual budget is expected to go to the health sector but it gets less than five per cent presently. “Our health insurance scheme must be transformed by transparency, accountability and professional diligence, to enthrone universal coverage,’’ Odo said. Odo urged governments at all levels to invest in and also grow the private health sector by policy shift and system restructuring that were investment friendly. Dr Tunji Akintade, Chairman, AGPMPN, Lagos State Chapter, also drew attention to the need for private/public collaboration, which could help to deliver good health services to the people. “Public/private collaboration would address the challenges of lack of health personnel and brain drain in the health system. “Our major plan is to have a meaningful impact on health but governments need to employ more manpower than just restructuring health facilities. “There is a gap in human resource for health in Nigeria that is why we have doctor/patient ratio at one to 5,000. “We do not have more than 40,000 doctors in Nigeria; the main reason it is important for government to partner with private sector to improve primary health care services,’’ he said. Akintade said there was need for an inclusive health insurance system. “Health insurance scheme can also be used to improve the health system in both public and private sectors. “That is why we want government to consider the private health sector during budgeting and also reduce the multiple taxation in the health system,’’ he said. Also speaking, Dr Sylvester Osinowo, Former President of the World Organisation of Family Africa, said it was important to put the health sector in the right perspective. Osinowo said the only way this could be achieved was by planning and making sure every individual contributed to health according to their income. “This can be done through telecommunications, which is a meaningful way of funding health. “Government needs to establish a health bank to manage such funds, which will help everybody t      o access health,’’ Osinowo said. AGPMPN offered free medical services to not less than 150 residents of Lawanson Community in Surulere, Lagos. The outreach comprised of series of tests, including malaria, diabetes and checking cholesterol level 