But for the intervention of their commander, Navy personnel would have clashed yesterday with some workers of a private security firm hired by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to guard its facility on Ilashe Island at Atlas Cove. The naval men stormed the island to recover over 3000 jerrycans of petroleum products, which they sighted during aerial surveillance inside NNS Beecroft. But the Topline security workers stopped them, claiming that the naval men were there to disrupt their operations. The Topline guards claimed that they seized the kegs and vehicles from vandals on Sunday night, but the five patrol vans looked old, abandoned and dysfunctional. NNS BEECROFT Commander Commodore Okon Eyo questioned the guards’ claim of impounding vehicles in such state. His question got them infuriated and they corked their guns and threatened to shoot at the petrol filled kegs. The hoodlums, displaying charms and weapons, said they were tired of threats from the navy. The navy, they alleged, usually accused them of complicity in pipeline vandalism. They blocked the only entry/exit to the island, insisting that no one would leave. They threatened to shoot reporters, who ran for their lives. Screaming “no more threats, no more work,” the guards claimed that they were made to sign an agreement that they would be surcharged for each product siphoned from the island. In anger, the naval men wanted to fight back, but were restrained by Commodore Eyo. Eyo, who ordered his men to retreat, told reporters that they were not on the island for to fight. He described the guards’ action as unfortunate, adding that the navy would meet with NNPC to ensure that such did not recur. The navy, he said, would also review the terms of their contract and establish if they were licenced to carry firearms. He said: “You all saw what happened at Ilashe, a riverine community that play host to an important facility of the nation. It is part of the navy’s responsibility to protect such facilities. “You saw for yourselves how unruly those people were. They are personnel of Topline Security Company. They claimed to be engaged by NNPC to complement efforts of government security agencies on the island. I believe your guess is as good as mine whether the acts, attitude they displayed were complementary. “We had to exhibit maturity in the face of such provocation. We did not see the need for any engagement to record needless casualty especially because we had civilians among us who are not trained for situations like these. We had to manage the situation maturely but we would not allow that potential to continue. “Since NNPC contracted them, we would meet with them and bring up this issue. If we were to go on a confrontational part, they would say the navy came to disrupt their security arrangement and facility. So, even though we had reasons to mount an operation, we had to retreat. “But what is happening there cannot continue. We will find out the terms and conditions of their contract from NNPC because we saw some people bearing locally made weapons and dane guns. Although such categories of arms are allowed, bearers must be licenced. So, we will ascertain if they have licence and if their contracts include carrying weapons. “If the weapons are not part of the contract, we will do the needful. But if they are allowed to carry guns, we will ascertain the licences and then address their temperament and attitude because they are bearing arms. A lot of them are suspected to be under the influence of drugs and so, we have to clean up that island.”