Ejigbo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos will on July 11 hold maiden Ejigbo Business Summit. The event will take place at Pinkron Hotels at Bucknor Estate, Ejigbo. According to the council Chairman, Monsuru Bello a.k.a Obe, former presidential aide Prof Pat Utomi will lead the discussants. Bello said the summit would pave the way for the creation of a Central Business District (CBD) in Ejigbo for those who cannot go to the Island to transact businesses. “We want to make our council secretariat as a one-stop shop for every business transaction. This will aid our desire to increase the internally generated revenue (IGR). Our budget for this year is N1.5 billion and cannot be met by allocation from the Federal Government, hence the need to look inward to finance the budget. But we will not inconvenience the residents with increase in their annual dues to the council because this is a government that respects the rights of the people,” he said. The council chief appealed to the Lagos State Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal to deploy an Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) to his domain. This, he said, would forestall breakdown of law and order. “Those who want to invest in our council need assurance of security and we all know that security is a major challenge to all the three tiers of government. On our own part, we will try to man every entry and exit point to discourage criminally-minded people and strengthen intelligence gathering to help the police curb insecurity,” he said. The council’s vice Chairman, Dr Olatunde Olusunmade, who is the Summit Committee Chairman, said others expected at the summit were Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry President Babatunde Ruwase, Commissioner for Information and Strategy Kehinde Bamigbetan, his counterpart in Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Muslim Folami, Lagos State Local Government Service Commission Chairman Babatunde Rotinwa and  Ojon of Ejigbo and Ijanland Oba Moroof Ojoola. According to him, the theme of the summit is “Corporate governance: Roadmap to shared prosperity in Ejigbo LCDA.”