Omooba Olumuyiwa Sosanya, founding father of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN). The technocrat who was a member of the think tank that designed the manifesto of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf gives useful insights on the sterling performance of the government thus far. Excerpts: Scorecard of the Buhari administration Whoever has the opinion that the Buhari administration has scored zero is not been objective. Because if you look at issues and define a problem, you’ll be able to find a solution to it. This government came into the being when the situation was really rotten for the country. Let me give an illustration. It’s like someone who bought a house that was built on a swamp. He has two choices: either he continues to improve on that house which is already sinking or he can decide that the proper thing to do is to demolish the house and have a solid foundation because if he tries to manage the house as it is, the house will eventually sink. But what the government has done since it came in was that it met a house that was already sinking and what it had to do was to demolish and then build. And when you’re building on a swamp, you need a solid foundation. This is what this government has been doing. And right now, if you’re using the terminology of a builder, the house has left the level of foundation to lintel level. And it’s solid. So if you’ve gotten to that level, to complete it and roof it you’re talking about another one year or two years for you to have a solid beautiful house. Performance scorecard I’ll score the government 60%. Because what they found on the floor is a sinking house which they now replaced with a solid foundation and they’ve brought the house into lintel level. Areas of improvement What the government must face squarely is to boost its revenue generation capacity. One can say oil has been our fortune as well as our misfortune because we relied solely on oil and neglected the non oil revenue sectors like agriculture and taxation. In most of the developed and emerging economies of the world, taxation has been their main revenue generation stream. But in Nigeria, taxation revenue generation is poor. We still don’t generate up to 10%. Now they have done, especially the Ministry of Finance, is what I would call fire brigade approach to revenue generation. The Voluntary Asset and Income Declaration Scheme (VAIDS) is a temporary measure to aid revenue generation. You’re targeting the rich people who have been evading tax. In taxation what you’re doing is back duty. The money they would have paid in the past, you’re trying to realise it. But that would stop because you’re only targeting the wealthy people, who are just about half a million out of the 180million population. What happened to the about 189million+? But there’s a veritable tax system which all the developed countries are using to raise money- it’s the value added tax. But unfortunately, the VAT in Nigeria is not realising up to 5% of its capacity. The burden of administering the VAT is on the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), which unfortunately doesn’t have the capability to manage it. So we suggested through policy briefs on revenue generation with emphasis on the VAT but it hasn’t seen the light of day. Taxation through VAT is the most simple revenue generation stream. What you need to have is information about the chargeable person which are the businesses, you’ve to get them registered. From our working documents VAT would be generating over N900billion every month. As of now, what is being generated by the FIRS is less than N80billion, which is less than 10% of what should be generated if the administration of VAT is decentralised. Prospects for reelection As I said earlier, I score this government 60% and I think 60% is very good in an examination, it’s more than average. So in my own opinion, this performance has given this government a return ticket. They’ve the ticket and the boarding pass; they’re just waiting to catch their flights. (Laughs). All the other political parties are just wasting their time. Left to any other political party in this country, this country would have been in liquidation. So we must thank President Muhammadu Buhari for a job well done.