The family and residents of Auga community in Akoko Northeast local government area of Ondo state are now apprehensive over the abduction of Olori Olukemi Agunloye,wife of the traditional ruler in the town and the driver. They have been in gunmen’s captivity since five days ago without any inkling on their whereabouts. The kidnappers demanded N20m ransom which had been reduced to N10m according to family sources. It was learnt that family members weren’t worried over the health of the wife and her plights in the hands of the abductors. However, efforts are going on to rescue the victims as both police and army with community vigilante groups are combing the bush to fish out the miscreants and rescue the victims. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO)for Ikare Division (CSP)Mohamed Mahe is leading the team while survelliance is going on. Meanwhile, stakeholders in Akokoland are worried over the incessant kidnapping. The spokesman of the community, Alhaji Ibrahim kilani appealed for more government attention on the deplorable roads particularly the Owo-Ikare road, Isua-Ise – Auga -Akunu as criminals always way laid vehicles at the failed spots. He called for more police patrol vehicles to complement the existing ones. Kilani however warned landlords in the affected communities to be wary of such tenants they allow to settle in their farm which usually constitute criminality. According to him, Akoko being a peculiar area needed more security attention, saying local vigilante group must be mobilized to rise to the occasion. He commended police for allocating one of the vehicles donated by Dangote Foundation to Akoko for patrol and rise to distressed calls. The lawmaker representing Akoko Northeast/Northwest Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Stephen Olemija has decried the abduction of Olori Agunloye and the driver. In a statement issued in Akure, the state capital, the former chairman, Akoko Northeast local government urged security operatives to swing into action and fish out the gunmen. Besides, he pleaded for the safe release of the duo. Olemija urged the Area Commander in Akoko, Razak Rauf to intensify on regular patrol and surveillance of roads in the area to curtail the rising wave of kidnapping and armed robbery. He pleaded with members of the public with useful information to locate the whereabouts of the kidnapped victims to report to the nearest police station and other security agencies.