Heavy security cordon has been thrown around Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, ahead of the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag off rally Tuesday. Armed security operatives are standing guard on all major roads in the city. Regular policemen lined the major highway in Ikere and Ado on the route to be taken by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. Osinbajo is expected to touch down at Akure Airport and travel by road to Ado, which is about 50 minutes’ drive from the Ondo State capital. The vice president is expected to present the party flag to the APC governorship candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi at the rally. Senior party figures including the APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and former Interim National Leader, Chief Adebisi Akande, had arrived the city on Monday. Men of the regular and mobile police are stationed on major junctions while officers of the Federal Roads Safety Corps (FRSC) were also mobilized to ensure free flow of traffic. The road adjacent to the Oluyemi Kayode Stadium was cordoned off with heavy security presence. Men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and Department of State Services (DSS) were seen within and outside the stadium complex. People entering the stadium are being frisked before being allowed in. The two covered terraces of the stadium are draped in green, red, white and sky blue colours of the APC. Television and radio stations expected to beam the rally live are also fully on ground with their Outside Broadcast (OB) Vans and other equipment. They include Channels TV, Television Continental (TVC), Nigeria Television Authority (NTA), Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria (FRCN), Ondo State Radiovision Corporation, Adaba FM, Orange FM all based in Akure and Voice FM, Ado-Ekiti. Two big screens have been placed on the pitch to give the spectators a better view of events on the platform. Entertainers billed to perform include musicians, Adewale Ayuba, Adeniyi Sese Alhaji, Apasco and DJ Jimmy Jazz. Gbenga Adeyinka and Akinlade Ojo will serve as Masters of Ceremony (MCs).  Details later…