The American Society of Hematology (ASH), in conjuction with the Sickle Cell Disease Coalition, had a video conference, which shed light on the global state of sickle cell disorder to help improve screening and early care for children in Africa. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA, who watched in Lagos, reports. This year, about 300,000 babies will be born with sickle cell disease (SCD) around the world. The disease is an inherited, chronic blood disorder, which can cause severe pain, stroke, organ failure and other complications, including death. These and many more are the facts churned out by professionals in hematology in a video conference, themed: “Global action- Improving health outcomes for Sickle Cell Disease”. To underscore the seriousness attached to the disease, the United Nations (UN) has designated it a global public health problem. According to experts, such as American Society of Hematology (ASH) President, Jelili Ojodu;  Medical Director, Ann and Robert H. Lurie Children Hospital, Chicago, Alexis A. Thompson and Medical Director of Sickle Cell Foundation of Ghana, Kwaku Ohene-Frempong, while simple public health measures, such as newborn screening, vaccinations, and early interventions have  improved childhood survival in several countries, including the United States (US), SCD has continued to be a major global public health issue. It has remained a major killer of infants and children in the developing world, particularly in sub-Saharan Africa, where an estimated 50–90 per cent of infants born with SCD die before their fifth birthday. To support World Sickle Cell Day, ASH is taking measures to raise awareness on the disease in Africa  to improve the health of those with it from infant to adulthood. In the video conference, the ASH made global health experts, the media, and its sickle cell disease coalition partners to address the urgent need to raise global awareness about the devastating disease. Experts, who participated at the conference, also discussed efforts to distribute two new videos, a public service announcement and short documentary, which addressed the need for newborn screening and counter the prevailing myths about the disease in sub-Saharan Africa. The videos, which were made possible by a grant from Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, can be found and shared on the internet via http://scdcoalition.org/global. “One of the greatest hurdles we face in curbing the heartbreaking rate of mortality caused by sickle cell disease in sub-Saharan Africa is lack of awareness of the condition and the simple, relatively inexpensive interventions that can save lives. It starts with early recognition, ideally through newborn screening,”  Thompson said. He added: “Our hope is that by using these videos to dispel myths and tell parents that SCD is manageable, we can encourage families, communities and public officials to screen newborn children for sickle cell disease so that they can receive critical, accessible treatment that will help them survive.” The videos highlight efforts underway in Ghana, a country with a high incidence of SCD, to help dispel myths and eliminate the stigma associated with the disease. The videos showed families steps that can be taken to ensure that children born with SCD are diagnosed promptly so that they can get proper medical care. In Ghana, newborn screening and educational efforts have significantly decreased mortality rates “Unfortunately, despite the work we’ve done in Ghana and across Africa, much remains to be done to reduce infant mortality – 90 per cent of children with SCD in resource-poor countries will not survive to adulthood,” Ohene-Frempong said. He added: “In Ghana, we’ve seen that simple public health measures, especially newborn screening, helped children lead more normal lives. In the first 10 years of newborn screening, we made dramatic improvements in reducing sickle cell-related childhood mortality.” ASH has made conquering SCD around the world a top priority and is leading efforts to translate research into cutting-edge therapies and cures, increase access to care, educate health care providers, and encourage policymakers to make strides in universal screening and care efforts. In 2016, the society founded the Sickle Cell Disease Coalition to amplify the voice of SCD stakeholder community, promote awareness, and improve outcomes for individuals with SCD globally.     