The Minister of information and culture, Lai Mohammed has again reaffirmed the Federal Government determination to complete the second Niger Bridge. The minister also assured that funding will not be a problem for the project; stressing that government is not sleeping neither is it playing politics with the project. The Minister gave the assurance yesterday during an inspection tour of the second project. Addressing Journalists on the tour, the minister also expressed the determination of the current administration to complete all ongoing Federal Government projects across the country. He also challenged those doubting government sincerity to go to the site and see the enormous work that is ongoing. Speaking at the Asaba end of the project, Mohammed stressed that the federal government wasn’t sleeping or politicising the project as the impact of the ongoing construction work will not be understood until finally completed. “Very soon the second Niger Bridge would be completed, and it would change the socioeconomic situation of the country. We are working in a creek, what people want to see is that bridge, and before you see it you must have done a lot of work. “The contract of the second Niger Bridge was awarded in 2014 by the last administration and nothing was done until 2016, and the Buhari administration funded the project. So far a lot has been done and in the next two years, passengers would not have to queue on the first Niger Bridge again. “The thing about this project is that, because of the alignment, people from the old bridge will say nothing is going on, you have come here and you can see a lot of work is going on and I am excited because with technology the challenges here are overcome. You could hear that in June/July the water level usually rises by 2-3meters and it’s not like the way we use to have casualties like before. “it is very important for naysayers to try and mislead people that nothing is being done on the second Niger bridge, but for what we have all seen today, clearly work is going on on the second Niger bridge. “I am happy that these are not project you could move over in two or three days. The complexity of this project is such that it is only the best that can handle it, and we have very competent hands working on it and the entire contract is over 11km. We can see the enthusiasm displayed among the workers,” said Mohammed. Earlier speaking, the Federal Commissioner of Works, Anambra State, Innocent Anumona while giving a progress report of the project to the minister said ”the second Niger bridge is 1.59km. The contractors have done a lot, they have completed the whole pile which is the foundation, and we have done 310piles amongst other things, what is remaining is the launch the bridge, which is the last stage. “These contract has been awarded and it is being carried out in phases, 1-4th phases. Phase 1-3 has been completed, and we are on the 4th phase. “By July, we should be ending the 4th phase of the second Niger bridge, the entire Foundation/pile of the bridge is 615 pieces.