Prof. Taoheed Adedoja, an aggrieved National Chairmanship Aspirant in the December 2017 Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) National Convention, said he was withdrawing his law challenge the outcome of the election. Adedoja at a news conference on Sunday in Abuja, said he had directed his lawyer, Rikey Taffa (SAN), to discontinue the case. Adedoja had filled a suit at a Federal High Court in Abuja to challenge the National Convention that produces the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus. He said the decision was due to intervention by well meaning top party leaders and major stakeholders in PDP as well as in the spirit of Ramadan. “I have requested my lawyer, Messrs. Rikey Taffa and Co., to file paper to discontinue the case, also in the spirit of the month of Ramadan, a month of forgiveness, I have laid the matter to rest. “I am not asking for any compensation whatsoever from the party as only the Almighty can compensate any human being for his deeds and actions. “The month of Ramadan is a month of forgiveness, which I have adhered to in this case. “I remain a committed member of the party to ensure that the objectives of the founding fathers of our great party are achieved for the betterment of our country and for democracy to strive.’’ Adedoja said he also made the decision as part of his sacrifices towards the development of PDP and the democracy of the country. “I believe we all have to make sacrifice in one way or the other, if our party and country’s democracy must continue to grow and develop. It will be recalled that after the December 2017 National Convention of the party held in Abuja, Adedoja challenged the outcome of the election on the basis of the omission of his name on the National Chairmanship ballot box. Sources close to the headquarters of the party revealed that prominent leaders of the party such as former Senate President Chief Pius Anyim Pius; Gov. Nyesom Wike of Rivers; and the Gov. Dave Umahi of Ebonyi, played key roles in finding the political solution. Also were the Chairman of the PDP Reconciliation Committee, Gov. Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa and the Chairman of former Ministers Forum, Mr Tanimu Turaki. Others were former Governors Rasidi Ladoja; Otunba Gbenga Daniel; Governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State and Sen. Biodun Christine Olujimi (NAN)