The National President, National Council of Women Societies (NCWS), Mrs Gloria Shoda,  has appealed for calm and restraint in Plateau, where 86 people died in the violence that erupted in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area. The police in Plateau confirmed that 86 people died in the violence that erupted on Saturday in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area. The violence, allegedly by armed herdsmen, almost led to reprisal attacks by in Jos, the state capital, on Sunday; leading the government to declare a curfew. According to a statement on Thursday, Shoda, expressed concern over the violence which led to loss of lives and destruction of property. “As wives and mothers we are saddened by the continuous spate of killings and communal clashes across several states in our country. “The killing span through Taraba, Benue, Ebony and Kaduna, the most recent is in Plateau. “Murder and maiming over resources has never solved anything. It only sows further seeds for more mayhem and violence, deepens mistrust and breeds instability and as we can see there are reports of retaliation by the affected communities,’’ she said. She said that while the security agents were trying to unravel those behind the acts of criminality, youths in the affected local governments should resist from taking the law into their own hands to retaliate. Shoda condoled with the bereaved called on the leaders in the affected communities to continue to assuage the fears and concerns of the people not to abandon their homes or seek vengeance. The national president advised the affected communities to allow the due process of the law to take place. Shoda urged the law enforcement agencies to mount a thorough investigation in order to bring the perpetrators of these crimes against humanity to book and for justice to be served. She expressed hope that the state government under the leadership of Gov Simon Lalong would provide the post-conflict support to the victims and their families. “In times like this we should ensure that the bereaved and injured receive all the support that they need to overcome their losses, recuperate and carry on with their lives. “Women all over Nigeria urge that the necessary security measures be put in place to prevent these kinds of acts from reoccurring.” NAN