The majority leader of the Ogun State House of Assembly, Yinka Mafe, on Friday denied link with suspected political thugs  being detained by the Operatives  of the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS) in Obada Oko, Abeokuta, in connection with murder. The Nation reported that four persons suspected to be political thugs were arrested and detained by ZIS in connection with bloody shooting and killing of one person in Sagamu, Ogun State. The suspects – Olushola, Olusegun, Azeez and Abolore were arrested a week ago when ZIS Operatives stormed their den in Sagamu, for allegedly killing a man popularly called Arsenal-Nice in the town. ZIS confirmed that some arms and ammunition were recovered from the suspects, who allegedly claimed to have links with Yinka Mafe, a member of the Ogun State House of Assembly (OGHS), representing Sagamu State Constituency 1 as their sponsor. But reacting, Mafe said he was shocked to see his name being linked with the suspects, adding that at no point was he invited by the police for questioning. The lawmaker challenged the police to produce four suspects they claimed to have arrested and charge them to court, even as he called on the Inspector General of Police to take over the case for proper investigation. He also challenged on the police to charge him to court where he would have opportunity to defend himself instead of dropping his name in the media for political reasons. Mafe said: “I was very shocked to read about the report because as an honourable man and the majority leader of Ogun State House of Assembly, I do not have a business sponsoring cultists especially at this moment when I have nothing to gain in sponsoring them. “I am more surprised because this is coming at a time when we all know that Ladi Adebutu is visiting Sagamu and it is in the public domain he’s the one sponsoring the fake news against my person. “We also know that he’s the one using the office of the AIG in Zone II and I have to put it on record that those names released by the police are not in the custody of police, it’s all lies and I know the police cannot produce the four persons. “I was aware of the person that was reportedly killed, he was killed about seven year ago and it is in the public domain that he was killed during an infighting between cult groups and both sides recorded casualties, he was one of them. “We have been working to have peace in Sagamu and that is what we are enjoying today and it saddens my hearth that Adebutu is bringing the name of Sagamu and Remo in the news for bad reasons because we’ve worked on these boys, counselled and re-orientated them and we are enjoying peace in Sagamu. “It’s a pity that a lawmaker from the area whose governorship ambition is dead on arrival is trying to muscle out opposition to his ambition in Remo because he believe he owns Remo, but at the appropriate time, we will let him know Remo is not for sale and he can’t buy Remo.”  