The Senate President, Bukola Saraki, said on Wednesday the National Assembly would play its roles in the efforts to end killings in the country. Saraki gave the assurance in a chat with State House correspondents after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, also attended the meeting convened by the President following last weekend’s attacks in Plateau State where about 90 people were killed by suspected herdsmen. He said: “We met with the President to first of all commiserated with him and get a briefing from him. During the briefing, he explained how steps are being taken to forestall reoccurrence and restore sanity because this is a great concern to him and to us also. “To see what can be done with NEMA and security agencies, we will all work towards it. Nobody is happy with the situation and we will all come together to ensure that we restore sanity. “We commiserate with all families, it is our own intention to also go and pay our own condolence visit to the people of Plateau State. “Our general appeal at the end of the day is that we all live together in peace and harmony and we will continue to do our best to see that this kind of thing does not happen again.” Dogara expressed condolence to Mr. President, the government and people of Plateau State over the killings in the state. The Speaker said the President has briefed them on what he saw during his visit to Plateau on Tuesday and measures he is putting in place to prevent reoccurrence. He said: “These are very sober moments for all of us in a situation where people in hundreds are continued to be killed and we can no longer tolerate this kind of situation as a government. “Whatever it is we must not lose the fight against violence because we can’t lose that fight and still keep our civilization. “If you go to the North East you can see the level of devastation caused by Boko Haram. Everything resembling progress from schools to hospitals to government institutions had been pulled down. And we don’t want a replication of this all over the country. 