The Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso I, has ordered that there will no longer be masquerade dance for any Ibadan high chief this year. The annual festival in the ancient city begins today in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Since the time of the late Oba Gbadamosi Adebimpe in 1976, masquerades used to pay homage to selected high chiefs in their family compounds with the permission of the Olubadan. Although no reason was given for the last minute suspension of masquerade dance for the high chiefs, it was learnt that the decision of the frontline monarch might not be unconnected with security matters arising from the controversial chieftaincy review that confers kingship without domain on high chiefs. Rising from a two-hour security meeting with stakeholders at his Popoyemoja place at the weekend, Oba Adetunji said the decision was in the overall public interest. A statement by the Personal Assistant/Director of Media and Public Affairs to the monarch,   Mr Adeola Oloko, said: “As the chief custodian of our culture and tradition, I also owe it a duty to work in tandem with the law enforcement agents not to turn the celebration of our custom and tradition into a theatre of war.” The Olubadan, who hailed security operatives for a hitch-free Oke’Badan Festival last March, urged them to raise the bar during the Egungun Festival later this year. He appealed to other stakeholders to cooperate with law enforcement agents by operating within the ambit of the law. Those at the meeting are: A. O. Abimbola, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), who represented Oyo State Police Commissioner; Dan Miller, another ACP of the Criminal Investigation and Investigation Department (CIID) at Iyaganku in Ibadan; Mrs. B. T. Agboola, who represented the State Director of the State Security Service (SSS) and five Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) of Mokola, Yemetu, Mapo, Idi Aro and Agugu. Leaders of masquerades association in Ibadan, the Alagbaa, Baale Labala and others also attended the meeting. 