The global energy conglomerate, General Electric (GE), is facing hard times. Its businesses are going down despite cuts to reduce costs and changes in management. Its recent exit from Dow Jones Industrial Average Index is another signal that all is not well with the American energy giant, reports Group Business Editor SIMEON EBULU. A myriad of challenges, including bad business deals, have edged General Electric (GE) out of the prestigious Dow Jones Industrial Average Index. The development has ended the conglomerate’s over a hundred year reign in a class of United States elite club of 30 companies. Its place has now been taken over by Walgreens, a pharmaceutical outfit. The dwindling fortune of GE is coming on the heels of a difficult period for the conglomerate whose shares have more than halved in the past year. GE has replaced its chief executive and has also announced series of cuts in an effort to reposition itself. GE’s exit from the club, David Blitzer of S&P Dow Jones Indices, the firm that runs the index said, would make the Dow a “better measure of the economy and the stock market,” adding that the change is also indicative of the growth of the healthcare sector. General Electric is losing its place on the Dow Jones Industrial Average after more than a century in a move that reflects its declining fortunes and a changing US economy. Adding to GE’s woes was the announcement from France, that the government would impose a fine on the conglomerate, if it failed to honour an agreement that it (GE) will create 1,000 net new jobs by the end of this year when it bought Alstom’s energy business in 2015. To date, GE has only been able to add only 323 jobs  as at April ending, France’s Finance Ministry said last week. Any hope that the agreement will be met was dashed by GE’s Chief Executive John Flannery, who informed French Finance Minister Bruno Le Maire  that the target was now “out of reach” because of difficult market conditions. Notwithstanding the hopelessness of the agreement being fulfilled, Le Maire urged GE to “take all necessary measures to comply to the best of its abilities” with the 2015 deal, under which GE will be fined 50,000 euros for each job not created. A spokesman for the French government, Benjamin Griveaux, pointed out that “sanctions must set an example, stressing that “50,000 euros should be applied by the end of the year if GE does not stick to its commitments. When you make commitments to the government, you respect them,” he added. The Dow Jones industrial average was created more than 120 years ago with 12 companies, all of which have fizzled out of existence, except GE which finally joined the fray on June 26. As recently as 2005 according to Reuters, General Electric was the most valuable publicly traded company in the US. The industrial conglomerate—originally assembled out of the various business interests of Thomas Edison in 1889 — was long without peer in the business world. However, in recent years, the company has been through a painful restructuring that has included the loss of its once highly profitable finance division. It also sold off its century-old railroad business, and its stock has fallen by half in the past year. For GE’s 300,000 employees and millions of shareholders, the consequences have been painful. More than $100 billion in market value has vanished from GE since November 2016 GE’s ouster from the Dow and the likely sanction it faces from France, are only but a few of negatives staring the conglomerate in the face. Besides serious cash crisis caused by years of bad deals, it has shed thousands of jobs. To address some of its cash shortfall and debt overhang, GE unveiled a $3.25 billion deal to sell its distributed power business, which makes gas engines that are used to generate electricity in remote places, as well as manufacturing plants in the United States, Canada and Austria. These downsizing efforts and the sales spree, are measures  by GE to shrink itself and raise cash to pay down a mountain of debt. GE’s cash crisis has forced new CEO John Flannery to accelerate the dismantling of the company that once owned a leading appliance maker, a film studio and NBC. These sales and trimming moves, though have brought in some needed cash, they have also resulted in the sack of over 15,000 jobs. The ripple effects of GE’s misfortune, analysts fear, may not be limited to the US and other overseas countries alone. Some developing and emerging economies like Nigeria, may be negatively impacted and the reason is not far-fetched. In its expansionary spree, GE had spread its tentacles to Nigeria and had entered into agreements and established Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to build turbines and electricity plants, as well as entered into some railway contracts with the Federal and some states’ governments. Ironically, these are part of the divisions the conglomerate has turned its back on and offloaded in its bid to raise funds to address its debt overhang. In Nigeria, there is uncertainty that GE might be hard pressed in delivering on its commitment to the government, given its waning stature, debt pile up and the unbundling and sale of some of its critical units, which have robbed the conglomerate of its robustness as an all-rounder in critical infrastructure provider. Part of the projects that may suffer the death knell is the realisation of the 10,000 megawatts of incremental power in Nigeria, in line with the power Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) signed with the federal government in March, 2012. The President and Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Grid Solutions/Energy Connections, Africa, Dr. Lazarus Angbazo, said in a press outing that GE was on track still to fulfilling its obligation to all parties. “What we signed in that power MoU, which originated from the company-to-country agreement, was that GE, working with the Federal Government of Nigeria, will invest in the development of new power generation capacity of up to 10,000MW of power – incremental power, which means that GE is going to work with investors, private sponsors of projects and if government also wants to invest in projects, GE will also look at those projects and co-invest. We have done that. If you look at our portfolio of projects in Nigeria, we have got several projects at several stages of development,” he said, adding that GE will continue to invest in Nigeria even at a time projects were cancelled globally because of the crash in oil prices. 