The apex Islamic body in the north, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has raised alarm that, the recent crisis in Plateau state that led to the killing of scores of residents and motorists was deliberately planned and orchestrated with political and religious mindset. JNI, while lamenting the devastating effect of the crisis especially on innocent passers-by, after three years of peaceful and harmonious coexistence among the people of the state, decried the return to the “black-dark days of bloodbath”. In a statement signed by its Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu and made available to newsmen in Kaduna on Thursday called on security agencies to immediately fish out the culprits of the dastardly acts for punitive measure to be meted to them. The religious body however urged Federal and state governments to immediately rehabilitate the Saminaka-Jos road to create alternative routes for motorists and to establish intelligence strike forces along the Abuja – North east route to safeguard motorists passing by in case of another crisis. According to JNI, “It is very demoralizing after experiencing three solid years of success stories of harmonious coexistence between the citizenry on the Plateau to have woken up back to the black-dark days of bloodbath of the past. “After critical and careful perusal of the sad and painful happenings of the recent horrific carnage on the Plateau, JNI national headquarters observed with dismay that the most recent attacks on the Plateau were well orchestrated with political and religious mindset. “Despite the fact that in the past three years, there has been success stories of peaceful coexistence between the inhabitants of Plateau state. It is disheartening that once again, human life does not matter to some disgruntled elements within the nation. “Aren’t we making ourselves a laughing stock before the comity of nations? Why must we allow ourselves to be used by miscreants and senseless politicians at all cost? As a matter of fact, the dastardly acts went on for some days unabated and why? “It is with utmost concern and sorrow that the JNI condemn in-toto such dastardly acts and calls on security agencies to intensify efforts in fishing out the culprits. We call on the Federal, Kaduna and Plateau state governments to as a matter of utmost urgency rehabilitate the Saminaka – Jos Road, as Muslims and other innocent passersby are no longer safe plying the Southern Kaduna to Jos Road, as well as the Abuja North-East routes through Plateau state. “An intelligence strike force unit should be mounted at the Southern Kaduna – Jos, and the Abuja to North-East routes through Plateau state, for the safety of those who don’t have any choice but to ply same road. This is because most victims of the recent carnage are innocent Abuja to North-East travelers through Plateau state. We also advise that serious security measures should be taken on all the identified villages that have been notorious in causing distress to motorists, particularly in Kaduna and Plateau states. “If perchance crisis erupts on the Plateau and/or Kaduna state, Muslims are always the soft targets on the Southern Kaduna Road to Jos. The Plateau state under the present leadership is trying it’s best to share the state resources in equity and justice. But the bad ones are busy trying to make things difficult and inaccessible to the poor in order to frustrate the state and federal government. Plateau state has appreciated positively. It is this development that is being envied by the enemies within and outside Plateau state. The developments in terms of agricultural, human and land resources have seemingly progressed. We call on all to propagate the mission of peace, tranquility, humility and humbleness, for no one has the right of living over and above the other citizens in Nigeria. Moreover, we cannot be humans without humanity,” the JNI scribe added. 