The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has approved the deployment of scanners in the nation’s seaports to check the influx of dangerous items into the country ahead of the 2019 general elections, it was learnt. Speaking with The Nation, its Area Controller, Tin Can Command Mr Musa Baba Abdullahi said the Service has concluded arrangement to deploy the scanners in boosting 100 per cent cargo clearance at ports. He assured that the scanners would check importation of dangerous cargoes. “With regards to the 2019 elections, the Service is trying to commission the scanners. Some of them are not there now, but the Service is working seriously to ensure that the scanners are put in place. “As soon as the scanners are put in place, we are sure of 100 per cent cargo examination through the scanners. At least,  we would be sure of what is coming, compared to the physical examination that is there now,  sometimes, human element can come in, sometimes you might forget certain things, which might end up being a serious issue,”he said. On the involvement of foreigners in cargo clearance at the seaports, Musa said foreigners had taken over the clearing and forwarding jobs because most Nigerians are bad managers. He called for a law that would  spell it out that certain jobs must be reserved for Nigerians, especially areas where we have the capacity and comparative advantage. “Our people prefer foreigners than Nigerians. We need to ask ourselves why it is so; many of the bike riders are from Chad, Niger etc, while those doing tilling of houses are from Togo and Cotonou. “Nigerians have to change our attitude to work. Sincerely, we are not good managers. You can carry out an independent analysis of certain sectors; take note of the businesses, we work more, if we are controlled by foreigners. “For instance, if you give Nigerian companies, they run it aground. But if you bring in an expatriate from outside, they work hard for every seven days, you would find a Nigerian being engaged unofficially in some family issues and extended family issues. But for the expatriates, who is in the country for the job,  he would forget about those mundane things and focus on his job for 30 days,” he said. Meanwhile, the Customs Area Controller in charge of Seme border, Mohammed Aliyu has reclaimed the command’s land encroached upon by some individuals. Findings revealed that the command is ensuring that illegal structures are demolished and those with approval will update their status by routing their request to the Comptroller-General of Customs through the Customs Area Controller.