A faith-based humanitarian organization, Zakat and Sadaqat Foundation has donated food and basic daily need items to Zaria Orphanage Home at Tukur-Tukur. The foundation donated the items including food, jumbo size diapers III, infant formula beverages and toys on Tuesday evening. Speaking while presenting the items, an official of the foundation, Hajiya Mujidat Abdul-Aleem Olagunju Rahim said the foundation “collects from the rich and gives to the poor.” Olagunju said they were in Zaria to give out to the orphan in view of the foundation’s 2018 theme “Giving to Orphanages”. She said: “We have earlier come to this orphanage home which is own by the Kaduna State Government under the Ministry of Women Affairs and they told us their needs. We saw that those in charge of the orphans are trying their best and that’s why we come back to support them to help them and the children. “We also brought a doctor, who had done medical test and found out that the children are all healthy except one.” In his sermon, Shiek Rabi’u Ayuba-As-Sudani advised Muslims to place emphasis on adequate care for orphans to enable the society live in peace. He said: “Care for the orphans is very crucial to human existence and a path to peaceful society. If Governments at all levels would start assisting the orphans, it will go a long way in solving societal ills. “Government had been spending money on security, yet, the desired result is not achieved and it is compulsory on government to improve the orphans’ welfare and take care of their studies and health. “If the society folds its arm and leave the orphans on their own, we will all dwell in sin and Allah (SWT) will not forgive us, therefore, it is incumbent on all of us to take care of the orphans.” He encouraged members of the society to ensure routine visit to orphanage homes to give the orphans a sense of belonging. Ayuba-As-Sudani observed that when orphans were neglected by the society, it was the same set of people that would negatively pay back through bomb attack, kidnapping, robbery, thuggery, terrorism and all other forms of threats. Responding, the officer-in-charge of the orphanage home, Mrs. Ester Bariat-James commended the foundation for the gesture and urged them to sustain the tempo. She said: “I am very impressed with the efforts of the foundation, when the person doing the running around came, I like the way we related as if we knew each other for a very long time. I am a Christian and she is a Muslim, I think that’s the way it supposed to be, there is nothing like segregation and listen to the sermon delivered by the Imam and am happy. I want to encourage us all in this nation to embrace one another and to live in peace and unity with one another and be our brothers’ keepers.”