• ‘nPDP ‘ll leave no matter what’ A close ally of President Muhammadu Buhari and National President of Vote Guard and Awareness for Buhari, Engineer Kelani Mohammed, has blamed Governors for the crisis rocking the All Progressives Congress (APC) nationwide. He accused the governors of hijacking party structures in their domains without ensuring internal democracy. He however asked President Muhammadu Buhari to wait for report of the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu peace committee before personally wading into the crisis at the states level. Mohammed added the party must be saved from going into general elections with such internal rancour. The party chieftain, who addressed newsmen in Kaduna, said APC needs a united front towards the 2019 general elections after its many disputed and parallel congresses. Commenting on recent moves by members of the new People’s Democratic Party (nPDP) caucus of APC, Mohammed declared they have made up their minds to dump APC. He said even if President Muhammadu Buhari and the party give them heaven and earth, they will still leave. He alleged they have their masters pulling the strings from outside the party. According to him, “The nPDP, even if we give them heaven and earth, they have made up their minds. “There was a merger ahead of the 2015 elections where about four or five parties came together and every group came with its own interest. “They complained the nPDP members are putting forward is that they have not been carried along. “Though, in a political setting like ours, people are bound to be aggrieved but in the case of members of nPDP, many of them got appointment starting from Saraki, being the Senate President, Dogara as Speaker, many are governors, who benefited from the recent board appointment while their spokesman, Kawu Baraje is a chairman of a lucrative board.” He went on:  “Now, I learnt they met the Vice President and still, they are not satisfied; they said they have to meet the President. “But believe me sincerely, in a party situation, we depend solely on the masses of this country who will do the voting and that is why they government is concentrating on how to bring the masses out of their present predicament. “Whether this people (nPDP) agree or not, it seems, they are on their way out. “For us, all we desire is peace, cohesion and mutual understanding for APC to move forward towards 2019. “But truly speaking, nPDP have their own masters outside and maybe they have a second option. “But, even if they do that, they cannot defeat us, because we have the masses.”