Vice-Chancellor, University of Lagos, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe has advised graduating pupils of Corona Secondary School in Agbara Ogun State to be focused. At the valedictory ceremony for Class of 2018, the trio of Oluwakorede Akande, Salutorian Stephanie Agana and Omobolanle Alashe, were the cynosure as they walked tall among their peers due to their academic performance. Prof Ogundipe urged the pupils to be managers of their minds, saying “while distractions may be an impediment to realise one’s potential, they should be focused and shouldn’t allow happenings around them to affect their goals”. Speaking on the topic “Nothing but the best”, the scholar attributed the sterling performance and successes recorded by the pupils to perseverance, determination, and commitment to learning. Success, he said, is about having a positive impact in your environment. He admonished the pupils to surround themselves with good people. He said: “Learn to take small steps and embrace the challenge. You must know that setback would come, but use the stumbling stones to move to the next level. “Speak positive things concerning your life, learn to implement ideas coming to your mind, know your purpose and nurse it, start thinking about your career whether you want to be a doctor, engineer, academic etc. Also, increase your level of awareness and exposure, be willing to break new grounds, and learn to take risks.” To achieve greater success, Prof Ogundipe said they must leave their comfort zone and make a decision to be solution providers. Highlighting what makes great men unique, Ogundipe said “people often say ‘think outside the box’, but when there is no box, you think wider and this makes you a unique being. “Be dedicated to whatever you are doing, practice as much as you can and have mental preparation.  Also, it is important to decide on your success goal, don’t look at others and don’t run another person’s race,”he said. The Vice-Chancellor advised the pupils to learn from their mistakes and never give up in life even when they fail or fall. “Examine other people’s success and keep on learning because the journey is still very far. Don’t act alone, believe in yourself so that you can fulfill your goal,” he said. The school principal, Mrs. Chinedum Oluwadamilola in her speech entitled: “The best is in you”, said she is elated at the amazing accomplishments of the Class of 2018. She said: “They gave us an inkling of what to expect by smashing the Standardised Aptitude Test (SAT) last December and went on to give us the best in International General Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) result in the school to date, where some of them made A*s in all the subjects they wrote. The Class of 2018 ‘humiliated’ Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) with 10pupils scoring above 300, over 75 per cent of them making 250 and above and one scoring the second highest in the country. “I will not fail to congratulate this graduating class for being the class that produced the first and only secondary pupils in Nigeria to pass the foundation level of Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA). The impressive university admissions and mouthwatering scholarships deserve our applause.” Mrs Oluwadamilola urged the pupils to be worthy ambassadors of a school and blaze forth like stars that light the night. “As agents of transformation, be sure to lead lives worthy of emulation and in all your future endeavours, be guided by truth. Go and accomplish the extraordinary for only the very best is good enough for you,” she said. At the end of the ceremony, awards of recognition were given to outstanding pupils while the duo of Anthony Ilobinso and Ademola Adelekan won Outstanding Teachers’ Award of the 2018 set. Dignitaries at the event included Chief Executive Officer, Corona School Trust Council, Mrs. Adeyoyin Adesina; Director of Education; Mrs. Amelia Dafeta; Executive Chairman, Agbara/Igbesa Local Council Development Area of Ogun State, Ebenezer Oniyide; representatives of ACCA, Lagos and West,  Abayomi Quassim; Ayoola Ademoye; parents and well-wishers.