Nigeria’s victory over Argentina at the Russia 2018 World Cup may be decided on a divine note. Former Skipper Segun Odegbami may have been sensing the issues at stake when Kunle Solaja reported him to have said, “Pray for them please so that the elements conspire with us and give us sweet victory”. However psychology may win the match over artistry. Whichever way, only the toughest will survive. The pressure is on former Champions Argentina whose performance in this world cup are woeful having only one point and a three goal deficit against a Nigeria who probably need just a draw after a three point advantage but a zero on goals difference. If Croatia does not make ‘deal’ with Iceland playing their first eleven as Mikel alleged, Nigeria may have a stroll in the park. Press reports have said the Argentine camp have been in disarray and players may choose their team cutting off the coach. Reports say the players want their coach sacked after the Croatia match. Aguero may be benched for head fight with the coach. Their elastic star, Diego Maradona had never been comfortable with Nigeria since that country ended his blissful career in 1974. Maradona tested positive to banned drugs and he collapsed under FIFA two year ban. Sanni Toro, the NFA Scribe then had wanted the match won through boardroom decision but FIFA gave the cervical – a no. Nigeria was bashed in the last four world cup meetings especially the last three 2002, 2010, 2014. Maradona almost shot the Sheriff November 2017 when Nigeria thrashed a Messi-less Argentina 4-2 at Krasnodal where Alex Iwobi got a brace and Aguero fainted in the dressing room. Maradona requested a word with the Argentines. He was formerly their national coach and was uncomfortable seeing Croatia mess them up in the last match. Messi had repeatedly expressed fears “against a physical, fast and youthful Nigerian squad. Messi may not have realized that Nigerian players are flat footed in first half playing executive football but comes smoking in the second half. Nigerian coach Rohr admitted that Nigeria’s Achilles heel is set pieces and lack of concentration in closing moments. It is more than that. The passes are not accurate and shot at goal is poor. Nigeria may reap from bounce off from the goalkeeper if they are alert. There should be no deep defending which can dash them VAR sponsored penalties. I honestly do not have a challenge with Uzuhu in goal. Since he has been tending the goal faults have been from players and not him but he and the defenders should be careful of tricky free kicks around the periphery of the penalty box. There is something never noticed, four Argentine players including Messi and Aguero have temperament challenges when under pressure which may attract yellow or straight reds. If the officiating is fair, if Nigerian players are cool-headed, Eagles will win neatly. Mikel may come with plaster on his left hand if officials allow at the pre-match meeting. He has a metacarpal problem he sustained in the last match. Metacarpal are bones of the hands while metatarsals are bones of the foot which allows shooting. No other injury. Ogazi Onazi is a great shot that has not been exploited. Mascherano had to get rid of him in Brazil when he became a torn in the flesh. I see Macherano hugging a red card. My last word: KJV Ecclesiastes 9:11 “I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all”. This is if you look unto the field and see the soccer powers being shaken. It is Nigeria’s time to shine above Argentina in football. There will be tsunamis for Argentina on and off the pitch