Senator Ali Ndume on Friday urged Nigerian youths to take advantage of the ‘Not Too Young To Run’ law and participate fully in the country’s political arena. He made the call while speaking with State House correspondents, after observing the Jumma’at prayer at the Aso Villa mosque. According to him, the signing of the bill into law was a great achievement by the Buhari administration. He said “I want to congratulate the Nigerian youth because I am one of the advocates for the ‘Not too young to run bill,’ which we supported very well at the National Assembly level. Just as nobody is too old to run, we feel that nobody should be too young to run either. “So this is a very commendable thing that the President has done. Now the door is opened for the youth to have the opportunity to contest. This is another very positive development in the maturity of democracy in Nigeria and I want the youth to take advantage of that to give in their best to see that we have an improved democracy with vibrant youths in the system,” he said. He advocated for more synergy between the three arms of government, stressing that they should be interdependent, not independent. He said: “The wrong thing that we got ab-initio is the fact that the three arms of government are technically viewed as independent instead of being interdependent. In the developed democracies that we are copying, for example in America, the Vice President is the Senate President right now as we speak. “So there is supposed to be synergy, support and cooperation within the three arms of government and to be honest that has not been the case in the past three years it has been very bumpy and that was unnecessary.” The Senator also said that the 8th National Assembly has not been as smooth as expected. “The 8th National Assembly has not been smooth and has not been working closely with the executive but I don’t want to put all the blames on the executive alone because it takes two to tango. “So that is my own personal view about what is going on. The relationship has not been what it’s supposed to be especially where we ( the governing party) have the majority in the National assembly, the relationship is supposed to be smoother than it is,” he stated.