Buhari, Saraki, Tinubu, Atiku, NPO mourn PUNCH Nigeria Limited Chairman Gbadebowale Aboderin is dead. He died at 6:05am on Wednesday following a heart surgery at First Cardiology Consultants, Lagos. He was 60. President Muhammadu Buhari, Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar have extended their condolences to the Aboderin family over the death. The Nigerian Press Organisation (NPO), consisting of the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN), the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), has also commiserated with the late family. The late aboderin, who was a United States (U.S.) trained pilot and Government College, Ibadan alumnus, was also chairman, PUNCH Commercial Printing Limited and Lukahed Properties Limited. He was the founder and chairman of Dolphins Female Basketball Foundation, a former chairman of the Lagos State Basketball Association and a one-time vice-president of the Nigerian Basketball Supporters Club. Wale’s father, Olu Aboderin, who co-founded The Punch, along with “Uncle” Sam Amuka-Pemu, also died in February 1984 – six months before his 60th birthday. On September 28, 2016, during the posthumous 80th birthday of his mum, the late Mrs. Jadesola Aboderin in Lagos, Wale told The Nation about his regret in joining the family business. He said: “The only regret is that it has kept me from being what I wanted to be and doing those things I really love to do. I would have been a pilot, musician, an actor or anything in the arts, which I really love doing and have a flair for. But my number one ambition was to be a pilot because I really love to fly.” Aboderin also explained why, apart from his interest in basketball, he always kept away from the public glare. He said: “I want to attend parties, but I have consciously refused to because I don’t have the time to tell lies. I am not saying this to say politicians are liars, but I would rather use my time thinking of ways to help humanity. “When I go to places where my integrity would be compromised, the Devil sees it as an opportunity to get me. But as long as I know in my heart that what I am doing is the right thing, and that I am a brand and the brand stands for integrity; my personality, then I have no one to answer to.” He is survived by his wife, Titilayo, and children. But, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, Buhari commiserated with all members of NPAN, the media and sports industry on the death of the respected entrepreneur and philanthropist. The President said Aboderin, who was greatly admired by his peers in the media and sports industry, would be long remembered for his resourcefulness, managerial proficiency and invaluable contributions to the growth of the sectors. Buhari prayed that God Almighty would comfort all who mourn the late Aboderin and grant his soul eternal rest. Tinubu, in a statement by his media aide, Tunde Rahman, said he was deeply saddened to learn of the death of the newspaper chairman. The statement reads: “We lost Wale at a rather young age when we still needed him to continue to be with us. At 60, he still had a lot to offer us, but within those three scores though, he made appreciable impact and touched and changed lives. “As Chairman of Punch, taking over from his uncle, the actuary ,Chief Ajibola Ogunshola, Wale continued to maintain and sustain the excellent journalism Punch is noted for, ensuring that the newspaper remains where it should be. “Though he trained as a pilot, he was also a sports enthusiast. He particularly loved basketball to the point that he floated Dolphins Female Basketball Foundation. He was at one time the Chairman of our Basketball Association in Lagos. “His death is a huge loss to the Aboderin family, both immediate and extended. The media and sports worlds, which he traversed and impacted positively, have also lost an outstanding partner. “My deep sympathy and condolences to his wife and two children. I mourn with the Aboderin family, The Punch Newspaper, the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria and the media generally. I hope and pray that God grants his family, the strength to carry on and continue with those legacies he lived for. “May God also grant him eternal rest.” In his reaction, Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, described the late Aboderin as a philanthropist, sports lover and a businessman, who left indelible footprints on the sands of time. He noted that the deceased lived an exemplary life worthy of emulation and contributed immensely to national growth through the media, youth and sports development, among others. He commiserated with the immediate family – his wife and two daughters, The Punch Group of Newspapers, the media industry, sports enthusiasts and his loved ones, over the colossal loss. Atiku, in a condolence message signed by his media office, said he felt the pains of the immediate Aboderin family in particular; the media, especially the NPAN and the teeming lovers of The Punch newspapers worldwide. “In today’s world, 60 years is too young an age for anyone to pass on with their lofty dreams. Wale Aboderin’s untimely departure is certainly heartbreaking: painful to the family, a monumental loss to the fourth estate of the realm and the nation at large,” the Waziri of Adamawa said. Atiku prayed that the soul of the deceased should find rest in eternity, and also that God grants the family the fortitude to bear the loss.” The NPO, in a statement by its President, Nduka Obaigbena, said it was saddened at the news of the untimely death of The Punch Chairman. He described Wale as a consummate sport enthusiast, jovial, amiable  and  easy going. “His death is a big blow, not just to The Punch Group, but to the entire media landscape of Nigeria and Africa. He followed generations of media owners, who served the public purpose. “We offer our condolences to the Aboderin family and The Punch Group. May his soul find peace. Perfect peace.” In his own reaction, former Anambra State Governor  Peter Obi described the death of the Aboderin as a great loss to the nation. Obi said due to his understanding of the real essence of journalism, he was able to create an identity for The Punch, punctuated by firm adherence to the ethics of the profession among its journalists. The former governor prayed to God to grant his family and those he left behind the fortitude to bear the loss.     