The use of water for therapy is no modern procedure. In fact, it has been carried out for hundreds of years and now forms an integral part of traditional medicine practices. Nonetheless, many people are unfamiliar with the concept of hydrotherapy and how exactly it can benefit one’s health and well-being. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes on the many Hydrotherapy benefits. What is the purpose of hydrotherapy? By definition, hydrotherapy is the use of water to relieve discomfort and promote physical well-being. A number of therapeutic treatments and approaches draw upon the healing properties of water for pain relief, making use of the body’s reaction to hot and cold stimuli. On the whole, cold water is used to stimulate and invigorate, increasing the body’s internal activity, whereas warm water is used to calm and soothe, slowing it down. Alternating between hot and cold water treatments can help to heal injuries, enhance various bodily functions and reduce any inflammation. Giving further insight into this, the Managing Director of Mart Life Detox Clinic/Mart Life Wellness and Anti Aging  Day Spa, Mrs Idowu Ashiru said Hydrotherapy encompasses a variety of treatments, including the use of hydrotherapy pools, thermal baths and water circuits, saunas, steam rooms, ‘experience showers’ and more, which can all help to improve a number of conditions. Modern day therapies are also enhanced with extras such as aromatherapy or Epsom salts. Thermal water circuits have a range of jets and water features which massage the body, stimulating the lymphatic system and flushing toxins whereas cold plunge pools or artificial ice and snow rooms will activate the body’s circulation. Mrs Ashiru explained that for the fact that Nigerians and even everybody within and outside the country deserve the very best formed part of the reasons why she set up the very best global standard- Piroche bath cosmetics here in Lagos. As she explained: “Simply called Hydrotherapy here, it comes under Bath Cosmetics, and Piroche bath cosmetics fully exploit the aromatherapy and cosmetic properties of essential oils to turn the bath into treatment. The outcome is an ideal blend of beauty and wellness. The bath cosmetics taken in the state of the art Avantgarde massage tub further increased circulation to the skin, abdominal organs, and reproductive organs.” Mrs Ashiru said depending on the health needs of the cliente there are so many Hydrotherapy services being offered by her outfit, “Piroche Cosmetics Bath Algae- remineralise, increase metabolism, and circulation. Piroche Cosmetiques Relaxing Bath- relax muscle and tissue stress. Piroche Cosmetiques Calming Bath- calms the body and mind. Piroche Cosmetiques Detoxing Bath- purify, detox ideal cellulite treatment. Piroche Cosmetiques Regenerating Bath- regenerate, purify and stimulate. Piroche Cosmetiques Energy Bath- tone and give new found energy. Piroche Cosmetiques Drawing Bath- remove water retention, while, Piroche Cosmetiques Purifying Bath- reduces crystal build-up.” Under the same roof Mrs Ashiru offers Aqua tub slimming detox massage, “Which is a complete lymphatic drainage using a high pressure shower jet that is operated by a therapist in the tub. Thanks to this treatment more liquid and toxins can be eliminated from the body, so it is perfect for anyone with water retention. It has a revitalising effect that is great to combat fatigue. It is also a slimming treatment”. Reiterating on the so many benefits inherent in Hydrotherapy, Mrs Ashiru said Hydrotherapy can soothe sore or inflamed muscles and joints, rehabilitate injured limbs, lower fevers, soothe headaches, promote relaxation, treat burns and frostbite, ease labor pains, and clear up skin problems. The temperature of water used affects the therapeutic properties of the treatment. “Hot water relaxes muscles and causes sweating, and is used to treat arthritis, rheumatism, poor circulation, and sore muscles. It can be used in combination with aromatherapy. Cold water hydrotherapy is used to stimulate blood flow in the skin and underlying muscles. The weightlessness you feel when under water relieves tension in the limbs, supporting aching muscles and easing the movement as opposed to when on land. Also, hydrotherapy stimulates the release of endorphins, acting as a natural pain reliever which will further reduce muscle soreness. Incorporating hydrotherapy as part of you fitness holiday is a great way to recover after a day’s training,” said Mrs Shiru. Hydrotherapy equally rehabilitates injured muscles, as she explained, “Being immersed in warm or hot water raises the body temperature, increasing blood flow around the circulatory system and so alleviating pain. The improved circulation will in turn help to heal injured tissues and rehabilitate damaged muscles or joints. It boosts the immune system, as the increased blood flow and circulation of white blood cells around the body allows lymph (an immune system fluid that helps collect and get rid of unwanted materials from the body) to be moved through the body more efficiently and therefore strengthens the immune system, helping to fight colds and illnesses” The therapy equally encourages detoxification, as Saunas and steam rooms induce considerable sweating, the body’s primary way of eliminating toxins, “Flush out impurities and toxins through the skin on a detox holiday and help to cleanse your body. Just as it relieves stress. Hydrotherapy treatment can be effectively used whilst on a de-stress holiday by helping to reduce blood pressure caused by stress. It may also slow down the body’s reaction to anxiety and release endorphins – a natural stress fighter,” said Mrs Ashiru.  Roles of essential oils  How does she combine essential oils with Hydrotherapy for clientes’ benefits? Mrs Ashiru said it is always based on individual needs: Relaxing bath oil, with a high content of essential oils designed to produce a beneficial relaxing effect on the whole body. Releases muscle and tissue tension. Bath Algues: Regenerating thalasso bath. This bath provides the skin with the nutritional substances of Laminaria seaweed with its remineralizing and stimulating functions. Indicated when combined with treatments against cellulite blemishes and against dry and demineralized skin. Aroma Hydro bath detox R + Calming C: DETOXING BATH A bath with essential oils designed to stimulate body purification. Ideal combined with adipose treatment. Aroma Hydro Bath Energy E: Energetic bath awakens energy in both body and spirit. It is an invigorating, instantly refreshing bath that ensures new found energy. It is the ideal bath for warm sultry days. Aroma Hydro bath Regenerating HC is a Regenerating bath. This is a combination of eight essential oils synergically to achieve a regenerating, purifying and stimulant action. The skin is firmer and more compact after the bath. Bagno anticristalloide Aroma Hydro bath Purifying AC is a purifying bath. A special purifying bath that is ideal for demanding mature skin. Helps to dissolve crystal build up in tissues. Aroma Hydro Bath Draining AA is one with Bath oil, whose stimulating blend of essential oils of geranium, thyme, lemon, scotch pine helps to give the body a feeling of lightness. Ideal when combined with treatment against cellulite blemishes associated with water retention. Aroma Hydro Bath calming C is a smoothing bath with essential lavender and petit grain oil. It has a very high aromatherapeutic effect to relax both body and mind. It is ideal for an evening bath.