The national secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was brimming with activities all through yesterday ahead of today’s national convention of the party. Party members and delegates kept trooping in while petty traders took advantage of the crowd to do brisk business. These included souvenirs, ranging from branded key holders to hats, fez caps and T-shirts. The tenure of the Chief John Odigie Oyegun-led 21-member National Working Committee (NWC) of the party expires on Monday with 17 of them seeking re-election. They include Deputy National Chairman (North), Sen. Lawal Shuaibu, National Secretary, Mai Mala Buni, National Auditor, George Moghalu, and National Women Leader, Hajiya Aisha Tijjani. Others are National Organising Secretary, Sen. Osita Izunaso, National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, Deputy National Secretary, Victor Geidam, National Vice Chairman (South-West), Pius Akinyelure, and National Vice Chairman (North-West), Inuwa Abdulkadir. Also re-contesting are the National Vice Chairman (North-Central), Zakari Abdullahi Ede, National Financial Secretary, Tajudeen Olawutan Bellow, National Vice Chairman (South-East), Emma Eneukwu, National Vice Chairman (South-South), Prince Hilliard Eta, and National Vice Chairman (North-East) Hon. Mustapha. Former Edo Gov. Adams Oshiomhole remains unopposed for the National Chairmanship position as Chief Clement Ebri, a former governor of Cross River, had withdrawn from the race just like two other contestants earlier did. However, seven aspirants are contesting for the National Organising Secretary post. Expectations are that the state governors would meet with some of the aspirants ahead of the convention to explore possibilities of a consensus candidate. Meanwhile, Gov. Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa and Chairman of the Convention Planning Committee had said that the aspirants, irrespective of their number, the contestants would face the ballot if they failed to come up with a consensus candidate. The resolution, according to him, was reached at a meeting of the governors on Tuesday. President Muhammadu Buhari, at the APC National Executive Committee meeting in February, had insisted that the party should hold a national convention after the one year tenure extension proposed by the current NWC failed to sail through. At least 6, 800 delegates are expected from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory to elect new national executives of the party at the convention.