The Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation has debunked claim by Governor Ayodele Fayose that the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress, Dr Kayode Fayemi, plans to create cattle colonies across the state for cattle rearers. A statement by the Director of Media and Publicity, Wole Olujobi, said that Fayose’s fabrication is a rehash of an earlier online press statement traced to the governor’s media aides who have perfected the art of attributing unpopular positions or comments on public issues to innocent people. He said Fayemi is noted for the protection of life and property of his people as shown during his four years in the saddle of Ekiti State government. “Fayemi’s position on farmers-herders clash is focussed on protecting lives and property. More lives had been lost during the Fayose administration with his hare-brained policy than it ever happened under our administration. “We ensured harmonious relationship between our indigenous and non-indigenous population and there was absolutely zero tolerance for farm destruction. “It is to be noted that all the resources provided for security forces by Fayemi’s administration to protect farming communities particularly in Iyemero and Oke Ako axis were summarily cancelled when Fayose took over the administration of Ekiti State.” Counselling Fayose to direct his energies to good governance and transparent conduct of government’s affairs, Olujobi said Fayemi never spoke with any reporter anywhere on the creation of cattle colonies. “The false story about Fayemi talking about creating cattle colonies in Ekiti State was first published online about a month ago and it was discovered that it was orchestrated by Fayose’s media aide, who published the story on a cloned website of an online publication. “Adebayo Jackson in his latest press statement is just doing a rehash of a dead news item in the most hackneyed manner that Fayose’s media men have been spreading falsehoods in the media space. “Fayose and his media handlers have developed notoriety for reckless lies and, unfortunately, they are not ashamed of their integrity being soiled in their unedifying enterprise. “Honourable people that cherish their integrity would not take seriously any news items  from Fayose and his men that seek to attribute  unpopular comments on public issues to his political opponents. “In the last one year, Fayose’s men have been in the habit of concocting press interviews and attribute unpopular comments and remarks in the interviews to innocent people that never spoke with any reporters. “They did it to Fayemi’s wife when they said the woman abused President Muhammadu Buhari for not supporting her husband. “They did it to APC State Chairman, Jide Awe, when they concocted an interview that Awe abused Pastor Adejare Adeboye of the Redeemed Church of God for visiting Fayose in the Government House. “They also did it to APC State Publicity Secretary, Taiwo Olatunbosun, when Fayose’s media aide concocted a story that Olatunbosun addressed reporters where he purportedly said that Buhari’s wife was involved in Halliburton scandal and asking the woman to defend herself whereas these innocent people never addressed reporters anywhere. “It is a pity that the administration of our state is in the hands of the people who are a perfect match in integrity deficiency. “Fayose and his men have a background of infamy they are coming from and so we can understand their nuisance. “Fortunately, July 14 governorship election is around the corner when these  characters will be chased away from the life of Ekiti State to enable the people reclaim their land and restore their values that have been thrown into the mud by hustlers who have chosen Ekiti State as a trading post for the benefit of one man,” Olujobi said.