Electricity distribution companies (DisCos) require about $80 billion to connect their customers nationwide, including those powered by off-grid supply,  the Managing Director, Rubitec Africa (Rubitec Solar), Bolade A. Soremekun, has said. Soremekun told The Nations at the launch of Exeron Technology by Metkas in Lagos that over $50 billion has been spent in the past 10 years in the electricity sector. He said this has resulted in only 1,500 megawatts (Mw) of added capacity, with only five per cent of customers connected. Soremekun, who spoke on: Off-grid solutions for Nigeria, said the country has an installed power generation capacity of about 8,600Mw (more than half of the capacity of the whole of West Africa), but noted that generation capacity available on the grid fluctuates between 4,000Mw and 5,000Mw for a demand that is escalating with the rising population and socio-economic activities. According to him, about 80 per cent of the energy mix is made of electricity generated through gas-fired power plants, while the balance is got from hydropower plants. He noted that grid power is only available to meet the need of about 30 per cent of the population (mostly urban centres), while the rest (mostly rural dwellers, comprising about 70 per cent of the population) are left at the mercy of traditional biomass energy. He said ‘interconnected mini- grids’ has to do with connecting with DisCos while ‘isolated mini- grids’ serve rural communities. He further explained the opportunities in the two grids, adding that interconnected mini-grids can be cost-competitive to alternatives, lower cost for fixed assets as grid infrastructure already existent, enhances faster deployment resulting in lower deployment costs. This is because less planning/engagement would need to be done with a focus on system optimisation, he added. Another benefit of ‘interconnected mini grids,’ he said, is wider technical knowledge from the developer-DisCo relationship, which can unlock ability to scale faster across DisCo territory and readily available base load and hence better capacity utilisation. The Rubitech chief, however, agreed that mini-grids are the best way to address underserved households quickly, affordably and sustainably. 