Over 7000 Igbeagu Izzi indigenes of Izzi local government area of Ebonyi State have so far been displaced following clashes between Izzi people and their Ukele, Cross River State neighbours . Also 1500 houses had been allegedlly destroyed in the area by millitia groups from the area. Chairman of Izzi LGA, Hon. Paul Nwogha stated this on Monday while briefing the Ebonyi State Deputy Governor, Kelechi Igwe on the crisis. Meanwhile so many displaced Izzi peesons were seen on Abakaliki-Ogoja highway trekking with their belongings to Abakaliki capital to seek refuge. The crisis between the two border communities had reignited last week leading to loss of lives and counter accusations by the two states governments over which side that started the attack. The Deputy Governor was on an assessment visit to the troubled area and also addeessed the displaced persons at Ndi- Akparata Nwenyi village in Igbeagu community in Izzi LGA where some of them had taken refuge. Mr Igwe directed the Cantonment Commander, Lt. Sa’aad Sadiq to immediately deploy more troops to the troubled zone to ensure the safety of both Ebonyians in Izzi and foreigners travelling along the Abakaliki-Ogoja trans Sahara highway. While appealing to Izzi people to maintain peace and order, Mr Igwe assured them that the State government would not fold its arm and watch Ebonyi people slaughtered. He further condemned the killing of human beings in the crisia which according to him remains sacred and should be held in high esteem by all and sundry irrespective of the issues at stake. The Deputy Governor’s convoy along with other security personnel including the Army, police and DSS took a ride along the Abakaliki-Ogoja trans Sahara highway to access the level of carnages meted out on Izzi people by the Cross River militia group. Chairman of Izzi LGA, Hon. Paul Nwogha who lamented over the level destruction in all the affected villages in Izzi community noted that most of the villages had been deserted as some of the displaced persons were still in dire need of refuge and relief materials. He appreciated the State government for coming to the aid of Izzi people adding that what is needed now is a holistic and sincere approach to the matter by both sides of the divide. According to him, no human beings or goat or chicken is seen within the affected community as everybody had ran away for safety. The Commander, Nwakgu Military Cantonment, Lt. Col. Sa’aad Sadiq stated that more troops had been deployed from Cross River and Abakaliki to quell the crisis. He called on the people of Izzi to cooperate with the peace process by attending security meetings intended to bring an end to the crisis. The Cantonment Commander assured the Izzi people of their safety as the military was working round the clock to bring lasting peace in both affected LGAs of Ebonyi and Cross River States. At time of filing this report, the Deputy Governor of Ebonyi State, Dr. Kelechi Igwe entered a security meeting with stakeholders of Izzi LGA and security personnel on how to peacefully resolve the inter communal clash between Ebonyi and Cross river States. Ends