A businesswoman, Monsurat Ogundipe, on Tuesday  urged an Agege Customary Court in Lagos to dissolve her 14-year old marriage to  her husband, Sheriff,  due to denial of sex  and  lack of   love. The petitioner, who resides at Ijaiye Street, Abule Egba area of Lagos, told the court that she was no longer interested in the union. “My husband is irresponsible; he is a chronic liar and has denied me  sex for over two years. “He is a drunkard, who drinks to stupor and misbehaves  and this usually leads to shame and serious embarrassment for me and our children. “I can no longer bear the emotional and verbal torture I suffer in his hands. “My husband is fond of saying he is not going to  send me packing  and that  when l am  tired, l will move out without being told,’’ she said. The mother of three, who admitted that  her husband does not beat her, claimed that  the emotional abuse had been unbearable. “My husband frustrates my efforts and brings in different women into our matrimonial home without any form of respect for me. “All my husband does is to drink and engage in extra marital affairs. “He is not caring and lacks respect for the institution of marriage; please separate us, I can no longer live with him,” she told  the court. The respondent and an official of the  Nigeria Immigration Service admitted that he had denied his wife  sex. He also  urged the court to dissolve the  marriage, claiming that he no longer loves  his wife. “I try my best to cater for my family but my wife is never satisfied,” he said. The respondent also described the petitioner as arrogant and unwilling  to be submissive to him. He further  admitted that he was engaged in relationship with  other women because his wife refused to have sex with him. “She wants to usurp my authority in the house and  has no iota of respect for me. “Trouble started when my younger sister came to stay with us;  my wife declared that she will not have sex with me until my sister leaves the house. “For six months, my wife refused to have sex with me which led to my drinking habit and since then, l  have lost interest in her,” he said. The respondent also alleged that his wife was promiscuous, claiming that  she often  received strange calls and text messages from different men at odd hours. He alleged that one of his wife’s concubines also placed the “magun’’ charm on  her. “I later discovered this  through prayers or else I would have been dead. “I don’t trust my wife and I  no longer love her, l , therefore,  urge the court to dissolve the marriage so that we can go our separate ways,’’ he said. The court’s President, Mrs Ibironke Elabor, who advised the estranged couple to keep the peace, adjourned the case till July 26 for alternative dispute resolution. (NAN)