THE Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN) yesterday said that the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) lost 1,087Mega Watts (MW) owing to gas pipeline rupture and challenges with Shell gas wells. The situation, according to TCN General Manager, Public Affairs, Ndidi Mbah, culminated in load-shedding nationwide to stabilise the grid. The statement noted: “As a result of gas pipeline rupture on June 15, 2018, as well as technical issues at the Shell gas wells on June 16, there has been a sharp drop in generation into the grid by a total of 1,087.6MW, resulting in load-shedding nationwide, necessary to maintain stability of the grid.” It added that due to the Nigeria Gas Company incident, six thermal power generating stations have been unable to generate electricity and have therefore been shut down. The affected power stations, TCN said, include Ihovbor, Azura, Omotosho gas, Geregu gas, Olorunsogo gas, Sapele and the Egbin Power Station, which has managed to generate 60MW only on each of its units, losing a total of 211MW. Also, Afam VI power station was shut down to allow Shell Oil Company resolve its gas well issues to enable it begin gas supply to Afam VI power station. The statement said: “With a total loss of 1,087.6MW into the grid, the transmission system has become quite fragile and TCN is working hard to avert a collapse of the system, by engaging in load-shedding.” Load-shedding, the agency explained, is to ensure that available generation is commensurate with what is allocated to discos nationwide, to create a balance and avert grid instability. The statement noted that NGC is making efforts to ensure that the gas pipeline issues are resolved to restore normal gas supply to the affected power generating stations and to enable them generate into the grid. But it was gathered that Shell resolved its gas well issue yesterday morning and gas supply was partially restored to Afam VI. TCN noted that there has been no collapse of the grid as reported. It appealed for understanding and assured that its engineers are working hard to continue to maintain the stability of the grid, pending completion of repairs of the gas pipeline by NGC and restoration of full gas supply to the affected generating stations.  