 Armed men numbering four have reportedly attacked a warehouse located on Azikiwe road in Aba the commercial nerve of Abia State and allegedly made away with cash worth over four million naira. The Nation learnt that the gunmen who operated kin a commercial tricycle had pretended to have come to the textile warehouse to make inquiry before taking advantage of the situation to execute their evil agenda. Warehouses in Aba have in the last months been under attack by gunmen who disguised as passengers of commercial tricycles to beat security checks and to have the leeway to carry out their operations at ease. Sources around the location of the robbery incident who pleaded anonymity said that the gunmen armed to the teeth made away with cash belonging to the warehouse owner and some of the customers who were there to lift new materials and others who came to pay for previous supplies. It was learnt that the gunmen after carrying out their nefarious act stopped another commercial tricycle operator. According to the sources, the gunmen robbed the warehouse swiftly that even neighbours and passersby were surprised when customers and the warehouse owner were narrating their ordeals. “The man is selling clothes in bell. People were surprised when they (victims) were narrating the incident. The shop owner could not say exactly how much that was stolen from him, but from what we gathered, they (gunmen) made away with cash of over N4miilion.” Another source however called on warehouse owners to install Close Circuit TV (CCTV) in their shops, stressing that it could assist the police and other sister agencies to either identify or track down the hoodlums as was the case in Offa (Kwara State) robbery. In another development, a resident of Boudex Lane off 28 Umuola Road, Aba is battling for survival in an undisclosed hospital in the commercial city after he was reportedly shot by an armed robber that invaded his apartment with his group members. The middle aged man who operates a provision store was said to have been taken unawares by robbers who came on a tricycle. Our reporter gathered that the man who could not watch the robbers cart away the cash he realized from the day’s sales, resisted the armed men from making away with the money, but one of the gunmen angrily shot the man in the head, leaving him in the pool of his blood. The neighbours and police patrol team was said to have been alerted by the sound of the gun and screaming of the victim. Unconfirmed report has it that the robbers noticing they were been chased by police, abandoned their tricycle at in front of a popular Secondary School along Aba/Ikot Ekpene Highway before dashing into a nearby bush for safety. The Police Public Relations Officer, PPRO of Abia State Command of the Nigerian Police Force, DSP Geoffery Ogbonna could not be contacted during the filing of this report as efforts to reach him failed.