 The ongoing world cup in Russia no doubt has lived up to expectation so far. Though teams that are on the verge of crashing out and those who have already booked their exit, will tell you their expectations were not met. Different strokes for different folks you will say. The solution probably will be to go back to the drawing board and begin preparation for the next edition in 2022 in Qatar. For the fans it is not just about supporting and cheering their fans to victory but also catching fun by visiting places of interest and perhaps having a taste of some local delicacies. Talking about local foods it was interesting to receive a picture of a pot full of freshly boiled corn on sale at one of the match venues in Russia dispatched by our photographer, John Ebota. On a good day a diet of corn with coconut or pear can make a complete meal and has been proved to have the capacity to sustain a hungry fellow.  The good thing about corn which is one of the stable foods in Nigeria and in Africa some nutritionists have confirmed is that you can never have too much and it can be made readily available as it matures within a short time. Corn or maize takes from 60 to 100 days to reach harvest depending upon variety and the amount of heat available to it in the course of growing.  What this means is that it is possible to plant and harvest corn three times in a year, thus providing it all year round and providing source of income for farmers. It is relatively cheap and affordable.  For lovers of this stable food, the mere sight of a pot of boiled corn will no doubt trigger off appetite and to realise that corn is also on the menu at the world cup in Russia, could be a major take home for some of the fans currently enjoying all the action a the event that has as usual seized the attention of the world and will retain it till July 15. According to verywellfit.com, Corn is a good source of fiber. Diets high in fiber can help to lower cholesterol and regulate blood sugar and weight control. In addition, corn is a good source of vitamin C, magnesium, B vitamins, and carotenoids lutein and zeaxanthin. Vitamin C is important in cell repair, boosting immunity and has anti-aging properties, whereas, B vitamins are important in energy metabolism. Magnesium is important for nerve conduction and muscle contraction. Carotenoids, lutein, and zeaxanthin have been shown to have antioxidative properties and are important in eye health. I recall during the 2016 edition of the Championship of African Nations (CHAN) hosted by Rwanda, Rubavu was one of the venues and heading to Rubavu from Kigali provided a very interesting sight. Maize farms waiting for harvest could be seen and at the beaches corn was one of the delicacies. Though they choose to garnish their roast corn with some form of sauce which makes it extra delicious I must confess, corn is eaten in various ways by those who love it. Seeing the delicacy displayed in Russia is nostalgic don’t you agree?     