Senator Nkechi Nwaogu was a governorship aspirant in Abia State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) prior to the 2015 general elections. She was part of the exodus from the PDP to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) after the general elections. In this interview with SUNNY NWANKWO, Nwaogu, who represented Abia Central in the Senate between 2007 and 2015, speaks about her drive to go back to the Senate and how President Muhammadu Buhari has fared in the last three years, among other issues. How has it been since 2015 when you tried to become the first elected female governor? I have tried the governorship three times; maybe the fourth attempt I will win, like Buhari. In 2015, my former party (PDP), the impunity in them made them to lose the general election. There was so much impunity, high handedness and lack of internal democracy in the party which affected somebody like me and so many others. I left the PDP and joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) and today I am happy to be a member of the APC. I joined APC in June 2015. Right now, I am doing consultation, but no longer for governorship ambition. I am consulting to go back to the Senate. Do you have any regrets for attempting to be governor? No, I don’t have any regrets, because I know that at some point, I will still rule Abia by the grace of God. Why are you seeking to go back to the Senate? I am going back because of the need to add value to the Senate representation in Abia Central. In the last three years, the difference has been clear. People have seen and noticed the difference between what it was and what it is now. Luckily, there is no limitation to the number of times you can go to the legislature. Since I left, my people have lost access to their elected representative; I want to restore that access. I need to go back there to restore the vibrancy and the home touch that has been absent since 2015. There are so many reasons why I should go back and why I need to go back and why the people are yearning for Nkechi Nwaogu to go back to the Senate to represent them. Are you capable of defeating the former governor who currently represents Abia Central? I will defeat him. I won’t say it will be easy, but with God on my side, I will defeat him and it will happen. Are there strategies you have put in place to make it happen? It is not for me to disclose the strategies. I am the David in this fight. Have you spoken to stakeholders in your constituency? That is why my mind has been made up. I have been encouraged by their desire for me to go back. I won’t say much on that today. What is your take on the pace of development in Abia State today? Well, I would not want to dwell on that today, as I said earlier. Everybody that is living here (Abia) knows that we are the least developed state in Nigeria. You don’t need rocket science to know that. All you need to do is to visit Abia and spend a day and transverse the cities of Abia. You will see that what I have just said is absolutely true. This state (Abia) is in bondage and we need liberation. What is your assessment of the APC’s preparedness to take power in Abia next year? The APC has arrived. It is only a deaf and dumb person or a blind man can say the APC hasn’t arrived in this state. People want a change from the shackles that Abia has been under. The state needs to be redeemed; it needs a restoration, or rebirth and collaborative governance. I don’t want to say much. But the APC appears to be factionalised, as it approaches 2019… That incident on April 9 was from a minor irritant that is being fuelled by the PDP to destabilise us. One person cannot disturb a party. That incident was quickly put in the trash can where it rightly belongs. The APC is not factionalized. You saw the calibre of persons that attended our recent meeting in Umuahia. A new thing has arrived in Abia State and that is the APC. All we need is to put ourselves together and sweep out this mess in this state. APGA seems to be waxing stronger in Abia… No, I don’t agree. APGA is now history in the state. It made waves in 2015 because Abians wanted a change from the PDP and whoever that was leading them. Today, it no longer has the capacity to command such attention in Abia again. How would you rate the performance of President Buhari in the last three years? I think that President Buhari has performed credibly well. I rate him 85 per cent. For 16 years that the PDP was in power, it was not able to do what President Buhari has done in three years. Look at Enugu-Port Harcourt Expressway, Enugu-Onitsha Expressway; it has taken President Buhari to begin genuine rehabilitation of the road; it is over 70 per cent completed at the moment. These roads have been there since 1999 with budgets that entered into individual’s pockets. Look at the Second Niger Bridge, which was promised by President Shehu Shagari, Olusegun Obasanjo and later Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. The immediate past president even went to Onitsha to perform groundbreaking ceremony, but later abandoned the project. The Second Niger Bridge is over 50 per cent completed in less than three years. President Buhari has revolutionalised agriculture. For 16 years, Nigeria was spending N34 billion importing rice. By next year, we will not be importing rice any more. This country will be self-sufficient in food production soon. In three years, the APC has been able to complete some of the rail projects that were started by the last administration. Nigeria’s reserve has increased from $2b to $23billion. You know that the nation’s reserve tells how healthy the economy of the country is. I think that what is happening in this country is because the PDP never knew that they would lose the election. Look at the avalanche of monies they looted before and during 2015 election. I know that things are a bit hard, because change comes with some stiffness. After a while, things will improve. I believe in President Buhari’s administration. I know that he is on the right track. When Jonathan was in power, he initiated the Treasury Single Account (TSA), but he didn’t have the courage to implement it. Buhari implemented it to reduce corruption which was one of the major essences of having TSA. We just need to be patient and that is why we must vote him into power for the second time, to complete this mission and set a solid standard for others to follow. How would rate his war on corruption? I rate his anti-corruption war very high. In every democracy, there is a tripod; the executive, judiciary and legislature. No one arm tramples on the other. If you see that these cases have prolonged for years and there are evidences that there is misappropriation or mismanagement of funds. It is not the fault of President Buhari that the war is not progressing as expected. He, as the head of the executive, has done his beat, by ensuring that those people that have identified as having one corrupt case or the other are handed in for prosecution. As a president, he cannot arm-twist or intimidate the other arms of government to do it his way. These are the things that his detractors have failed to realize. I don’t equally believe that the president is shielding APC members from being prosecuted. When the former SGF, Babachir Lawal, was found culpable, he was shown the way out and it is the responsibility of the EFCC to prosecute him. The director of Nigeria Intelligence Agency (NIA) was also found to in a compromising position and was shown the way out.  Somebody like Orji Kalu is a member of the APC and he is currently being prosecuted by the EFCC. So, how would you say that the president is not prosecuting APC members? What should people expect from you, if you succeed in going back to the Senate? By the grace of God, I will be the next senator for Abia Central in 2019. I will do restoration; I will bring positive representation; I will bring about proper and accountable dividends of democracy to my senatorial district. I will be the eyes and mouth of my people. I will an accessible representative that they have lost since the last three years. As Abia will be governed after 2019 by the APC, you will see the real and verifiable change and you will see government of the people, for the people and by the people. We will not run a segregated, factionalised government where you patronise only your people. We will treat Abians equally regardless of the part of the state that they come from. God will give our governor the grace to run an all inclusive government. For President Buhari, he will continue developing Nigeria. There is no way we can improve on our Gross Domestic Product (GDP), except through industrialisation, relying more on goods produced our country, rather than on importation.  