Founder of Joan Agba Foundation, Mrs Joan Agba, is an accomplished social entrepreneur. Her pursuits have earned her accolades. Her work has created entrepreneurs out of women and youths. She shared her dream with DANIEL ESSIET. Joan Agba Foundation founder, Mrs Joan Agba, is a successful entrepreneur with a social conscience. She is a management consultant, who retired from Shell Petroleum and Development Company (SPDC) in 2011, and set up her consulting firm as a high end consultancy firm. A multi-tasker from her youth, she is a social entrepreneur, peace negotiator and businesswoman, who has been touching lives through her Foundation. The foundation awards scholarships to brilliant indigent students, gives interest-free loans to women and assists youths to secure start-up grants for small enterprises. According to her, Joan Agha Foundation (JAF) addresses the needs of indigent persons by providing scholarships, empowering women and youth through financial support and capacity building, giving medical aid, counseling, and advocacy. Mrs. Agha explained that the Foundation works with individuals, communities and corporate organisations to alleviate poverty among indigent people. She started at the grassroot level, building women capacities  in the rural Delta State. The Foundation has empowered more than 200 indigent persons in the community through vocational skill acquisition and seed fund to start small business. “Through the women empowerment scheme, we are empowering  indigent women with basic equipment, financial support and vocational skill acquisition. “In addition, the foundation provides enterprise management mentorship to women in business by holding an annual lecture,” she said. Exploring social entrepreneurship was her key ambition, hence she focused on social service sector and enrolled at Enterprise Development Centre, Lagos Business School to further enrich her knowledge. In 2014, the foundation began training youths in entrepreneurship. Consequent upon the success recorded, the foundation made it a yearly event. The foundation holds lecture aims at equipping youths, who seek careers in the corporate world. It also creates productive employment for potential entrepreneurs.  Participants have access to internship opportunities. Last year, 10 young entrepreneurs were empowered with N100,000 each to fund their businesses and enterprises, courtesy of the Joan Agha foundation. The presentation was held at the Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos at the fourth annual lecture of the foundation. It brought together captains of industries. The Foundation has specially packaged welfare scheme for the elderly, disabled and socially disadvantaged persons. The scheme include visitation and supply of food, drugs and essential commodities to the elderly people’s homes, motherless babies’ homes, orphanages, prisons and children remand centres. Her dream is to establish a hub for innovation and technological development. She is determined to empower rural population to improve their productivity and real income. 