Many Nigerian international students studying in the United States find it difficult to deal with the academic rigors of foreign universities. Associate Director, International Students/Scholar, Central Connecticut State University, Toyin Ayeni stated this during an interview at an Education USA workshop in Abuja on Wednesday. Ayeni, who is a representative of Education USA, disclosed that the major challenge for Nigerian students is that they are not well-oriented with the American academic system. She also said that the students set out thinking they are aware of the technicalities, but are more than often mistaken. “They believe that they know it, but tend to realize upon arrival that what they think they know is different from the reality of the situation.” Ayeni urged applicants and prospective students to conduct proper research on all aspects and facilities of the schools they are interested in. She harped on the importance of maintaining contact with the schools’ administrations. “It is important to have a contact person there to answer all your questions and give you live feedback on what you are expecting of the institution before you get to the US. “These steep differences, coupled with the culture shock of entirely dissimilar environs, often frustrate international students in the US.” She commended Education USA for their work in helping international students find their footing while in a foreign territory. “Education USA is a program put together by the US Department of State which assists prospective students with application processes, school research, and gives them information on SATs, ACTs, and other exams required to attain higher education in the United States. “They encourage prospective students traveling to the United States and also recommend to them schools specific to their academic capabilities” According to Ayeni, there are many financial-assistance programs made available to prospective students by Education USA for students who cannot afford part or all of their school’s tuition. “We have our programs, and we also have connections to different schools in the USA. “For some schools, mine inclusive, we have merit-based scholarships. Most public universities and colleges provide scholarships based on merit, especially SAT scores. “Other schools give scholarships based on whatever criteria they see fit for their institution.”