Some residents of Ilasamaja in Mushin, Lagos, have raised the alarm over what they called incessant assault by policemen. They appealed to police commissioner Imohimi Edgal to save them from the policemen. The residents of Oremeji, Kekere-Owo, Olusanya, Lamina, Owoseni Ishola and Waheed Apesin streets, Ilasamaja alleged that the officers from different commands had turned their areas into Automated Teller Machine (ATM) portals. “They come to arrest people on sight and demand heavy amount for bail,” they said. A raid, carried out on Friday was described as the height of insensitivity displayed by the officers. The Nation learnt that the officers came in two Danfo buses and loaded people into them. “You can imagine they even forced those of us arrested to lap (sic) ourselves,” Sola, one of those arrested told The Nation. The officers had earlier visited a viewing centre where people were watching a World Cup match between Spain and Portugal and arrested two persons accused of being members of a secret cult. While taking them to the bus, Cristiano Ronaldo scored an equaliser for Portugal and the viewers shouted in joy. The officers returned and allegedly started beating everybody. The viewers fled and in a bid to arrest more people, they went into the building housing the viewing centre and arrested two sleeping siblings of an official of the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA). Their mother challenged them, but they beat her up and dragged her on the floor until the returned outside. This, an eyewitness said, angered the LASTMA official who rescued his aged mother from the officers. “The officers started shooting into the air to disperse the angry crowd. After rescuing his mother, the LASTMA official ran away to escape arrest but the officers left with his two siblings,” the eyewitness said. An aged woman wondered what the officers were doing with knives and cutlasses. “Is it part of police job to go about with knives and cutlasses? I saw them not that I was told. What they came to do on Friday night was bad. The police commissioner needs to call them to order,” she said. The Nation learnt that an official of the Federal Fire Service simply named Shakiru was also arrested in his house. He was said to have coughed out N10,000 for his bail on Saturday. “Shakiru only came home from his Abuja base for Sallah. One of the officers, who had minor cut while attacking the people was looking for water to clean his hand. Shakiru assisted him with water. After he was done with the cleaning, instead of thanking him, he ordered Shakiru to follow him to where they parked the bus and arrested him. Can you imagine that? I learnt his siblings paid N10,000 to bail him,” Segun, Shakiru’s neighbour said. Pelumi, who was arrested at the viewing centre, said they were taken to Olosan Police Station before they  were moved to another station near Charly Boy Bus stop in Gbagada. “We were beating in the cell for no just cause. The officers treated us like criminals. Is it an offence to watch football at a viewing centre? Governor Akinwunmi Ambode just opened a big viewing centre at Aggey for people to watch the World Cup. Are they saying those of us who can’t go to that place because of the distance cannot watch it at viewing centres closer to our area? This has to stop and the officers involved need to be punished,” he said. According to Pelumi, his aged grandmother paid N50,000 to secure his bail on Sunday. “You can imagine spending Sallah nights (Friday and Saturday) in prison when I am not a criminal. Many of those arrested committed no crime. My grandma has to beg around for loan to get the N50,000 that was used to bail me,” he said. The state command’s spokesman, Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), said raiding criminal hideouts was a major crime prevention strategy. Oti said: “It is a means by which we take the fight to the criminal den. Anybody seen in the camp of armed robbers, drug peddlers, thieves, members of unlawful society is likely to be picked up by the police for questioning.  However, if after the screening, such person is found not to be a member of a criminal gang, he is allowed to go.” The residents are wondering what the police did with the money collected from them for bail. According to Iya Segun, if the words of police spokesman is anything to go by, why are they collecting huge sum of amount for bail. “Those who have been arrested so far have not been indicted of any crime. Why do we have to pay between N10,000 and N50,000 for bail? Which account is the money going into because the officers collected cash from us. Yet, police authority will say bail is free,” she said.