Popular band leader and Rotary International polio ambassador, Akin Shuga, has scored two important goals in the space of just two days – The release of the visuals for his inspirational single, ‘I Can Walk’ and winning the Humanity Music Service  Award in Toronto, Canada. While the award was received on Saturday, June 23, 2018, the premiere of the Cobhams Asuquo produced inspirational single, ‘I Can Walk’ held at the African Dinner on Sunday, June 24, 2018 to the delight of Rotary world delegates and key African representatives. The video has now been released online, on cable and terrestrial television. The song, ‘I Can Walk’ gives the strength that is required at that challenging time; a song of hope dedicated to polio survivors and everyone who has been scarred, marred or shaken in the travails of life. It was produced and co-written by the legendary Cobhams Asuquo. Reacting to the double goals, the ace band leader said: “My joy is full. I am excited that we can finally premiere and release the video to the public. Many people have been asking for it. I am also honoured to have been noticed from far away Toronto and recognised with this humanity music service award. I know it is a call to do more and by God’s grace, I won’t relent.” Speaking on the motive behind ‘I Can walk’, he said: “…Beyond making music to make money, we made ‘I Can Walk’ for much more than that. We believe that one of the strongest needs of man is hope and faith. Once a person loses hope, he loses the drive to fight and work towards a better outcome. I Can Walk song and video offers that hope and inspiration needed to maximize each day and make it count,” he said. Akin Shuga’s effort in the humanitarian sector despite being a polio survivor himself is innumerable. He is a known giver who cares for the cause of polio and to those who are disadvantaged. This award is seen in many quarters as a testament of his many efforts that have gone unrecognized, while the video is seen as another one of his many gift of hope to those in despair.