The Network of Incubators and Innovators in Nigeria is building business hubs’ capacities to explore opportunities and create new entrepreneurs. It is holding a capacity building training for aspiring and existing hub managers to spot and manage ideas from young entrepreneurs determined to transform the economy. DANIEL ESSIET writes. Business hubs have mushroomed in the past five years partly because of governments’ measures to support small enterprises. They provide office space and facilities at a low rent, combined with networking opportunities and advice to new ventures through the tricky early stages. Some are privately run for a profit, some are managed by universities and others are run by local authorities, or charities. Founder NINe, Bankole Oloruntoba, said there are opportunities for business hubs with unemployed youths looking for avenues to polish their entrepreneurial skills, or learn more about marketing or business models. Oloruntoba is brimming with confidence having seen the organisation’s entrepreneurship programme aimed at creating new businesses yielding results. The organisation has completed an intensive entrepreneurship and business training course in Abuja to accelerate the development of a hub management system that will help create new young entrepreneurs and increase the number of profitable enterprises. As he reflects on the training programme, he is happy NINe is building entrepreneurial capacities women and men and providing them with basic entrepreneurship skills management. For him, Nigeria is on the cusp of a major development transformation. Micro and small businesses are expected to play a strong role in its transformation and become a spring board for developing a vibrant private sector. To this end, hub managers need to be empowered through skills training to offer business advisory services. To ensure the full implementation and sustainability of the programme, they needed to be e trained as trainers and business advisors. Oloruntoba said hubs should offer a valuable mix of low-cost office space, networking opportunities and business advice to support startups. According to him, technology business, entrepreneurship, and startups have another great year ahead. He  explained  that  business hubs should be well  organised  to enable   developers, designers, marketers, and startup enthusiasts come together to share ideas, form teams, build products, and launch startups According to him, Nigeria is now home to one of the fastest growing tech industries and a burgeoning startup scene. He added that diversity and inclusiveness have emerged as important priorities over the last few years for organisations across the startup community. Oloruntoba, also, a Hub Incubator Manager, Enspire Incubator, noted that the Abuja Tech Ecosystem has created structured community entrepreneurs to get the much needed support. Nearly all organisations, he explained, have made conscious adjustments to ensure their groups and events are as open and accessible as possible, with a focus on continuing to improve this. This mindfulness by event organisers, he continued, has begun to alter the startup community into one that is becoming noticeably more diverse and inclusive. Oloruntoba stressed the need for the government to examine the policies that limit the growth of entrepreneurial small companies, as well as those that could spur it. According to him, the economy needs innovation leaders, who can think more broadly and creatively about supporting and mentoring entrepreneurs, and providing creative financing to beneficial growth opportunities. The mission of the network, he explained, is to encourage and support young entrepreneurship and venture-led development. International Development Consultant, Amsterdam Area, Netherlands, Rizwaan Khambata noted that there are hubs for entrepreneurship around the world, adding that countries  are using  hubs  to harness the momentum in the social innovation sector and developing an ecosystem that is supporting entrepreneurs with incubators, mentoring, and financing. Through hubs, he added that entrepreneurs have long been able to tap into a range of grants and related programmes to help with early development activities. Despite its challenges, he noted that Nigeria is a burgeoning space for social enterprises and the country has been so successful in cultivating entrepreneurship. For Nigerian entrepreneurs seeking new opportunities, Khambata was of the opinion that the country is full of markets with great promise. Yet the complexities of economic infrastructure, politics, and trade logistics can be overwhelming. According to him, the economy is in need of social entrepreneurs to create ventures that can become social innovation hubs. Through NINe, he expressed readiness to work with Nigerians to build social entrepreneurship skills, implement and test plans and innovations, design monitoring and evaluation schemes and provide mentorship. Co-Founder, Ledoradoo, Valentin Ribeiro emphasised the importance of fostering entrepreneurship, moving beyond policies to create ecosystems for entrepreneurs to succeed. He observed that   entrepreneurs can be empowered to become effective drivers of economic growth and create lots of wealth and lots of jobs. He went on to identify entrepreneurs as tenacious, passionate risk-takers, who were at the same time risk-minimisers with obsessive attention to detail, irrational optimism and the ability to improvise. As startups, he said they face many challenges including access to finance and hiring adequate staff, but one of the biggest is convincing customers to pay more for quality products. According to him, lack of a well-developed ecosystem, including mentoring, risk culture, human resources and burden on the entrepreneur in the developing world. He stressed the need to focus on boosting  entrepreneurial growth; expanding access to markets; providing better access to finance; improving human capacity; building support networks and  creating an entrepreneurial culture. Although there are still many barriers for small companies, he observed that there is much optimism that the sector will flourish. Many potential investors, according to him, are looking closely at entrepreneurs, but are not yet ready to commit themselves because of the perception that there are not enough investment-ready companies.