No fewer than 15 companies were on Wednesday sealed off by the officials of the Oyo State Board of Internal Revenue to commence a week-long compliance and enforcement drive. The effort according to the board is to ensure that corporate organisations and business interest operating within the state comply strictly with the tax laws governing their operations. Some of the corporate firms sealed off include banks, a telecommunication outfit, hotels, events centres and some merchant outfits in Ibadan metropolis for failure to pay outstanding professional/business registration/renewal fees. The team of officials, made up of representatives of various government income generating MDAs in the state, who worked in various teams to face different parts of the state commenced the exercise from a new generational bank in Dugbe, Kollington fisheries Oke-Ado, global communications limited (glo). Some of the popular hotels sealed off include Best Western hotels, Iyaganku, Owu Crown hotel, Iwo-road and Super K hotel. Other affected companies are Avian Specialist Ltd, Red Star Express, a popular event centre, Watershed event centre, Florentina event centre, Clementina event centre, Abah hall andOsho event centre among others. According to the Chairman, Oyo state Board of Internal Revenue, Mr Bicci Alli, the affected companies, had earlier been officially communicated of their outstanding debt to the government and another reminded of their inability to fulfil their payment within the regulated time through a letter from the office of the Director, Trade, Ministry of Trade, K.W. Mustapha, pointing out that only those who failed to comply as on Wednesday morning were sealed up. The enforcement effort carried out by the Board, it was gathered is in pursuant to the provision of section 8(1-2) Oyo state professional/business premises law 1996 (as amended) for varying years being owed. Meanwhile, some of the establishment upon the activity swoop on the Revenue office of the board at the state secretariat to regularise their papers and make prompt payment to save their business. Speaking with journalists at the end of the first day of a week-long exercise, the Board Chairman, Mr Alli said it is high time people of the state develop the culture of compliance of paying taxes, both to the state and federal authorities. He pointed out that the corporate entities affected by the inter-ministerial emergency exercise have been duly informed before the exercise was carried on Wednesday morning. Alli said, “Basically, what we are doing is not different from what we are supposed to do. That is, just that we make sure we are ensuring that people do what they are supposed to do and that what is due to Oyo state is accrue to it. Assuring that the Board will not act above the law, Alli noted that the agency had sensitised the affected entities a lot before the enforcement exercise which continue today, noting that“we have done a lot in writing, sensitising them, talking to them and exchanged a lot of correspondences before today. “However, where they fail to do the right thing, we enforce. We are very serious about compliance. People should be ready to pay. It does not really matter how much they pay, not about the money but once they have the assessment. Our people should learn to do the right thing. They should develop the culture.  Though we need to generate more revenue, it is not the amount per say but the culture of compliance that we want our people to cultivate”, he added. On the corporate establishments that were sealed on Wednesday, Alli maintained that the board “followed due process. Assessment notices were served on the corporate entities to pay. A bulk of the liabilities we are recovering now relates to 2016/2017, not even 2018. We have evidence to show that notices were sent to the corporate entities while reminders of seven days to pay followed.”