Though no formal dress is required to manage a soccer team let alone at the FIFA World Cup, many national team managers at Russia 2018 would expectedly turn up with neatly cut suits from leading brands such as Giorgio Armani, Dolce & Gabbana, Boglioli, Gucci, Hugo Boss and Burberry. Of course, style is the man hence it was not a coincidence that the five previous coaches that had managed the Super Eagles at world’s most-watched championship actually turned up in different style and attire For instance, Clemens Westerhof who led Nigeria to her maiden World Cup appearance was ubiquitous with his brown and patterned jacket he reportedly referred to as his ‘lucky charm’. At France’98, Bora Milutinovic who is a member of the FIFA TSG (technical study group) in Russia,  turned out in different shades of  suit (black and blue colours) while the highly revered Chief Adegboye Onigbinde caught the suit bug at Korea/Japan 2002.  At South Africa 2010, Swede Lars Lagerbäck was resplendent in Nigeria’s national team gear, as was the late Stephen Keshi at the last Mundial in Brazil. Perhaps, no coach at Russia 2018 will be more anxious about his attire than French coach Herve Renard – the only foreign coach to win the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) with two different countries, Zambia and Cote d’Ivoire in 2012 and 2015 respectively. Renard claimed his tight-fitting white shirt was a lucky charm. But Super Eagles’ Franco-German manager, Gernot Rohr, says he’s not going to be encumbered by such worries as he sets his sight on leading Nigeria to glory at her sixth appearance at the FIFA World Cup. “I do not have any lucky suit for the World Cup,” Rohr who will celebrate his 65th birthday on June 28 told The Nation. “I am not a superstitious person; I just try to be professional at all times. I hope my lucky colours in Russia will be the green-white-green of Nigeria. Rohr, appointed in August 2016 can truly be described as a football man through-and-through, featuring for top European sides like Bayern Munich and Girondins Bordeaux in France, before he retired into coaching. As a manager, he earned his stripes in European football when he led Bordeaux to runners up to Bayern Munich in the final of the now rested UEFA Cup (now known as Europa Cup) in 1996 and earning that famous thrashing 3-0 thrashing of Italian giants, AC Milan in the quarter-finals. After Bordeaux, he was briefly sports director at Eintracht Frankfurt. He has also coached at FC Nantes; Étoile Sportive du Sahel of Tunisia and served as national team coach of Gabon, Niger and Burkina Faso before berthing in Nigeria last year. He won his first game in charge of the Super Eagles, defeating Tanzania by a lone goal in Uyo, Nigeria and last October, Nigeria-led team became the first African side to qualify for the 2018 FIFA World Cup after a 1–0 win against Zambia. On the eve of the team’s departure to England en route to Russia, Rohr provides a glimpse of what to expect of the Super Eagles at the FIFA World Cup Russia 2018 in an interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Excerpts…  Friendly with England The friendly against England is just another build up game for us. Of course, we like to win every game and play good football all the time but we want to see more and try out more things during friendly games. I also believe that a big, beautiful stadium like Wembley with the fans coming out in large numbers will provide a real World Cup atmosphere for us. Picking the right squad for Russia 2018 It is always a big challenge to pick some players from a pool of talents especially for a big football country like Nigeria. It is a good problem for coaches to do this sometimes. For me, I know these players, young, talented, disciplined, hungry and very committed players. We worked together to pick the World Cup ticket from a very tough qualifying group, so I can trust them to do it again at a bigger stage like the World Cup. The goalkeeping position in a team is a very important one. We have confidence in the goalkeepers we have in the team right now. Our goalkeeper coaches Alloy Agu and Enrico Pionetti have also been working extra hard with these goalkeepers to help get them to the level we desire and the response has been encouraging. We should all get behind these goalkeepers, support and encourage them so they can be motivated and be able to give their best for the country when called upon. Backbones of Super Eagles We have a few very experienced players, such as our captain John Obi Mikel (Tianjin Teda, China). Our two central defenders William Troost-Ekong (Bursaspor, Turkey) and Leon Balogun (Mainz, Germany) are also very important to us. We have players such as Victor Moses (Chelsea, England) and Alex Iwobi (Arsenal, England) – they are also very important for us. We have many young players, and everyone has a role to play in our team. But the most important leaders are our captain Mikel, the vice-captain Ogenyi Onazi, and Ahmed Musa also. Target at Russia 2018 We all want to make it out of the group, and that’s already difficult enough. Of course, our fans dream about Nigeria making it out of this difficult group and perhaps even going far in the tournament after we beat Argentina. But we are no dreamers. As coach and technical team, we will enter the tournament with realistic and modest expectations, but also with ambition. Group D as Group of Death My honest assessment is that this is a very tough group, maybe the toughest at the World Cup. We are not the favourites to make it out of this group because we are the least ranked team here. However, we are confident, hungry and very determined to fight to qualify from this group. Remember we were not the favourites in our World Cup qualifying group in Africa but we made it, so we can do it again. Iceland is a good team with very strong and highly motivated players. They will be difficult to beat. Our group will be very tough together with them, Croatia and Argentina. We will need to be at our best for all the games. Of course, I would have wanted an easier group. But it is what it is. Now we have this strong group. If you look at our FIFA ranking, we are only in 52nd position – the others are far ahead of us. I think they sit in position 14, eight and four. That means we are the underdogs. We were only in pot four in the draw, we mustn’t forget that. But we are an underdog with ambition and we want to get into the knockout stages, even though it will be very difficult. That’s our target. Reflection on victory over Argentina in friendly Beating Argentina was good for our confidence but do not forget it was just a friendly. We should expect a tougher, more difficult match at the World Cup. We respect them but we will not be afraid of them. Our fans believe in us and have very high expectations but we must let them know that the World Cup is a very tough tournament. We must remain humble, stay hungry and committed. We must take things step by step, one game at a time. Lionel Messi is the best player in the world and he was not there when we played them in Krasnodar last November. At the World Cup, we will not be playing against Messi alone; we will be playing the entire Argentina team. We are not playing against one player; we will be facing 11 players. So we have to prepare very hard to stop this great team with so many great players. Super Eagles vs. Messi Of course, we all know him and we know of his quality. But we also played against some really good players in our qualification and were able to deal with them. We had Riyad Mahrez at Algeria; we played against Sadio Mane and Senegal in a friendly. We know how to organise our defence against top quality players. What I can tell you now already is that there will be no man-marking of Messi. We did this in the old days, even I, but it’s not used too often these days. We will deal with Messi or any big player as a collective. But often you won’t be able to keep top players quiet over the whole 90 minutes. Surpassing Super Eagles’ second round record I am happy and so privileged to have finally achieved this target of leading a team to the World Cup. Every coach dreams of being a part of the biggest football fiesta in the world. I have had big experiences with some clubs in the major European club competitions but the World Cup is very special. Our plan and preparation is to get beyond our group. We have at least three games to play at the World Cup. We want to give our best in these games so that we can stay in the competition and then have more games to play. Chances of African teams in Russia Good chances. Egypt is the best team in Africa as voted by CAF. They have the best coach. They have a chance in the group with Russia. The whole world will follow the group with the hosts. They also have the best player in Africa in Mohamed Salah. I also think Senegal is strong, Tunisia, too, based on their strong league. A lot is possible for the African teams. I believe that the African teams have the capability to do well at the World Cup. African football has improved greatly and African players are now at a high level like their European and South American counterparts. I hope this is reflected in how the African teams play in Russia. Relationship with NFF I am happy to be working for Nigeria. I have had a very cordial and professional relationship with the Nigeria Football Federation. I have been able to operate without any interference and also work in a very good, conducive environment. These are the most important things for me. I have very good relationship with my players, technical assistants and backroom staff. The fans have also been wonderful. Most difficult decision as Super Eagles’ coach I have not had to make any difficult decision since I came to Nigeria. This is because we take all our decisions together as a team. We work collectively. We have a policy of strong solidarity as a team. We want to win together, lose together, enjoy together and suffer together both on and off the pitch. We stand together at all times. Likely winner of Russia 2018 World The favourites at every World Cup are Brazil, Germany, Argentina together with Spain, France. These teams have big players with huge experience, winning mentality and quality. Talking about the stars of the tournament, I hope some of the young players in my team become the stars of this World Cup and my team also shines like a million stars at the tournament.