•SARS men arrested for crime Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike yesterday accused the Federal Government of plotting to frame him up. Wike spoke at a thanksgiving service in honour of the Chairman of Rivers State Local Government Service Commission, Chief Azubuike Nmerukini, yesterday at the St Thomas Anglican Church, Diobu. He added that two Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) men were arrested for robbery and kidnapping. Wike said the incident confirmed his protracted allegation that the Commander of SARS in the state,  Akin Fakorode, and his men were responsible for almost all the crimes in the state. Sergeant Ndubuisi Okoro,(Fakorode’s  orderly) was arrested for armed robbery,  while his counterpart, Sergeant Christopher Abakpa, is being held for kidnapping. Rivers police spokesman  Nnamdi Omoni, a Deputy Suprindentent of Police(DSP), confirmed the incident yesterday however declined making the identity of the duo public immediately, according to him,  for security reasons. Omoni said:  “I can confirm the arrest of two officers of SARS for finding their contact numbers in the phone contact list of two criminal suspects arrested by the command for kidnapping. “This is indeed unfortunate and condemnable, that a serving Police Officers are linked to criminals.  However investigations have already commenced to ascertain the kind if relationship they share with these criminal suspects. “The officers have already been arrested and I can assure you that us at the end of the investigation, they are found culpable to the crime, the course of law will certainly take due effect on them,  their suspected accomplice are helping the police to get to the root of the matter. “ Wike said: “I am alerting Nigerians now  because the I know the police high command will sweep the matter under the carpet.” Wike said the Federal Government has contacted a Lebanese who has been directed to claim that he received money from him (Wike)  to procure arms  for the 2019 elections. He noted that initially Nigerians thought he was playing politics until former President Olusegun Obasanjo accused the Federal Government of planning to frame him up. “The Federal Government has arranged with a Lebanese to say that I told him to buy arms for the purpose of the forthcoming elections. “I am not close to any Lebanese, let alone give money to anyone to buy arms for elections. We have dutifully served our people and we don’t need to purchase arms for elections. “If elections are held 20, 000 times, we will win because our projects have positively impacted the lives of our people “. The governor stated that the APC Federal Government is also planning to sponsor crisis in Rivers State ahead of the 2019 elections, for the state’s election to be postponed. He said the target is to use security agencies for rigging purposes. “They plan to cause so much crisis in the state so that Rivers election is held on a separate date. Their plot will fail. Rivers election will hold same day with that of other states.  