A 36-year-old trader, Mrs Florence Anyasi, yesterday told a Customary Court in Igando, Lagos, to dissolve her 10-year-old marriage because her husband, Staley, is a chronic womaniser. She also claimed that he sneaks into their maid’s room to sleep with her. “My husband is a womaniser, he used to leave me in the bed at night and sneak into my maid’s room. I have caught him severally on my maid’s bed sexually assaulting her. A neighbour approached me and told me to warn my husband to desist from asking her daughter to have love affair with him. “I once caught him sucking the breasts of my niece, who is a minor and he is also fond of wooing my friends,” the mother of three said as she reeled out her grievances before the court,” she said. Anyasi also accused her husband of threatening her life. “My husband always tells me that he will get rid of me and had once succeeded in poisoning me. “He bought food for me and after eating, I started having serious pain and vomiting, I was rushed to the hospital by neighbours; when I was diagnosed, it was detected that the food I just ate had been poisoned.” The petitioner said her husband also turned her into a punching bag, beating her at the slightest provocation, she added that he calls her thief and prostitute in public. The woman said her husband was irresponsible, adding that he cannot provide for the family nor pay the children’s school fees. The defendant denied the allegations and accused his wife of adultery. He claimed that her lover even bought her a car. “In January 2017 she came home with a car of N1 million, when I queried her where she got the car from, she claimed she bought it with her money. “I strongly disagreed with her because she is only selling foodstuffs and can never afford that kind of a car.” The 40-year-old businessman said his wife packed out of their matrimonial home in 2017 without his knowledge. “I came home from work and discovered that my wife had packed all her belonging out with the children to start living with her lover. “I called her severally, she refused to pick but she eventually picked my call last January and informed me that our last baby she delivered in May 2017 was not mine that the child belonged to the man she is presently living with. “Before she even gave birth and packed out of my house, I always received information from people that they saw my wife in hotel with men but I always ignored them.” Stanley said he provided for his family and also paid his children’s school fees. He said he beat her once when she stabbed him with bottle on the head. The respondent said he too was no longer interested in the marriage and consented to its dissolution. The court president, Mr Akin Akinniyi, admonished the couple to maintain peace and fixed July 3, for judgment.