The ‘June 12’ struggle was a long and tortuous one. The advocacy for the recognition of what the 1993 presidential election stands for has had its ups and downs. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE examines the lessons and how they may shape the future of the country. THE June 12, 1993 presidential election has become a watershed in Nigeria’s political history. The election was adjudged as the fairest and the freest the country has ever witnessed. The election was widely believed to have been won by Chief Moshood Abiola and his running mate, Alhaji Babagana Kingibe. The uproar that greeted the annulment of the election by military President Ibrahim Babangida forced him to ‘step aside’ from the seat of power. Since then, it has been one turmoil after another and this has drawn the country backward. The huge socio-political and economic deficit imposed by the annulment has not been fully recovered; hence Nigerians have continued to count their losses on June 12. It had left a trail of lessons; some of them pointing the way forward, while in other cases the damage may never be recovered. While analysts believe it had strengthened the resolve to keep the country united, no matter the cost, unfolding development indicated that the unity could only become a reality when the country is eventually restructured. The military, if not for June 12 were not willing to leave power. The military hierarchy had already made up its mind to hold on to power, by transferring it from one military ruler to another. Observers say that was the reason why Babangida had indicated that he knew those who would not succeed him, but may not know those who will succeed. To back his decision, he blocked avenues that would lead to discussions likely to pave way for the de-annulment of the election. Even when pressure was mounted on the military to save its face by constituting a national government to be headed by Abiola, the effort was thwarted by the military. Sources said Babangida was bent on not allowing a national government to see the light of the day, because of the fear that he would be called to account for his misdeeds. The sources maintained that the military was favourably disposed to an Interim National Government (ING), headed by Chief Ernest Shonekan from the same Ogun State, where Abiola hailed from. This was actually designed to create a division in Yoruba land. It went further to bring some prominent Yorubas to serve in the ING and these crop of leaders later joined forces to undermine Abiola, by persuading him to soft pedal. Reading between the lines, Nigerians have come to realise that the military, no matter how beautifully robed it is, should be kept arm’s length. It should never be allowed to find its way by into governance again. Observers say the present democratic structure should be protected and efforts should be made to make it a constitutional matter that any coup that topples civilian administration should not be recognised locally and internationally. Over time, the country had faced one form of religious bigotry or the other. The June 12 lesson indicated that religious animosity was actually the creation of corrupt elements in the society to gain political dominance. To prove that religion was no issue, the combination of Abiola and his running mate Kingibe, both Muslims, won the election. That election has continued to blur the line of religion as an important factor in political stability. Observers say the country’s secular position should remain sacrosanct, by making reference to the feat of Abiola and Kingibe in 1993. Buttressing why religion should not be an issue, former Executive Secretary of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), Frank Kokori, said those whipping religious sentiments in the country are corrupt. He said it was a method used by politicians to seek power in a corrupt way, noting that Abiola/Kingibe ticket was one of the best in the country. Analysts also say that June 12 point to the direction that Nigeria should seek competence, instead of fanning the embers of religious division. “Any election that whips religious sentiments, instead of looking for capable hands will not get the best materials to lead.” June 12 was instrumental to the harmonization of political divisions in the country. One of such analysts said the North/South dichotomy has been abridged by the outcome of that election. The annulment of that election exposed the political hypocrisy in the country. Prior to the election, it was believed only the North had the wherewithal to attain political leadership in the country. Nigerians believed that if you did not come from the North, you could not win election in the country. The assertion was based on previous election held in the country, where only northern-dominated political parties like the defunct Northern Peoples Congress (NPC) and the equally defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) produced the Prime Minister and the President respectively. In the midst of the narrative, Abiola, a southerner who is believed to have won the election was denied the mandate. This created ill-feelings between the different sections of the country. Given that the struggle to validate June 12 was mostly championed by those from the South, there was an understanding in 1999 that the North should not field a candidate in the election. The 1999 election, which was won by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who hails from the same ethnic origin as Abiola, was to pacify the Southwest for the injustice done to the region. The gesture was to extend the hand of brotherhood to them by the North that had orchestrated the June 12 annulment. Observers believe the lessons of June 12 will continue to linger. For instance, political parties have now devised a method of trying every section of the country along. As it is, the six geo-political zones have become the barometer for sharing political offices. Zoning, which is part of the constitution of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), has become entrenched in Nigeria’s polity. That is why the party zoned its presidential ticket in next year’s election to the North. Even the All Progressives Congress (APC), which does not have zoning its constitution, has joined the bandwagon, to ensure balance in its political decisions. June 12 made it possible to have a common ground on issues that threatened the civil society and pro-democracy community. Though he belonged to the ruling class then, former Kaduna State Military Governor, Lt. Col. Abukakar Umar, was one of those who backed the June 12 struggle in the early stages, by denouncing Banbangida, who was his benefactor at the time. The likes of Alhaji Balarabe Musa and other northern elements did not only put their lives on the line, by supporting the call for Babangida to quit, but faced the risk of being ostracized in the North. Another lesson which the government is yet to key into is the adoption of a two-party system. The June 12 election was contested by two political parties; the Social Democratic Party (SDP) and the National Republican Convention (NRC). Nigerians have continued to call for the return to the two-party system. They are of the opinion that it will minimize wastage of tax-payers’ money and election will be well managed. Today, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), has registered no fewer than 60 parties and more are likely going to come up before next year’s general elections. Observers say the unwieldy size of registered political parties has made the conduct of elections cumbersome. They even made reference to the example of the United States of America, where Nigeria copied its Presidential System of government; the country has two major political parties. For the APC to be able to defeat the then ruling PDP, several parties had to come together to form a bigger platform, to give it more leverage at the polls. The formation of the APC was made possible through the coming together of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), the former Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and part of All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). The lesson here is that most of the parties dotting the political firmament are actually not necessary. They should be urged to merge to save INEC the challenges associated with having too many parties on the ballot. The recognition of June 12 as democracy day by President Muhammadu Buhari has finally proved that once the people have decided to have a change nobody can stop them. Hitherto, June 12 was marked by public holidays and other activities only by states in the Southwest. Observers say what former Obasanjo and former President Goodluck Jonathan failed to do have now been corrected by a leader of northern extraction. The lesson from this is that leaders should be courageous to do what is right, instead of looking at issues because of their personal interest. Speaking on the lesson, Lagos APC chieftain, Mr. Lanre Razak, said it was divine intervention that held the country together. He said: “Except for God June 12 could have been a distabilising issue in the country. That God has wonderfully assisted Nigeria to manage it to this point and Buhari bringing another unifying effort to ensure Nigeria to remain a united country, we have to thank God.”