Lagos State Government through the Lagos State Parks and Gardens Agency (LASPARK) joined Nigeria’s leading commercial bank, Sterling Bank Plc to make history when Undressed Identity, a monumental sculpture of the famed Eyo masquerade was unveiled at Muri Okunola Park, Victoria Island during the weekend. The environmentally-friendly art piece made from recycled aluminum was one of the four winning entries from the maiden edition of RecyclArt, a competition initiated by Sterling Bank to inspire a new generation of Nigerians artists and art genre. Produced by Dudu Emmanuel, the finalist who represented Lagos zone in competition, Undressed Identity repositions “Eyo” in the public space, using recycled Aluminum as a medium of expression in showcasing its costume including cap, staff and flowing gown. Speaking at the unveiling ceremony in Lagos, the Lagos State Commissioner for the Environment, Mr. Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti, said Sterling Bank is a force for good and valued partner that has collaborated with the state government to deliver several life enriching and citizen-oriented projects. “I am delighted but not surprised to see Sterling Bank pioneering the reuse and repurposing waste into artworks as I have come to associate the bank with projects that are of immense value to the society. Let me also use this opportunity to commend LASPARK for its entrepreneurial intervention and initiative which has helped to birth this public-private partnership with Sterling Bank. We hope to collaborate with the bank on more value-adding projects in the near-future,” Durosinmi-Etti remarked. Executive Director, Corporate and Investment Banking Sterling Bank, Mr. Yemi Odubiyi said, “RecyclArt was initiated by Sterling Bank to inspire a new generation of Nigerians artists and art genre. It is about using the power of the arts to awaken the citizenry to change how they relate to the environment and rethink how items that should be recycled can be disposed in a creative manner”. Odubiyi noted that Undressed Identity has proven that artists can do amazing things with recycled and repurposed materials. He commended Dudu Emmanuel for turning aluminum scrap into a public monument thereby creating value from objects that will otherwise litter dumpsites.