Non Governmental Organizations ( NGOs ) are not only recognised as an alternative to leadership but are also essential to the key transformations that shape peace, security and development globally. Although, religious and circular groups are engaged in activities similar to what NGOs are known for today, the creation of the United Nations (UN) in 1945, and the end of the cold war in 1990 introduced the first and second generations of NGOs in modern era. Currently, NGOs are said to be in their third generation which mainstreams sustainable systems as its defining feature, as against the first and second generations whose characteristics emphasised welfarist and local self-reliant development respectively. The approaches of the first and second generations were crucial for emergency situations requiring instant and effective responses, but they only provided temporary solutions that left the much tougher and wicked problems untouched. The humanitarian responses provided to conflict torn communities in parts of Africa were not anchored on the lived experiences of ordinary citizens, providing limited solutions to the much tougher problems of poverty and unemployment for instance. However, international NGOs that started with delivering welfare services such as food, water, clothing and other forms of charity have had to review their strategies particularly in the wake of the September 11 (9/11) terrorist attacks. The unique events of 9/11 altered the international landscape in particular ways, with a realisation that the greatest threats to global security could stem from state fragility. This realisation led to the third generation of NGOs with an orientation towards strategic management, and a people centred approach to development, which situates the fundamental challenges of development within institutional and policy constraints. While the third-generation approach attempts to upturn the structural conditions that perpetuate insecurity and underdevelopment broadly, the changing nature of challenges across the globe may require a rethink of development approaches as NGOs transition into its fourth generation. Ideas on the fourth generation of NGOs was perhaps first championed by David Korten in 1990 who suggested that it would be critical for the fourth-generation of NGOs to have an orientation towards building ‘a mass of independent, decentralized initiatives in support of a social vision’. Building on the ideas of Korten, it may be useful to emphasise that the fourth-generation approach should essentially move away from simplistic analysis that predicts doom for the world’s future or solutions that suggest single institutional frameworks for contexts that are less similar. These notions tend to view problems as a manifestation of the absence of rules or enforcement mechanisms that suggests top-down solutions, which essentially reinforces the approach of the first and second generation. This indeed reflects the gulf that separates elegant institutional approaches from the daily realities of people in many parts of the global south. Instead, we may be at an advantage when we understand challenges and problems from a different lens. It may be useful to view global challenges from the inability of communities to mobilise themselves to solving their own problems. This way we can see what development means from the eyes of ordinary citizens, and harness solutions to problems from their aspirations. In the words of Marcel Proust ‘the real voyage of discovery is not in seeking new landscapes, but in having new eyes’.  Importantly, therefore, moving into the next generation will require a strategic leadership approach. Strategic because interventions should be proactive, dynamic and for the longer term and; leadership because, the problems are tough not tame. The strategic leadership orientation suggested here is not necessarily a sweeping departure from Kurten’s’ idea of mobilising people nationally and globally towards a vision for an indefinite future. However, the conceptual description emphasises that the next generation should embody certain elements. First, there needs to be a fundamental shift from mere predictions of future challenges, to a focus on identifying future prospects through research evidence that effectively articulates the daily realities of ordinary citizens. Similarly, the approach should be proactive in solving tomorrow’s problems today, while also developing models of how best to maximise the opportunities of tomorrow when it comes. Currently, many countries in Africa are struggling to maximise the opportunities of urbanisation for instance. The interventions that led to the reduction in child mortality rates in parts of Africa in the last two decades, did little to provide solutions to the challenges young people face today in making fundamental transitions related to education, employment or even climbing the social ladder. Secondly, it will be imperative for NGOs to ensure that the ideas and theories that inform development planning and policies are consistent with interventions implemented. Development is an experiment, and it will be useful to document the processes that help to unlock the possibilities for progress. NGOs should be careful of falling into the trap of just ticking the box. Rather they should be conscious to ensure that when interventions do not meet implementation realities, change theories should be tweaked and the lessons shared. Finally, strategic leadership is about founding partnerships to create a better future. Hence, NGOs need to work together to sustain relevance. They must seek to form communities of stakeholders – not silos – to enhance a comprehensive and dynamic approach to problem solving. One that is not necessarily elegant, but one that holds the potential to create a future where women and men, children and youth, regardless of social, economic and political orientation can live long, live well and reach their highest potential.