Minister of Interior, Lt Gen. Abdul-rahman Dambazau last week paid an unscheduled visit to Kuje prison, it was learnt yesterday. The visit was in connection with the jailbreak in Minna prison on June 3. Gunmen had attacked the Minna Medium Security Prison in Kafin-Tella B, Tunga Local Government Area of Niger State where a prison officer and motorcyclist were killed around 8pm. The visit, according to a top source at the Ministry of Interior, was meant to be secret for a check around the prison and ensure everybody deployed to the facility is not taking things for granted. The source, who pleaded anonymity, told our correspondent that Dambazau is worried about the incessant jailbreaks across the nation forcing him to hurriedly visit the Kuje prison. The minister, according to reports, spent almost three hours going round all the sections and listening to complaints from the officer-in-charge of Kuje prison. He advised armed security operatives deployed to secure the prison to be alert and not compromise no matter the situation. Heads may roll, the source said, if after receiving the Minna jailbreak investigation report and any officer is found wanting.  The source added: “How would the authority explain this? Is it that there is no tight security? “I am sure more people will dance to the music when proper investigation is concluded. Government will not let this issue go without proper investigation and adequate punishment. “The prison boss has been ordered from above to carry out a proper investigation and aside that another investigation is ongoing that is not known to the prison authorities. “The Minister of Interior is concerned about this and would not allow this act to continue.” The source added:  “That is why the sudden visit to Kuje prison is not made public. Every measure to ensure adequate security is not supposed to be made public. “Government, I can tell you, will not rest on its oars in ensuring that no gun men will have free day invading prison facilities across the country.” In 2014, former Minister of Interior, Comrade Abba Moro, ordered the immediate removal and suspension of the Niger State Controller of Prisons, Musa Maiyaki and officer-in-charge-ACP Mohammed Bena, following the jailbreak at the Minna Medium Security Prisons. Almost four years on, jailbreaks have remained a major challenge of the Nigerian Prisons Services. The Nigerian Prison Service, Public Relations Officer, Francis Enobore, when contacted confirmed the minister’s visit to Kuje prison adding that it was due to the jailbreak in Minna. Enobore said several reforms are ongoing to further put a stop to jailbreaks in the country. The NPC Comptroller General, Ja’faru Ahmed, accompanied the minister on the fact- finding visit. 