The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has knocked the Presidency for blaming weekend’s killings in some Plateau communities on opposition politicians. The attacks, which were reportedly carried out by Fulani herdsmen, left about 100 persons dead, over 50 houses burnt and many persons injured. In a statement on Monday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP described the Presidency’s statement as extremely callous, inhuman and brazenly divisive. The opposition party expressed shock that at a time Nigerians expected the Presidency to take immediate steps to restore order, safeguard the lives of the people, exert justice and bring succor to victims, it chose to toe the path of divisiveness, which the party said, was capable of worsening the tensed situation in the land. The statement said, “It is unfortunate that rather than taking actions to get to the roots of killings and banditry in the land, President Muhammadu Buhari resorted to political colorations by engaging in his usual blame game of unnamed politicians. “It is equally disgusting that the Buhari Presidency relegated the main issue of the murder of our citizens and how to track down the perpetrators and bring them to book, thus confirming the fears of most Nigerians that this administration does not care about the lives of the people. “PDP insists that the basic responsibility of government, which is to ensure the safety and harmonious living of all Nigerians, ensure that our laws apply at all times and circumstances, without any fear or favour, has been completely abdicated by the Buhari administration, thereby leaving our people at the mercy of marauders”. The opposition party further stated that it’s shocking that the President, who is considered the father of the nation, had no soothing or reassuring words for the agonizing victims of the attack. The party said rather, the President has chosen to aggravate their pains with the unguarded comments attributed to him by his media aide. The PDP demanded an unreserved apology from President Buhari over the comments, which it described as manifest insensitivity to the plight of the victims of the Plateau massacre.