As the race to succeed Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State gathers momentum, an aspirant of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Dr. Ayoade Adewopo, has pledged to consolidate on the foundation laid by founding fathers of the state, especially in the agricultural sector, if elected governor of the state during this year’s governorship election that is billed to hold in September, writes Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor. AYOADE Adewopo, a United State based legal practitioner, is one oft he leading aspirants on the platform of the opposition PDP seeking to displace outgoing Governor Aregbesola’s ruling All Progressives Congress from the government house. The aspirant who disclosed his plans for the state while speaking with journalists in Osogbo, the state capital, said with the massive uncultivated land available in the state, food and unemployment should not be problems of the people. While urging chieftains and members of the PDP in the state to queue behind his governorship aspiration, the Ile-Ife-born politician stressed that the only way the opposition party can win the next governorship election is to support a candidate with the vision and mission to develop Osun state and change the way government businesses is being done, which, according to him, he ably represents. He explained that the chances of the PDP at the next governorship election, though very bright, will be determined by the readiness of the leadership of the party to make the right choices, which according to him, include the choice to decide whether the party is just seeking power or it is seeking power so as to fix the many problems of the state by doing the right things when elected into office. Adewopo said the PDP must take advantage of what he described as the lackluster performance of the current administration in the state by presenting to the now eagerly waiting electorate, a candidate that will represent the yearnings of the people and present a clear agenda on how to move the state forward when elected as the next governor of the state. “What we keep hearing is that Osun is a poor civil service state and as such governments couldn’t build roads; they couldn’t build factories and they couldn’t give us good schools across the state. Our fathers and mothers cannot transport their agricultural products from the hinterland to the major towns for sale. It is time to turn a new page in the way we do the business of government here in Osun. “Concerning Agriculture, it’s time to ensure meat and milk sufficiency in our state. It is time to use our natural resources to alleviate poverty and boost our economy. Agriculture is now an industry and Osun must engineer its agricultural resources into a viable industry as one of the pillars of our economy. With this, we can feed the state and make a lot of money feeding the nation, building agro-allied industries across the state,” he said. Adewopo aded that he has got his plans and blueprint well cut out, all centered on his philosophy of allowing human beings to live and live well. The former President of Marion County Bar Association, Indianapolis, Indiana USA, said he also has plans for senior citizens in the state, especially pensioners who has worked during their youthful age for the growth of Osun state. Speaking further, the PDP chieftain said the is urgent need to prioritize the well being of the people by ensuring that the health sector in the state is overhauled. Lamenting the current state of things, he said “we will work hard at reviving our primary healthcare programmes and bringing healthcare closer to our people. It’s time to ensure our pregnant women, new-born babies and the elderly get the best of healthcare available commensurate with that of developed economies. “It is time to put our dear state on the map of the healthcare market, helping families break the stranglehold of early deaths due to unaffordable or the non-existence of healthcare facilities. It is time for us to show our people that the government they elect must be concerned about how the health needs of the people are met effectively and promptly at all times.” Similarly, he said it is also time to take another look at the education policies in the state. “Osun needs schools and not just buildings. Our  students must go back to distinct uniforms. Schools should be returned to willing and able missions.  It is also the time to treat our teachers right. It is time to treat teaching like the profession it is. Our students morale is at its lowest ebb. “It is time to put Osun back on the map of the destination centers for education, helping our teachers and parents get the best of qualitative education for our children. Surely, help is on the way. These and many more are the reasons we are saying we need a young and fresh personality with fresh ideas capable of injecting new strategies and approaches into governance to lead us in 2018,” he added.