The Lagos State Government is restricting  movement on the Oshodi flyover between tomorrow night and Monday morning  in connection with the ongoing construction of the Oshodi Transport Interchange. Works and Infrastructure Commissioner  Ade Akinsanya said the restriction will run from 10:00pm tomorrow 5:00am on Monday. The commissioner said in a statement that the restriction is to enable the contractor hoist  heavy structural steel trusses for the assembly of the skywalk bridge aspect of the project.. Officials of the Lagos State Traffic management Agency (LASTMA),FRSC, Police, LAGESC, VIO, and others are to be deployed to help in managing traffic and provide safety and security support during the seven-hour night operation. The Skywalk Bridge, the longest free standing pedestrian bridge in Nigeria at 53.4 meters long and six metres wide, will  link Terminal One and Two buildings at the Oshodi Transport Interchange. The flyover will  be completely closed in the direction of Anthony to the Airport, while motorists in both directions  will make use of the second carriageway – Airport/Oshodi/Anthony. Similarly, motorists coming from Anthony can either access Town Planning Way through Ikorodu Road or Apapa Oworonshoki Expressway and then turn to Ilupeju Industrial Avenue and  link Agege Motor Road via Ilupeju bypass and make a U-turn at Bolade and turn to Apapa Oworonshoki Expressway. He added:”for motorists coming from Isolo/Airport Road, you can enter the service lane at Charity and turn to Agege Motor Road at Oshodi and then link Ilupeju Industrial Avenue via Ilupeju Bypass and then turn to Town Planning Way to link up Apapa-Oworonshoki Expressway.” Besides, Akinsanya added that in the days and weeks ahead, there would also be closure on some certain section of roads within the axis to vehicular and human traffic. He solicited the cooperation and support of all road users plying the corridor to observe all the precaution signs on the road. “We encourage individuals and groups that may have cause to use the network of roads and bridges passing through, or linking Oshodi and environ, to be alert to disruptions and danger associated with movement of heavy steel and equipment,” he said.