Yesterday, President Muhammadu Buhari finally signed the 2018 Appropriation Bill into Law. That this is coming mid-way into what is supposed to be a January – December budget cycle is certainly not surprising: from Nov ember 7, 2017 when the President submitted the budget estimates to the joint session of the National Assembly, what we saw on full display were the same old turf wars – of blame game and mutual recriminations, needles grandstanding and bad faith between the executive and the legislative branch all of which threatened to reduce the process to a farce. Is the war then over?  It is doubtful. In the first place, the subtle disclaimer placed on the Appropriation Act, just signed, can hardly be lost on a careful observer of the executive-legislative relations. To the extent that the President left no one in doubt that he would not have signed given the level of distortions by the lawmakers save for the public anxiety and the possible implications of further delay on the overall health of the economy, it goes without saying that the war has merely shifted to another theatre – that of implementation. Let’s look at what ails the executive. In the original bill, it had proposed to spend N8.612 trillion, only to have the lawmakers jack it up to N9.12 trillion unilaterally.  Interestingly, this was one of the sore points in last year’s budget when projects not planned for were smuggled into the final document. To resolve the impasse, a gentleman’s agreement was reached for the executive to seek authorisation for virement. The lawmakers would later renege on this. As it is, the nation is back in full cycle. Yet again, the National Assembly insists it has the power to do as it pleased with the budget.  This time, it simply increased the vote where it suited it, putting the knife to others where it felt the need.  Among the hefty slash is the N347 billion in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to the lawmakers for consideration. By contrast, the parliament introduced 6,403 projects of its own amounting to N578 billion. In the president view, the projects which his administration considers as critical and whose votes were slashed by the lawmakers will be difficult to implement. In the same vein, he argues that the projects inserted by the lawmakers were not properly conceptualised, designed and costed and will therefore be difficult to execute. Worse is that many of these new projects introduced by the National Assembly were added to the budgets of most MDAs with no consideration for institutional capacity to execute them or the incremental recurrent expenditure that may be required. Among these are 70 new road projects inserted into the budget of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing while cutting the allocation for some strategic roads, like the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and East-West Road. The most contentious one of course is the budget of the National Assembly raised from N125 billion to N139.5 billion (by N14.5 billion), without any discussion with the executive. Between the lawmakers and their insistence on the absolute power over the purse, and the executive which claims that the lawmakers have no business foisting their dubious projects on it, the stage appears set for another round of battle. Wither the ordinary man in all of this?