As activities rev up for the hosting of the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, on a two-day visit, Edo Development and Property Agency (EDPA), and MIXTA Africa, are intensifying work on the development of the 1800-unit Emotan Gardens. Executive Chairman, EDPA, Isoken Omo, in a chat with journalists during a tour of the site, said that the partnership with MIXTA Africa has been fruitful and the response to the development of the affordable housing units by residents in the state and those in the diaspora have been tremendous. She said that work on the estate in preparation for the Vice President’s visit has reached advanced stage and all is set for the August visitor. According to her, “We are happy that the Vice President is coming to commission this landmark project. This project holds a lot of history for the state. It is the first state government housing project in the state after 16 years. “Our partner, MIXTA Africa, has been very supportive and we are working round the clock to ensure that the project site is ready for the ground-breaking ceremony, Noting that some units will be ready for the Vice President’s visit, she said, “We are committed to this project and want to assure the people that we will deliver on our promises. The project is going to be a major pull for residents and those in the Diaspora to invest in bespoke real estate in Benin. We are sourcing materials for this project within the state, which is quite remarkable, as this means that the building will be quite affordable at the end of the day. “We assure that some level of structure would be on ground for the ceremony by the Vice President. This is to show how serious the state government and MIXTA Africa are to deliver on the project.” Head, Sales and Marketing, MIXTA Africa, Korede Lawrence-Salu, said MIXTA Africa is impressed with the partnership, and promised that it would work round the clock to deliver on the project, assuring on delivery of high quality, valuable housing stock. According to him, “after we sealed the deal to construct the 1,800-unit project, we have been inundated with enquiries from those willing to have a stake. So we are confident about this project. We have recorded high interest, especially among Edo people in the diaspora too.”