There is unease in Abala-Unor Clan, Ndokwa East Local Government Area. No thanks to  a violent tussle for the traditional stool of the ancient kingdom. Although no life has been lost yet, the tussle for power has led to destruction of properties, violence, terror and unending litigations. At the heart of the crisis,is the question whether the kingship is by rotation between the three Ruling Houses as claimed by  James Olise or not. Olise said following the death of the last king,  Obi Enubokili F. Ogbukaa from Umu-Nkini Royal House, the Igweship should pass to Umu-Odume Ruling House. His words: “The last king that died barely three years ago, late Igwe F.E Ogbukaa, was from Umu-Nkini. This simply means that another family should take up the kingship hence I emerged as the king.” But his rival to the throne,  Frederick Egbunkonye, a retired Central Bank of Nigeria employee, said succession to the throne was by selection of a suitable candidate from the first ruling house, Umu-Nkini. Egbonkonye added that in the event that Umu-Nkini Royal House cannot provide a suitable candidate, a suitable candidate may be selected from either of the other two ruling houses. He said: “ As the Nkini Ruling family has a suitable candidate,   which is me, and I was rightfully chosen by the Okpala-Uku during the chalking ceremony or Idanzi rites, I performed  on March 15, 2018. I went through all the processes; we were six that applied, all six members from Nkini Royal family. “Of the 32 Igwes before me, I am the 33rd Igwe. Nkini has produced 22 Igwes while Ojei has 7 and Odume has two. This will tell you it is not by rotation. They were allowed to rule when Nkini could not find a suitable candidate. They will look around in the other royal families.” According to tradition, Abala Unor clan is made up of four quarters. Dunkwenze quarters exclusively produces Abala-Unor kings. But within Dunkwenze quarters are three royal houses, including Umu- Nikini ,Umu-Iyaseogie and Umu-Odume. The tussle for kingship, The Nation gathered, has its roots in the politics of the defunct Bendel State after a local politician, Amangbo, paraded himself as the Igwe of Abala-Unor in 1970.Several petitions by the Abala-Unor people forced the defunct Bendel State Military Government to institute a panel of Inquiry to resolve the dispute. Obi Egbunkonye’s claim is supported by the defunct Bendel State Gazette titled the “Declaration Made under Section 8 of the Traditional Rulers and Chiefs Edict, 1979 stating the Customary Law Regulating Succession to the Title of Igwe of Abala-Unor”. Part of the gazette enacted and signed on 28the September 1979 by then Secretary to the Bendel State Military Government, D.P Lawani reads: “Succession is by selection of a suitable candidate from the first mentioned Ruling House. Provided that where there is no suitable candidate in the said Ruling House, a suitable candidate may be selected from either of the other two Ruling Houses.” But that gazette is the subject of litigation. It was set aside by an Issele-Uku High Court headed by Justice I.S Okogwu in December 5th 2006 on grounds that it breached the fundamental Human Rights to fair hearing of the applicants and against the rule of natural justice. This judgment by the lower court, according to Egbunkonye, has been appealed by the Umu-Nkini Royal House at the Appellate Court, Benin-City, Edo State. Accusations and counter accusation of harassment and intimidation by security agencies by both claimants continue. Olise accused Egbunkonye of resorting to inducing security agents to harass and arrest law abiding citizens, but Egbunkonye countered by saying it was Olise who hired soldiers from Warri to organise a kingship ceremony. Olise said: “On the 31st March, we tried to perform the coronation ceremony but he hired 8 Hilux vans filled with policemen and they prevented us from performing the kingship rites so we came back to Asaba. On the April 8th, we were also prevented by police, but on the 14th April, we succeeded in holding our own kingship ceremony before the police arrested us Egbunkonye, defending his actions, said: “He has tried several times to crown himself and because I did not want violence in the community. I applied to the Delta State Commissioner of Police who provided security to forestall a break-down of law and order. The next time was when he attempted to use the celebration of Nmawu masquerade, an alien festival unknown to Abala community as a pretext to install himself Igwe, so when I got the hint , I called the CP. I complained that it was a pretext to crown himself king. And following reinforcement by the police, he ran away.  On the third attempt, on Afor Day, he said he wanted to do his coronation. He went to Warri to bring illegal soldiers, but the CP suggested tact in handling the matter. He facilitated the meeting with the Commander, 222Army Battalion Agbarho-Otor,Ughelli North. I was given the number of a Major Robert in charge of Ndokwa area, which I begged to come to Abala-Unor on account of the activities of soldiers; he came and   disarmed the soldiers. But the ceremony had ended; the police came and arrested Olise who has been arraigned in court.” Egbunkonye debunked the allegation that he pulled out of the Abala Peace Committee chaired by Mr. Monday Nwadialor. He identified Abala Development Union as the apex body of the Abala Clan. He said the ADU constituted standing Peace and Reconciliation Committee to resolve the crisis. He described the Abala Peace Committee headed by Nwadialor as “unnecessary duplication since there is already a properly constituted standing committee with members cutting across board”. He said the committee was “conceived on false and biased premises while its real agenda is embedded in secrecy”. At a recent youth and stakeholders meeting which held in Kwale,Ndokwa West , the stakeholders, in a statement   jointly signed by its General Secretary,  Chidi Opene, President General Abala Clan Youth, Ifeanyi Okonji,  refused to recognise anyone parading himself as King of Abala. It urged the Delta State government to set up a panel of inquiry to wade into the crisis to avoid further disorderliness in the kingdom. 