…says he will steer party out of crisis  Ahead of the Saturday National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the Chief of Staff to the Imo State governor and frontline governorship aspirant under the party, Chief Uche Nwosu, has enjoined APC delegates from the Southeast to support former Edo State governor, Adams Oshiomhole for the National Chairman. Nwosu who briefed journalists in Owerri, the Imo State capital, noted that Oshiomhole’s emergence as the National Chairman of the party will usher in a strong, focused and transparent leadership that will steer the party out of imminent crisis. The Chief of Staff also advised Southeast APC stakeholders to avoid politics of bitterness and acrimony and file behind the Imo governor, Rochas Okorocha as the leader of the party in the zone so as to forge a common front and speak with one voice in the convention. He said, “It is very obvious that our party is grappling with internal crisis and what we need now is a strong leadership that can resolve all issues in the interest of the party. It is also very obvious that some of the members of the outgoing National Working Committee had put selfish interests above the party interest. That is why we should all rally round Oshiomhole who has the experience and strength of character to return the party to the people”. Nwosu continued that, “I am convinced that his emergence will also best prepare the party for the 2019 election, which is just a couple of months away. We are aware that opposition parties are waiting to see the outcome of the Convention and if we fail to get it right, we may be giving them the chance they have been waiting for”. According to him, “some self-styled politicians are working to undermine the leadership and position of the party in the zone for selfish reasons, noting that most of them are actually working against the best interest of the party. So it is imperative that we identify our genuine leaders and obey their directive to save our party because the so called leaders are waiting for the party to fail in the zone so that they will return to the parties they defected from”. Nwosu who passed a Vote of Confidence on governor Okorocha and former Senate President, Ken Nnamani, assured that despite the current challenges in the party in the zone, the party will ensure landslide victory for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. He said, “Let me state with all confidence that President Buhari will win with a wide margin in the Southeast in 2019, this is because our people have seen tangible achievements recorded by his administration in the zone in the last three years. Some of these landmark projects include the second Niger Bridge, which has been an object for politics for many decades, the Onitsha/Enugu road, Enugu Port Harcourt road and the International Cargo Airport in Owerri, among others, were executed in the Southeast by the Buhari’s administration in just three years, while the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has nothing to point at in the zone for 16 years it was in power”.