A Lagos High Court has yesterday directed the state government to obtain for DNA analysis, the blood of Peter Nielsen, a Dane, accused of killing his wife Zainab, and their three-and-a-half-year-old daughter, Petra. Justice Bola Okikiolu-Ighile made the order following an application by Nielsen’s counsel Olasupo Shasore (SAN). Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Adeniji Kazeem, told the judge that Nielsen killed his wife and daughter on April 5 at their Banana Island, Ikoyi, Lagos home. Nielsen, 53, is standing trial on a two-count charge of murder to which he pleaded not guilty. Adeniji said the defendant murdered Zainab and Petra around 3:45am at 4, Flat 17, Bella Vista Tower, Banana Island. Kazeem’s prayer for a trial date was not opposed by Shasore, who prayed the court for authorisation to carry out an independent analysis of Nielsen’s blood. Responding, Kazeem said the analysis would be done at Lagos State DNA and Forensic Centre, adding that the prosecution has “No problem” with Shasore’s prayer. Shasore said: “We are interested in taking a blood sample of the defendant. I thought it would be better to inform this court that his blood sample would be taken for DNA analysis. The defendant has consented to have his blood taken by the state for the purpose of DNA and matching analysis.” Following the judge’s approval, Shasore turned to his client, saying. “Mr Nielsen, the state wants to take your blood in order to analyse it for the purpose of this trial. Do you consent?” Nielsen responded in English: “Yes, I give my consent for my blood sample to be taken for DNA.” Shasore, a former Lagos State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, also told the court of the defendant’s interest in the autopsy report on the death of his wife and daughter. He said: “We are interested in the autopsy report and the prosecution has assured us that we would get it in four weeks. We need to consult some of our experts for analysis of the test as we would need it during trial.” Kazeem offered to make the interim autopsy report available to the defence, pending when the final report is issued. The judge remanded Nielsen in Ikoyi Maximum Security Prison and adjourned till October 8. Nielsen was remanded on April 11, by a Yaba Chief Magistrates’ Court following an application by the police. The application alleged that the defendant was habitually violent to Zainab, a musician, and that a fight broke out between the couple in their flat at about 3am. Nielsen was allegedly seen hitting her head on a wall by his wife’s two relations, following which she died.