The General Officer Commanding (GOC) 81 Division of the Nigerian Army, Maj.-Gen. Enobong Udoh, yesterday described as embarrassing the bickering between operatives of the police and other security agencies. Udoh spoke at the police command headquarters in Ikeja, the Lagos State capital, when he visited Commissioner Imohimi Edgal. He also said the Army arrested over 100 suspected criminals between January and this month, using military camouflages. The GOC said those who behave irresponsibly in most cases were not security operatives. According to him, officers should be held responsible whenever the lower ranks engage in fights or other acts that question the credibility of security agencies. Udoh, who said he was at the police command to strengthen existing relationships, added that the Army was open to getting trainings on Explosives Ordinance Disposal (EOD) from the police, which have the expertise in that field. The GOC urged Edgal to feel free to approach the Army or any other military service for trainings in police areas of weakness. According to him, they all work towards the same goal. Udoh said: “Since I took over as the GOC of 81 Division, I have been going round my area of responsibility and I have also visited the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone II. So, I had to come and visit the commissioner because he is the number one policeman in Lagos. “The Nigerian Army is ready to close ranks with the police on Lagos security. I have gone round and heard a lot of issues and problems that exist in various parts of the state, such as militancy, cultism, armed robbery, sea robbery, piracy, pipeline vandalism and many other threats. “I must, however, commend the police commissioner and his lieutenants for what they are doing. I have seen the way peace has been reigning in the state through your community policing drive. There is, however, need for synergy. “I have gone round my units and have been preaching one sermon, which is synergy and cooperation with the police and other services, including those at the border. I am here today to foster that synergy. I want us to take this inter-service cooperation to another level… “Between January and now, you can notice the disgraceful issue cropping up between security agencies in Lagos. The police commissioner, other senior police officers and myself are to be held responsible for this inter-service rivalry. “If a soldier continues to see the police as his enemy and a fight ensues in the process, it is not the soldier or the rank and file policeman that should be held responsible but the police commissioner and myself. This is because we have not fostered a situation where such inter-service rivalry will be eliminated. “From today, based on this understanding and partnership, I want to believe there would not be any situation where police and soldiers will be seen fighting. “On my part, I will not tolerate any situation whereby any soldier will treat a policeman anyhow. I have preached that everywhere I go. Constitutionally, a soldier is forbidden to be seen quarrelling or fighting in public. If caught, he is liable to a trial which can get him dismissed from the service.” Edgal praised the GOC for visiting the command. The police chief noted that the peace in Lagos was the result of collaboration among security agencies. He said the military played a significant role in tackling the Badoo menace (in Ikorodu area, especially) as well as kidnapping in the riverine communities. Stating that the 72,000 persons enter Lagos daily, Edgal said the police alone cannot handle security in the metropolis without collaboration with sister services. He said: “We may have different roles but we are working for same government and have same mandate of ensuring that peace reigns. “It is also our duty to let our men know that we are one. As human beings, there must be misunderstanding, but we must ensure that it does not escalate.”