The new Country Director for Great Place To Work Nigeria, an affiliate of Peoples Productivity Solutions (PPS) Africa, the parent company of Great Place to Work UK, Dr. Gonzalo Shoobridge, has pledged the company’s commitment to partnering with Nigerian companies on global best practices. GPTW is a global research, consulting and training firm, which helps organisations identify, create and sustain great workplaces through the development of high trust workplace cultures. Shoobridge, said Great Place to Work UK will bring to bear on Nigerian organisations best global practices that conform to the UK and other European companies where the firm has operations. Speaking at the fifth award ceremony of Great Place To Work Nigeria, which held  at The Landmark Event Centre, Lagos, Nigeria, Shoobridge said: “We are bringing best practices here so we can share them with Nigerian organisations that want to become best work places.” According to him, the objective was to have best workplaces in Nigeria, “Because if we improve the workplace, we are going to improve the society as a whole. “It doesn’t happen in one or two years; it is a continuous improvement process, because the bar is very high. That is why we are going to partner with Nigerian organisations in that journey to becoming best work place,” he said.If there are images in this attachment, they will not be displayed.   Download the original attachment Forty five companies across Africa were recognised as great places to work in various categories at this year’s award by Great Place to Work Nigeria. It was the fifth in the series. The Group Managing Director, PPS Africa,  Kunle Malomo, said the companies were recognised for demonstrating the main attributes of a great workplace. “These companies have the courage and confidence to build the kind of workplace where you achieve organisational objectives with employees who give their personal best and work together as a team or family-all in an environment of trust,” he said, in his welcome address. Apart from Best Companies to Work For (large corporates and small and medium size businesses), which was the star category of the awards, the 2018 edition of the awards, which was the 5th in the series, also included Certified Companies 2018. Describing the journey in the last five years of the award as “exciting,” Malomo said the initiative has been helping to transform the level of productivity at African work places as well as their financial performance. While Andela trounced Namibia Breweries Limited and FCMB to clinch the Best Companies to Work For, in the large corporate segment, Courteville Business Solutions Plc emerged winner for the Best Companies to Work For in the small & medium size businesses segment. Andela, Namibia, FCBM, and Courteville were also amongst the 18 companies across Africa presented with certificates as Certified Companies 2018.