 It will be safe to say that the first half of the encounter at the Wembley was an all England affair. Early goal in the 7th minute by Cahill flagged off what could best be described as minutes of agony for the Nigerians. Only two shots on target was all the Eagles could record in the entire first half. England captain Harry Kane must be a happy man as he increased the goal tally to compound Eagles woes. Very early in the match former international Jonathan Akpoborie noted that the scenario was not looking good.  Kenneth Uzoho conceded cheap goal especially the second goal by  England Captain, Harry Kane. “Defenders make mistakes, that’s why goalkeepers are there, but at this level, if you can’t save that Harry Kane’s goal, then you have no business there” he had said shortly after Kane’s goal but again in fairness to Uzoho he also saved a few ugly situations that would have left Eagles down by four goals at the end of first half. The rate at which Dele Alli, Sterling and Lingard were having a good run into the defence is one that must be checked. No doubt the Nigerian side was nervous in the first half and it showed. But then 47th minute goal by Alex Iwobi became a ginger and the tunic even the Nigerian teeming fans were waiting for to come alive and it was singing from then all the way. But Iwobi’s strike did not really come as a surprise he appeared in the first half to be the most confident on the Eagles side on the pitch.  At 57 minutes the match appeared more balanced the Lions were no longer having a field day. The second half was more purposeful for Eagles. Mikel’s shot on target in the 69th minute was really goal bound. The commentators and analysts agree that there was better contest in the second half.  The bottom line is, with a little touch here and there, the Eagles can hold their own but must aim to come to the party early. In a real world cup situation allowing over dominance in the first half only to hope to make amends in the seconds may not guarantee fantastic result. Come to think of it why how come Eagles appear to be bumping on each other especially while going for aerial balls? Are they finding their new and impressive jersey hard to recognise?  The Eagles lost the match 2-1 but this looks more like a more respectable score line, many were scared it would have been more than that. The changes made by Coach Rohr had instant impact which implies that he knows the team and is likely to get it right going forward.       