As he walked in with his guests last Wednesday, shouts of ‘digital, digital’ rented the air. The huge hall brimming with ladies and men was ‘violently’ alive all through the minutes Ben Ayade, a professor and governor of Cross River State, spent inside the Garment Factory located inside the Ayade Industrial Park, Calabar. The ‘digital’ the tailors were shouting is Ayade’s nickname – their own way of acknowledging his scientific approach to governance. The Garment Factory, which makes uniforms for military and para-military agencies, is one of the industries the Ayade administration has sprung up from what used to be a virgin expanse of land. One of these industries is the Calabar Rice Seedlings and Seed Manufacturing Center, which has the tendency to produce Nigeria’s best rice. And this project clearly marks him out as one interested in automation and deserving of the appellation ‘digital’. The multi-billion Naira seedling reproduction facility is complete with storage, research and development compartments. The facility is around the Margaret Ekpo International Airport. Ayade last week said vitaminised, high-yield and disease resistant rice seeds and seedlings from the facility were available for sale in the country and for export. This phenomenal project also referred to as rice city specialises on developing local varieties for improved yield. The governor said: “Our specialty is to take seeds from the home base and improve its yield, improve its disease resistance and then develop new specie that can do much better than the native one. So, twenty four hours you are in the cycle of seed production and seedling production.” At the factory, seeds are through an automated transported through a conveyor belt to a section where lumps are separated from the fine sand and other particles that can impede growth. The seeds are thereafter transferred to a chamber for selection into freshly washed trays. These trays are moved on the belt through several sections of large machinery before ending up in a motorised fork lift which take them to the open field. In the field, a machine with a long horizontal belt – the longest in the world – conveys the seeds for workers to pick and arrange in the open field to grow into a paddy field. And in 14 days, the seeds are ready to grow into mature nursery seedlings and ready for planting. At this stage, a falcon drone flies over the paddy to spray fertiliser or watch over the nursery field. The factory is also fitted with a massive cold room where seeds and seedlings are preserved for sale and export. It also has a laboratory where the fertility of seeds and other forms of tests are done. ”The seeds that come from the farm when you harvest, let me say I want to produce seeds from Kebbi State. So I go to Kebbi, take their seeds, take all the seeds from their farm which means those seeds I have gotten under loamy soils and conditions, I put them here because this is a seed factory.” “It is from here (pointing at a compartment aimed at getting the seeds prepared) we take to the lab over there. At the top level (of the lab) is the tissue culture where you will do gene amplification and proper tissue culture,” the governor explained. The specie being developed in Calabar is known as ‘Cala 77’. With this special breed, Ayade hopes to tap into the N400 billion Nigeria spends on the importation of rice. Ayade said:  ”The states that are close to us, we will prefer to sell them seedlings, not seeds, because the seedlings that have already grown will stay for 15 to 18 days just ready for transplant. “But, if from outside the country for example we will rather sell you seeds. So when we are giving you, we will take it on a chiller because you are travelling a long distance, before the seeds undergo germination. By the time they get to your place, you put it in the soil before they start germinating.” Conscious of the country’s power challenge, the factory is to be powered by a solar power plant being constructed by Germans. The state expects to reap between N70 to N100 billion annually from the factory. A rice mill in Ogoja, an ultra-modern 30000 per year cocoa processing plant in Ikom, Odukpani Banana Plantation in collaboration with San Carlos Company of Mexico are other agric-based projects of the governor. The Professor of Environmental Microbiology also situates the Calabar Pharmaceutical Company (CAlAPHARM) in the Ayade Industrial Park opposite the garment factory. The automated drug firm is the first of its kind in the Southsouth. The firm’s Managing Director, Mr. Farhan Ahmad Khan, said: “To complement the company’s vision and mission, artemisin plant is being cultivated here and from there, Arthemeter will be developed.” He explained that the plant was being cultivated in a large expanse of land in the state and to aid in the production of ORS to check diarrhoea and malaria. Among the equipment already at the company are tablet compression, coating machines, granulator machines, fluid bed dryers, ocylators and milling machines. Commissioner for Health Dr Inyang Asibong said: “With about 80 percent completion of Calapharm, we will kick-start with Ayadecare programme any moment from now. Equipment is ready as we have other equipment in the warehouse and these ones just came in and will be moved to the warehouse. The Quality Control equipment are awaited, so definitely when fully installed, we will start the production of drugs that are in line with ailments that are endemic with us in our populace.” She said the drugs would be cheap, accessible and free for most vulnerable groups like women, children and the handicapped. Asibong said: “We are partnering the University of Calabar for research as well as planting artemisin plant which is an active ingredient for anti-malaria and this will enable us have a healthier Cross River State.” The Managing Director, Nigeria Export Processing Zone Authority (NEPZA), Mr. Emmanuel Jime, recently described the Ayade Industrial Park as the best to be conceived by any state government. Jime, who spoke after an on-the-spot inspection of the industrial park, said: “If you ask me, and without being immodest, I will say that this is the best industrial site that has been conceived by a state government during my time as the MD of NEPZA. If I have my way,  I would have granted this license that is demanded, unfortunately, it is not entirely in my capacity to do this. “As far as I can see, all the requirements that need to be in place are already in place and we can tick all the boxes  believing that this industrial park has satisfied all of those boxes, therefore there is no reason on earth why the licence (for free trade zone) will not be granted.” The MD added that the importance attached to the park made him to personally do the inspection, adding:  ”I have come, I have seen and I have to say that I am totally blown away and really impressed by what I have seen here.” Jime, who commended Ayade’s leadership style,  said: “The desire and passion that the governor has shown with regards to the industrialisation of this place will fluorish and have the kind of expression that we think it can have. “I have come here like I say and I have seen tremendous deployment of equipment in terms of science and technology that is available to us. The solar power that is being instituted here is new and clean and I believe that it is innovative as far as Africa is concerned.” Jime said the report of the team would be presented to the President to enable the park be granted the EPZ status. ”Cross River is the best state as far as the requirements for the establishment of an industrial park is concerned, I don’t see any reason whatsoever why this particular industrial park will not be successful because it meets all the requirements of all other successful industrial parks I have been to,” he said. The park sure holds a lot of promise and potential to bring the much-needed cash and job opportunities to Cross River. 