Upon admitting that the work of Lagos State Commissioner of Police is a tough one, soft spoken Edgal Imohimi, has taken to golf to remain fit as fiddle. Speaking in an exclusive interview with The Nation, recently, the CP opened up on his love for golf. However, before golf, he has been a keen tennis follower and player. Tennis, he said was his passion for many years as a Police officer until the ‘gentleman game’ of golf stole that desire. “I used to play tennis a lot until I tried my hands in golf and since then, I have not gone back to tennis. Golf is my game now and I am a member of the Ikeja Golf Club, where I play regularly.” The game is golf has indeed been the choice of many top ranked officers in the Police, Army, Air Force and Navy. This is not forgetting many industry chiefs that are hooked to the game. Some of them are former Inspector of Police, Sunday Ehindero, former military heads, Toye Sode, Olagunsoye Oyinlola, Dele Ezeoba, David Mark, and industry chiefs; Olusola Adekanola, Godfrey Oboh, to mention but few. “I play off handicap 18, and would have come lower but for the job of policing Lagos. I don’t get to go to the course as I would love too, though I try not to stay away for too long. Golf is a great game that keeps you active and focus, while you are doing it in a very cosy environment.” He noted golf has also helped the Nigeria  police corps:    “You will notice that golf is associated with policy makers in the private and public sectors and there was a time that I was in Ikeja Golf Club to tell them about my policing plan for Lagos and I was warmly received. “I shared my idea of community policing with them and the fact thatfor it to work we need the trust and confidence of the people and we need to be professional to gain that.The trust I built so far earned me several intelligence information which had led to various crack down on criminal hideouts. So it is the cooperation that I have come to ask you for and if you see anything, please say something.” Blessed with three children, the Edo State-born, said golf has taught valuable lessons of life. “Golf is a game that can teach you be humble if you are not. You may think you are playing well and if you  are not careful, the course will simply humble you. It is a game that teaches focus and alertness too.” His favourite dish he says is rice, plantain and chicken. “I like rice, plantain, and chicken. I eat once daily and eat late. It is not good for me. But I always take tea and water.I also like dancing. When I was a younger officer I had the opportunity to attend parties and I danced a lot. But I can no longer do that now  not for any particular reason. But you know what people will say when they see the Commissioner of Police dancing,” Imohimi added. Remarkably, Imohimi has always wanted to be a policeman. “I’ve always wanted to be a Policeman. As a young man, if you ask me how I wanted to be remembered I would tell you that I want to protect people. I have always been convinced that is what I want to do in the future. It is my dream like everybody has one. When we were growing up, we were instructed on civic education. Thereafter, I proceeded to Federal Government College, Warri  it was one of the best schools in the country. The school fostered unity as the students were from various parts of the country  most those students are still my friend. I went to the University of Jos where I obtained a first degree in History. Later, I got a master’s degree in Public and International Affairs from the University of Lagos.” When he had the opportunity to choose after his first degree he simply told his mum that he would like to join the Police force. “After my first degree I told my mother that I would like to join the Police Force. Of course everybody shouted why Police? My mother used to have an NGO and always visiting the prison so she has contact with the Police. So, she simply called former Inspector General of Police, Etim lnyang who agreed to get a form for me and I went for their examination and passed. That is how I began the journey.” CP Imohimi is married to Mary and blessed with three lovely kids. He recalled how he met his wife. “We met as mutual friends,” he revealed.“I had just joined the Nigeria Police Force and my wife’s family were staying somewhere in Lagos. “ My brother, who is a banker, happens to know certain friends who knew her. We met at an occasion we were both invited to attend. Immediately I saw her, it was if I had seen an angel. From that moment, I did the best I could to woo her until we got married,” he revealed. 