Like calcium, the nutritional element iron is a keen servant of life.  It is an indispensable player in the transportation of oxygen from the lungs to all parts of the body including to vital organs such as the brain and heart.  Almost 70% of the iron found in the body is in the oxygen carrying haemoglobin of red blood cells. Without iron there is no haemoglobin formation and functional red blood cell. Iron is also used in the body to form various metabolic agents and enzymes including myoglobin (an iron carrying protein similar to haemoglobin but is found in muscle and carries oxygen), cytochromes, and catalase that sustain various body functions. Iron is involved in the synthesis of some neurotransmitters including dopamine, norepinephrine, and serotonin without which the brain and nerves cannot work well.  In addition, the high activity of the brain requires a lot of oxygen and the brain alone consumes 20% of oxygen carried in the blood for the whole body.  Lack of iron leads to inability to focus, irritability, and fatigue; for example, a child may not be able to study well and a worker will not be able to work well.  We need sufficient iron for ability to concentrate and for good cognitive performance. Iron in muscle myoglobin helps the muscle to store and utilize oxygen.  It is important for athletic fitness.  Without iron, muscles lack tone and contractility.  Muscle weakness is a cardinal sign of iron deficiency anaemia. The person with low iron lacks stamina and is incapable of good physical performance. Iron is stored in the body in ferritin inside cells and the body can tap from these stores when dietary intake is too low. In men, ferritin can store up to the amount of iron needed for three years.  Iron deficiency anaemia occurs more in women than in men because women store less iron. Women loose iron during menstruation. Women and children suffer more than men when dietary intake of iron becomes low.  If in an emergency situation of food shortage, men should let women and children eat first. Severe iron deficiency leads to a diminishment or even shut down of various body functions and external signs can be seen in unhealthy looking skin and nails. Iron deficiency anaemia is a common and important nutritional deficiency that is often undermined. Iron is found in both vegetable and animal derived foods. Animal foods such as meat and seafood contain heme iron.  Vegetables such as green leafy vegetables (e.g. spinach), legumes and lentils (e.g. beans) and nuts (e.g. cashew nuts), and foods derived from plants such as whole grains and cereals, bread, and dry fruits contain non-heme iron.  Heme iron is more efficiently absorbed by the body than non-heme iron. Vegetarians thus may be prone to lack of iron if they do not consume enough vegetables to give sufficient iron.  Consuming vitamin C-rich foods such as fresh tomatoes and citrus juices (e.g. orange or lime juice) alongside non-heme sources of iron increases iron absorption. Iron is used to treat some types of anaemia (for example in pregnancy and copious menstruation), fatigue, some chronic diseases, and restless leg syndrome. (Iron imbalance is a cause of restless leg syndrome). Low iron intake during pregnancy is linked to premature birth, low birth weight, and low iron stores and impaired cognitive or behavioural development in infants. Iron supports the work of the immune system.  Provision of oxygen to damaged tissues is important for quick and full recovery.  Balanced red blood cells in the blood limits fluctuation of blood pressure that can contribute to insomnia.  However, too much iron can increase the risk of liver cancer and diabetes. Some foods and medications reduce iron absorption.  These include tannins in coffee, tea, and wines, and phosphates in carbonate drinks (soft drinks).  Calcium can slow both heme and non-heme iron absorption. However eating a variety of foods and balancing one’s diet increases the chances of getting enough iron irrespective of the presence of enhancers and inhibitors of iron absorption. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 0816094463