Prof. Leo Ukpong, a Professor of Financial Economics in the University of Uyo, Awka Ibom State, in this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf speaks on the nation’s troubled budget. Excerpts: Do you think the delay in the budget process can affect the implementation in any way? I think delay is bad because it creates uncertainty.  People are not sure if their projects will continue to be funded, contractors are not paid and all that. So that creates credibility crisis in terms in terms of contractors doing their job. It delays the start of a new project too because usually if they don’t mobilise upfront, they have to borrow money somewhere. And from that perspective it’s bad because it leads to additional cost the contractors if they have to go borrow money or guaranteed. However, I think the last budget was also signed late too. And my understanding from reading most of the report was that they would continue to fund the budget with last year’s approval until this year’s budget is also signed by Mr. President. I’m not sure that creates a lot of problem. However, where I think it’s a problem is that it will probably delay political expenditures. Because most of the projects that they have this year is going to be tailored towards political promises to pump money indirectly. So you have political inflation going on because they would pump into projects to win electorate votes. And that is equally detrimental because it’s not going to be based on pure economic analysis. It is going to be weighted more towards political consideration and sometimes those are very short-term in nature. Because once they finish the election, things slow. They would probably inflate all those projects that would give them votes. In view of the delay, what can be done? First of all, things like capital expenses, most of them are funded or they have arrangement with the banks or whatever. I think it’s the capital projects we really worry about. If they have arrangement in place where they can guarantee institutions loaning money to the contractors until they approve the budget, they won’t have much problem in terms of continuation of the project. However if the reverse is the case that they cannot guarantee, which I think is what most of the contractors in the current regime cannot guarantee the contractors as such they have to go and look for fund, then the cost of funding the project on the contractors part would be higher because they have to borrow money at high interest rates and that invariably would not allow most of the projects either to be completed or to be executed properly; there is going to be short cut. Those are not direct impact but through the cost of capital but I think it could probably affect the execution of the project or the quality of the contract. How to stem the tide of bureaucratic bottlenecks around the budget? Well, you know politicians are very tough characters to deal with. Besides some kind of penalty from the voters or they have a constitutional amendment that the budget must be signed on an agreed date constitutionally, which is not easy, because the politicians use the budget easily to get what they need. The delay is really political rather than bureaucratic process. Besides constitutional amendment or tie it with some kind of penalty to the legislators and the executive because it could be delayed by the legislators, it could be delayed by the executive. Without penalising them somehow, either the next budget, the executive would be denied certain percentage because of the delay or the legislators would have to forfeit something because of the delay. There is always a way to go around that. The length of time to pass the budget is very long for Nigeria. Most countries run into that sometimes, even the developed world but there has to be some kind of penalty to somebody either to the executive or legislators to curtail the incidence of delay.  