 Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson has ordered the arrest of an official of a local government area for collecting the salaries of 300 persons as his wages every month. The Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, disclosedon Monday that the official defrauded the council for many years before the ongoing public sector reforms in the state exposed the sleaze. Speaking at the made the beginning of a town hall meeting on civil service reforms in Yenagoa Local Government Area of the state, the commissioner said the suspect was an accountant in one of the local government areas at the Central Senatorial District. Though the commissioner refused to disclose the name of the suspect and the particular local council where he worked, Yenagoa, Southern Ijaw and Kolokuma-Opokuma are local councils at the centre. But Iworiso-Markson said the suspect had defrauded council to the tune of hundreds of millions of naira before Dickson’s reforms caught up with him. He said the fraudulent local government worker was known for acquiring choice houses, estates and parcels of land across the state. Iworiso-Markson said: “Recently, Governor Seriake Dickson had to order the arrest of an official of a council. He (the official) was collecting salaries of 300 people. Yearly, the officer fraudulently receives hundreds of millions of naira. “That is in just one LGA and there are many places like that in the state. Some people are employed in civil service today, yet there is no document in their files. Instead, they were employed with affidavit. The same people who do not have any documents and qualifications are collecting salaries of level 14 workers and above. “At the Bayelsa State Transport Company, you find a situation whereby you have about 180 drivers, but there are only five or six vehicles for them to drive. You can see the level of rot in the system. So, if we must be sincere to ourselves, we must all agree to join hands with the government to clean the mess in the system.” He insisted that the reform had come to stay, appealing to  the people of Bayelsa to collectively redeem the state from collapse. He said though people kicked against reform everywhere, sanitising the state’s public sector must be done to reedem the image of Bayelsa. He said: “Today, everywhere you go now, people talk of Bayelsa as a model. All these are because of the bold steps the Seriake Dickson-led administration has taken to redeem the state from payroll fraudsters and syndicates. “This government has initiated a lot of programmes since its assumption of office six years ago and those programmes have become a reference point to other states. We want to assure the people that the reform has human face. Governor Dickson has reiterated that nobody will be sacked  except those who use their hands to sack themselves. “People who falsify their documents, their ages, buy appointment letters, earning salaries from more than one place and other criminal acts have used their own hands to sack themselves.” Also speaking, the Chairman, People’s Democratic Party Caucus in the state, Chief Godwin Odinka, hailed the Governor for initiating the reforms. He said that successive administrations in the state could not muster the political will to carry out such programmes. The 86-year-old Odinka, advised that in cleaning up the system, care should be taken not to make the reform look as a witch-hunt. He said: “In cleaning the system, caution must be exercised so that people will not think it is intended as a witch-hunt on workers. What we want in this reform is a win-win situation. “We must commend Governor Dickson for his courage in initiating these reforms in the civil service. Past administrations in the state could not do it because they lack the political will and courage to do so. We are advocating that the reforms should have human face.” In his remarks, the Caretaker Chairman, Yenagoa LGA, Mr. Oboku Oforji, said the reforms recorded positive impact on the revenue of the council. He said the council was able to realise millions of naira from payroll fraudsters, a situation that had improved the resources of the council. He said when the reforms began, the council had a total staff strength of 1,483 but as of 2018, after weeding out ghost workers, the staff strength was slightly over 900.