•Oshiomhole, Mai Mala Buni, Adebayo, Masari, Ogala, others emerge unopposed
•Kashim Imam, Bulama withdraw for Secretary Mai Mala Buni
•Oyegun: I leave a fulfilled man The All Progressives Congress (APC) yesterday picked majority of its national officers without rancour during its convention in Abuja. The intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari and high-wire consensus building by some governors and key party leaders, among them Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, averted what could have been a crisis over the filling of the offices. It was learnt that they were able to realign forces on over 40 out of the 60 National Working Committee (NWC) seats. Election into the remaining offices began at 5pm. It was ongoing at press time last night. The governors met far into the night on Friday and agreed substantially on the positions. Buhari and Tinubu were aware of what was going on. “Everybody sued for the unity of the party and agreed that sacrifice should be made by all in the interest of the party “, a governor told The Nation yesterday at the convention ground. He said the unanimity of purpose in the party informed the decision of former presidential liaison officer Kashim Imam, who was backed by Tinubu, and Waziri Bulama, an architect, said to be the favourite of some members of  the President’s camp, to step down for the National Secretary, Mai Bala Buni. Former Edo State Governor Adams Oshiomhole and 19 others had before the convention started,  emerged unopposed as members of the new NWC. As the convention progressed, many aspirants announced their withdrawal, leading to the declaration of more candidates as unopposed Some of those returned unopposed are  Buni; former Ekiti State Governor Niyi Adebayo (Deputy National Chairman);  Babatunde Ogala (National Legal Adviser); Pastor Bankole Oluwajana (National Vice Chairman, South- West); Ibrahim Masari (National Welfare Secretary); Jock Alamba (Deputy National Welfare Secretary); Tunde Bello (National Financial Secretary); National Vice-Chairman, North-Central and others. Imam stole the show when he led the way in stepping down for Mai Mala Buni. His action prompted the withdrawal of Bulama and another aspirant, Abdulrahman Terab, from the race. Also, the incumbent National Vice Chairman, Chief Pius Akinyelure, withdrew for Pastor Olajuwon. Another governor, who spoke in confidence yesterday,  said: “Following intervention by the President, some of our leaders and governors, we were able to shift grounds on some offices. But those we disagreed on, we left their fate to the delegates to decide. “If you look at the scenario at the convention, there was much consensus building in the South-West, North-East, North-Central and even North-West on some key positions. The office of the National Secretary was a tough one to take a position on but the governors had their way because the North-East is too strategic in 2019 to allow political tension or division. “We tried as much as possible not to revert to our fault lines. We need reconciliation, we need to reunite all and we want to use this convention as a template.” I’m fulfilled – Odigie-Oyegun Addressing the delegates, outgoing National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun said he felt fulfilled that APC was waxing stronger. He said the hosting of the convention had proved sceptics wrong that the party would collapse. According to him, the Phase 1 of the APC has ended and Phase 2 has started. He said: “I look in front of me today. I look to my right and to my left and I feel a deep sense of fulfilment, a deep sense of inner peace. “If you read the social media and you read some of the headlines in our media, you will think that this is a party that was on the verge of implosion, that it has divisions within it that was fatal. But look around, what we have is a colourful and one happy family. I thank you all for this privilege. “Mr. President, I thank you specially for the opportunity to work closely with you and interact with you and for the support that you gave all the while. “I am not going to make any big policy pronunciation because today is a day to express my very deep gratitude to all of you.” Oyegun thanked key APC leaders, including Asiwaju Tinubu, for making the coalition a reality. The APC, he said, would be a strong and passionate party in the years ahead. He added: “I will start with the key founding fathers of this party,  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Prince Tony Momoh of the CPC. You were the key heads of the various political parties that accepted the idea of unity for the sake of this country and because of you all, including the later addition of nPDP and a faction of APGA, we are here today. “It is because of you that I look right and left and I see one strong party. I see a vibrant party, a party of passionate followers who are ready to follow our President because of the principled leadership in spite of the crude abuses, insinuations, fake stories that have been hurled in his direction, all of which he has not allowed to dissuade or distract him in any way from his course. “I thank my colleagues in the NWC, the chairmen of the various state chapters, some of who have returned to the saddle and will provide experience for continuity. “I thank my colleagues in the outgoing National Working Committee for the fantastic cooperation that I have received all these four years. “Yes, occasionally, our arguments were almost muscular but at the end of the day, we provided the kind of leadership that has brought this party to this point today, a strong party, a united party. “There were divergent views here and there. The essence is that the APC, is at the end of the day a strong party, a passionate party, a party that believes in its vision and the vision of the President for the vision of this country. “I thank the delegates who are here today. It was the same group that elected me as National Chairman four years ago and we are here today to perform a similar exercise.” Oyegun said he was leaving because the world is a stage and everyone is an actor with an exit date. He added: “I will end by saying that Shakespeare told us generations ago that the world is a stage and that all of us are actors in this stage. “We make our entrances and in due time, our exit. Today, I am making my exit from the honour that you have bestowed on me to lead you for four years. “Phase one of this party is over and phase two is about to begin and it is my hope that at the end of today, we would have elected a worthy successor to carry on the battle and the leadership struggle of the party. I wish my successor the very best of luck and wish him fair weather and for the rest, we leave to history.” Opportunity to interact The National Convention Committee (NCC) Chairman, Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, said: “This event is not just a platform for the election of national officers, but an opportunity to interact with our fellow party members from across the country so that we can appreciate its diversity and the national outlook of our common brotherhood in the political arena. “In the last eight weeks or so, since we undertook this assignment, the convention committee has been working very hard to make this day a reality and to strike a balance between various interests and aspirations, a task that is not easy in the context of a party in power and a government that is poised to sweep the coming polls having delivered on its mandate to the satisfaction of Nigerians.”It is therefore not surprising that the agitation for various party positions have been very vibrant and competitive, a situation that led to foreseeable disagreement in some states. “I want to assure you all that this is normal in politics and it is the price we have to pay for being the party of the moment, the beautiful bride and the most sought after political party in Nigeria today. “My team and I have worked hard to reconcile the various interests at play and has striven to achieve consensus for as many party positions as possible. Where this could not be achieved, we will adopt the most convincing and visibly transparent process. “I am convinced that for all positions of which voting will take place, a clear winner will emerge and whosoever loses will do so with dignity and with the satisfaction that he lost in a free and fair contest. “I want to thank our National Leader, President Muhammadu Buhari and our party leaders for deeming us fit to handle this sensitive and critical party assignment. I hope that at the end of this convention, we would have justified the confidence reposed in us. “I also want to thank the members of the main convention committee and the various subcommittees for their dedication, sacrifice and the team spirit they exhibited in making this day possible. You have delivered on your assignment and you have made the party proud. “I want to call on all our delegates to conduct themselves in a manner that is constant with our party’s spirit of discipline. “The convention is not just a national affair, but one that has attracted global attention. We must therefore use this opportunity to showcase the spirit of internal democracy and set the tone for the kind of election outing that Nigerians expect in 2019.” 