•Exercise peaceful, says Wike late arrival of electoral materials yesterday marred the local government chairmanship and councillorship elections in Rivers State. The Nation observed that the sensitive electoral materials did not get to most of the 4,442 units in the 319 wards of Rivers State’s 23 local government areas until the afternoon, for an exercise that ought to have commenced at 8 a.m. Many electorates, who waited endlessly at the various polling units across the state, condemned the shoddy arrangements of the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RSIEC), with its officials described as incompetent and ill-prepared for the polls. In spite of the deployment of 15,000 security personnel in Rivers for yesterday’s elections, as confirmed by the state’s Commissioner of Police, Zaki Ahmed, there were pockets of violence by aggrieved and disenfranchised candidates and other politicians. Not minding the restriction of human and vehicular movements between 6 a.m. and 4 p.m. yesterday, many youths were seen in Port Harcourt and its environs playing football on most of the deserted roads and streets. Most markets opened in Bori-Ogoni, the headquarters of Khana LGA, while in Ahoada Town, the seat of Ahoada East council, church services were being held during the voting hours, with Muslims celebrating the Eid-el-Fitri. In Buguma, the headquarters of Asari-Toru LGA, shops were opened for business, with commercial motorcyclists, popularly called okada riders, operating undisturbed, despite the order of RSIEC, which the security agencies promised to enforce. At Omoku, the seat of Ogba/Egbema/Ndoni LGA, where Rivers State’s Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Chief Felix Obuah, hails from, most of the residents, especially the electorate, insisted that they were not aware of the council polls, as they went about their normal daily activities. RSIEC’s Commissioner in charge of Media and Public Affairs, Innocent Karibo, who monitored the polls in some local government areas of the state, however, said the late commencement of the elections was caused by rain, while describing the polls as peaceful and hailed the conduct of the electorate and optimal performance of the security agents. 67 out of the 68 registered political parties fielded candidates for the elections, which were boycotted by members of the main opposition, All Progressives Congress (APC). Rivers Chairman of APC, Ojukaye Flag-Amachree, described the local government elections as exercise in futility, which he said would surely be nullified by the court at the appropriate time. APC’s Publicity Secretary, Chief Chris Finebone, also stated that the members of the party were not part of yesterday’s “sham and illegal” council polls, since APC leaders were in court over Wike’s 2015 sack of the duly-elected local government chairmen and councilors. Meanwhile, the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike has commended the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RSIEC) for conducting what he described as a peaceful and credible Local Government Elections in the state. Wike had, while monitoring the polls in his Obio/Akpor LG area, attributed the peaceful and credible polls to the boycott by the APC. However, it was observed that no fewer than six of the 68 registered political parties in the state actually participated in the exercise. The APC had from the beginning announced that they would not be part of the polls. Some of the political parties that participated include; Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), Labour Patty, Peoples Progressive Party and Advanced Democratic Party. 