To World Bank Consultant Prof Adebiyi G. Daramola, ending food importation cannot be a walk in the park. The immediate past Vice Chancellor of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) said concerted efforts must be made to grow agriculture by seven per cent to the rewind poverty. In his lecture entitled: “Sustainability of growth and the future of agriculture in Nigeria”, the professor identifies the problems and suggests the way forward. The paper was delivered in Abuja at the Agriculture and Food Summit organised by Vintage Press publishers of The Nation. According to Wikipedia, Nigeria is a middle-income, mixed economy and emerging market, with expanding manufacturing, financial, service, communications, technology and entertainment sectors. It is currently ranked as the 30th-largest economy in the world in terms of nominal Gross Domestic Product (GDP), and the 23rd-largest in terms of purchasing power parity. It is the largest economy in Africa; its re-emergent agricultural and manufacturing sectors became the largest on the continent in 2013 before the oil prices crash and subsequently the recession. It produces a large proportion of goods and services for the West African subcontinent. Previously hindered by decades of macroeconomic mismanagement under the military, economic reforms of the democratic governments have put Nigeria back on track towards achieving its full economic potential. Under democracy, Nigerian GDP at Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) has more than tripled from $170 billion in 2000 to $451 billion in 2012, and an all-time high of $568.5 billion in 2014 before the decline owing to recession. Although estimates of the size of informal sector (which is not included in official figures) put the actual numbers closer to $630 billion. The latest official estimates put Nigeria’s GDP as at 2016 at $405.5 billion, followed by Egypt at $336.3 billion and South Africa at $294.8 billion for the same period. Correspondingly, the GDP per capita doubled from $1400 per person in 2000 to an estimated $2,800 per person in 2012 (again, with the inclusion of the informal sector, it is estimated that GDP per capita hovers around $3,900 per person). (Population increased from 120 million in 2000 to 198 million in 2018). These figures were revised upwards by as much as 80 per cent when metrics were recalculated subsequent to the rebasing of its economy in April 2014. Although oil revenues contribute about 70 per cent of government revenues, oil only contributes about nine per cent to the GDP. Nigeria produces only about 2.7 per cent of the world’s oil supply. Although the petroleum sector is important, as government revenues still heavily relies on this sector, it remains a small part of the country’s overall economy in terms of both employment and contribution to GDP. According to a Citigroup report published in February 2011, Nigeria will get the highest average GDP growth in the world between 2010 and 2050. Nigeria is one of two countries from Africa classified among 11 Global Growth Generators countries. Even at projected economic growth rate of 2.1 per cent for 2018 International Monetary Fund (IMF), Nigerian economy is still considered to be robust. The most recent initiative at revamping the Nigerian economy by the current administration is the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan 2017-2020 (ERGP). This bold initiative is resting on certain principles which include focus on tackling constraints to growth, leverage the power of the private sector, promote national cohesion and social inclusion, allow markets to function and uphold core values. These principles are to guide the country in delivering three broad objectives of the ERGP, namely, restoring growth, investing in our people and building a globally competitive economy. The good news now is that the country is out of recession, the price of crude oil is climbing, external reserve is growing and foreign direct investments are flowing into the country.  The agriculture sector  Agriculture in many developing countries like Nigeria remains the highest employer of labour. It has been estimated that approximately 30 per cent of Nigerian population of 198 million are employed in agriculture. Nigeria ranks sixth worldwide and first in Africa in terms of farm output. The sector accounts for about 18 per cent of GDP and almost one-third of employment. Nigeria has 19 million heads of cattle, the largest in Africa. Though Nigeria is no longer a major exporter, due to local consumer boom, it is still a major producer of many agricultural products, including: cocoa, groundnuts (peanuts), cotton, rubber and palm oil. In the colonial era, Nigeria’s agricultural policy was export cash crops oriented because the colonial masters depended on the country to produce raw materials for their agro-based industries. At independence and few years after independence, the country’s population was about 55 million people and domestic production of food crops was enough as at that time. No food import bills were recorded and export cash crops were bringing foreign exchange to the regional governments to finance their capital expenditure budgets. Then, the civil war period of 1967 – 1970 constituted a setback for the growth of agriculture sector. Through the 1970–1999 era, the agriculture sector witnessed serious decline. The military government relying on the oil windfall found it easier and cheaper to import food items into the country than to develop the rural areas and promote agricultural transformation.  A typical case of ‘the Dutch disease’  The first decade of the democracy witnessed some modest but largely uncoordinated efforts to revamp the agriculture sector. Therefore, there were some successes and growth recorded within the sector. They were largely due to favourable weather and efforts of the Federal Government. However, in the last seven years, cocoa production, mostly from obsolete varieties and over-aged trees has increased from around 180,000 tons annually to 350,000 tons. This increase is due mainly to favourable weather conditions and improved management, especially production inputs. The agricultural sector suffers from extremely low productivity, reflecting reliance on antiquated methods. Agriculture has failed to keep pace with Nigeria’s rapid population growth, so that the country, which once exported food, now imports a significant amount of food to sustain itself. However, efforts are being made towards making the country food sufficient again. The rice revolution has reduced our dependence on importation by at least 90 per cent. Thanks to Kebbi, Anambra, Ebonyi, Nassarawa, Lagos, Ekiti and some other states that have stepped up rice cultivation. The business model of LAKE (Lagos-Kebbi) Rice remains a reference point. At many social events now, local rice is always the favourite menu. Also the substitution of HQCF in the bakery and confectioneries industry pioneered by the ATA with the active support of the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) has also significantly boost demand for cassava flour. So many other value chains have also received some boost, e.g. soyabean. Just that their results have not been as successful as that of rice and cassava. The major agricultural products include cassava (tapioca), corn, cocoa, millet, palm oil, peanuts, rice, rubber, sorghum and yams. Since 2003, livestock production has also been increasing, in order of metric tonnage, featuring eggs, milk, beef and veal, poultry, and pork, respectively. Since that same year, the total fishing catch was 505.8 metric tons and also growing. Not as much efforts have been expended on the livestock subsector as has been done on crops. Therefore productivity growth has not been as high within the livestock subsector. In fact, some people have argued that the old known cattle routes have been eliminated due to pressures of physical development and urbanisation. This development has been identified as one of the reasons for the farmers/herdsmen clashes not only in Nigeria but all over Africa where open grazing is the culture. However, ranching has been tested to lend itself to better cattle productivity and improvement based on evidence from more developed countries have suggested.  Challenges of the agricultural sector  The agriculture sector in Nigeria is unable to fully unlock its potentials due to so many reasons that we need to highlight here. They are not presented here in order of importance. Nonetheless, addressing each of them simultaneously will unlock the potentials and can even make the sector grow by double digits annually.  Agricultural policy  In the last seven years, Nigeria has been getting the agricultural policy right, starting with the Agricultural Transformation Agenda (ATA) and now the Agricultural Promotion Policy (APP). The best approach is to constantly review the policy to make it more favourable and responsive to developments in the macroeconomic environment and even outside world. There is the need for a standing policy group that will not only be working on agricultural policy but will be constantly interfacing with the economy-wide policy group to ensure that no inconsistencies are allowed. There had been instances in the past where taxes, tariffs and interest rates were not harmonised leading to negative impacts on agriculture.  Technology  Deployment of technology within the agriculture sector in Nigeria is still abysmally poor. Our agriculture sector is yet to take advantage of modern technology. One major reason for this state of affairs is the low electricity generation within the country. Many modern agricultural technologies these days are electricity-dependent and Nigeria will not be able to benefit from them.  Infrastructure  One major infrastructure that discourages investments in agriculture is the absence of rural feeder roads. It hampers market linkages as farm produce cannot be easily evacuated and taken to nearby markets. This problem has led to many on farm losses, which was estimated to be as high as 40 per cent of production. Electricity from the grid is another major problem both on farm and for value addition. The absence of electricity has made it impossible for some useful technologies to be adopted. As the population continues to grow at about 2.5 per cent annually in Nigeria countries like China and India have invented technologies that allow less land to be used to produce more farm output. However most of them require electricity for deployment. Storage facility like silos, barns is another major setback for agriculture. There are periods of surplus and scarcity based on seasons. As a result of the lack of facility for storage small farmers become price-takers. Similarly, the absence of dams has restricted the number of cropping and made farming to be weather-dependent and solely rain-fed agriculture. The opportunity for dry season rice farming in some states of the North have made farmers to be busy and engaged all year round.  This constitutes part of unlocking of potentials. The guaranteed market offered by LAKE Rice also offers off-taker opportunity.  Credit facilities  Agricultural credit is very important in farming (being a high risk enterprise because it depends on weather and other hazards that are outside the control of the entrepreneur) but not attractive to lenders. So, for a very long time, investment funds have been very scarce for the agriculture sector. Many agriculture businesses can’t be profitable at the 25 – 30 per cent charged by commercial banks. The Agricultural Bank which is the development bank was grossly underfunded and operated more like public service than a for-profit bank. NIRSAL came on stream with ATA and sponsored by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) as an intervention for agricultural financing has significantly mitigated risks that hitherto Nigerian banking sector has been wary of. It protects both the lender and borrower, coupled with agriculture insurance. As a result, a lot of private sector lending has been flowing into the agricultural sector making it a very good intervention  Land tenure  In many states of Nigeria, especially the southern part, the ownership and control of land, although vested in state governors according to the land use decree, in practical terms still resides with families. Even states have to pay compensations to land owners if it is to be acquired for public good. Therefore, there are still challenges associated with prospective farmers. Access to sufficient land required for profitable and commercial agriculture has always been, and remains a binding constraint. The irony in southern Nigeria is that, those who own the land, usually through inheritance, are not interested in cultivating it or are absentee landlords, while those that genuinely want to farm, don’t have access to the farmlands. A presidential committee, previously headed by Prof Akin Mabogunje, has been busy working on this issue. The leadership of the committee has recently changed to Prof Peter Adeniyi.  The committee is reviewing the land use decree with a view to removing all the impediments preventing the availability of land for both public and private uses. It is important to note herein that this factor is one of the serious constraints preventing new entrants from going into farming. The exorbitant cost of buying the land is a disincentive to budding entrepreneurs in the agriculture sector.  Markets  The organisation of agro-inputs dealers under the ATA has been a major breakthrough for agricultural sector in Nigeria. Inputs (such as fertilizers, credit, improved seeds, agrochemicals, tractors, etc) have been privatised and seriously catalyzed to stimulate efficient distribution for different value chains. Examples include the e-wallet system, CBN-supported NIRSAL (formal credit) and so many innovative systems. Output (products) of different crops value chains have been developed to the extent that derived demand for farm products have gone up with on and off farm processing using adaptive and modern technologies. The industry and market linkages involve the development of off-takers that use primary farm products as inputs in their production processes. The initiatives to boost agricultural business models of out-growers with the support of robust extension services led to revolution and growth in the farming sector. Standards (grades, cartels, barriers) are some of the quality challenges that the markets were facing in accessing organized markets locally and overseas. Part of the intervention of the government under ATA was to ensure that standardisation, grading and quality control were integrated into the agricultural products market. These various efforts led to tremendous improvement and growth in the agriculture sector of Nigeria. The new agricultural policy recognizes these and is only trying to build on the solid and successful foundation laid by the ATA.  Support institutions  In order for any system to succeed the importance of institutions cannot be over-emphasized. The design team of ATA recognized this important factor in transforming the agricultural sector. Many of the institutions met were dysfunctional, whereas, the sector could not function well without first reforming and strengthening some of the institutions. The team proposed the steps to be taken and many of the institutions were reformed. Examples of some of the institutions reformed include the National Seed Service, Extension services, Cooperative department, Animal husbandry, Grains Reserves, Women in Agriculture, etc. There isn’t enough time for me to go into the details of the reform and strengthening of each and every institution. One key direction common to all is the need to make them sustainable in order to support the transformation within the sector. It is however important to mention the new set of school leavers that are increasingly finding their feet in agriculture. They are undergoing training in institution like International Institute for Tropical Agriculture to become a new generation of agripreneurs. They form part of the new paradigm shift by engaging in agriculture as a profitable business. This mindset is one of the innovative ways by which the growth in the agriculture sector can be sustained. Processing: The need for value addition in order to enhance the employment opportunities available within the agriculture sector as well as improve farm-gate prices were at the heart of linking farmers to the processors. There is no gainsaying the fact that processing also has the possibility of prolonging the shelf life of a product that would otherwise been wasted due to spoilage and perishability. Some of the successes recorded under processing in the cassava flour substitution in the flour milling factories. The is also the expansion in demand arising from soybean for livestock feed-milling business, Security This is a clear and growing threat to the growth and sustainability of the agriculture sector in Nigeria. There has been pilfering on farmers’ farms from petty thieves especially where security lapses exist. However, a threat that has started growing of late is the herdsmen menace in the Northcmetri of Nigeria. Incidentally, the Benue State that is worst hit by this terrorist activity is the food basket of the country. Truth must be told that the Nigerian nation for many years has not bothered to make plans for the livestock centers and cattle ranches in many states of the federation. With increasing urbanisation and climate change, many of the old cattle routes have disappeared while fodder land for their crops, have also gone with the urban development. The new trend whereby cattle herdsmen use rustling as an excuse for moving around with lethal weapons which are used for attacking villagers, farmers and kidnapping is unacceptable in a decent society. The threat to lives and properties has made many farmers to abandon farming in the affected States of Kaduna, Benue, Nasarawa, Adamawa and Taraba. There had also been reported cases in Kogi, Enugu and Oyo States. This security threat poses great danger to the sustainability of the growth of agriculture in Nigeria. Climate change The change in climate due to human activities and environmentally hazardous by-products of our existence have contributed significantly to global warming, desert encroachment and environmental pollution. Precipitations have declined and become more erratic leading to droughts and flooding in some areas. Perennial rivers are drying up and forest areas are succumbing to population pressures. Agronomic calendars and timing of operations are no longer certain and yields are no longer as predictable as they used to be in the past. In order to address some of these consequences of climate change, the resuscitation and rehabilitation of irrigation schemes and dams in northern Nigeria where desert encroachment is threatening is ongoing. The advantage of this is that many northern states like Kebbi, Sokoto and Zamfara are producing dry season rice paddies on their farms. Serious afforestation efforts are also being promoted by federal and States governments. Agricultural insurance Although agricultural insurance is available in the country to indemnify farmers against loss of investments on their farms, the new dimension of threats to life was not anticipated by the schemes at inception. The Nigeria Agricultural Insurance Corporation also received some boost and working capital from government as part of the ATA in order to respond to the increasing demand for agricultural insurance within the country.