 Senator representing Yobe East Federal Constituency, Yobe State, Bukar Abba has advocated need for the adoption of renewable energy saying he was ready to sponsor a bill for an Act in the National Assembly on energy transition from fossils to clean energy. The lawmaker disclosed this at the launch of ‘Just Energy Transition’ at the weekend in Abuja by the Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth Nigeria. Abba, who is the Chairman Senate Committee on Ecology and Climate Change emphasized that it was time for the country to embrace cleaner energy to reduce climate change impacts and increase divert investments from fossil to renewable energy. The three-time governor and three-time senator vowed to push the bill beyond the National Assembly to the Executive for Presidential approval. “Just energy transition for Nigeria is a must; we cannot run away from it. With these entire documents, I have an additional task of studying and understanding them and to present them to the Senate President of Nigeria, for it to be passed and signed into law by our beloved President. “Insha Allah, I will lead this version right to the national assembly to ensure it reach its natural end to have just energy transition in our country,” he said. “I am absolutely prepared and totally committed to push the bill,” Ibrahim stated adding that he would locate the pending bills on environmental regulation and protection and ensure it is passed. “Energy issues are very important to humanity but today,” he added. Earlier, ERA Executive Director, Dr. Uyi Ojo said the project launch was to promote adoption of alternative energy source such as renewable clean energy rather than fossil fuel. He said the nation has shown some commitments in paper as parts of efforts to reduce carbon emissions by 20 per cent unconditionally and 45 per cent conditionally by 2030. According to him, a just energy transition would foster adequate provisions of climate and energy solutions for everyone. “The future we want is energy access that is clean, reliable and affordable, a healthy environment and decent green jobs. Hence there is need for divestment from fossil fuel development to pave the way for decentralized energy systems in mini-grids, off-grids and non-grid systems in ways that individuals and communities participate participate as pronsumers i.e producers and consumers in the energy production, and supply chain as well as share in the benefits.” “This manifesto launches Nigeria forward on the pathway to the Just Energy Transition,” Ojo stated.