The Government of the People’s Republic of China ( PRC ) on Wednesday enjoined Nigerians to increase their level of interactions with Chinese nationals, whether in Nigeria or China. Mrs Xi Yanchun, the Vice-Director General of the State Council Information Office of China, gave the advice at an interactive session with a Delegation of visiting Nigerian Journalists in Beijing, China. “I think that it is really important for more Nigerians to have more interactions with more Chinese nationals, whether here in China or in Nigeria. “Through these interactions, we can have a better understanding of ourselves, as well as enhance the long standing relations between our two countries. “We know that there are already many Nigerians living in Guandong Province in China, so we want more interactions between us,’’ she said. The State Council Information Office of China’s Spokesperson, who restated her government’s commitment to Chinese Characteristics, said that it was important for people to understand China’s dream. According to her, there are people in other countries that are yet to understand China. “There are a lot of things that people need to know about China, because such people lack knowledge and information on China. “There have been different pictures painted about China. Such people are not seeing the big picture that we are seeing. “We are, therefore, really working at explaining the Chinese Characteristics to the world,’’ she said. Xi said that her office had always believed in face-to-face communication and would continue to engage with the foreign media in explaining the true China dream to the world. She expressed the willingness of her government to share her development experiences with the various countries of the world, as well as helping to reduce poverty within and outside China. Xi said that interactions between Nigerians and Chinese nationals would promote exchanges, people-to-people relationships, as well as strengthen the long existing relations between both countries. She added that it was imperative for people from other countries to understand that the Chinese Government was committed to its Chinese Characteristics policy. Bilateral relations between the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the People’s Republic of China have expanded on growing bilateral trade and strategic cooperation. China is considered one of Nigeria’s closest allies and partners. Nigeria–China bilateral trade cooperation has hit over $2.7billion (about N745billion) as of 2017, which makes Nigeria the third largest economic partner of China. Nigeria’s first contact with China took place in 1960 when a Chinese delegation, on the invitation of the Nigerian government, attended Nigeria’s independence ceremony in Lagos.