A pupil of Local Government Primary School, Orile in Oshodi Local Government has attracted amenities to her school and five others through her selfless act. The pupil refused to join others to collect money from the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) leader in Oshodi, Alhaji Musiliu Akinsanya popularly called MC Oluomo at the Oshodi Central Mosque after a Jumat service. The Nation learnt that Oluomo usually distributed money to pupils after service. When the girl didn’t join others for the money, Oluomo beckoned on her after sharing out the money and asked what informed her action. The girl said she was not happy with the amenities in her school. Oluomo visited the school the following Monday; discovered that the toilet was not functional and promised to renovate it. On Wednesday, Oluomo led some dignitaries to open the toilet. Before the event started, the NURTW leader visited some primary schools in Oshodi to take an inventory of their requirements. The schools are St. Paul, Aregbe, Larinde, Monsuru Agoro and Afolabi, his alma mater. He promised administrative offices, toilets, boreholes, perimeter fencing and a renovation of their classrooms. The gesture, Oluomo said, was to complement the government’s in ensuring that pupils learned under conducive atmosphere. “My plan is to complete all the projects in those six schools at once, but I was advised to inaugurate this for use due to its urgent need. I want to assure you all that many more people-oriented projects would be embarked upon to make Oshodi a Smart City,” he said. A member of the House of Assembly, representing Oshodi/Isolo Constituency I, Hakeem Sokunle hailed Oluomo for renovating the toilet. He said the best legacy to give the youth was education. “This gesture will enhance concentration of studies among the pupils and the school management. This is what is expected from those of us elected into various offices. Though, we are doing some things, but we need to emulate this kind of gesture. MC Oluomo surprised me. He should be commended,” Sokunle said. Oshodi-Isolo Local Government Education Secretary Femi Ogunwusi thanked Oluomo. “When children are pressed and teachers are pressed and there is no good toilet to use, it is going to affect their psychology and disrupt free flow of academic because they will look elsewhere to ease themselves.”