Jaiz Charity and Development Foundation on Sunday held an Iftar Saim (Breaking of Fast) for traditional rulers, Islamic clerics, eminent personalities and hundreds of people. The event was held at the Akure Central Mosque, Akure, Ondo State capital. Aside the Iftar programme, the dignitaries appealed to Jaiz to consider opening branches in state. The Executive Secretary of the foundation Imam Abdullah Shuaib Jaiz Bank, which the foundation is a subsidiary, was created to fulfil Allah’s commandment on the Islamic way of doing business. The foundation, he said, is to cater for the humanitarian activities the bank can’t offer, adding that humanitarian was one of the propelling factors for the establishment of the foundation. “The window of our social responsibility does not discriminate whether you are a Muslim or not. The only attribute that qualifies you is your humanity, we want to ensure that we complement the effort of government in area of trying to build capacity of the children to be self-employed and employers of labour,” Shuaib said. Shuaib urged the Muslims to pay their Zakat, which, he said, could be done online through the Jaiz mobile banking. Jaiz Bank Executive Director Alhaji Abdul Fatai Amoo assured the gathering that the bank will not engage in unislamic business. Plans, he said, are on to establish a branch of the bank in the state, adding “we will not bank on sentiment alone, rather with value. We will offer more than what conventional banks are offering and even more.” Zaki of Arigidi-Akoko Oba Yisa Olanipekun promised to donate free land for the construction of the bank “We want you your branch to start before the end of the year. Come to Akoko, you will get free land to build your office. We have a lot of Muslims in Akoko,” he said. Commissioner for Natural Resources Alhaji Abdur-Rasheed Badmus said the state government will support any initiative that will improve the condition of our people. In his lecture entitled Ramadan: The month of Charity, Alhaji Musa Abdurrauf Akanji, who advised people on the importance of giving alms, said it is pleasant to Allah and attracts multiple reward. Other dignitaries at the occasion included the representative of the Olubaka of Oka, High Chief Jamiu Aiyemowa, Ustadh Luqman Idris, representative of the Chief Imam of Akure, who is the Mufasir of Akure, Alhaji Moshood Raji Keuyemi, the Aare Musulumi Akure, Alhaji Nurain Akorede, Muslim organisations and  others. 