…Air Force Deploys Combat Helicopters The Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Olonisakin has ordered the deployment of Special Forces into Plateau state just as Combat Helicopters from the Nigerian Air Force headed to the state to restore peace and orderliness. According to a statement from the Defence Headquarters, the Special Forces were to beef up the activities of Operation Safe Haven in the state and its environs. The statement signed by the Director of Defence Information, Brig Gen John Agim reads: “The Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin has authorized the deployment of additional Special Forces to Plateau State to beef up the strength of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH). “The additional troops which arrived Jos, capital of Plateau State on Monday were received and briefed by the Commander OPSH, Major General AM Atolagbe on their new assignment. “The Armed Forces of Nigeria wishes to assure all law abiding citizens of Plateau state of their safety. “Meanwhile, misguided youths who have offered themselves to be used as thugs are hereby warned that anyone apprehended will receive the full weight of the law. “Herdsmen and farmers are also warned not to take laws into their hands; rather suspected persons should be reported promptly to security agencies”. Similarly the Nigerian Air Force announced that Combat Helicopters have been deployed to Plateau with Intelligence, Surveillance and Recoinnassance (ISR) platforms to bring the situation under control. The NAF Spokesperson AVM Olatokunbo Adesanya said in a statement: “The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has today, 25 June 2018, deployed an Mi-35P combat helicopter and an Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft to Plateau State in support of efforts aimed at quelling the crisis that recently erupted in the State and restoring normalcy. “The deployment of the ISR aircraft is expected to enhance intelligence gathering while the combat helicopter would conduct armed reconnaissance and other combat air support operations in close coordination with surface forces deployed to the State. “Meanwhile, other NAF air assets are available at nearby alternate airfields to hasten the process of restoring normalcy in the State, as might be necessary”.