Bayelsa residents recently assembled in Yenagoa, the state capital, to receive training on entrepreneurship. They were obviously tired of joblessness and waiting hopelessly for the government to create jobs for them. Those who attended the training organised by the Professional Entrepreneur World popularly known as the Propreneurs had embraced the reality that government lacked the capacity to employ everybody. They were also aware that the available white collar jobs could no longer go round. So they came to learn from the Propreneurs how they could become their own bosses and employers of labour. The invitation was thrown open to all residents of the state who were interested in generating wealth and living above the poverty line. In fact, to underscore its seriousness in empowering people in the country with the basic skills to own, grow and develop their businesses, the Propreneur World, a limited liability company sent one of its directors, Mr. Stephen Chukwu, to Bayelsa State. Chukwu, a motivational speaker, developer of business strategies and entrepreneurial ambassador, is known for helping people discover and mold their business talents. Popularly known as Cashflow in the multi-level marketing business, Chukwu and his compatriot, Okpara Lucky, known as Dollarwise, who is also a Director in the company, have raised an army of successful entrepreneurs. Chukwu in his captivating presentations took the audience through the basic requirements of entrepreneurship. He asked the participants to look for ways of creating jobs with their innate skills and talents despite their courses of studies in schools. He said some persons had abandoned the courses they studied in schools such as law, medicine and others to make money from their cooking and trading skills. He highlighted the essence of establishing the Propreneur. He said: “Becoming a professional and successful entrepreneur is a journey of great commitment. But in the Propreneurs, we share the simple but evasive principles that create the extra-ordinary life. We are committed to exposing the simple habits that make true and mega success of ordinary people. “Our approach is quite unconventional, exciting and guarantees success. The most interesting thing we do is to make you learn and earn. We will continue to inspire you to succeed in your chosen businesses”. The director encouraged people to attend weekly trainings organized in almost all the cities across the country to be exposed to money-making ideas. He said most persons became successful following business ideas they got from their seminar centres. Besides, helping people to own and grow their businesses, Chukwu said the Propreneur World also takes care of the health of its business partners. He said the company‘s members across the world are entitled to free medical care in best hospitals. He said the company had signed agreements with such hospitals to provide free healthcare to its business partners. He said: “Through the Propreneurs, network of over 400 hospitals and many more to come across the African continent, we provide topnotch zero cost healthcare delivery services to all our affiliate members”. The cashflow said the healthcare services cover eye and dental care, wellness checkups, primary outpatient care, radiology, impatient care, accident and emergencies, maternity services, pediatric services, surgeries and HIV/AIDS management. He said affiliates access the services by possessing and presenting the company’s Propreneur Medical Alert Card (P-MAC). Indeed, after the training, the participants tanked the Propreneur for exposing them to simple ideas of setting up their businesses and growing them. Solomon, one of the participants said and entrepreneurial idea struck him during the training.