‘Head Master’ Mutiu Adepoju is a World Cup veteran of sort, having been to three finals: 1994, 1998 and 2002. He recounts the memories . WHAT are your memories of the USA’94 team? Loads of memories. Our camping together brings back a lot of feelings for me; our eating and gisting together. We were like one big family; then you could have about 10 to 15 players’ together gisting at the same time, you didn’t have to go out of the camp to get fun. We had a very good atmosphere around the team and that really helped us in achieving good results. These are good memories that stay with you for a life time and when we have the opportunity to come together even now, it’s usually an opportunity to discuss about those golden moments of our career with the Super Eagles. The USA’94 World Cup squad is widely regarded as Nigeria’s best team ever, do you agree with such accolades? To a large extent, I agree with the accolades for so many reasons because that was the time that laid the foundation for our participation at the FIFA World Cup. It is always difficult to talk about this because I was involved and I think Nigerians have reasons to say that was the best team ever. We were very determined to do the best for the country and I believe we tried our best. How easy was it for you to make Nigeria’s first squad to the World Cup? It was not that easy. I was drafted to the Super Eagles after playing at the FIFA Junior World Cup in Saudi Arabia in 1989, but I was not a regular in the team until I travelled out to join Real Madrid; actually Real Madrid Castello, which is the Team B. We had a lot of professionals in the team and I was so young then. But it was after a year after signing for Real Madrid that I made my national team debut in August 1990 against Togo at the Surulere National Stadium in Lagos. From then, I never looked back and I was so determined that nothing would stop me from being a regular player in the team. I did so well during the qualifiers for the Africa Cup of Nations and had a very good tournament in Senegal as well as the qualifiers for Tunisia’94 where we won the trophy, since 1980, for Nigeria. Actually, it was during the qualifiers for the USA’94 World Cup that we had players like Sunday Oliseh; Austin Jay Jay Okocha and we had a very competitive midfield that included Thompson Oliha, myself and sometimes we did have Austin Eguavoen in the midfield. It was tough because we had a lot of good, talented players but I made the team because of my determination, dedication and hard work. How did Coach Clemens Westerhof break the news of your inclusion into the World Cup squad? We were in Papendal in Holland for camping and the list was called. Of course, I was delighted to be included in the team because I was part of the very set of players that qualified Nigeria for the World Cup; and we were so happy about it. It was a life time achievement because we were the first set to get Nigeria to play at the World Cup. We were all anxious before the announcement but I was already looking forward to being part of the team because I knew I had done my best to make it. I never doubted what I had done or in my ability to make the team. So I was so happy to be part of the team that played for Nigeria for the first time at the World Cup. Looking back, do you think the Super Eagles could have gone beyond the second round at USA’94? I think so because we had the game against Italy in our hands but we blew it within the last few minutes; it was really sad. Sad for us and sad for everybody because we had a team that could have gone very far at USA’94 and even maybe beyond the quarter finals. We controlled the game against Italy so well until the crazy moments we lost concentration. Since USA’94, Nigeria has not gone past the second round at the World Cup, but what is your opinion about the current team going to Russia? My candid opinion is that we have a very youthful side with a crop of players who are determined to make history for themselves. Sincerely, they can surpass the second round if they have self belief and through hard work. Some believe that this current Super Eagles lack quality players that can carry the team unlike the 1994 set. Naturally, there must be leaders in a team and those we had in the USA’94 team were the ones usually referred to as the mafias. Some of us were so young and you had several players who have been around for a while. We had the late Stephen Keshi and Rashid Yekini, Eguavoen, Chidi Nwanu and others. They motivated us with words of encouragement and this really inspired a lot of us. I think we have such players in the current team too because all of them are not of the same age though it’s a very youthful side. There is Mikel, Onazi, Balogun and even Musa in the team and these ones can be leaders when the chips are down. I think they have the strong will to push the rest of the team. You had the privilege of playing at USA’94, France’98 and Korea/Japan 2002, what can give Nigeria the edge against Croatia, Iceland and Argentina in Russia? As I said earlier, they must believe in themselves and work very well. The group is a difficult one and the result of the first game against Croatia will determine a lot of things. Winning the first game would give them much confidence going into the second match while losing is a deficit, which means they must win the next two matches to progress to the next stage. The Super Eagles are meeting their bogeys side Argentina again in Russia, how can they deal with Messi? Deal with Messi? I think they just have to live with him because if he’s well motivated he can change the course of a game within split of seconds. He has to be watched closely and this doesn’t mean man-to-man marking but they don’t leave him out of sight. He can be dangerous if they lose concentration.  He’s clever and fast and can be dangerous if you don’t pay maximum attention, especially around the box. I think that is the only way they can deal with the situation. What are your final thoughts about the Super Eagles in Russia? I want to wish the team all the very best and they must accept the challenge that they are in a tough group. They must be ready to put up everything in all the first three matches and never to underrate Iceland who are coming to the World Cup for the first time.