President Muhammadu Buhari has commissioned and handed over an erosion and flood control project at the University of Calabar (UNICAL). The project was executed by the Federal Government through the Ecological Fund Office in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation for the benefit of the University and its environs. The President said the project was one of 18 ecological interventions across the six geo-political zones approved by him in the first quarter of 2017 and awarded by the Federal Executive Council on April 5, 2017. Buhari, who was represented by the Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu, said the project, which spans about two kilometres, is intended to properly channel waste and flood water into a safe discharge point, thereby preventing erosion and flooding within the University community and hence protect lives and property. He said the campus was experiencing serious flooding and environmental degradation, which necessitated prompt intervention from the Federal Government. He said the successful completion of the project would stimulate and restore structural integrity of the soil within the University community and reduce dangers to lives and properties associated with erosion and persistent flooding that had been experienced. Permanent Secretary in the Ecological Fund Office, Dr Habiba Lawal, said the project was initiated through appeals by the University authority and commenced in April 2017 with a completion period of eight months. Lawal, who was represented by Engr Felix Okeke, urged the University to see themselves as owners of the project for its maintenance and sustainability. Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof Zana Akpagu, said the project was a big relief to the University, as he described the situation before as a nightmare. He expressed appreciation to President Buhari for the gesture, and promised to identify with his programmes. He said UNICAL was the only University offering compulsory course in anti-corruption at the general studies level in conjunction with ICPC. “The project has given us new hope to open up the university towards this axis. Before now it would have been suicidal,” Akpagu said.