 All roads will lead to the Wembley Stadium Saturday, June 2nd as Super Eagles of Nigeria take on the Three Lions of England in a high profile friendly ahead of the World Cup in Russia. Although it has been dubbed a friendly, the tie indeed goes beyond being a friendly as there are so many things to look out for and in fact records to be made and broken.  Both teams are heading to the world cup with intent to overcome challenges posed by opponents and if possible lift the trophy.  While The Three Lions can beat their chest and say yes we have lifted the trophy before thanks to their 1966 triumph, the Eagles are yet to lift the trophy but have never ruled out the possibility of doing so either in Russia or in the near future. This is the second time the Eagles will be facing the Lions at the same venue. Twenty four years ago the Eagles faced the lions.  The first was on November 16, 1994. While the lions then was led by Terry Venables the Eagles was then led by late Shuaibu Amodu,with the Lions having the last laugh running away with a lone goal victory. Records available also show that no African country has beaten England which means that Saturday’s encounter for Eagles is not just about assessing the team’s readiness for the world cup but also an opportunity for the Gernot Rohr tutored side to turn the table against the Lions. Can the Eagles do that for themselves, for Nigeria and for Africa? Some say there is luck in football others say there is nothing like luck but just just technical knowhow that determines everything.  For this second school of thought Eagles and other African countries that have lost to the Three lions did so because they are not as technically sound as the Three lions. But can Lady Luck play a role Saturday and propel Eagles to carry the day.  Interestingly Eagles current jersey that has been dubbed the best among the 32 countries heading to Russia, and which has become a must have among fans, has striking resemblance with the jersey worn by the 1994 Eagles that put up a good show at the World cup in USA. Can the jersey garnish Eagles effort with good luck so that they can sing victory song in Wembley and then follow up with good outing in Russia? The present Eagles squad is considered young, agile and youthful; will this be an advantage at Wembley and also in Russia? Both John Obi Mikel who will wear the Captain’s band to lead Eagles and Harry Kane who will be leading the Lions are determined duo and are eager to leave a mark on the sand of history. Mikel at the moment though in China played in England just like Tottentham forward Harry Kane. They both know what is at stake.  It will however be different stroke for the two captains.  While Kane will be hoping to maintain the unbeaten record Mikel will be hoping to be the arrow head that will lead Eagles to break the jinx. The big question therefore will be who will sing the victory song at Wembley?       