The ward, local government and state congresses of the Oyo State All Progressives (APC) have become a bone of contention between the camp of Governor Abiola Ajimobi and aggrieved chieftains under the aegis of the “APC Unity Forum”. Southwest Bureau Chief BISI OLADELE examines the protracted crises and their implications for next year’s polls. AGGRIEVED All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains in Oyo State are up in arms against Governor Abiola Ajimobi over the outcome of state congresses. The camp of Ajimobi and the “APC Unity Forum” are battling for the control of the party, ahead of next year’s polls. When the defunct Action Congress (AC) transformed to the Action Congress of Nigeria  (ACN) in 2010, many people embraced it in the six Southwest states. Its forebear, the Alliance for Democracy (AD), had crashed in the 2003 elections. Many who left the AD between 2002 and 2007 returned to the fold. One of them was the governor of Oyo State, Sen. Abiola Ajimobi. The governor had left the party for the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) to contest the 2007 governorship election, having successfully completed a term of four years in the Senate representing Oyo South District on the platform of the AD. He left for the ANPP to prove that he had enough followers to win. But, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) frustrated his ambition through large scale rigging. On his return in 2011, he got a warm welcome and eventually picked the party’s governorship ticket. Ajimobi defeated his two predecessors, Rashidi Ladoja of Accord Party and Adebayo Alao-Akala of the PDP. Defectors from the PDP and other smaller parties also contributed to his success at the poll. These blocs make up the cornerstones of the ACN since 2011. Yet, virtually all members of the party’s  executive from ward to the state level are those who stayed back in the party. They are usually called Lamists the followers of the late Lam Adesina, who was the governor of the state from 1999 to 2003 on the platform of the AD. The situation became complicated in 2014 when the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) joined forces with ACN, ANPP and nPDP to form the APC. Satisfying all members of these blocs has been the cross Ajimobi has to carry. Ajimobi’s core followers – SENACO (Senator Ajimobi Campaign Organisation) members-had wished that their leader whipped every other member into line but the governor insisted that he did not believe in the politics of winner-takes-all. Whenever they raised the threat of not being in control of the party machinery, he would explain to them that members of all blocs must learn to work together in peace with the government creating opportunities for all so that every member, irrespective of their political background would feel a sense of belonging. The party has been managing the divergent interests, until this year when those who objected to Ajimobi style of leadership or feel cheated came together to fight their common enemy. But they are not just Lamists. They include members of other blocs. The crack became widened when six members of the House of Representatives – Sunday Adepoju, Olusunbo Olugbemi,  Adedapo Lam-Adesina, Olasupo Abiodun, Olugbenga Ojoawo and Taiwo Akintola – published an advertorial  calling on the national leadership to prevail on Ajimobi to allow what they described as “internal democracy” in the local government election and party congresses. Its was followed by the unveiling of the Unity Forum, which is an umbrella body for the anti-Ajimobi forces. They agitated for “internal democracy” as against the imposition of candidates in the election and congresses. They agitated for open primary based on their belief that the vast majority of those holding party positions at the ward and state level are Lamists. They were convinced that the executives, being the delegates at the primary, would largely choose their own candidates since they belong to the same political family. They opposed the affirmation mode which the party adopted. But, the Chairman, Chief Akin Oke, explained that affirmation is well enshrined in the party’s constitution. He said there was nothing wrong in choosing affirmation model for the primary because it will reduce the rancour that normally follows open primary. Article 20 (1a) of the party’s constitution states: “All party posts prescribed or implied by this constitution shall be filled by democratically conducted elections at the respective National Convention or Congress subject, where possible, to consensus, provided that where  a candidate has emerged by consensus for an elective position a vote of “yes” or “no” by ballot or voice shall be called, to ensure that it was not an imposition which could breed discontent and crisis. (2) Conduct of primaries for nomination (a) “Nomination of candidates for councillorship shall be by direct primary election conducted at the ward level. For the purpose of this primary election, party members in every ward shall vote by open-secret ballot for the candidates of their choice where there is no consensus, provided that where a candidate has emerged by consensus for an elective position, a vote of “yes” or “no” should be called to ensure that it was not an imposition which could breed discontent and crisis.” After the May 5 primary was shifted to the next day, due to an attack on some party members by suspected hoodlums, members of the forum accused the mainstream of failing to pay for the nomination forms for its candidates in the ward congress as prescribed in the guidelines for the election. The forum also accused the mainstream of not granting them access to submit the report and results of their parallel congress, adding that the mainstream did not hold any congress and where they held, it did not conform with the guidelines set by the party. They maintained that the mainstream ended up with fake forms and called on the national leadership to ensure that justice was done. The “Unity Forum” claim that  chieftains who held a parallel congress at the Liberty Stadium were in the majority and those who converged on Adamasingba Stadium were in the minority. The protagonists They include National and State Assembly members National Assembly members include Senator Monsurat Sunmonu, Hons. Adepoju, Olugbemi, Lam-Adesina, Abiodun, Ojoawo, and Akintola and Segun Ogunwuyi. Some House of Assembly members were led by Hon. Segun Olaleye. Others include some party leaders from Oke-Ogun, Oyo, Ibadan and Ibarapa. They include Dr Busari Adebisi, Abu Gbadamosi. The Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu, is the arrowhead of the Unity Forum while a former Caretaker Chairman of Ibadan North West Local Government, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, speaks for the forum. Though all members of the group have insisted that all they want is “internal democracy,” a source said they are fighting for the tickets to return to the parliament in 2019. Former appointees The source said most of the former appointees in the group are not happy that they were not returned in the last appointment. The source said that they came together to slug it out with the governor but that the party chose to go for a consensus primary which is constitutional to avoid the negative consequences of an open primary. Oke said the aggrieved members of the forum failed to explore the internal dispute resolution mechanism of the party to the end. He described internal conflict resolution as an ongoing effort, which should not be jetissioned at any time. But, he pointed out that members of the forum are still bonafide members of the APC. He described members of both camps as members of the same large family. Oke also expressed optimism that a truce would be reached at a stage because of the progressive ideals that bind them together. He said: “They are still members of this party. We will continue to explore possibilities of reconciliation. The constitution allows us to continue to explore reconciliation.” The forum’s position: The forum has maintained that the mainstream did not pay for the form as at May 4. It insisted that they only paid on May 7, a day after the ward congress. The spokesman of the forum, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, said rather than probing the motivation behind the movement, the party should explain why it allegedly failed to follow the guidelines, which prescribe payment for the form latest 24 hours before the congress. He said: “People in politics say all sorts of things, whether they are reasonable or not. The key issue for us is whether the governor was right to have gathered the so-called elders to Lafita Hotel and asked them to determine who would become local government chairmen and councillors. The local government election was done by elders handpicked by the governor. Is that internal democracy? “It’s only when they can fault our arguments with facts that they can go ahead to examine our motivation. But here, the facts are clear. Did the constitution of Nigeria or that of APC say elders will determine who will be chairmen and councillors? So, why are they looking for motivation when the facts are there? Let them address those facts.” On reconciliation, Olatubosun said: “We are ready, and we don’t have any tough condition other than that the party should provide the bank tellers with which they paid for the forms. For us, they did not take part in the congress. The way forward is that they should show evidence of payment at the time stipulated in the guidelines and forget whatever the appeal committee must have written because we believe the committee was deceived.” Tinubu’s role: The National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, has called on members of the forum to close ranks with the governor or toe the party’s guideline in seeking redress. Tinubu said: “I ask you to bury the hatchet and cooperate with Governor Abiola Ajimobi and forgive whatever shortcomings you may perceive. I know he has tried to reach out and be inclusive. I can attest that he is a good man and leader. To me, the governor has demonstrated openness by welcoming into APC top politicians like former governor of the state, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala; former Senate Leader, Senator Teslim Folarin; former Deputy Governor of the state and ex-Nigerian Ambassadir to Jordan, Chief Taofeek Arapaja; former Secretary to the State Givernment, Chief Ayodele Adigun, and the only federal lawmaker elected on the platform of PDP to the House of Representatives, Hon. Segun Odebunmi, among others… We must also not forget the Governor’s outstanding efforts towards the transformation and development of Oyo State. “Remember that the tenure of any one office-holder must conclude within an appointed time but the party shall always remain. Thus, we must not fixate on transient personal differences but must join together for a greater purpose.” The two camps are fighting for the soul of the APC in Oyo State because of next year’s elections. As typical of the progressives, it is expected that they will close ranks, particularly now that they have flexed muscles to define their strengths. Compromise will be the way forward.