There is a correlation between a country’s development profile and its language and culture. That seems to be the position of the National Council for Arts and Culture (NCAC). The council has advised Nigerian parents to lay the foundation for national greatness by teaching their children the Nigerian language and culture. Director-General of NCAC Otunba Olusegun Runsewe said a people without a culture can never make progress because they are like a people without identity. Runsewe was speaking in Abuja at a children’s quiz and essay competition on Nigerian culture featuring about 100 pupils drawn from different primary and secondary schools in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Runsewe said it is unfortunate that some schools don’t have culture clubs. He added that Edo State has insisted that every school must have a culture club which the agency has recommended to other states. He said, “There is no child that is not good at something, the child might be good in one area and not in the other, so we must check our strength in whatever we do with the youths. “I was very impressed on how our children were speaking their dialects today, which we know is not easy in our Nigeria of today. “Do you know before, if two Hausa men were having an argument and a traditional ruler passes, the quarrel ends because they will listen to the traditional ruler. These are our cultural values which we are losing. It is unfortunate that some schools don’t have cultural clubs. Edo state recently insisted that every school must have a cultural club which we are recommending to other states. “One thing you can never leave behind is your culture, a people without a culture can never make progress, it is like a people without identity. People talk of corruption and I have a solution, we went to visit EFCC with the management and I told the chairman that one of the reasons is when somebody steals money in our society, they call him and give him a title, are we not encouraging criminality? “This country used to be one of the greatest countries with no criminality and living together as one but now tribalism has changed it, we need to give orientation to our children when they are young. We need to build a better today for a greater tomorrow.” At the event, 14-year-old Lawrence Rita from Junior Secondary School Tudun Wada, Wuse Zone 4, said, “I started learning to speak my language from my mum at age eight and now I speak very well. To me, it is very good to speak your language because you might have a visitor at home and your mother wants to say something to you, in order for the visitor not to know what she is saying, she will use your dialect which is better.” Ten-year-old Egbuobi Lancelot, a Basic Five pupil of Solid Rock Academy Kubwa, Abuja told The Nation: “I learnt to speak Igbo from my mother, I love my culture, if you see an Igbo man walk pass, you will know because of the dressing, the way they speak, dance and eat. My school encourages me to speak my language a lot especially on cultural days.” Another student from Kubwa, 13-year-old Ahmadu Victor from Government Secondary School Kubwa said, “I speak my language fluently and I learned it from my mom, she always speaks it to us, now because of that, I am able to communicate with people of the same ethnic group and I like it because when I go to a new place and speak my language, I might find a person that speaks my language, identify with the person and make a new friend. “Although it is good to speak English since it is the official language of Nigeria which will be helpful when you go out but we need to preserve our own culture because whatever you do not preserve will go into extinction. To prevent it, kids need to be taught their languages. They could speak the language at home and learn English in school.”