Senate President, Bukola Saraki and his deputy on Thursday congratulated Muslim faithful across the country on the successful completion of the month-long Ramadan fast and called for sustained prayers for peace in the country. Saraki in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, to commemorate the Eid-el-Fitri celebrations said that in spite of Federal Government’s appreciable efforts in combating the challenge of insecurity, it is imperative for Muslim faithful to utilise this period to pray fervently for peace and unity in the country. “We have just ended a month long fast thus paving way for the Eid-el-fitr celebrations. These two periods are such times that the Almighty Allah enjoined us to ask for his blessings. We should therefore seize the opportunity to pray for the country and its leaders,” Saraki said. Saraki called on Nigerians to use the season  to promote national integration, saying “Eid-el-fitr is a time of love and goodwill. It gives us a message to love all and hate none.” He said despite numerous challenges in the country, ‘’hope is not lost”, adding that, “only tolerance, stronger sense of patriotism and love for one another will help the country surmount her present socio-economic challenges.” Ekweremadu, also congratulated the Muslim Umah on the successful conclusion of the Ramadan fast, urging them to continue to pray for the nation, especially towards the successful conduct of the 2019 general elections. Ekwereamdu stated this in his Eid-el-Fitr message to the Muslim Umah. He also enjoined Muslim faithful to remain true to the teachings of Islam imbibed during the fast even after the holy month. “I congratulate our Muslim Umah for successfully observing the Ramadan Fast and prayers, with its life-enriching lessons in the virtues of love, forbearance, unity, patriotism, self-sacrifice. “In the last one month, I observed the piety and the spirit of giving associated with the month and, therefore, urges our Muslim bothers and sisters to remain their brother’s keeper till eternity so as to make the society better for it. “I urge them to continue in a life of prayers for the nation. Being the last Ramadan before the 2019 general elections, I urge our Muslim brethren and indeed all Nigerians to continue to pray for the peaceful and successful conduct of the elections”, he added. He wished the Muslim Umah a merry Eid-el-Fitr and God’s blessings.