Former Kano State Governor, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso on Monday paid a courtesy to Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose. The purpose of Kwankwaso’s visit to Fayose remained unknown as journalists working for the independent media were not invited to the parley at the Ado-Ekiti Government House. Kwankwaso, who presently represents Kano Central in the Senate, is believed to be on his way out of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the platform through which he won election into the National Assembly. He is locked in a bitter struggle for the control of Kano politics with his long-time ally and successor, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Although Kwankwaso is believed to be nursing presidential ambition but it could not be confirmed whether his visit to Fayose was in connection with his interest to vie for the Presidency. Key politicians in the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) interested in the presidential race have been paying visits to Fayose who is the chair of the party’s Governor’s Forum. Kwankwaso and Fayose were said to have called for credible and peaceful governorship election in Ekiti State on July 14. In a statement by the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor, Idowu Adelusi, also quotes Kwankwaso as saying that “elections should not be seen as war but the votes of the people must be made to count.” The statement disclosed that Kwankwaso addressed the Northern Community resident in the state, urging them to live in peace with their hosts and exercise their civic duties during the election. Kwankwaso also decried the spate of killings in some parts of the country, noting that it was the responsibility of the government to secure the lives and properties of the citizens. Speaking on whether he would defect to the PDP, Kwankwaso replied that his next move would be determined by the collective decision of the new PDP bloc. Responding, Fayose hailed the former Kano Governor for the visit. Fayose added that peace was imperative for the unity and corporate existence of the country. He criticized the Federal Government for allegedly failing to curtail the killings going on in the country.