THE Federal Government will in the next five years invest N500 billion in the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN). The fund is expected to help the country bridge the 17 million housing gap and make housing more affordable to the people, Chief Executive Officer, FMBN, Ahmed Dangiwa, told Bloomberg. He said lack of proper land deeds, poverty and record high interest rates means there are only an estimated 50,000 registered mortgages, of which state-owned FMBN accounts for 18,200. The lender is seeking to boost its capital from N5 billion at a rate of N100 billion a year. The FMBN is expecting proposals on its recapitalisation, as well as a reorganisation of its business, to be approved by all arms of government by the end of 2018, Dangiwa said. The company’s current capital base is “grossly inadequate,” he said. “That’s why we’re in the process of ensuring that the capital base be increased.” Armed with the extra cash, the lender can go from the 2,500 new mortgages it plans to sign up this year to 100,000 over the next two years, Dangiwa said. The extra capital will also encourage other investors to provide additional funding, he said. In August, the FMBN will flag off a 1,500 housing project it is providing funding for under a new “rent-to-own” programme that Dangiwa says will help creating more mortgages and access to housing. In South Africa, the continent’s most-industrialised economy with a population of about 55 million, mortgages account for almost 30 per cent of total credit, the largest component of banks’ assets, which amounted to about 5.14 trillion rand ($382 billion) at the end of January, according to central bank data. Nigeria has a population of about 200 million. The FMBN has been expanding and coordinating mortgage lending on a nation-wide basis, and is also promoting affordable housing to ensure that 17 million housing deficit is addressed. It was the FMBN that started the management and administration of the contributory savings scheme known as the National Housing Fund (NHF), which enabled it mobilise long-term funds from Nigerian workers, banks, insurance companies and the Federal Government to advance loans at soft interest rates to contributors. The FMBN finances mortgages created by primary mortgage institutions (PMI) under the NHF scheme, and also gives Estate Development Loans (EDL) to real estate developers.