FRENCH novelist, George Sand, couldn’t have said it better: ‘There is only one happiness in this life, to love and be loved.’ Such is the mood of Olawale Quadri, the amiable team media officer of Mountain of Fire and Miracles Ministries FC, while speaking about the love of his life-Temitope Adejumo. Providence must have  brought Wale and Temitope together. Yesterday, they went to where it all started  and tied the knot at the same church they got love-struck. “Our relationship actually started in 2014 when we first met at a youth meeting at The Redeemed Christian Church of God, Liberation Parish, Ogba Zonal Headquarters Ijaiye, Lagos,” began Quadri. “We were both inaugurated into the prayer department of the Royal Diadem Youth and Singles Fellowship. That same year, we had our first meeting; a prayer session to be precise, after the inaugural service and that was the beginning of our love story. “Her name is Temitope Adejumo. A banker with over five years experience. She is a chorister, a worshiper of God. She’s a girl after every guy’s heart. She’s cool, smart, brilliant, intelligent and elegant. “She used to be a friend but a distant one. So, I remember inviting her over to our Estate for a party. She was expecting to see her friends at the party but none of them showed up. “So, I can’t say toasting is the right word but I actually won her heart. I asked her out in 2015 but she declined, so I moved on. “I can’t really describe what attracted me to her. I just love being around her. There’s this indescribable magnetic force that pulls me to her every time. She played hard to get; and nearly frustrated me but I understand. Ladies are like that. “Our paths crossed again after two years and I started all over again but she was not giving me the needed attention. I was frustrated at some point but I had no other choice but to endure.” Of course, quitters don’t win, and Quadri waited for years. His waiting attitude must have impressed Temitope so much as she initiated the long-awaited call three years later. “May 28, 2017, is a date I will never forget in my life,” recalled Quadri, who will be 31 on September 30. “I was in Lokoja with MFM FC preparing for NPFL match against Niger Tornadoes and suddenly my phone rang, and lo and behold it was a call from Temitope. And she said: ‘Wale, I am in church now but we need to talk after the service.’ “At that point, I knew God has answered my prayer and ever since then till now it’s been from one amazing moment to another. “I don’t think I proposed to her because I made my intention known to her from the beginning that I am not looking for a girlfriend but a wife. I studied her and prayed and I believe she is my wife. There was nothing dramatic about that,” noted Quadri, who shares love for Barcelona and Messi with his 29-year-old wife.