…Says my ambition is divine  The Chief of Staff to the Imo State Governor, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, has described as unfounded and baseless, reports that he has suspended his governorship ambition over the opposition mounted by the ‘Coalition Group’. Nwosu stated that rather, his ambition has been strengthened by the activities of the opposition, which he affirmed has prepared him for the task ahead, stressing that cheap blackmail and propaganda can’t stop his ambition. The Chief of Staff and former Commissioner for Lands, who was reacting to a publication in one of the national newspapers that he may have jettisoned his push for the Imo State governorship, following the outcome of the party’s congresses, confirmed that his support base across the state has continued to swell by the day, which he said is rattling his opponents. He maintained that he is not disturbed by the political intrigues and controversies that arose during the course of the contentious APC Congresses in the state, noting that his ambition is “divine and cannot be truncated by any man”. According to him, those behind the report of his purported withdrawal from the race are those who are already losing sleep over his growing acceptance among the Imo electorate, adding that, “no amount of cheap blackmail or sponsored falsehood in the media can distract him or derail God’s plan for Imolites through his mandate”. He said, “there is nothing that can be farther from the truth than such report that I have suspended my ambition. It is those in the opposition that have suspended their governorship aspirations because of the fear of Ugwumba Uche Nwosu. They are afraid because they know that they don’t stand a chance against the will of God and the people. “We are very focused on the goal and we cannot be distracted. If you observe correctly, you will discover that we are not resting on our oars, we are moving and taking our message to the nooks and crannies of the state, while the so called Coalition Group are running around in hotels in Abuja looking for ways to subvert the will of the people, they are not on ground and none of them can win any election in Imo”. Nwosu who urged his supporters and the APC to disregard the malicious rumour, stated that what transpired during the botched APC Congresses in the state has revealed the plans of the opposition parties to infiltrate the APC with the intention of introducing crisis that will mar the chances of the party during the 2019 election. He said, “those same people who fought Governor Rochas Okorocha and even called him all sort of uncomplimentary names, some even went as far as selling the falsehood that he was working with President Muhammadu Buhari to Islamize the Southeast when he was building the APC, are the same people who are pretending to love the party. We know their plans and their sponsors but just like we defeated them in 2011 and 2015, we will also defeat them in 2019 and President Muhammadu Buhari will have landslide victory in Imo and other Southeast states”.