The Lagos State Government is to introduce an efficient pension scheme for its workforce, an official said yesterday. Under the new regime, retirees will be paid their gratuity (lump sum) within three months after retirement. Lagos State Pension Commission (LASPEC) Director-General Mrs Folashade Onanuga told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the administration would soon unveil the new regime. “Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is working towards a three-month gratuity collection regime. He is working towards a regime that all pensioners will be able to access their gratuities within three months after retirement,” she said. Onanuga also said that the governor was committed to the welfare of retirees as he had cleared the backlog of pensions. She said: “Ambode is fully committed to retirees’ welfare as he is working towards clearing pension backlog the administration inherited under the old pension scheme known as Defined Benefit Scheme (DBS) before the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) was    introduced in 2004. He has cleared the pension backlog up till 2015. “About N37 billion has been released by the governor for 9, 045 retirees since he assumed office.” The director-general, however, has advised retiring workers in the employ of the state government to study the two options available to them at retirement carefully before taking decisions. According to her, the two options are Programmed Withdrawal and Annuity. “The retirement options should be studied carefully before signing any deal with Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs).’’ Onanuga, who described some PFAs as hoodwinkers, said they had been deceiving retiring employees into taking wrong decision for their own selfish reasons. “There are still pension `fraudsters’ parading themselves as PFAs and the Lagos State Government will put concrete measures in place to ensure that its retirees do not fall victims. “It is important to note that pension fraudsters are still out there, retirees must be vigilant and courageous not to sign negative deals; be wise,’’ Onanuga warned.