The Lagos State Police Command has rescued seven women allegedly trafficked from Delta State for possible exportation. Progress Akpotu, 17; Florence Emonena, 35; Celina Abosa, 20; Tessy Augustine, 27; Glory Monday, 21; Gift Jacob, 25 and Lewisca Akalu, 20, were brought to the state by a woman identified simply as Madam Rita, who promised them good jobs and better lives. It was gathered that the victims were conveyed by a popular transporter with Rita, who abandoned them at the motor park in Mile II on Saturday. The agent, apparently realising that other passengers were suspicious of their movement, told the victims she wanted to buy airtime so she could call someone to get them, but did not return. The “confused” women were said to have been wandering the park, which prompted onlookers to contact the police. Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said: “Information was received from a resident that some girls were seen at Agofure Motor Park in Mile II around 6 p.m last Saturday. They appeared lost, confused and claimed that one Rita lured them to Lagos. “Based on the information, detectives, led by Woman Inspector Ebun Anyanwu, were mobilised to the scene. We arrested a member of the syndicate who allegedly brought them to Lagos, Emmanuel Daniel, 30, We are working to arrest other members, including Rita. “Parents should be watchful. They should know the friends their children keep. They should investigate men who befriend their daughters with promises of job offer only to turn them to prostitutes or traffic them.” A victim, Abosa said: “I am a hair dresser in Delta State. A lady, called Madam Rita, saw me walking on the street in my home town in Delta State and told me she would give me a good hair dressing job in Lagos. I told my mother and she said I could go with her since the journey to Lagos would improve me and the family. “Madam Rita said she would get me a hairstylist job where I would be paid N20,0000 monthly. She paid for my fare to Lagos. “On the day of the journey, Madam Rita brought other girls and women to join us at the park. But when we arrived Lagos, she told us to wait at the park that she was going to buy a recharge card. When we waited for hours without seeing or hearing from her, we called her on the phone and she said she was in Warri in Delta State. “We were shocked that she brought us to Lagos and abandoned us at the park. Unknown to us, she fled after she saw that some policemen were interrogating us. I do not know that she had ulterior motives for us.” 