Obafemi Jeremiah Awolowo and Moshood Kashimawo Abiola had many things in common. They were indigenes of Ogun State (though from different senatorial districts) from the Southwest geo-political zone. Awolowo, from the East Senatorial zone, hailed from Ikenne in Remoland. Abiola, an Egba from Abeokuta, hailed from the Central Senatorial zone. They wielded political and economic influence and both took shots at the presidency more than once. Now dead, “they were the best presidents Nigeria never had”. But, even in death, they tower far above many of their contemporaries in the political and economic spheres. The duo made history as recipients of the highest national honour, the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), a cadre that is the exclusive preserve of heads of state (civilian or military). Strangely, the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, was invested with the prestigious honour by Alhaji Shehu Usman Shagari, the man he contested against twice for the exalted office of President. The investiture was in recognition of the former Premier of the defunct Western Region, not only for his contributions to Nigeria’s Independence on October 1, 1960, but to the growth of democracy, having aspired to become Prime Minister in 1959 and President in 1979 and 1983. Awolowo’s economic wizardry as finance minister under the administration of former Head of State Gen. Yakubu Gowon distinctly stood him out during the civil war. His adherence to democratic process principles endeared him to the hearts of Nigerians across political divides. Through hard work, exemplary and visionary leadership, coupled with a Spartan lifestyle, the late Awolowo earned international recognitions.  A former British Prime Minister, the late Harold Wilson, believed Awolowo lived in the wrong world and at the wrong time. Asserting that Awo was a material for advanced democracies, the former British leader said: “He (Awolowo) could lead the United States or Britain; he came too soon for Nigeria.” So respected was he that the military administration of the self-styled military president, Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, organised a week-long activities for his funeral in 2007. The then military governor of the old Oyo State, Brig.-Gen. Tunji Olurin attested to Awolowo’s doggedness at the funeral. “Now, here lies the legendry Awo; here lies a great patriot; here lies a great nationalist; here lies the prophetic Jeremiah of Africa; here lies the end of an era.” Olurin said of Awolowo in a tribute at the obsequy. MKO, as he was fondly called, wielded so much influence in the business world that his defunct National Party of Nigeria (NPN) declined to sell its nomination ticket to him in 1983, when he first showed interest in the presidency. He was told that the presidency was not for the highest bidder. However, on June 12, 1993, Nigerians overwhelmingly voted for him as the standard bearer of the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP). He was coasting home to victory before some yet-to-be-identified forces within the military aborted the process by “arresting” the results of the elections that were already in the public domain. Local and international observers adjudged the June 12 presidential poll as Nigeria’s fairest and freest ever. An attempt by the late Bashorun Abiola to claim the mandate freely given to him pitted him against the late Gen. Sani Abacha, who had toppled the Earnest Sonekan-led Interim National Government (ING) contraption. After the famous Epetedo Declaration on June 11, 1994, Abiola was taken out of circulation and kept in military custody until he died in controversial circumstances on July 7, 1998. Year-in, year-out, pro-democracy forces have asked the Federal Government to immortalise the acclaimed winner of annulled June 12 presidential election without getting the desired answer. However, seven days to the 25th anniversary of the annulment of the June 12, 1993 election, President Muhammadu Buhari invested the presumed winner of the poll with the GCFR, thus making him the second to be so honoured with the prestigious award and the first to be posthumously honoured. 