A Non -Governmental Organization, the Osun Development Association (ODA), is seeking partnership with stakeholders to promote Good Governance initiatives in Osun State. Speaking with reporters after the group’s  Executive Council Meeting in Osogbo, the state capital, the Chairman of the Association, Dr. Segun Aina, said the ODA is a non partisan body of eminent sons and daughters of Osun set up in 1995 as an intervention group to accelerate development  of Osun State. He said ODA was determined to collaborate with stakeholders to promote political enlightenment initiatives. Aina, who said the partnership was part of strategic growth agenda for the state, assured that the association will help reinforce and establish steps towards ensuring good and credible governance for the Osun State. According to him, the meeting of the Executive Council had approved for implementation the reports of the association on Education, Agriculture, Tourism, Mining as well as the Research and Strategy Committees. He said: “In considering the report of the Leadership and Governance committee, the Council endorsed the recommendations, part of which sought  to collaborate with organizations in broadcast media, print, digital on line, as well as  government agencies, civil society organizations , faith based organizations and political parties in creating platforms for political education, candidates’ debates, and engagement on electoral values. “Specifically, our Association is going to create platforms that will help deepen democratic structures by creating enlightenment on citizens’ right, adequate political education, participation an empowerment. The governorship elections in September 2018 will provide a good opportunity for us to engage the public and political class in creating an atmosphere for very good candidates to emerge and for the voting public to be better informed. “We hope to achieve much through public enlightenment campaigns, candidates’ manifestoes, workshops and debates by the governorship candidates. The non-partisan approach will be extremely beneficial to the political class, the candidates and the voting public. Partners that we target include the Broadcasting Organisation of Nigeria (BON), the Newspapers Association of Nigeria (NPAN), the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and Osun State Broadcasting Corporation (OSBC), Nigerian Union of Journalists (NUJ).