The Kwara State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) described the recent increase in the number of its members to serve in the committees of the party’s national convention to four as dividends of their loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and the party. The party also congratulated its members that were recently appointed as members of the sub committees of the national convention  which is slated to hold on June 23rd, 2018. The party in a statement by Kayode Oyin-Zubair, its spokesperson, described the earlier arrangement that had Kawu Baraje as the lone Kwara APC chieftain to serve in the committee, as a slap to the chapter. How can someone who was national secretary of a party, national chairman of the then ruling party, and later chairman of a national corporation, be comfortable being a lone member of a convention planning committee? That was a slap on the party and we wonder why he wasn’t bothered,” the statement read. The new appointees are Alhaji Abdulganiyu Cook Olododo, member elections committee; Alhaji Raheem Tunji Olawuyi, member security committee and Ayoola Obisesan,  member venue committee. The party urged the appointees to bring to bear the industry and dedication to work that Kwara people are known for, while thanking President Buhari and the party for duly recognising and rewarding the chapter with memberships of strategic convention committees such as Venue and Protocol, Elections and Security. “This is a pointer to the fact that the journey may be rough, we will surely get to the desired destination. We must remind ourselves that our sacrifice to entrench internal democracy and respect for party supremacy in the state is beginning to yield results. We must remind our teeming members and admirers that, they should never be swayed by the raging noise- we are very close to the promised land. It is heartwarming and reassuring that Kwarans will eventually appreciate our efforts in restoring dignity and pride to the good people of the state,” the statement read in part. 