Ambrose Umelelle 26 and Esther Aka 20, residents of Kokosu Community in Nasarawa State lost their lives in a flood incident that occurred in Karshi area of Abuja on Saturday night. The two persons were among the four whose vehicles were swept away by the flood. One of the passengers was however lucky as he was reported to have jumped out of the vehicle. The other passenger is still missing with the Search and Rescue team of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) searching for him. Briefing the FCT, Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, on the incident, the Acting Deputy Director, Forecasting, Response and Mitigation, Mrs. Florence Wenegieme indicated that upon receiving the information, the Agency immediately arrived the location of the incident and swung into action. Mrs. Wenegieme said the efforts yielded results when they recovered the bodies of the two dead early Sunday morning , as well as the Toyota Siena and Space-wagon in which they were traveling. “We have gone as far as three kilometres into the waterway without seeing the body, the search continues.” Mrs. Wenegieme also reported that the river bisecting the community and neighbouring Nasarawa State had risen above its banks on account of massive rains and consequent flood from the neighbouring hills overwhelming the box culverts and overflowing the roads. “Many of the road users had been forced to wait on the banks of the flood when the driver of the Siena wanted to try his luck,” she said. Following the sad development, the FCT Administration has called on the residents to be alert to possibilities of flood as the rainy season enters its peak in the coming months. It also reiterated its constant call on residents to avoid illegal developments as well as dumping of refuse on water rights-of-way. FCT minister made the appeal when he visited to commiserate with people of Karshi over the flood disaster that occurred in their community. According to a statement issued by the Special Assistant on Media to the FCT minister, Alhaji Abubarkar Sani, the minister also conveyed his condolences to the families of the two from neighbouring Kokosu Community of Nasarawa State who were confirmed dead in the flood. The Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, currently acting for the Minister, also used the occasion to ascertain the extent of damage caused by the flood. This, according to him, was with a view to stemming future occurrences of an incident, the scale and nature of which, according to residents, have never been witnessed in the area before. He said: “I have directed that our team of engineers should be dispatched to study the situation with a view to stemming future occurrence. From all indications this is a natural disaster. I am happy that our team is on ground for the search and rescue operations.” Also speaking to newsmen, the Chief of Karshi, Alh. Ismaila Mohammed dispelled insinuations that the incident was caused by a burst dam, saying: “the dam is still intact and still under construction. I thank the FCT Minister for his quick response in dispatching the FEMA team who have worked with local inhabitants since last night, to retrieve the bodies of the victims.” According to the Chief, “this kind of flood has never been witnessed in this community. Weather has been very erratic. We, in the community would embark on measures to ensure that the roads are safeguarded during heavy rains until a permanent solution is found.” It would be recalled that last year August, a man and two of his children, a boy and girl died when their Toyota Highlander Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) entered into a flood in Lokogoma area of the FCT.