Twenty kids will be selected for scholarships in the United State of America from the ongoing Ejike Ugboaja Foundation Basketball summer camp holding at the Sports Complex of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka, Lagos, NationSport reports. The scholarship scheme which is being put together by former D’Tigers and NBA player, Ejike Ugboja is in its 13th year with players from all states of the federation competing for a place in the sponsorship scheme. In a chat with NationSport, Ejike who is the player representative on the board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation (NBBF) said he is impressed with the turnout of kids at this year’s week-long camp which comes to an end on Friday. Since its inception, over 2000 kids have benefited from the basketball camp and Ejike said he will always to his best to give the kids opportunity to excel in life. “Ejike Ugboaja Foundation has been in existence for 13 years and I’m trying to be part of the national team and being part of a lot of youth games and I feel like I put life into education for them. So I’m doing this basically to give them education. “Every year is different and crowded. This year, I see a lot of kids that showed that they want it. In Nigeria sport these days, it is very difficult to get people that want to go to school. So I’m really impressed that they are not doing this because they want to play basketball only, but also want to go to school,” Ejike told NationSport. Programme manager of the Ejike Ugbaja Foundation camp, Harrison Koribo said only the best players who are also academically sound will be selected for the scholarships. “To be honest, it actually comes down to their academic work and their transcript. So a couple of them that have the skill on court and are not academically sound may not make the cut. It is not just basketball; it’s really about education too. We do realize that not everybody here is going to make it into the NBA over there, but if you get a good educational foundation over there, then the sky in your limit. Even if you are coming back to Nigeria with a degree from a university abroad makes you a lot more employable. So automatically, you have just given him a stepping stone to a better life which is what we are interested in,” Koribo told NationSport. Top coaches at the camp include Head coach of the First Bank Female Basketball Club and associate coach of the Nigeria female national team, Coach Peter Favour Amedu, who is the Director of the Ejike Ugbaja Foundation camp and former Manager of the D-Tigress, Mfon Udoka. “It has been a great development from Ekije Ugboaja Foundation. I have been part of this programme and it has actually impacted a lot of skills and knowledge to most of our young ones who actually want to take basketball to the highest level. “Over 2000 kids have benefited from this scheme. I know the number of kids that are on scholarships, I know how many kids have learnt this game and I know the number of kid that have played in the national teams through this programme. So I want to give kudos to Ejike Ugboaja,” Coach Peter Amedu told NationSport.