THE agitators for the restructuring of the nation’s political and economic structures converged again yesterday in Lagos and demanded for a “people’s constitution”. Speakers such as former Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) President  Mr. Olisa Agbakoba; Niger/Delta activist Ankio Briggs; women advocate and social entrepreneur  Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji, among others, made the call at a colloquium and leadership series organised by a Think-Tank Group, Voice of Reason (VOR). The event was chaired by a renowned Consultant Physician and Endocrinologist and co-founder, Eko Hospitals, Olorogun (Dr.) Sonny Folorunso Kuku. Agbakoba, in his contribution at the event, said: “The current federal arrangement is faulty. There is no lie about that, but the problem is not the concept of restructuring but how do we ensure that all ethnic groups, especially the sub-ethnic groups, involved in this process so that there will be justice and fairness for all. “There is too much concentration at the centre. Abuja is over-concentrated to the detriments of the sub-national ethnic entities. If we want to restructure, our differences in languages and cultures must be accommodated. We need to be cautious of our advocacy so that it will not be on a tripod while we neglect the cries of other sub-national entities. “Benue State was bombed by Fulani Herdsmen; the governor could not do anything. Over 900 killed within six months. Zamfara State governor is lamenting. Governor Abdul’aziz Abubakar Yari said his people should stop calling him chief security officer because he’s helpless.  He said he does not have any control over the security. He said the security people do not listen to him. “Earlier this week, the President visited Plateau State. I saw the governor, Simon Lalong, fidgeting; he was scared. He was behaving like a kindergarten pupil. Is this how we are going to continue? This must stop” “The present law, to the best of my knowledge, is anti-people and pro-oligarchy. I call on President Muhamadu Buhari to allow Nigerians to debate for the system they want. He campaigned with restructuring. He should tow the pact of honor.” Agbakoba said the real issue was not restructuring, but how to ensure that all the sub-nationals in Nigeria are involved in the restructuring process so that there would be a sense of belonging. To Akerele-Ogunsiji, “Nigeria cannot institutionalise peace when our leaders consistently reap and milk the majority of her citizens dry. Our government is too uncaring that they neglect the masses to suffer unnecessarily; we need to restructure to correct these maladies. “The youths must rise to the occasion and take their place and be strategically involved in governance. Restructuring has become imperative and it is now the trending conversation. Nigerian youths need to embrace it than ever before. It is our future; our political leaders need to feel the hit of our clarion call.” Balewa, in his contribution to the debate, said: “As a nation, we needed to have an understanding of the type of politics appropriate for us. “Our constitution needs to address some fundamental errors that we need to expunge from the present constitution. Through restructuring, we can address these errors such as security of lives and properties, economy, education and even our social development as a nation.” Another speaker Tony Nnadi said the advocacy for a new constitution should not be seen as opposition to the ruling government, but a genuine and patriotic advocacy to move Nigeria forward. VOR Convener Prince Goke Omisore said his group was concerned about issues of public policy. The Ile-Ife prince said VOR’s objective is to enthrone a regime, promote culture of growth, oriented values in leadership, followership and governance of Nigeria within the framework of restructuring. Olor’ogun Sonny Kuku said until Nigeria restructures its political system, the country is doomed. Secretary of the group Dr. Wale Fapohunda, while unveiling a draft of a new constitution prepared by VOR to the gathering, noted that the civil societies across the country should join in the call for restructuring to keep the political class on their toes. 