Starting out as an actor in 2001, Frankincense Eche-Bensays is not your everyday face on the TV screen. Frankincense who has become one of the names to be reckoned with on producer’s list speaks with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI in this interview on his journey through acting, among other issues. Excerpts HOW did you get into acting? Being an actor as a youngster in primary school, I decided to take it professional when I came of age. The first thing I did was to locate the very popular Winnis Hotel that I used to read about as was always written in soft-sell magazines every time actors and the film industry were mentioned, as a place to meet filmmakers  which doubled as a venue where auditions’ notices could be got as I later realized. And the rest, as they say, is history. What are some of the difficulties of the acting business? Some of the challenges range from underfunding in Nollywood which is the bane of the industry, considering that it is mostly an industry grown from personal funds of independent filmmakers with little input from outside, to being stereotyped and not being given fair opportunities to perform better, leaving one with only passion, where that is existent, to push extra hard to prove one’s self which, however, in the long run, works better in the careers of actors willing to take such plunge. Is it true that you have to change yourself in order to be accepted into the entertainment world? As multi-pronged as the answer to this question might be, let it suffice to say that change in the context of the question would be relative and could imply jettisoning behaviour suggestive of determining factors as to how often or easy an actor is able to keep booking more jobs. Tell us about co-producing the movie Commandment 7. It was my first time acting in the capacity of producer and would have been totally overwhelming had myself and co-producers not taken pain putting one through the hassles of unending weeks of pre-production runs and equally paying extra attention to detailing. In all, it was to me, a solid less on some of the numerous reasons for production failures and successes, the need for attention to detail, proper planning in production, friendships and partnerships, trust and loyalty, professionalism and legal bindings and backings. Is it true that it is more difficult to get involved in Broadway then screen acting? Honestly, I can’t exactly acquiesce to or refute that assertion, but I’ll say that some have it easier with one with others having it easier with the other. How would you describe your experience in the field? It’s been an uplifting multi-faceted experience, one that I don’t think I could trade for any other kind. And as I progress on this journey, what better way to improve the quality of my experiences than continuing to take the good with the bad and making the most of it all? How do you try to improve on your acting skills? By applying the methods that many other actors possibly apply, rehearsing monologues, general lines and scenarios made up or drawn from existing films and scripts, the “mirror works”, and researching, in whatever capacity, on any role to be played. For how many years have you been in the field? I’ve been acting professionally since 2001. What are your weak points when it comes to acting? For some actors, the need to deeply internalize any role to give world-class performances outweighs all else and provides the much needed bolster which acts as a study backdrop to a fiery delivery. Therein lies the clincher, because withdrawing and sloughing off that cloak for that character to embody another character without exhibiting a clashing of traits is, as they say, the stuff of legends. You once won ‘Most Handsome Male Student’ while in the university. How did you feel being an introvert? Receiving the ‘Most Handsome Male Student’ award in LASU was exhilarating and flattering because for one, I never thought for a second that I would win it. And even more surprising when there came a follow-up nomination the following year but that I forfeited as I was not available to acknowledge the nomination. What is advice that you would give to someone aspiring to become an actor? Aspiring actors need to recognise that being an actor is not a bed of roses. There’s a need to be consistent, intentional and going the extra mile to give the best interpretations to roles landed. Also, conducting one’s self in a professional manner always and not burning bridges unnecessarily pays off eventually. Why do you like keeping a low profile? Well, I guess we all can’t be the same way. I naturally am quite a shy and introverted person. I may not be seen at most events but that is not to say that I do not step out from time to time to grace some events. Who are your mentors? I may not exactly have mentors in the sense that you ask, but I do have a number of people who greatly inspire me in many different ways. Do you see yourself quitting for any reason? The industry is such a cut-throat place. But I’m here to stay for as long as the industry is willing to accommodate me. “Sorry I was gone before you could return for me, I was taken against my will.” What did you mean by this statement? Let’s say that is a part of my life which I’m still nursing and not quite prepared to talk about. What kind of roles do you prefer as an actor? None in particular, I always just try to find new refreshing ways to approach the different roles. That way it would be peculiar to each character. What is the hardest part of being a celebrity? I guess that would be not being free to do many things the same way several other persons (do).