Leading mobile technology multinational, Tecno Mobile  has unveiled a Spark 2, another new smartphone. The device which is the second version from the Tecno Spark series, fuses the computing ability of a high-end smartphone with top-of-the-line user experience of the latest Android Go from Google. Speaking to reporters at Lagos Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, its Brand Manager, Luke Pan, said the launch of the hybrid smartphone was due to the success that came with the first Spark edition and the high demand by end users. ‘We at TECNO Mobile are proud to say that, this is another great smartphone; this device is designed for productivity and style. It is not just another camera phone, but one that any smartphone lover with the desire to have an all-in-one tool, should have,” Pan said. The device flaunts a six-inch full HD screen display perfect for viewing photos, watching videos and gaming. The six-inch display is squeezed into a small shell of 5.7mm making the device comfortable to hold. On the camera department, it offers a brighter camera than its predecessors. The device takes excellent photos even in low light conditions with its 8MP Front + 13MP Rear Bright Camera.  The F/2.0 wide aperture enables more light to pass through the camera lens, thereby making selfie pictures clear even in low light conditions. The SPARK 2 also comes with an improvement in the storage capacity – with two variants of ROM and RAM. The Spark 2 is powered by Google’s Android Go which is optimised to offer consumers lots of benefits including a smooth and fast experience for devices with 1GB of RAM or even less, and provide new and reimagined Google apps including Google Go, YouTube Go, and the Google Assistant for Android (Go edition) with enhanced data efficiency. “If you get a new smartphone you expect it to be amazing. Country Manager, Android, Nigeria, Teju Ajani, said the firm teamed up with Transsion through our Android Go programme. “Together we strive to give users a range of smartphones, such as the Tecno Spark 2, that combine beautiful hardware with Google’s smartly designed software – from the latest AI powered innovations to the highest grade of security,” Ajani said. In the same vein, 9Mobile will be extending amazing offers to customers who purchase the TECNO Spark 2. These customers will get 2GB instant bonus, plus 100 per cent bonus on all purchased data plans for the first 6-months after purchase. They will also get another 50 per cent bonus on all data plans purchased for the subsequent 6-months. Furthermore, these lucky consumers will have access to an extra 500MB data for daily video streaming for fourteen additional days, upon every 1GB data plan purchased and above.   Stressing the key offerings of the latest TECNO Spark, TECNO Mobiles PR and Strategic Partnership Manager, Jesse Oguntimehin reveals that the new device also dons a massive powerhouse of 3500mAH battery capacity that can last for at least 24 hours on talk time and 3 hours on standby time with a new facial recognition security feature. “We are also delighted about our partnership with Google and 9mobile. As the mobile industry continues to evolve and consumers continue to ask for more, we are certain that with our expertise and resourceful partnerships, we will be able to effectively cater for the needs of mobile phone consumers in the country “This smartphone matches top-of-the-line performance with premium feel. It is equipped with the latest Android Go to ensure an overall satisfactory general performance of the phone and loads of data offerings to allow you experience the world,” Jesse Oguntimehin said. The new TECNO spark 2 is available in six amazing colors such as Bordeaux red, midnight black, champagne gold and city blue and can be purchased from any smartphone store nationwide.