Care givers indulging children with processed snacks and drinks are leading them in death’s path. Studies linking high sugar intake in children with obesity have shown disturbing health consequences for infants and young children hooked on snack foods such as cookies, sweetened cereals, soft drinks, salty crisps and candy.   In a study on weaning practices among Nigerian women conducted by researchers from the University of Ibadan; it was discovered that children aged 6-18 months were given soft drinks a minimum of 1 time per day as a weaning drink. The study further revealed that older infants and preschool children are exposed to a highly cariogenic diet at an early age, with implications not only for oral hygiene but non-communicable diseases.  “Chocolate beverages, natural fruit juice and soft drinks were the most commonly given drinks as 88.1%, 79.9% and 70.3% babies were said to be given these respectively. Over 57% of mothers sweetened pap with sugar. Forty seven percent of mothers added glucose to children’s drinking water. Over two-third (64.9%) of children ate biscuits several times a day. Soft drinks, commercial fruit juices and squash were consumed by 16.1%, 9.6% and 7.7% of the infants respectively on a daily basis,” the study quoted.  The statistics from the research which attest to the high consumption of sweetened beverages among very young children in sub-Saharan Africa, was derived from a survey involving 700 volunteer mothers of young children aged 6-18 months resident in Ibadan, West Africa’s biggest city.  Sugar has been identified as the key driving force behind obesity and associated ill health including type 2 diabetes, heart attacks,  cancer and tooth decay in children. Biscuits are a particular concern because frequent consumption of refined carbohydrates is a risk factor for dental caries.  The World Health Organisation (WHO) has continually raise alarm over global increase in childhood obesity in developing countries.  In a report on Ending Childhood Obesity (ECHO), WHO described childhood obesity as an ‘exploding nightmare, adding that the number of children in Africa who are overweight or obese has doubled since 1990 (5.4 million to 10.3 million).  Bold Initiatives to Reduce Sugar  Ms Paula Johns, a safe food advocate was one of the speakers at the recently held World Health Assembly in Geneva. During a side event centered on initiative and success stories in reducing sugar, salts and fats to prevent NCDs, organized by Vital Strategies, an NGO, she condemned soda and ultra-processed cookies.  Advocating that sugar alternatives like artificial sweeteners should also be discouraged, she canvased the need for care givers to teach children to learn to drink water in place of sugary stuffs. She also opined that many parents are being misled by the false claims on the front and back package of most snacks.  “…Not even a PhD nutritionist can interpret those labeling. We really need to have forms of labelling that warns about the bad food package of those products. We need that as a policy linked with marketing for children. It is not fair that we should be blaming parents when you have to fight with totally unhealthy eatable products targeting our children,” she said.  Training children’s palate  As Nigeria continues to grow into a mid-income country; the demands of survival have left many parents with less time to cook healthy meals for their children. It’s usual for parents to add carbonated drinks and biscuits to lunchboxes for school children. Many school environments also have kiosks were snacks and soda drinks could be easily purchased by pupils, often without adult supervision.  Some other parents erroneously believe soda drinks are healthy for children since they need sugar to boost their energy levels when in the real sense, fructose, a form of sugar found in fruits and honey is said to be enough energy boaster.  In reducing sugar intake for kids, a testimonial show that training children’s palate to be sugar free has positive effects, as shown by Majeedah Salau, a school owner in Lagos. Initiating a new school policy on mid-day snacks in the school, Salau informed parents that four days would be for fruits and vegetables with only one day for biscuits, juice and other sweets.  “Some parents didn’t like the idea, they believe the kids need sugar. Some others appreciated the policy since they have been trying to reduce their kids sugar intake which hasn’t been easy. Sensing the school’s determination, all the parents complied. I can tell you emphatically, we have not had any course to take a pupil to the hospital. We’ve had very few cases of diarrhea or stomach upset and even malaria fever is minimal,” she said.