 Croatia on Thursday, handed Nigeria a lifeline following their clinical performance against Argentina.  For me, that was the most clinical display I have seen since the kick off of Russia 2018 nine days ago. The second being the impressive display by Portugal and Spain, but unlike the Croatian super show, the Portugal versus Spain encounter revolved largely around 5-time Balloon d’Or winner Cristiano Ronaldo. The Croatian lifeline is not only for Nigeria but also for Iceland. The Eagles have no other choice than to win today at the Volgograd Arena, if they hope to delay their flight out of Russia. The jubilation that greeted Argentina’s defeat especially among Nigerian supporters may translate to nothing if Eagles fail to win today. Let’s look at it this way.  Argentina and Iceland have a point each. Should the Eagles make the mistake of pulling a draw today, exit would have been signed, sealed and delivered. Under that scenario Iceland will be the better for it as they will go into the final group match against Croatia with two points in the kitty, and Nigeria will go into the last group tie against Argentina will just a point in the kitty. The last group match will thus become the deciding factor as to who joins Croatia in the round of 16. Croatia may choose to rest some of their players having already scaled through with six points in the bag.  If they do that and Iceland manages as little as a lone goal victory over Croatia they will advance with five points.  As for Argentina and Nigeria it will be end of the road regardless of what they play. If Argentina defeats Eagles they will end up at four points and vice versa.  However if Croatia decide to garner all the points available and defeat Iceland to earn 9 points, Iceland would end up with two points and the last tie between Argentina and Nigeria both of who will be on a point each can be anybody’s game and whoever earns the elusive three points fumbles into the group of 16. The technicalities and migraine involved in this last minute permutations are not indeed palatable.  The only way out is for Eagles to win today against Iceland.  No more, no less. Here are things Eagles must do and not do today: *Be ready for shot at goal from a reasonable distance. This can work as some goalkeepers have been caught napping. *Resist the temptation to blink when defending crosses, especially corner kicks which appear to have become a hard nut to  crack for African countries. *Maintain discipline no matter what. Should unprofessional tackles lead to red card or cards it will too bad for comfort. * If you must concede a goal, do it early or better still go for early goal. Like a commentator said during the tie between Australia and Denmark said, “The good thing about conceding early goal is that you have enough time to do something about it”