As part of activities marking this year’s World Environment Day, FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria Plc, makers of Peak and Three Crowns milk, has announced its safety feat of achieving 2000 days of Lost Time Accident (LTA)-free operations. Its Managing Director, Mr. Ben Langat, said in Lagos that the company attained five years plus 175 LTA-free days on World Environment Day. “We made this significant achievement through accountability and transparency in reporting incidents, in addition to continuous learning and improvement, cross-functional collaboration, regulatory compliance and relentless commitment to safety,” Langat said. The World Environment Day was established by the United Nations General Assembly in 1972 and is celebrated on June 5 yearly to raise global awareness on taking positive environmental action to protect nature and the planet. This year’s celebration was themed “Beating plastic pollution” to address environmental concerns. Langat said FrieslandCampina WAMCO’s safety, health and environment policy was designed to protect the work environment from pollution. “Building an injury-free workplace requires deliberate focus and investment. FrieslandCampina WAMCO devotes significant time and resources to implement safety controls and build an unrelenting safety culture,” Langat said. He added that the company has consistently invested in machine technology trainings related to trouble-shooting and maintenance. Besides, various projects, he said, have been implemented to protect employees and ensure optimal guarding of machines. “Use of correct PPE is strictly implemented. The life-saving rules training also had a big impact on our operations “At FrieslandCampina WAMCO Nigeria, safety is embedded in our culture, and employees are committed to going the extra mile to ensure a safe working environment, which is incident free. “For this great result, we thank all employees who have made this happen through their commendable safety behavior. Together we will continue on our journey of leading with safety,”  he added. Lagos State Safety Commission Director-General, Mr. Hakeem Dickson, commended the company for its achievement, adding that the company has displayed exemplary safety conduct, which has led to over five years of zero incidents. He urged others to follow this example. 