Woods’s yacht has docked in Montauk in the Hamptons in advance of next week’s U.S. Open, which will be played at Shinnecock Hills in Southampton, N.Y. The yacht, named “Privacy,” is docked at Gurney’s Yacht Club in Montauk, a luxury resort roughly 26 miles east of Shinnecock Hills. Woods will stay on the boat next week, as he prepares for and plays in the Open. The 42-year-old has had some ups and downs during this comeback attempt: he finished tied for 32nd at the Masters in April, and while he had some brilliant shots last week at the Memorial and was tied for the lead after the 15th hole on Day 3, but faded on Sunday, and finished tied for 23rd. His putting was a problem, as it has been in his recent tournaments. “Privacy” is 155 feet long and can sleep 10 people in five cabins and also has a theater and gym. He bought the boat in 2004 for a reported cost of $20 million. The vessel requires a crew of nine to operate, and has a running cost of $2 million a year. After offering the boat to Elin Nordegren during their oods’s yacht has docked in Montauk in the Hamptons in advance of next week’s U.S. Open, which will be played at Shinnecock Hills in Southampton, N.Y. The yacht, named “Privacy,” is docked at Gurney’s Yacht Club in Montauk, a luxury resort roughly 26 miles east of Shinnecock Hills. Woods will stay on the boat next week, as he prepares for and plays in the Open. The 42-year-old has had some ups and downs during this comeback attempt: he finished tied for 32nd at the Masters in April, and while he had some brilliant shots last week at the Memorial and was tied for the lead after the 15th hole on Day 3, but faded on Sunday, and finished tied for 23rd. His putting was a problem, as it has been in his recent tournaments. “Privacy” is 155 feet long and can sleep 10 people in five cabins and also has a theater and gym. He bought the boat in 2004 for a reported cost of $20 million. The vessel requires a crew of nine to operate, and has a running cost of $2 million a year. After offering the boat to Elin Nordegren during their divorce proceedings, Woods tried to sell the boat in 2011. divorce proceedings, Woods tried to sell the boat in 2011.