EMBATTLED lawmaker Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC, Kano) and Mohammed Gudaji (APC, Jigawa) have been asked to face the Ethics and Privileges Committee of the House of Representatives for daring to voice their views on the impeachment threat issued against President Muhammadu Buhari. Jibrin returned recently from a 180 legislative days’ suspension on account of bringing the House “to disrepute with his comments on 2017 budget”. His suspension was later nullified by the court. This followed the adoption of a motion on breach of privileges by Sunday Karimi (PDP, Kogi) and Nicholas Ossai  (PDP, Delta). Karimi, who first raised a point of order on the breach of his privilege by Jibrin, said the account given to the media was incorrect. The lawmaker, in his explanation, said Jibrin’s statement to the reporters was contradictory of what actually transpired during the closed door session He accused Jibrin of leaving out certain information about the joint sitting. Karimi said his privilege was particularly breached by  Jibrin’s remarks that the joint sitting was an all Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) affair. “There is a need for Abdulmumin to be called to order because trying to subvert the truth is not good for this  institution,” he said. On his part, Ossai pleaded the leave of the House that he stepped down as Chairman of the Ethics and Privileges Committee  because his name was mentioned in a national daily by Gudaji as being part of the lawmakers  responsible for collection of signature for Buhari’s impeachment. Ossai quoted  Gudaji as saying in the news report that he (Ossai) was mentioned as being a leading figure in the collection of signatures for the impeachment of the President. “If I’m a leading voice in the chamber, I’ll be happy but I’m not. So, I want this issue to be investigated because my constituents will ask question,” he said. Chinda asked that Gudaji be investigated because he was equally mentioned as being part of the arrowheads of the impeachment list. Speaker Yakubu Dogara, in his ruling, expressed concern about his colleagues that could not understand the workings of the House, who rushes to the media immediately resolutions are reached. “I have problem with people, who don’t know what they are doing here and next thing is they go to press. “What happened yesterday was opened to all and we should always make statement that reflects the truth. “It’s unfortunate but since the issue has been raised, we have to refer it to Ethics and Privileges Committee. “As for Abdulmumin, we have to investigate it too,” he said. The two were referred to the Ethics and Privileges committee. Ossai’s prayer to step down as Chairman of the Committee being a party in the matter was granted.