The desire and moves by the President Muham-madu Buhari’s administration to return Nigeria’s budget cycle to January-December did not achieve its purpose last week. The 2018 Budget which ought to have come into effect by January this year in line with the government’s plan was only signed into law last Wednesday, which was over six months into the year. Also similar efforts by the past administrations to return the Federal budget to the January to December cycle never saw the light of day. Most of them were never able to even meet their plans to submit the Federal budget proposals to the National Assembly every September. The September deadline for submission of the budget proposals to the National Assembly was aimed at giving the legislators ample time, at most three months, to work on the document and possible passage and assent to the budget latest by every December. The plan’s sole aim was to allow implementation of every Federal budget to commence every January and terminate in December. Budget proposals presentations by past governments, despite every effort, mostly took place in December every year thereby defeating the effort to return the cycle to January – December. The late submissions and delayed passage of the budgets have resulted in poor implementation of the budgets over the years. They have also led to spillover of budgets implementation to the year following the actual year of the budget passed. There were also common stories of unutilized funds of Ministries Departments and Agencies (MDAs) being returned to government coffers due to lack of time for budget implementation. The Buhari’s administration was said to have made spirited efforts last year to correct the problems in order to return the budget cycle to January – December. So it was a cheering news last year when it was disclosed that the Buhari administration’s 2018 Budget proposal was ready for presentation to the National Assembly in October 2017. After all the necessary logistics were met, President Buhari on the 7th of November, 2017, finally laid the 2018 Budget proposal before the National Assembly for consideration and passage. When he laid the document in a joint sitting of the two chambers of the National Assembly, the President was optimistic that its implementation would effectively commence in January. But that was not to be as it took the National Assembly over six months to work on the 2018 Budget. Beside the delay in the passage of the 2018 Budget, the Executive arm of government believed that other factors are already working against its smooth implementation. Even though the National Assembly has the constitutional responsibility to amend the budget proposal, the Presidency believed that implementation of the 2018 Budget would be difficult due to new injections to the budget by the National Assembly. Due to the difficulty of implementing it, the 2018 Budget was feared to be more or less dead on arrival and would be corrected by a supplementary budget to be forwarded to the National Assembly. If not to prevent grounding of the economy, the President would have refused to sign the 2018 Budget into law. The President didn’t hide his feelings during the budget signing ceremony, which was for the first time done in the absence of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara. He said “I would like to thank the leadership of the National Assembly, particularly the Senate President and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, as well as all the Distinguished Senators and Honourable Members, for passing the 2018 Appropriation Bill, after seven months. “When I submitted the 2018 Budget proposals to the National Assembly on 7th November 2017, I had hoped that the usual legislative review process would be quick, so as to move Nigeria towards a predictable January-December financial year.  The importance of this predictability cannot be overemphasized. “While the Federal Government’s budget represents less than 10% of aggregate yearly expenditures in the economy, it has a very significant accelerator effect on the financial plans of other tiers of government, and even more importantly, the private sector, which mostly operates on a January-December financial year. “Notwithstanding the delay this year, I am determined to continue to work with the National Assembly towards improving the budgeting process and restoring our country to the January-December fiscal cycle. “It is in this regard that I am concerned about some of the changes that the National Assembly has made to the budget proposals that I presented.  The logic behind the Constitutional direction that budgets should be proposed by the Executive is that, it is the Executive that knows and defines its policies and projects. “Unfortunately, that has not been given much regard in what has been sent to me.  The National Assembly made cuts amounting to 347 billion Naira in the allocations to 4,700 projects submitted to them for consideration and introduced 6,403 projects of their own amounting to 578 billion Naira. “Many of the projects cut are critical and may be difficult, if not impossible, to implement with the reduced allocation.  Some of the new projects inserted by the National Assembly have not been properly conceptualised, designed and costed and will therefore be difficult to execute. “Furthermore, many of these new projects introduced by the National Assembly have been added to the budgets of most MDAs with no consideration for institutional capacity to execute them or the incremental recurrent expenditure that may be required. “Another area of concern is the increase by the National Assembly of the provisions for Statutory Transfers by an aggregate of 73.96 billion naira. “Most of these increases are for recurrent expenditure at a time we are trying to keep down the cost of governance. “An example of this increase is the budget of the National Assembly itself which has increased by 14.5 billion Naira, from 125 billion Naira to 139.5 billion Naira without any discussion with the Executive. “Notwithstanding the above stated observations, I have decided to sign the 2018 Budget in order not to further slowdown the pace of recovery of our economy, which has doubtlessly been affected by the delay in passing the budget. “However, it is my intention to seek to remedy some of the most critical of these issues through a supplementary and/or amendment budget which I hope the National Assembly will be able to expeditiously consider. With the 2018 Budget being the last that could still be fully implemented under the first term of President Buhari’s administration terminating next May, it would really be good if the budget and the coming supplementary budget would add more values to the Nigerian economy and the lives of more Nigerians than the previous budgets.