•Fayose’s Chief of Staff loses supporters to apc All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has promised a return of all social intervention programmes of his first tenure if he wins the July 14 governorship election. He said the life-changing schemes that will return include payment of monthly stipends to the aged, Youth in Commercial Agriculture Development (YCAD), Youth Volunteer Corps, Entrepreneurship Scheme, Free Health Programme, rural development, as well as Fayemi regular payment and promotion of workers and regular payment of pensioners’ entitlements. He debunked insinuations by the opposition that he would ban okada operators and sack teachers and local government workers if he wins the election. The APC flag bearer spoke yesterday, while on a campaign tour of Irepodun/Ifelodun and parts of Gbonyin Local Government Area. Towns visited include Eyio, Iworoko, Afao, Are, Igbemo, Iluomoba, Ijan and Are. Followers of Chief of Staff to Governor Ayo Fayose, Chief Dipo Anisulowo, renounced their membership of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and joined the APC when Fayemi’s campaign train rolled into the community. They include Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Youth Leader, Sola Olowojebutu, in company of the PRO, Adeyemo Adeola; Youth Leader, Eze Victor Ifeanyi; former Women Leader, Idowu Adu and 23 other leaders. They said they left the PDP because “Anisulowo is a selfish leader you can’t gain anything from”, while at Ijan, PDP lost two former ward chairmen to APC. In Afao, country home of Governor Fayose, the residents regretted the cancellation of Fayemi’s social services, why youths and 103 residents engaged by Fayemi to benefit from various schemes have been thrown to the streets. Residents of the communities visited lamented that hunger, unemployment, lack of drugs in health centres, bad roads and lack of money to send their children to schools have been their lot since Fayemi left office in 2014. Fayemi said: “You are all my witnesses that I am a promise keeper. I have not changed from what you have always known me for. I will never ban okada or sack teachers and local government workers because I am not a promoter of sufferings. “I made salary payment my priority, including securing World Bank assistance to pay teachers’ rural posting and core subjects allowances. We shall continue to fulfill this obligation, including looking for new ways to promote the welfare of all categories of workers.” In their large numbers, Ekiti State University (EKSU) students stormed campaign rally at Iworoko to express support for Fayemi to return good old days to the university. The students demanded for reduction in fees and charges, access roads and electricity, regretting that Fayose had unleashed untold hardship on them, including prohibitive charges and failure to pay staff salary, which crippled academic activities for four months. Fayemi regretted the deterioration of facilities in the university town and the school itself, and promised to improve facilities, including electricity, on the campus while student unionism will be allowed to thrive and charges reduced. He urged the students to collect their PVCs and mobilise to vote on July 14, reminding them to change their lives for good by voting for APC. Fayemi also told his supporters not to be deceived by promise by Fayose to employ 2,000 youths after more than three years in government without employing just one person. He reminded the people that Fayose made the same promise three years ago without employing a single person. Fayemi added: “We shall ensure that our youths are gainfully employed. Instead of banning okada, I will introduce measures that will allow them to do their job better, including provision of helmets and good access roads.” 