He said that you can convey anything, any information, the moment you know what you want to talk about, you just scribble it and you can pass it on. In journalism parlance, when you use bullet points, codes. So, I would do this coding thing. I will now squeeze the paper in my palm. So, all I needed to do was just handshake with MKO. He would then stretch and put it in his pocket. So, he will now reply through our insiders. So, that was how I was able to get letters to so many people, Gani Fawehinmi, Chief Osoba, his wife. You know, some letters came out. That was the channel we were using. When the letters were coming out, were they firing some people, were they asking questions? They were mad but then we kept doing it. But eventually, we got caught. My driver got careless one morning. He was coming from the run, the normal run. He was going to see our man. So, they had a meeting point. Unfortunately that morning, Abacha was leaving his secret rest house. So, the cars passed by my driver. They knew my own car, the wagon. So, one of them was smart enough to spot, this is Olu’s car. So, the big man had gone so, they call them ‘Road Open, Road Close’. So it one of those ‘Road Open Road Close’ people saw the car. The boy (driver) ought to have just driven off. I think he got scared, so, he parked. So, they now went to him and they saw him, ‘oh, na you. What are you doing here? ’ He got jittery. So, they searched the car and they saw my notes. When they got the notes, they captured the boy, they carried the car, got to the house. Then, one of our friends in the house called me and said, ‘Olu, your time is up. Oya move. ’  So, the choice for me was to either run or stay. So, I considered many things. I decided to wait because MKO was still there. So if ran to America, I had two visas anyway. I had British, I had American. Too many things were involved for me to now leave. That would be like leaving the man because nobody could get that kind of network we had. So, I had to stay back. So, I was waiting for them. The commissioner called and said, ‘Olu, where are you?’ I said, ‘I’m in my house now.’ He said, ‘we want you to come and see some people. Where is your place?’ He now sent that Abba. Did he not know your place? Where they park two cars every night. Just to tell the viewers. He is the one that alerted me to the fact that two cars, two SSS vehicles  were trailing me around town when I was Managing Editor of Concord in Abuja. I will always thank you for that It’s one of those things. Here we are today. If they had captured you or maimed you, would you be here today? Would I be here? No. So, let’s thank God for that. So, the Abba that later became IG came. He was the one who arrested me. Then, he arrested all the cars in the house. So, they took me there. I thought it was a joke. I didn’t know that was the beginning of the end. That was the last time I spent in freedom. So, once they held you, there was no access to MKO Yes. You couldn’t access him because you were also incarcerated First of all, I spent some days at the Villa. Then, they transferred me to SSS. Then from SSS, I started building network again. So, from there, they took me to Yakubu Gowon barracks where I had field day. They were a bit careless. In fact, I got to know the barber. Who was working on MKO Yes, I said that is good. Then, as providence would have it, the driver to Abacha happened to know me. He too had problem with Mustapha, so Mustapha locked him up in the same place. So, the fellow was biter. So, he told me so many things. He didn’t know he was giving me information. So, I now built more network and through that barber, I was able to reach out to MKO. So, MKO now asked the fellow to ask that man the name he calls me to be sure it’s me. The fellow came and I told him and he told him (MKO). Then we linked up again. So, from detention, you were also connecting and working with people outside. Yes. What was the nature of your network? Well, to get what people were doing outside, the NADECO people, the things people were doing, just to encourage him. Because without information, you know that kind of man. So, we were able to buoy up his confidence. So, all the harassment they were given him to either truncate the thing or leave it, the thing did not jell with him. Now, when you were seeing him in detention, how would you describe the state in which he was? You know he had heart problem, BP, which has been his ailment for years. And he has been managing it. So Falomo was always around to give him the medication. So, he was in good spirit because, at least he knew more than some of them knew. The question now was Abiola had goodwill. Some big men were even getting across to him. So, he was hopeful that something would happen. So, while that one was going on, I made runs to IBB to let him know that his friend was expecting him to call this thing off, tell Nigerians that we’re sorry. And then the thing would be off. And I met with IBB 16 times in Minna and he knew I had access. In fact, there was a time they had one-on-one. So, I took IBB’s number, gave it to someone to give to him (Abiola). So, we thought with that, IBB would come down and do the right thing. But he procrastinated till the very end. What was the nature of your interaction with him? You visited with him, you had conversation. What was the spirit of that conversation with IBB? He was trying to… you know him now. He was charming as ever, warm He was saying, ‘it’s not me. You see, this country is big. I’ve been everywhere.’ Of course, he kept saying the same thing. And I knew he was under pressure. The IBB we knew before the crisis was not the man I was seeing. Now, people forget that IBB and Abiola were very chummy. In fact, when the Orkar coup happened, Abiola took his family, I don’t know if you followed him that day, to go and meet IBB to show solidarity. This was how close they were. Yes, that was what I tried to do, that follow-up that I was doing. People know you to be friends. Why can’t you just do something, just own up, I made a mistake. But he said, ‘Generals don’t own up.’ That’s what he said He said ‘Generals don’t own up’ and then he’s not alone in this thing. It’s a massive thing and there are patriots. You know, he would regale you with all these highfalutin. Abiola was very human and when you’re in pressure like this, historically, sometimes, you’re afflicted with self-doubts an say, ‘do you think I should sit with these people and find a way out.’ Did you see such moments with him? Yes, Abiola said he wrote letters to Abdulsalam Abubakar and made representations to other Generals; Mark, and visited him later. That it’s a question of sitting down to work this thing out, that they were not ready. You know they were enjoying the something now. So, they didn’t want to leave it. Then, this brings me to one we did and it’s a pity that it didn’t work out. Okay, I was going to ask that question. At a stage when nothing was moving on again, the Supreme Court was not sitting, it’s like the man (Abiola) had been abandoned there. Then some of his friends approached me, both in the military, retired and then civilians. They sent someone to me to meet them somewhere. Getting there, I saw an American diplomat that I knew had been coming to court. So, they now raised the issue of spiriting Abiola out of that place. And they thought it could be done. Which was a kind of jailbreak Yes, something like that if they could get the man. But then we need the support of then Big (Uncle) Sam, Abiola’s friends in America. So, we parleyed over it and it was decided that I should get in touch with his PA (Personal Assistant) in the US. There’s one Randy Echols. He was my opposite number in Washington. They now suggested that the man should get in touch with Abiola’s friends at the Capitol so they would work out the thing. So, they took me to a secret house (in Abuja), gave me a secure phone. Surprisingly, I was on to Randy Echols. Where were you then? Was it the time you were still in jail? No, it was when I came out. I was still working then. They didn’t know how serious we were. So, we got Randy and the idea was that Randy should link up with his friends over there, that’s Abiola’s friends and then with the military. There’s one ship mooring somewhere in the ocean. So, a small plane would come and land in a neighbouring town or even in Abuja. It’s a question of taking Abiola from that jail, four, five hours, he’s into the plane and then, the plane flies out. So, that was the idea. But when the thing was discussed with the late MKO through the window as usual, he said, ‘it’s a dangerous thing to do ooo.’ And that if his friends or my friends insisted, we should leave out his children and members of his family out of it because the Abacha he knew would not hesitate to wipe out his family and then the families of those people guarding him. But we thought it is fool-proof. We thought we could do it because they were not so popular, except for those who were making money from them. So, we thought Randy Echols would do the right thing. Then, just for him to ensure he was talking to the right person, me – I had met him twice when he came with MKO to Abuja when things were going (okay) – So, I spoke to the man. I now said, for him to confirm my identity with Doyin (Abiola), our MD (Concord Press) and then Alhaji Akinteye, that’s the PA to MKO at his office. This thing I’m going to say would embarrass some people but they just have to take it like that. Instead of talking to Doyin or Akinteye, Randy now called Wuraola Abiola, that is Kola’s youngest sibling to ask about me, ‘who is this Olu?’ Then Wura now called Agbo, the MD of RCN, ‘who is this Olu?’ Then Agbo now called Kola. Then Kola now called, ‘Olu, what’s going on? They said there is one Olu making enquiries about some things.’ I said, ‘Oh, is that so? I don’t know anything about it.’ So, I denied it. So, that was the end of the thing. So, the word has gone out. Maybe he (Randy) thought it’s a family thing. He should have known with experience that it’s not a tea party that we were planning. So, I went back to Oga, saying ‘so,so,so and so.’ He said he said it. He said ‘Alhamdulillah’, thank God. Because if we had spirited him out, there would have been blood because Abacha would react violently and then more people would die. He didn’t want his family members to know about the plan so that their innocence would keep Abacha away from them. Yes, because the plan then was that if were able to get MKO out, those staffers around him would go with us, me too I follow. It had to be a clean sweep. That means you would have just gone too because if you were around, you’d be gone So, when the thing now failed, then we said ‘it’s from God.’ So we dropped the idea. You were also fortunate that nobody knew that that plan ever happened at that time because even if the family… They (family) didn’t even know the details. The details, I’m saying it now. Nobody knew the details. But they knew that something was going on with Olu Randy called Wura. Wura called Agbo. Agbo called Kola. Kola asked me and I said nothing. So, I went back to the big man and he said, ‘thank God, it didn’t work out.’ He didn’t even let even a scintilla of the idea to go out because that would have been fatal You know the man (Abacha.) So, that was how far we got. But, you give the impression that Abiola was not too sure that he wanted it or not No, he didn’t want to go. He didn’t want to go? Yes. But, if you guys insisted It was we who, I think, they were asking me to pressurise him. And I thought I was doing my job to get him out of that place. But now, he now opened my eyes to the larger picture – my family and the family of those people around him – their villages, their men. That man (Abacha) would roll the tank all over the place. So, if he now comes out as president, over the dead body of his own children? So, when we say the thing has flopped, he was happy. That was interesting. Now, tell us, many people talk about Abiola. Abiola grew up a poor man. He was dirt poor. He used to talk about dancing in order to get balls of eba and amala to feed his family. What kind of person was the Abiola you interacted with? Well I should put the question back to you because you interacted with him. Not as much as you did Yes, but for me, that was like there was never an Abiola before I knew him. And there would never be anyone like that. The only person close to him, you know him. I won’t mention his name. So, the question now is a good man would come once in a while. God sent him here and he did what he had to do and he left. He affected lives and he made things happen. For him, there is no problem. When they said he was not going to win, he said, what are they talking about? He said, ‘let’s start the game joor, you will see.’ He said he’s going to beat Tofa in his village.  And he did.  That’s the kind of spirit he had. For me personally, I met him as a chief correspondent. A chief correspondent in Sokoto In Sokoto, yes. I did something innocuous and he took it big. I always tell a story which I put in my column of a story I did about a Lebanese family in Apapa who were displaced, they were suffering and I wrote it in African Concord. And two weeks later, somebody from the family came to thank me for bringing the story to the attention of Abiola. I said, I never brought the story to the attention of Abiola because they were rehabilitated. Everybody of the family was taken care of and they were thanking me. Abiola never called me. He just read the story and found out where the family was and rehabilitated. That’s why I said you’re in the position to describe him. I was a bloody chief correspondent when the NPN (National Party of Nigeria) people were to hold their convention in faraway Argungu village. So, they were all there. He was there as chairman of Ogun NPN, I think. And then, I think the late Alhaja Simbiat, that’s Kola’s mum, was the vice chairman. So, they were there together with the secretary, one Lawal. So, they gave us a press village. So, we were there and then you know, for Concord people then, we were the only reporters with cars. And I had a brand new Beetle. So, I drove my car to his place to go and greet the big MKO, my publisher. So, I met him discussing with the late (Shawu), minister for communications. So, immediately he saw me, I said I’m so, so and so. He said, ‘oh, my friend.’ I said, ‘who is your friend? Your employee.’ He embraced me. Then, I said, what kind of thing is this? Who is your friend? Can you see the connection.