TO provide an accessible dairy alternative, Hollandia Soya Milk has introduced a new 100 milimetres convenient pack. Chi Limited’s Managing Director Mr. Deepanjan Roy said the rationale for introducing the 100 milimetres  sachet was to create a consumer culture of taking soya milk by making it more affordable and accessible. “Although Hollandia Soya Milk has always been available in bigger pack sizes, we believe that having100 milimetres  sachet packs at N50 will enable consumers have access to high quality nutrition and a healthier dairy alternative in a ready-to-drink form which can be consumed anywhere and anytime, at an affordable and convenient price,” he said. The 100 milimetres  sachet pack adds to the existing one litre pack size and 315 milimetres  handy pack size. The convenient pack , which  retails at N50 according to Roy  offers nutritious benefits of soya milk. Roy  said the new Hollandia soya milk  in 100 milimetres  sachet pack is an  innovative way to deliver value by making the product more affordable and accessible. He  said the 100 ml  pack design wears the brand’s traditional blue colour combination with an assortment of small icons that typify various sporting activities. The new look of the product, Roy  said, is part of efforts  by the brand to resonate with health conscious consumers keen on a daily nutritional soya milk drink for an active lifestyle and healthy heart devoid of cholesterol build up. Endorsed by the Nutrition Society of Nigeria as a healthy drink, Hollandia Soya Milk the firm said is  cholesterol free and a power house of Protein, Calcium, Vitamins A, C & D. The firm said  the new Hollandia Soya Milk 100 milimetres  sachet pack offers competitive pricing, for a product that is affordable and of high quality. According to a nutritionist, Mrs. Temi Obiaya, soya milk comes recommended because it not only offers nourishment but naturally helps lower cholesterol levels in the body to keep the heart healthy. She said : “Soya milk possesses a lot of nutritional benefits; hence, it is important that more and more people begin to embrace soya milk as a dairy alternative. With very few brands seeing the value in providing soya milk as a product offering, I have come to cherish Hollandia Soya Milk not only for its zero cholesterol, but also its smooth texture and delicious taste .” 