When the construction of a borehole began at the Edaiken Market on the Bénin-Ugbowo Road, the traders were happy that their long years of prayers have been answered. The borehole was initiated by Hon Jim Adun when he was elected to the House of Representatives between 2011 and 2015.
Today the borehole is a carcass. Abandoned boreholes constructed either as constituency project by lawmakers both at the state and National Assembly from 1999 till date littered the state. Many of the boreholes provided by the lawmakers did not last up to eight months before they packed up. Also, the boreholes provided by local government or state government are now dry and overtaken by weeds.
Besides the abandoned boreholes, the Edo State Urban Water Board, tasked with the responsibility for providing water, is moribund. Residents cannot remember the last time the agency provides potable water. All the water reservoir through which the board distributed water to households are in a state of disrepair.
Officials of the board are hardly seen at their duty posts. Many of the offices are under lock and key.
During the administration of Governor Adams Oshiomhole, the state government bought three dando rigs to help provide water in parts of the state where it is difficult to sink borehole. With the dando rigs, Borehole’s were sunk in difficult terrains in Edo Central and Edo North.
Checks ,however, showed that many of boreholes are not working due to minor faults. In some rural communities, the community could not provide diesel to run the Generators provided alongside the boreholes.
Apparently to solve water problem in the state, Governor Godwin Obaseki  scrapped the Urban Water Board and made it the Small Town Rural Water and Sanitation Agency and the Urban Water Corporation. Obaseki has also paid N1.289 billion as counterpart fund to attract N2.8 billion from the European Union for water projects across the state.
The Small Town Rural Water and Sanitation Agency, it was gathered, would be in charge of providing water to all the small towns and rural areas while the  Urban Water Corporation will be in charge of the cities and big towns.
Commissioner for Water Resources and Energy Yekini Idaiye told our reporter that his findings showed that many of the boreholes failed because of maintenance. Yekini said the state government planned to encourage the setting up of Water Consumers Association in communities to ensure sustainability of the boreholes.
In any place we are working, we will have what is called water consumers association for sustainability. The community must also indicate interest on how to maintain and sustain it. We also ensure that the community must open a bank account with at least N1 million in it for maintenance.
“We are going to rehabilitate most of the bore holes. We have about 47 bore holes constructed by the state government that have failed and they failed because of little maintenance. We discovered that some of these boreholes constructed by our representatives as constituency projects are bad. The solar panel parts are stolen. What we are doing now is to bury the panel so that nobody can go there to steal. We are about reactivating those 47 broken boreholes across the state.
“Presently, we are taking assessment of all the public stations within the state capital to ascertain their state because we know they are not functioning so that we start to rehabilitate them.
Yekini said 46 rural communities in six local government areas would benefit from the state partnership with the European Union (EU) in the provision of portable water.
The Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Media and Communication Strategy, Mr Crusoe Osagie, explained: “To set the record straight, the Edo State government paid N389 million to attract N700 million from the European Union for water drilling and reticulation in Ovia South West and Etsako West local government areas.
“In Edo Central Senatorial District, the state government attracted N700 million from the European Union with N300million counterpart fund to reticulate water from the dam that was constructed by the Federal Government, to Uromi and its environs.
“Two months ago, the state governor released N600 million to attract N1.4 billion for the water, sanitation and artisanal training projects in Orhionmwon, Uhunmwode and Owan West local government areas under the same Niger Delta Support Programme of the European Union.
“The N2 billion project covers water drilling, reticulation, sanitation facilities in markets, public schools as well as training for 250 artisans that will maintain the water projects, some of whom will be absorbed by the local councils.”