Two goals from Harry Kane ensured England’s 2018 World Cup campaign got off to a winning start as they beat Tunisia 2-1 in their Group G opener at the Volgograd Arena. The captain broke the deadlock with an easy tap-in on 11 minutes to give England a dream start. The Three Lions were guilty of failing to close out the game after Jesse Lingard missed three great opportunities while Raheem Sterling missed an open goal. And they were pegged back when Tunisia scored a penalty after Kyle Walker was adjudged to have fouled Fakhreddine Ben Youssef. It looked like another frustrating game for England but Kane popped up with a last-minute winner following a well-worked corner to give Gareth Southgate’s men the three points. The Three Lions came racing out the blocks and could have been 2-0 up inside the first five minutes. First, Lingard had an effort turned round the post by Mouez Hassen after latching onto a loose ball before Sterling missed an open goal. England kept rallying and found the breakthrough on 11 minutes when Kane tapped the ball in after Hassen brilliantly kept out John Stones’ powerful header from a corner. Hassen was then forced off with a shoulder injury and Jordan Henderson gave substitute goalkeeper Farouk Ben Mustapha an early test with a firm volley from the edge of the box. Lingard then missed a great chance on 23 minutes – making a complete hash of a volley from six yards out after Manchester United team-mate Ashley Young laid the ball on a sixpence for him. And England were made to pay for their missed chances when Tunisia won a penalty after Walker was adjudged to have fouled Ben Youssef. Ferjani Sassi coolly slotted the ball home to level the game up. However, England came again and nearly retook the lead but Stones scuffed a loose ball at the crucial moment. And Lingard missed another chance just before the break after clipping the ball onto the post. England struggled to maintain the same tempo after the break and struggled to create many opportunities. But they kept plugging away and were rewarded for their efforts when Kane headed home from close range to give England the perfect start.