A member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Alhaji Lanre Razak, has been drumming up support for Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s second term. In this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, the former commissioner explains how the APC has been sustaining unity within the rank and file of the party. Can Governor Ambode sustain the tempo of development, if he gets another term? There is no reason to doubt what he will do when he gets another term. He is a performing governor and would keep up with the streak achievements. You cannot have such a wonderful performer and expect that he will do less, when re-elected. He is presently doing very well, even the blind and deaf can attest to his wonderful performance. Ambode’s work is unprecedented and everybody is happy about it. I remain solidly behind him and will continue to support him in the task ahead. I remain committed to our great leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, whose insights led to the emergence of people who have met the expectations of the electorate in the task to make Lagos one of the best places in the world. We are grateful to God who bestows on mankind the wisdom and ability for our leader to have the vision. I must say Ambode has performed far beyond our expectations. Nobody thought he could do half of what he has done so far. He had done more than we expected; we cannot afford not to stand by him in the task ahead. More importantly, I am from Epe; we are major beneficiaries of the good performance. If not for zonal arrangement, I am sure that after his two terms people would want Epe to produce another governor, because of Ambode’s performance. They now believe Epe people are performers. What is your reaction to the insinuation that some party leaders are working to undermine his second? I do not see genuine lovers of Lagos working against his second term. Much people may exist, given human nature. But, their percentage cannot be reckoned with. So, we do not have to bother ourselves about such insinuation. They cannot openly challenge what Ambode is doing for Lagosians. We do not have cause to bother, because there are lots of foot soldiers for our leader Asiwaju and Ambode himself. It is not unusual, because no matter how good you are, some people will work against you. Let me also make it clear that the APC is a united family and we are happy that Ambode is doing well. I do not see any genuine member of the party that will work to undermine the second term of Ambode. If the APC is a united family, why did we witness parallel congresses across the country recently? There were no parallel congresses across the country. Some people were just trying to be comedians or behave funny for recognition. It is only when you see those sent from Abuja to officiate at the congress at two venues that you can say that we had parallel congresses. But in this particular case, those who came from the party headquarters operated at one location. All party structures from the councils to state all met at that location and it was monitored by the officials from Abuja. So, if anybody wanted to create a drama situation for people to laugh, I do not consider that strong enough for people to say there were parallel congresses. If you know how party structure functions and how the organs of the party perform their duties in line with the conduct of congresses, you will agree that there were no parallel congresses. It is as good as saying that when Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) is conducting election and somebody decides to conduct another election; which one would you say is the official election? That is just the situation. How will you now reconcile yourself with the position of your party which came out to acknowledge there was parallel congress in Lagos? I never heard that from my party headquarters; you are in a better position to clear from those who came up with that theory. What steps are you taking to harmonize the disunity within the APC ahead of 2019? What you have failed to realize is that political party is a platform to acquire power and power is not acquire on a platter of gold. The people who want power will struggle within the framework and that does not amount to frictions. The party is very strong and has sufficient crisis management mechanism to apply at the appropriate time. You will not see all these things we are talking about and I must say there is no crisis in the APC. Muiz Banire said he was surprised that Mr. Tunde Balogun was inaugurated in spite of the fact that the Lagos congress was short of expectation… He would be in the best position to respond to that, he is the legal adviser of the party and he should be in position to respond to that. I do not see atom of reason that should disturb the national headquarters from swearing in Tunde Balogun our Lagos APC party chairman. So, if anybody in his own wisdom thought otherwise, you should meet such persons to explain why. President Muhammadu Buhari recently honoured M.K.O Abiola has the Yoruba been placated? I think what the leaders should comport themselves with is that the President had done the right thing. It should be appreciated and commended. Abiola is beyond the issue of Yoruba nation, it is a national issue. Every segment of the nation voted for Abiola, it was an election one could described as wonderful in the history of the country. So, that alone had made the issue a national affair not a Yourba agenda. Buhari had done wonderfully well to recognize that situation. I doff my hat for him; I want to thank those who advise the president to do it. I want to thank the President for accepting to do it at the right time and God will reward him abundantly. 