•Community launches sample road Tired of waiting for the government, residents of Arepo in Ogun State have resolved to repair their main access road at a cost of N150million. At the launch of its newly constructed gate road and the N150million fund for the project, the Arepo Central Community Development Association (ACCDA) said it could no longer wait for the government to do the job for which a contract was awarded in 2012. ACCDA President Kehinde Adeyemo told the reporters: “Our main access road was awarded six years ago at the inception of Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s administration and since then, we have been engaging the government on the need to come to our aid, all to no avail.  Specifically, the road awarded to First August in November 2012 under contract 11 with a sign post erected at the Journalists’ Estate Phase 1 gate end has since remained untouched and impassable for motorists and pedestrians.” He described the state of the road as sad, noting it has made the community to go through pains. “There was a time the road cut into two due to erosion at the gate of Journalists’ Estate Phase 2. We gathered funds and we commenced the culvert but, before we moved to the second stage of the culvert construction, the state Ministry of Works came and helped us out. During the rainy season, we usually record casualties on this road especially among pregnant women and children because the road is completely unmotorable and we all resort to Okada which is vulnerable to women and children most especially. We have also regularly sand filled and graded the road in the past. Residents, he said, had so far spent over N18 million on the road, adding: “Each time we appeal to the state government, they give us assurance that the road would be fixed, but their promise is yet to be fulfilled till date. The government has failed us and this is sad.” Adeyemo urged the government to fulfil its promise to the community, saying: “Ogun State government should mobilise First August to move to site. We are critical stakeholders with our priced electoral values.” He said since the government was taking too long to grant the residents’ request, they decided to take their destinies in their hands. “We have decided to fix this road by ourselves and we need the government to come in to join us. We propose a minimum of N100,000 per household and we appeal to all landlords and residents to support the cause. “What we are doing here today is for the public launch of the road in Arepo; this 600square meters (the Arepo main gate) is a sample of what we intend to do on the Arepo access road, which is about 1.7 kilometers. This public launch is for the community to see that we can do this road ourselves and we appeal to everybody to donate towards the completion of the road,” he said.