A 50-year-old man, Abubakar Gahu, has told the police that he uses his 13-year-old crippled son for begging. Gahu, Sani Ishaku, 40, Abdullahi Mohammed, 45, Nasiru Yusman, 27, Mato Abdullahi, 20, and Sagiru Ibrahim, 26, were arrested by some Rapid Response Squad (RRS) operatives for allegedly importing physically challenged minors from the north to beg in Lagos. Gahu appealed to the government not to send his son to a foster home because the lad is the family breadwinner. He said: “I use my 13-year-old child who is a cripple to beg for money. He is the one sustaining us as we use the proceeds from begging to maintain my family of five. I was selling Suya but our shop at Abattoir, Agage, was destroyed by the government. I now started using my crippled child to fend for my family. We make an average of N4,500 daily.” Parading the suspects yesterday, Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said street begging was a crime in the state, adding that using children for such was double offence. The suspects, he said, were apprehended by a decoy team after a mobile Close Circuit Television (CCTV) camera was positioned around Mobolaji Bank-Anthony Way, Ikeja. It was gathered that the undercover detectives monitored the syndicate’s activities for about a week before their eventual arrest. Edgal said five of the victims aged 13 to 17 were rescued, adding that N12,000 was recovered from the syndicate. He said the police observed the syndicate conveying the children to a place very early in the morning, following which they were made to crawl from one point to the other on the highway begging for alms, which the suspects collected. He said besides the guides monitoring and collecting the proceeds, there was another man who came to collect the money from the guides. The children, he said, would be handed over to the Gender Unit of the state command for rehabilitation. Ishaku, said to be the syndicate’s leader, told reporters that hunger drove him into the trade. He said: “I am looking for food to eat and since the children are handicapped, I thought to bring them to Lagos so that they can beg for alms. I brought them from Jigawa State.”