Police in Ebonyi state have paraded 8 persons who allegedly killed one Anselem Omah at Onu-Orie Umuoghara Ezaangbo, Ohaukwu local government area on Wednesday. The Nation had earlier reported how the 32 years old Mr Omah and another person identified simply as Paul was killed in cult clashes in the area. Parading the suspects at the State Headquarters of the Police in Abakaliki, spokesman of the command, Loveth Odah said the suspects also robbed other innocent citizens of their belongings. “One English berretta pistol, one live cartridge, 10 loive ammunition, one Volkswagen car, one long machete and substance suspected to be charm were recovered from them” She added that they have also confessed to the crime. Odah, an Assistant Superintendent of Police also paraded 5 suspects involved in the kidnap and attempted murder of top business mogul and owner of popular Monabliss hotel in Abakaliki, Monday Udoka Oke. The spokesman said the six man gang led by one Ikpuecha Chinonso Desmond first attacked one Ikwuobe Odeh Samuel at his residence No 10 Ofor Street Abakaliki, kidnapped him and his friend in his Toyota Highlander Jeep with Reg No. MKD 421 TS and whisked him to a nearby bush at Azugwu Onuebonyi in Abakaliki. “After robbing them of some cash and other valuables including phones and laptops, the gang blindfolded them and kept them hostage after which they proceeded with the said highlander jeep to kidnap Mr Oke”, she said According to the police, one hour later at about 11 pm, the gang double crossed Mr Monday Oke as he left his Hotel, located at 95 Nnorom Street Abakaliki kidnapped him in his Honda car and took him to Onuebonyi River Once there, they proceeded to rob him of a cash sum pof N200,000 in his possession and other valuables such as gold necklace, hand bangle, belt, ring, shoe, wrist watch, hand bag, iphpone8plus and Samsung galaxy edge plus phones. Odah said the kidnappers then took his phone and transferred various large sums of money to their respective bank accounts which total amounted to N5.2m. After robbing him, “Mr Monday Udoka was shot and pushed into the river by the gang believing that he is dead while the first victims Mr Samuel and friend were released unhurt” On receiving the news, Odah said the command immediately commenced intelligence led investigation which took its operatives to Enugu/Nsukka where five of the gang members were arrested. She gave the names of the five arrested members as: Ikpuecha Chinonso Desmiond, 32 years, Uguru Okechukwu 22 yrs, Nnaemeka Nwinya, 32 yrs, Igwe Ekene 28 yrs and the only female member of the gang, Loveth Okpara Nnenna, 26 yrs. Mrs Odah further said that the command arrested one Awoke Ikechukwu also known as ‘IK Dokpor’, a prime suspect in the robbery and murder of one Michael Nwodom at Afikpo street Abakaliki on July last year. Recovered from the suspect are one barreta pistol with 10 lives 9mm ammunition and the phone of the deceased. The spokesman said the police also arrested one Oken Chimezie with one revolver pistol in his tricycle along G-hostel Abakaliki whle the duo of Ifeanyi Onyibe and Nweke Joshua were arrested for unlawful possession of a revolver pistol, one axe and a machete at Ezillo junction Ishielu local government area. “One Nwabuike Nnabuike was arrested along No. 2 nsugbe Avenue Abakaliki who robbed one Ugochi Chukwu of her phone valued at N12,000 with constructed locally made pistol. The said gun and phone were recovered from him”, Odah said. “In the same vein, on 23rd March, One Friday Chibuike, 21yrs, was arrested at Umuoru Obode road Ezzangbo who robbed Igboke Ngozi and her son at gunpoint. One locally made single barrel short gun with one live catridge, four 6mm live ammunition and one dagger were recovered from him”, she added.