The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has urged the Federal Government not to endorse the African Continental Free Trade Agreement (AFCFTA). The group argued that the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) under the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Industry, only focuses on its potential benefits and what Nigeria is expected to benefit from its implementation, but failed to look at the area that will put the nation at a disadvantage. MAN’s President, Dr Frank Jacobs said a press briefing that the major stakeholders raised certain issues during the sensitisation meetings held in the six geo-political zones chosen by NOTN, saying concerns expressed by manufacturers, wre still unattended to. He said: “We hasten to observe that the NOTN version of the outcomes of the stakeholders’ engagements and sensitisation as reported in the news media, does not adequately reflect the overall proceedings and factual expressions at those meetings. We are worried that this could be misleading and more importantly, may not put Nigeria in good stead and could inexorably put the nation in a disadvantaged position if, or when the implementation of the AfCFTA commences. “We are now even more worried that, in spite of the widespread concerns that necessitated Mr. President’s reservation of his signature at the Summit in Kigali, the subsequent activities of the NOTN was not tailored towards addressing those concerns. Rather than squarely addressing those critical issues, all efforts were geared towards extolling the laudable objectives of the AfCFTA, its potential benefits and what Nigeria is expected to benefit from its implementation. “This is rather simplistic and cannot be the way to go. Not for Nigeria that has a lot and the most to lose, should we sign-on to an agreement that is still shrouded in uncertainty, not informed by any study and not based on any negotiated position at the domestic level. In specific terms, we have observed with great apprehension that the issues that the major stakeholders raised at the beginning, including those expressed by manufacturers, still remain unattended to.” For instance,  Jacob said the agreement to the adoption of the 90:10 per cent Market Access ratios to be achieved in five years, lacked empirical basis and evidence of due consultation and accommodation of concerned and affected stakeholders and operators. Other issues raise are that Nigeria agreed to such a short period for the implementation of the Market Access without negotiating the Rules of Origin; that right from the period preceding the Kigali Summit and up until now, the content of the Nigerian offer has remained unknown to manufacturers who are the number one stakeholders to be positively and or negatively impacted by the proposition; and that key economic ministry departments and established structures remained largely sidelined during the process. While MAN expressed appreciation to President Muhammadu Buhari for his decision to cancel his trip to Kigali, Rwanda to sign AFCFTA, it recommended that as a matter of urgency, government must convene a special meeting of the relevant stakeholders including experts on trade policy.