The lawmaker representing Idanre/Ifedore Federal Constituency in the National Assembly, Bamidele Baderinwa (aka White), at the weekend donated a block of classrooms to the management of Emmanuel Primary School at Ikota in Ifedore Local Government Area of Ondo State. Baderinwa, who was represented by his political associate, Tunde Ogunlade, handed over the keys to the regent of the town, Princess Adunola Ajisafe. The lawmaker urged the school authority to use the classrooms well. He said they were built and equipped with teaching aids, chairs, tables and writing board to aid teaching and learning in a serene environment. Baderinwa said the new classrooms would make teaching and learning attractive to teachers and their pupils. The lawmaker assured his constituents of good representation. He urged them to continue to pray for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and President Muhammadu Buhari for divine direction. This, the lawmaker noted, was better than raining abuses on them. He added: “The Nigerian leader deserves prayers and support from all and sundry for sustained development.” Princess Ajisafe thanked the lawmaker and the Oluwarotimi Akeredolu administration in the state and the Federal Government for working hard to make life comfortable for residents of the community. She urged the government to also pay attention to other areas in the community, such as roads, water and other infrastructural facilities. The school’s head teacher, Mrs Ayodele Taiwo and her assistant, Mrs Stella Bola Adetiloye, expressed appreciation to the lawmaker for his gesture. She said: “As Oliver Twist, we ask for more from our representatives to help us fix the leaking roof of old classrooms. “The new classrooms will assist us in many ways because the classroom is very conducive. We will be teaching them under a comfortable atmosphere. Our job will be much easier. We have been using chalk before but now we will be using markers. “We will not be teaching our pupils in the rain again because the roof of the old classroom has torn off and it leaks whenever it is raining.” The school’s Head Boy and the Head Girl, Destiny Agu and Ogedengbe Idowu, expressed delight over the presentation of the new classrooms for them. They said the new classrooms will help them to learn fast under a conducive atmosphere and guarantee a brighter future for pupils in the school.