As the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) prepares for 2019 elections in Lagos State, Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, reports that except the party’s warring chieftains are quickly reconciled, the PDP may not be able to repeat its 2015 electoral successes in the state DETERMINED to improve on its unexpected performances in the state during the last general election in 2015, the Lagos State chapter of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), says it is poised to surprise the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) come 2019 by winning not just more seats in the national and state assemblies’ elections, but by installing one of its own as the next governor of the state. But pundits, political observers and of course chieftains of APC say the claim of the opposition party, that it is waxing stronger in the state, may not be true after all. And those telling the PDP to think twice about its continuous boast to win Lagos in 2019 are urging the party to take cognisance of the obvious effects of recent developments within the party in the state, on its electoral chances in the forthcoming election. No doubt, 2015 remains the finest moment of the PDP in the state. At the end of what many would readily describe as the toughest electoral battle ever in the state, the PDP won eight state assembly seats and seven House of Representatives seats across the state. Not a few chieftains of APC admitted that PDP’s unprecedented performances in the election was a huge setback for APC, which had always prided itself as the political controller of Lagos. So confident that it had arrived as the new toast of the people of the state was the PDP that it went ahead to challenge the victory of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of the APC as governor of the state in the courts. Not until it got all the way to the Supreme Court and was told in clear terms that Ambode and the APC validly won the 2015 gubernatorial election did the PDP give up the hope of unseating the current administration through legal processes. With eight members in the 40 member House of Assembly and a sizable seven at the National Assembly, PDP made its voice heard in the state more than ever before. And in the first year of the current dispensation, the party never spared any chance of telling and showing the ruling APC that they were co-owners of the political supports of the people of the state. “But for the luck they had and the malpractices they engaged in, there was no way APC would have defeated us in 2015. The people of Lagos voted for PDP like they never did before. That was an election the people showed interest in because they wanted to change the government at the state level. You can see how we won in areas they never thought we could win. So, they were simply told Lagos belongs to all of us,” a chieftain of the PDP, Hon. Seyi Damazio, said. Buoyed by these good turn of events in its favour that year, the PDP and its members looked forward to the 2019 Election with a mindset that given the party’s new popularity in the state, it is time to go for the kill. According to party chieftains, membership of its various local government and ward chapters across the state doubled between 2015 and early 2017. But today, the story, party sources revealed, is not actually the same again.  Unending crises Unfortunately for PDP, its fortunes in Lagos State have been on the decline since early 2017. Rather than take advantage of the victories it garnered in 2015 and put its house in order, the party continued with the intra-party bickering that had kept it on its kneels since the very formation of the party in the state. Party chieftains battled for control of party machineries while party members were left without directions almost immediately after the 2015 General Elections. While admitting that the fortunes of the party are on the decline once again in the state, Hon. Moshood Adegoke Salvador blamed the many problems of the PDP in Lagos on indiscipline. He concluded that unless and until party members and chieftains subscribe to party discipline, the PDP will not be able to achieve its aim of winning elections in the state. “Unity and forgiveness are some of the most important requirements that PDP needs to ascertain victory in the coming election. It is absolutely impossible to expect victory while you keep spoiling your party for no reason. Let us be loyal to PDP and not individuals. Let’s love PDP and win together in Lagos State. Don’t allow results of congresses to disturb our affection because governance is more important than party offices,” he said. But rather than heed his advice, leaders of the party had continued the infighting, especially after the last December National Convention of the party, where some chieftains of the party failed to get elected into offices they sought. The chairmanship ambitions of Tunde Adeniran, Bode George and Jimi Agbaje, according to party sources, further divided the Lagos State chapter of the party. “In spite of effort to harmonise our positions and agree on how best to move the party forward, some recent developments have worked against unity in Lagos PDP. One of such is the failed attempt by the Southwest zone to produce the national chairman of the party at the December convention. The ambition of some of our leaders further divided us and we are still working hard to heal the wounds,” a party source said. The Nation gathered that the camp of George, which has since he lost at the national convention, been unusually passive within the party, are miffed by the decision of some members of the chapter, to support other aspirants instead of throwing their weight behind him and giving his chairmanship ambition the much needed home support he was banking on then. “Though we are working hard to address the issues, it is a known fact that the decision of some of our leaders to abandon Chief George in the chairmanship race and support other aspirants, particularly from other states, divided us a lot. We had George and Agbaje in the race at a point. Yet, we could not bring ourselves to support our own in such a crucial race. That was really bad,” our source said. Worried about the situation within the party, a former Minister of Works, Senator Adeseye Ogunlewe, recently warned that the party would not realise its objective of winning the state in 2019 if members work at cross purposes. The worried party chieftain, while lamenting that the party should focus its attention on forthcoming elections instead of bickering, urged members to work together for the progress of the party in the state.  Troubling defections As if to add to the troubles of the embattled PDP chapter, the party, in recent time, has been bedeviled with crippling defections of its leading members to the ruling APC. “The defection of some of our shinning lights is, for now, our greatest headache,” Wale Falade, a chieftain of the party and former state executive committee member in the Action Alliance (AA), said. He was however quick to add that the party has found a way of stopping its members from leaving the party ahead of the 2019 elections. “Such defections will not happen again,” he said last month after a group of party members in Ikeja Local Government Area dumped the PDP for APC. “We have found out why our members are leaving and we have plugged the holes,” he boasted. But it seems the PDP got it wrong. Last Tuesday, another frontline chieftain of the party and a former commissioner in the state, Chief Mrs. Remi Adiukwu, left the PDP for APC, saying her defection was motivated by the sterling performance of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and the orderliness in the ruling party. “I am back in the party, when I say I am back, I am actively back. We will do all within our strength to deliver back to APC all the slots and mandates we took to PDP during the 2015 election. “My sojourn away from the party was based on principle just as my return today is encouraged today by the same principle of supporting only good things that will be beneficial to Lagos. Here in Oshodi-Isolo, PDP is now dead and we must not hear anything about PDP again. We are the ones who led PDP to victory here in 2015 and we are now back home to return the victory to APC,” she said. Rejoicing over Adiukwu’s defection, the Chairman of APC in Oshodi Local Government, Olamide Kasali, said the ruling party knows her strength politically, given her role in the 2015 elections. “She is the backbone of PDP in the council. With mama now with us, the fear of APC during elections is gone as the development marks an end to the opposition in the council,” Kasali said as he presented APC flag to Adiukwu. To Bolaji Muse-Ariyo, executive chairman of the council, the defection would make things easier for the council as the returnee will support the administration with her wealth of political experience. “And I am particularly happy that she is not just another defector, she is one of the most respected and connected politicians in Lagos State today. Her defection simply means there is no PDP here again,” he said. Few months before Adiukwu’s move, six, out of the eight PDP lawmakers at the State House of Assembly, have officially announced their defection to APC. The defection was announced through a letter addressed to the Speaker of the House, Mr. Mudashiru Obasa, titled; “Letter of Defection from PDP To APC.” It was signed by the defectors excluding the Minority Leader, who announced his defection on the floor of the House. The defectors included the Minority Leader, Akeem Bello (Amuwo Odofin II), Minority Whip, Mosunmola Sangodara (Surulere II), and Olusola Sokunle (Oshodi/Isolo I). Others were Jude Idimogu (Oshodi/Isolo II), Dayo Famakinwa (Ajeromi Ifelodun II) and Oluwa Fatai (Ajeromi/Ifelodun I). The two PDP lawmakers left in the opposition were Victor Akande (Ojo I) and Dipo Olorunrinu (Amuwo-Odofin I). Shortly after, one of the two remaining PDP lawmakers in the House, Victor Akande, jumped ship and joined the APC, leaving only Olorunrinu, who has vowed to remain the last man standing for his party in the House, as the lone PDP lawmaker. And when we recall that former Minister of State for Defence, Musiliu Obanikoro, had also returned to the fold of APC not too long ago, the plight of the opposition PDP would be better appreciated. He dumped the PDP after much speculations of his formal declaration for the APC for months until it finally came to pass at a rally in Lagos. These defections, pundits and political observers said, have further weakened the chances of the PDP as the 2019 elections approach.