The Acting Chairman of the Imo State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), recognized by the governor Rochas Okorocha’s camp, Chris Oguoma, on Friday described the swearing-in of the ‘suspended’ former Chairman of the party, Hillary Eke as the new state Chairman by the outgoing National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie Oyegun as “null and void and of no consequence” . Oguoma, who briefed journalists in his office at the party secretariat in Owerri, contended that Oyegun defied a valid Court Order that restrained the party from recognizing any list from the purported State Congress in Imo State. Oguoma who until his emergence as the State Chairman was the Vice Chairman Owerri Zone, noted that “the outgoing National Chairman, John Oyegun, acted illegally and as far as we are concerned in Imo APC, that action is null and void and of no effect. The reason is that we have a subsisting Court Order and he was advised by the National Legal Adviser of the party not to go in that direction but on his own, he knows what is driving him but that is not our business we are still doing our normal business here. In its totality it does not in any way affect what we are doing here”. According to him, “in the first place there was no Ward or Local Government Congresses anywhere in the state so where did the list that Oyegun inaugurated emanate from. The only legitimate APC Executive in Imo State is the one am heading”. Condemning Oyegun’s action further, Oguoma, stated that the former Chairman was suspended by the State Working Committee of the party for brazen violation of the party’s constitution. He narrated that, “on May 5 we all waited in all our various Wards to conduct the Congress but nothing happened, there were no result sheets and we concluded that the exercise did not hold and we advised our members to go home and await further directives but the following day, Eke came out from nowhere and announced that the Congress was conducted. Based on this, the SWC of the party met and suspended him and that action has not been vacated”. Decrying continued attacks on the Imo governor by section of the party, the Acting Chairman, noted that “none of those maligning the governor, has the clout or will power to drive the party in the zone”. “Okorocha is the undisputable leader of the party in the state and the entire Southeast zone and he is the only one that can drive the process. So the APC needs his support to succeed in the state and zone”.