•Benue IDPs get cash donation Two thousand and forty-three Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) in Bakassi Camp have started returning home to Guzamala Local Government Area of Borno State, the Army said yesterday. It said the number, comprising 378 households, were the first batch of IDPs who willingly expressed their desire to return home to resume farming, fishing and other socio-cultural activities. A statement by the spokesman of Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, said the resettlement was launched in Maiduguri, adding that modalities were worked out by the Army, Borno State government and Guzamala council. The statement reads: “At the launch, the Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Maj.-Gen. Rogers Nicholas, said the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, wants to ensure that willing IDPs return home to begin a normal life. “Gen. Nicholas added that the military has reinforced security in the locality and the traditional farm clearing (sharandaji) to open the farming season has been done in Gudumbali. “He assured the returnees of adequate protection while they resettle, adding that Operation Last Hold was to cover the locality and other communities. Former Minister of State for Niger Delta Sam Ode has donated N400,000 cash as scholarship fund for children in Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camp in Abegana, Benue State. Ode, who is a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), advised the camp commandant to choose 20 indigent children from different families and pay their school fees. He was concerned over the plight of the displaced persons, describing it as “deplorable”. He, however, lauded Governor Samuel Ortom for giving them proper care. The ex-minister hailed President Muhammadu Buhari and the military for tackling security challenges in the country, especially Boko Haram and herdsmen attacks. Representative of the Executive Secretary of State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) Ortese Beagh thanked Ode for the gesture and appealed to the former minister to use his position to ensure the IDPs return home.