Blue lake media, a media company which consists of music publishing, digital marketing, below the line advertising, film production, brand management and a record label as unveiled Joel Arochi, aka HI-10 to its record label. Hi- 10, an Urban Highlife artiste who hails from Ishiagu, Ivo LGA in Ebonyi State, was unveiled to the media as the label’s first artiste at a decorated event on Tuesday. Upon his entrant, the artiste has released two songs titled ‘I Gat You’ and ’24/7. It was however disclosed that works are ongoing for visuals of the songs. “The video to ‘I Gat You’ is already in the pipeline and we are looking forward to September for its release,” said Chidi Uzoeshi, CEO of Blue Lake Media. Listening to the song, ‘I Gat You’, is soulful, relatable and danceable song while the sophomore single ’24/7′, has a nostalgic mellow old school traditional highlife vibe that is rhythmic, it is a good piece. The sound is intervolving and sequenced effortlessly. Speaking at the ceremony, Uzoeshi said; “We are launching our company’s operations into the Nigerian market. We are using this opportunity to bring the general press together to unveil Joel Arochi, aka HI-10 as the first artiste signed to the label arm of the company. The Blue Lake Media honcho further disclosed that “The Company’s plan for the artiste is to make him one of the leading mainstream artistes by the end of 2018.” On the qualities he found in HI-10, he said; “Hi 10 is humble, level headed and very focused on his music. He doesn’t take his music as an art, for him, his music is like going to work in the morning and coming back in the evening and I have known him for three years and I am satisfied with his conduct. “I think he is going to be able to represent us globally that was why I signed him. He has a good music direction. I am investing in his pain which he has been able to express in his music.” Hi-10 who is also a music producer started his career in 2012 at Sound Berg music factory. In the last two years, his talent and music direction has been developed by Blue Lake Media. His music journey is nothing short of a miracle. The new signee expressed satisfaction and gratitude to the label for seeing him worthy as a good investment, stating that he is ready to give his best to his fans and the music industry at large.