The crisis of confidence between Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and top stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state is still far from over. Repeated moves by concerned party members in Imo State and Abuja to reconcile the two factions have failed to have the desired impact with none of the two factions willing to concede to the other on the recently held congresses and the choice of the party’s governorship candidate in next year’s election. One of the leading actors in the reconciliation process is the governor’s younger brother, Jude Okorocha, a lawyer who a source said has done a lot to bring about a truce but to no avail. “His efforts have so far amounted to nothing, as none of the contending forces is ready to listen to any advice that would require making the needed sacrifice,” a source told The Nation. It was also gathered that some traditional rulers in the state have advised the governor and the APC Restoration Coalition to reconcile their differences. The coalition members are insisting that there is nothing to discuss until the governor drops the idea of imposing his son-in-law, Uche Nwosu, as the party’s governorship candidate in the 2019 election while  the governor “would not hear of this, leading to the current stalemate,” according to  an aide to one of the traditional rulers. Reconciliation efforts from the Abuja end have also failed after Okorocha took the matter to President Muhammadu Buhari, first in his country home Daura, and later in Abuja with former Edo State Governor, Adams Oshiomhole. Sources said Buhari’s position is that the matter be resolved amicably as a family affair. He is also said to have insisted he would not want to intervene ‘unnecessarily’ in the affairs of the political party in states. The National Chairman of APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, had separately led the initiative to reconcile the Imo APC impasse amicably. But a stakeholder confided that his efforts also suffered rejection because some of the aggrieved members, who are part of the coalition said issues like lack of compensation for demolished properties and allegation of land grabbing have combined to put APC on the defensive. According to a source, “we felt that Oyegun’s reconciliation moves will achieve very little except he has concrete answers to these worrisome questions.” The Imo State Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere, dissociated himself from reports on the ongoing reconciliation moves. In a statement by his media aide, Uche Onwuchekwa, Madumere said he was surprised to hear “the rumour of ongoing reconciliation, adding that he only got to know about the “purported reconciliation through barrage of calls and text messages by concerned Imo citizens.” According to him, there was nothing on the table to call for such reconciliation. Asked to confirm the progress of the reconciliation efforts so far made over the controversies arising from the congresses and choice of APC’s governorship candidate in the state, Okorocha’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo, said “Imo APC is intact with Governor Okorocha in charge. The coalition folks are 10 in number. They are based in Abuja. They have no valid claim to make in Imo APC. Those who vote are with us.” 