Nigerians have been urged to pay attention to how to avoid developing thyroids disorders. According to Director of Thyroidism Awareness and Support initiative (TASI), Mrs Iruoma Ofortube, who gave this advice in Lagos while observing this year’s World Thyroid Day, thyroid is the hormone control centre for the whole body. “If you’re gaining weight, constipated or feeling exhausted, find out how a thyroid problem may be responsible. It is by going to hospitals that you can get the diagnosis right,” she said. She identified causes of thyroid to include Iodine deficiency; Hashimoto’s thyroiditis; Gravel’s disease; genetic disorder; previous medical treatments such as Radiation therapy; medications; fluoride; chemicals in pesticides; Cyanide from cassava that disrupts thyroid; and over consumption of soy products. Mrs Ofortube said Nigerians, especially women, should avoid starvation diets and be sure to throw in a weekly or bi-weekly cheat meal to keep their metabolism revived, as they should learn how to say no to excessive endurance exercise. “Long distance runs and spinning classes may be doing your thyroid a dis-service. Protect yourself against X-rays. Stop smoking. Keep an eye on blood work. Long before your thyroid can be diagnosed you may have a warning sign: thyroid antibodies, which are prevalent in Hashimoto’s. If you have a family history of thyroid disease it’s wise to test for these. Their presence predicts a propensity towards hypothyroidism, and should be monitored on a yearly basis. Nipping these antibodies early may preserve your thyroid function.” Mrs Ofortube said her non governmental organisation (NGO) – TASI is at the forefront of ensuring that enough awareness is created on the disorder among Nigerians, especially women. Mrs Ofortube said: “Thyroid is the butterfly-shaped gland in the human body, which is responsible for secreting thyroid hormones, which influence the metabolic rate and protein synthesis as well as the rate at which the body produces energy from nutrients and oxygen. It is situated in the neck, this two-inch gland plays a very important role in managing weight, mood swings, hair growth, body temperature, heart-rate as well as other important functions like brain development and fertility. “However, when this gland does not function properly (hypothyroidism) or produces more hormones (hyperthyroidism), then multiple problems can crop up for an individual” she said. According to Ofortube, for any person suffering from thyroid, it is not only important to take the recommended medication regularly, but also imperative to control other diseases associated with the disorder. She added that the Thyroid Gland and its numerous and often ‘invisible’ symptoms can be handled medically if the right steps are taken early enough. The core objective of establishing World Thyroid Day, she said, is to create awareness on thyroids disorders, emphasise the prevalence and prevention of thyroid disorders, with major focus on the urgent need for education and prevention programmes to increase thyroid health, preventive measures, and treatment modalities or minimise the impact of thyroid disease. “World Thyroid day is an annual global event established in 2008, and initiated by Thyroid Federation International (TFI) – a worldwide umbrella body that guides thyroid associations. I am a survivor. This informed my establishing this organisation in 2015 as a result of the terrible experience I passed through. Thyroid disorder can be the underlying cause of infertility, mental conditions, and even maternal mortality. I am calling on the government to pay more attention to this disorder,” said Mrs Ofortube. Major challenge, according to her, is low awareness on the disorder and the government has not really paid significant attention to thyroid disorder like other public health conditions such as HIV, cancer, malaria, standard diagnostic and therapeutic facilities for thyroid disorders are lacking in the country leaving many sufferers to die in silence or ignorance. “So, I call on the government to prioritise thyroid disorder as a major health challenge, as it affects reproductive health, which is a major contributor to enumerated conditions above.” 