Dr Wale Alabi, the Project Director, Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award (NHEA), has urged government at all levels to encourage private sector to drive the healthcare services in Nigeria. Alabi spoke at the Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award 2018 organised by the Global Health Projects and Resources in partnership with Anadach Group on Friday night in Lagos. According to him, governments cannot bear the burden of the healthcare delivery alone, if we really want to provide and achieve excellent healthcare services in the country. “We are not there yet in delivering good healthcare services, but we are aspiring and have a lot of centres of excellence springing up in Nigeria. “Some of the health organisations and institutions are improving  quality and service delivery in the country. “This is the main reasons we are appreciating and recognising excellence in healthcare delivery among health organisations and institutions. “Due to the excellent results, I think we are going to be the medical tourism spot for West Africa,” Alabi said. Also, Dr Anthony Omolola, the Chairman, Advisory Board of NHEA, said that hardworking health organisations and institutions need to be celebrated for their contribution to the development of the nation’s health sector. Omolola said that some health organisations and institutions rendered selfless commitment to promote quality healthcare delivery which had greatly impacted lives of many. “These trail blazers have demonstrated professionalism and empathy in their outstanding services to humanity. “I urge other health organisations and institutions to emulate them by working tirelessly to ensure exceptional healthcare delivery,” he said.
Commenting, Dr Jimi Coker, Chief Medical Director, Lagoon Hospitals, said that excellent outcomes provided by the hospital earned it the “Best Private Healthcare Provider of The Year Award’’. Coker said that it would encourage the hospital management to work harder. Also, Mrs Nana Atta-Omeiza, the Chief Operations Officer, Harmony Advanced Diagnostics Centre, Ilorin, said that the hospital won the “Best Radiology Service Provider of the Year Award’’. Atta-Omeiza said that her organisation’s zero tolerance for service failure earned it the award.
She said: “It means all the hard work we always put in were being rewarded. “With this award, we will not relax nor sleep, but rather do more and work harder,” she said. Mr Elochukwu Adibo, the Medical Director, El-Lab Diagnostics and Medical Research Centre, described the event as an exhibition of quality, excellence and hard work. Adibo, one of the nominees for the “Private Laboratory Service Provider of the Year Award’’, said that not winning the award would propel his organisation to work and do better. “When you know your quality in delivery is appreciated, you will keep delivering more and better quality,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Nigerian Healthcare Excellence Award is an annual to celebrate distinguished personalities and organisations that have contributed immensely to the growth of the Nigeria health sector. NHEA started in 2014 and has since become a high profile event in the healthcare industry, gaining wide acceptance from stakeholders in the healthcare community, public and private sectors. NHEA received over 2,500 nominations in 2018 and recorded over 60,000 votes on the NHEA online E-voting portal for all nominees. NAN reports that 150 health organisations were nominated for the 27 categories of awards.