Rufus Adewale lost every fortune he could boast of. The 43-year-old visa procurement vendor still struggled to eke out a living two years after losing his wife, Fatimah, to breast cancer. His Travel and Holiday firm crumbled after he pulled out N7 million from the business to offset the medical bill incurred in the course of his wife’s treatment. Despite going bankrupt to keep his wife alive, Rufus lost his wife – a mother of two – last July. Since then, things have not been the same for the family. Education of their two children –Samuel and Ifeoluwa – was threatened after they were withdrawn from a fairly classy private school they attended prior to their mother’s death. Not wanting his kids to be disadvantaged in education, Rufus enrolled them in low-fee paying schools, which his meagre income could afford. Last week, however, Rufus was relieved of the burden of paying school fees for his two children. Ifeoluwa, his eight-year-old daughter, got a full scholarship, which brought a big relief to the struggling widower. Ifeoluwa’s brilliance, and not her father’s financial circumstance, got her the scholarship that will last all through the period of her primary and secondary education. She was among the 11 indigent pupils of Bridge International Academies that won full scholarship from Fadahunsi Education Foundation, an Ikoyi, Lagos-based non-profit organisation that supports education needs of children from low-income backgrounds. Bridge International Academies is a group of schools established in slummy communities to give children of low-income families an access to quality and standard education. Like Ifeoluwa, the dream being nurtured by the 12-year-old Rukayat Salami to become a medical doctor was renewed by the scholarship. The Primary 4 pupil whose father, Moshood, is a road-side auto-mechanic, consecutively finished the academic session topping her class. Mrs Bukola Salami, Rukayat’s mother, said the scholarship had lifted a “huge burden” off the family. She said: “We could not hide the joy on our faces when my husband and I received a call, informing us of Rukayat’s scholarship. She has been nurturing an ambition to become a medical doctor and she always reminds us every day, but it’s like a huge burden to us because of the financial status of the family. We only hoped we would be able to support her dreams. “With her scholarship up till secondary school, we don’t have to be worried again about her academic pursuits because our prayers have partly been answered. All we need to do is to be saving towards her university education and I believe she will definitely attain her dreams.” She promised that the family would support Rukayat emotionally in order to improve in her academic performance and get more scholarship. Explaining the objectives of the intervention, the foundation’s coordinator, Toluwanimi Adeniyi, said the scholarship focused on addressing social issues preventing indigent children from attending schools and fighting illiteracy at the grassroots. In the last five years, she said the foundation had committed resources to protect children from being vulnerable to social problems affecting the larger society. Through the scholarship, she said the foundation was achieving its mission of investing in children with the aim to create value re-orientation. She said: “At Fadahunsi Education Foundation, we don’t have limit in our spending on education, especially when it comes to promoting quality education and academic excellence. Bridge International Academies is one of the schools we are collaborating with to drive our grassroots education programmes. “We chose Bridge International Academies because of its rich curriculum and academic integrity it has built. Because the school is basically established for the children of low-income families, we consider it as a very good platform to promote our goals.” Ms. Adeniyi confirmed that the pupils would enjoy the scholarship up to their secondary school education, but said the recipients’ performances would be measured yearly to sustain the scholarship. The beneficiaries were selected across all the branches of Bridge International Academies in Lagos. Others beneficiaries include Timileyin Babatunde Ilo, Esther Shokunbi, Mnesoma Rita Emeka, Faruk Temitope Abdul-Rasheed, Usman Sanusi, Feranmi Shofekun, Olayemi Adigun and Dorcas Olaleye, among others.