High school students and lovers of live music are in for exciting times,  Lagos High School Music Challenge (LHSMC) kicks off.  LHSMC is a unique music contest aimed at harnessing music talents among children and teenagers in the state while empowering and offering early guidance into the ever growing and exciting world of live music. The program which is open to Secondary School students in Lagos will officially debut on June 20, 2018, at the Multi-Purpose Hall, EKO FM, Agidingbi, Ikeja, Lagos with schools vying for honors. Also, solo talents in music will be on stage to contest among themselves. Executive Producer of the show/Chief Executive Officer, Entertainment Media Limited, Biodun Kupoluyi, explained that “the appalling trend of parading music illiterates as the elites of Nigerian music pushed us as an organization to birth this idea. The rich musical history that King Sunny Ade, Fela, Dan Maraya Jos, Bala Miller, IK Cairo, Ebenezer Obey, Osita Osadebe, Oliver De Coque, and all the other great legends toiled to build is gradually eroding, dying and that is why we decided to face the next generation to help arrest the situation.” Contestants are to perform cover songs and original compositions during the competition. While excitement is high among school pupils, music instructors and parents, organisers say schools have since began rehearsals for the competition that will parade 14 of the 26 bands eliminated during the first round, leaving the remaining contestants to face the battle in front of a panel of industry experts for the second round. Among the schools qualified for the finals are CMS Grammar School, Igbobi Junior High School, Supreme Education Foundation, Bishop Howell, Seolad Group of Schools, ZIggy Wisdom School,Living Stone Model School, Babington Macaulay, and Baptist Academy, Command Day Secondary School,  Stadium Junior Grammar School  and Agidingbi Junior Grammar School, among others. The 12 qualified bands in the First Round tagged, Knockout Series, as well as winners in Solo-Face-Off  will move up to this year’s Grand Finale set for June 21 which coincides with World Music Day. LHSMC, which aims to discover, develop, and promote live music and band culture among secondary school students in Lagos is endorsed by the Lagos State’s Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Ministry of Education and EKO FM.