Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) have met in Abuja to examine ways of ensuring prompt determination of high profile corruption cases. The forum was at the instance of the Centre for Socio-Legal Studies (CSLS), led by Prof Yemi Akinseye-George (SAN). Participants said emphasis should shift to targeting the proceeds of crime and pursing non-conviction-based asset recovery. They called for an amendment of the Constitution for defendants to prove the source of their wealth where their assets are beyond their means, in line with the United Kingdom’s Unexplained Wealth provision. They recommended that punitive cost should be awarded against defence and prosecution lawyers who delay proceedings. The participants said there was the need for a template to guide the determination of the amount of cost to be awarded and who should be liable for it. To curb procedural delays, the forum suggested massive deployment of technology in all facets of the criminal justice system to reduce procedural delays. According to them, para-legal training is needed for investigator, while a lawyer must be present when obtaining confessional statement from a suspect and must be part of the investigative process. This, they noted, will reduce cases where defendants deny their supposed confessional statement at trial, thereby forcing the court to conduct trial-within-trial. It was also suggested that the current excessive reliance on confessional statement by investigators should be done away with and that emphasis should be on scientific and intelligence based investigations. Participants also stressed the need to comply with universal rejection of torture as a means of investigation. They called for prompt actualisation of the call for the creation of specialised or designated courts for high profile corruption cases. Participants recommended special training of judges and lawyers. They called for a systematic and transparent management of recovered asset. Winesses, they said, must be well protected and their allowances paid. Participants resolved to persuade the Senate to approve the nominees for the Governing Board of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission, led by the Chairman-designate, Prof Bolaji Owasanoye. They noted that having made exceptions for certain presidential nominees, the Senate should confirm Prof Owasanoye as ICPC chairman. Participants praised the Chief Justice Walter Onnoghen for providing sound leadership for the Judiciary and for successes recorded so far. The groups include the Public and Private Development Center, Integrity Organisation, Zero Corruption Coalition, Publish What You Pay, Good Governance Team, Center LSD, Center for Democracy and Development, Institutional and Sustainable Development Foundation, Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Center, Socio Economic Research Development Center and the Youth Initiative for Advocacy Growth and Advancement