With the desire to discover the world together, a film collaboration initiative is connecting film crews from different nationalities for the purpose of creative narratives and documentary films. Bringing Nigeria into this creative circle is the founder/CEO of Africa International Film Festival (AFRIFF) Ms Chioma Ude, who says her passion is to improve standards in the film industry. Anchored on the belief that diversity makes the world move forward, the programme – Cine Nomad – has burgeoning filmmakers travelling through borders, exploring creative freedom, cultural exchanges, and ability to create together as values to stand up for. In the programme involving graduates from five different film schools: the ISIS-SE and IMAGINE in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso; the ISMA in Cotonou, Benin Republic; Lodz Film School, Poland; CinéFabrique in Lyon, France, and AFRIFF, Lagos, Nigeria, 15 AFRIFF students are representing Nigeria in the other four countries, just as select young filmmakers from each of the four countries are currently shooting their film projects in Nigeria. Their mission will be to find actors and actresses, sets and different artistic collaborators for their film projects at the end of their different trainings. For the programme which kicked off on May 22nd, participants are expected to make their selected projects from June 4th – June 23rd, 2018. The projects were picked by an international jury from the participating countries which included Mildred Okwo of Audrey Silva Productions and  Laurent Cantet ( 2008 winner of Palme d’Or in Cannes for Entre les murs). Confronted with the difficulties of the unknown of a foreign country, the film students are meeting each other on themes of culture, socials, politics and religion, which they find intriguing. The film crews, upon arrival on set in each country, will be working together on technical scouting for about a week. After which they will shoot the various films in two weeks. For the 2018 edition, 11 short films are going to be produced. The Nigerian AFRIFF participants are being sponsored by Envivo Communications and Arise Aliga Foundation. Arise Aliga Foundation is an Arua based philanthropic initiative of Mr. Asega Aliga whose objective is to impact society through education support; entrepreneurship development; technology development; and support to community development initiatives of faith based institutions. The Foundation seeks to impact target communities in Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Mozambique, Nigeria and Sierra Leone. Envivo Communications is a Nigerian media firm and operators of over-the-top (OTT) streaming service called nVIVO TV, aimed at increasing its offering of Nollywood and international video content throughout Africa. The vision of nVIVO TV is to drive the African and African diaspora market towards a new online streaming experience that provides significant domestic content,” said Olu Obadina, chairman and chief innovation officer at Envivo.