The General Officer Commanding, 2 Mechanised Division of Nigerian Army, Major General Okwudili Azinta, on Monday assured Nigerians that the military onslaught against terrorism, insurgency and kidnapping across the country, especially in the North East will soon be won. He said the Nigerian Army will sustain the counter-terrorism and counter-insurgency operations in order to ensure internal security of Nigeria and also continue to defend the country’s territorial integrity. The 2Div boss gave the assurance at the opening of a week-long Nigerian Army Finance Corps Warrant Officers/Senior Non-Commissioned Officers Training Week 2018, holding at the headquarters of 2 Division of Nigerian Army, Ibadan. The training entitled: ‘Enhancing the Capacity of Nigerian Army Finance Corps Warrant Officers/Senior Non-Commissioned Officers for Prudent and Efficient Application of Financial Resources in the Nigerian Army,’ is being attended by the Chief of Accounts and Budget (Army), Major Gen Jehadi Jakko. Azinta, who was the special guest of honour on the occasion, noted that Nigerian Army “is currently involved in several internal security operations with the counter-terrorism and counter- insurgency operations in the North East,adding that “the operations have, no doubt, stretched the human and material resources of the Nigerian Army.” He, however, commended the efforts of all the officers and soldiers of the Nigerian Army, especially those in the North East, for their sacrifice on behalf of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen. Tukur Buratai, saying the military onslaught would be sustained in order to win Nigeria’s territory against terrorism,  insurgency and kidnapping. Azinta urged officers and soldiers to remain steadfast, focused, discipline, and professional while been guided by the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, which is to have a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles in line with the global best practices. He described Nigerian Army Finance Corps Warrant Officers/Senior Non-Commissioned Officers Training Week as “an annual event organised for warrant officers and senior non-commissioned officers of the Nigerian Army Finance Corps to refresh their knowledge and skills in financial management as well as keeping them abreast of the global best practices. “The training week is also designed to enable the participants to the right competences essential for optimum performances. It is my belief that the outcome of this CAB training week will contribute significantly to actualising the Chief of Army Staff’s vision of having a professionally responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional roles.” Chief of Accounts and Budget (Army), Major Gen Jehadi Jakko, earlier in his welcome address, identified prudence as the thrust of responsibilities of the Nigerian Army Finance Corps, adding that warrant officers and senior non-commissioned officers of the finance corps must be committed to achieving the vision of the Chief of Army Staff.