The member representing Nsukka/Igboeze south Federal Constituency, Dr. Pat Asadu has announced plans to pay registration fees of West African Examination Council (WAEC) and National Examination Council (NECO) for 1000 students. The initiative, which is part of empowerment programme for his constituents, will benefit the 2018/2019 SS3 students. Asadu made this known during an on-going quiz competition for students across the 41 schools in the constituency. Speaking on behalf of Asadu, one of the coordinators of the quiz competition, Mr. Ogbuja Ogbu said it was a preparatory ground for students throughout secondary schools in Nsukka/Igboeze south federal constituency for the love and interest the lawmaker has for education. He noted that Asadu would also pick the bill for text books for the 1000 students in core subjects of English language, Mathematics, Physics, Chemistry and Information Technology (ICT) among others, while all the participating schools, students and teachers shall be appreciated with participating awards to be announced by the lawmaker. He announced that the grand finale of the competition comes up on June 30th 2018 where the 1000 students would emerge to smile home with the WAEC/NECO examination scholarship of both senior and Junior secondary schools in the 41 schools of Nsukka/Igboeze south federal constituency. Also speaking, Mr. Chineme Onyeke, one of the aides to Dr. Asadu said that the lawmaker was not reneging in his commitment to education as a means of empowering the young ones. ‘He is constructing four classroom blocks at both primary and post primary schools, health posts, solar street lights in all the communities while arrangements have reached advanced stage for graduates on agriculture training overseas in which 1000 graduates of the constituency would benefit,” he said. Reacting to the gesture, a Special Assistant to the Governor of Enugu State, Hon. Emmanuel Jonathan, while commending the lawmaker for the gesture , said that it would no doubt relieve the parents of the beneficiaries the pains of sourcing for the money to pay the WAEC dues. He urged Asadu to continue with his people oriented programmes, adding that such gestures would complement the good works being carried out by the Governor of Enugu State, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi.