All roads tomorrow leads to the State House in Abuja for the conferment of posthumous national awards of Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) on Chief Moshood Abiola and Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON) on Chief Gani Fawehinmi. Abiola’s running mate in the scuttled election Babagana Kingibe, will also be honoured with the GCON award. Musa Odoshimokhe profiles some of the pro-democracy activists. AFTER twenty-five years of agitation, pro-democracy forces can now heave a sigh of relief. Their clamour for recognition for the acclaimed winner of the June 12, 1993 presidential election, Chief MKO Abiola, will tomorrow be officially granted. Key leaders in the struggle for the revalidation of the results the first-ever general elections adjudged as the fairest and fairest, have been invited by the Federal Government for posthumous proclamation of the highest national  award of the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) on the symbol of the struggle. The results of the election were “arrested” in a terse statement by the then presidential spokesman Nduka Irabor during the administration of self-styled military President Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, who superintended the election. All previous administrations turned down the activists’ yearly request that the presumed winner of the election be immortalised. But in a statement on June 6, President Muhammadu Buhari proclaimed June 12 Democracy Day and the conferment of national honours on the late Abiola, his running mate Ambassador Babagana Kingibe and foremost pro-democracy activist, the late Gani Fawehinmi. As at last night, four Southwest states of Lagos, Ogun, Ondo and Osun, have declared tomorrow a work-free day to mark the 25th anniversary of the annulment of a presidential poll adjudged by local and international observers as Nigeria’s best. Some of activists, who took to the streets in cities centres to protest the annulment of the results and demanded for revalidation, are profiled below.  Femi Falana  The activist-lawyer was in the vanguard of revalidation of June 12 presidential election results’ campaigners. Like other prominent figures, Falana took the battle to the streets where participated actively in demonstrations. Falana, now a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), in the company of others, suffered arrests and detention in the hands of government forces that took his positions on issues as affront to constituted authority. On many fora, Falana pointed out the evil associated with the annulment and barring the unforeseen, the Lagos-based lawyer will be in Abuja tomorrow for the ceremonial proclamation.  Olabiyi Durojaiye  The Ogun East Senator between 1999 and 2003 fought on the side of the masses for the actualization of the annulled election. Durojaiye was an active member of the National Democratic Coalition (NADECO), a pressure group that was turn in the flesh of the military administration of the late Gen. Sani Abacha. He was among those detained by Gen. Abachan as “Prisoners of War”. Following his release from after the death of Abacha, Durojaiye contested and won the Ogun East Senatorial seat under the Alliance for Democracy (AD). He is a staunch member of Afrenifere. His memoir on the annulled June 12, 1993, is in the works.  Segun Osoba  The former Ogun State governor under the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) played major role in the struggle. He supported the cause through media outreach and financial supports for pro-democracy groups including oil workers unions – National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG). He was a thorn in the flesh of antagonists of June 12. As a NADECO member, he faced persecution from the military and had to go underground from time to time to sustain the cause of June 12. He ranks among the heroes of democracy.  Chima Ubani  Ubani was one of the activists who lost his life in the struggle for a better Nigeria. He played critical role to ensure victory and he became a prisoner of conscience under the military. His thirst for a fair and better society led to his untimely death in an accident en route Maiduguri, Bornu State for a pro-democracy rally.  He was honoured locally and internationally for his selfless efforts.  Beko Ransom Kuti  He was the chairman for the Campaign for Democracy (CD), a forum he deployed to the emancipation of the downtrodden. The medical doctor-turned rights’ crusader was imprisoned by the military for speaking out against injustice.  Baba Omojola  Baba Omojola was a chieftain of the NADECO, a platform that rallied other coalition groups against dictatorship. The fiery rights’ activist was incarcerated for being in the forefront of against injustice. He did not abandon the cause even in the face of intimidation by the military. He would be remembered for his contributions to make the country a better place to live in for all.  Tunji Abayomi  Dr. Abayomi, a legal practitioner and activist known for his principle on fairness and justice, played an active role in the crusade for a better nation. To him, those who annulled the June 12 election murdered sleep. He was arrested and detained for several years by the military. Dr. Abayomi was in the forefront of the crusade to free Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, when he was arrested over the phantom coup plot against Gen. Abacha.  Mike Ozekhome  Mike Ozekhomhe is a lawyer and human rights’ activist. The Edo-born activist led youths and concerned stakeholders in the battle to liberate the country from the jackboots of the military. He equally deployed his legal support to ensure justice.  Ayo Obe  As President of Civil Liberties Organisations (CLO), Dr. Ayo Obe   was in the forefront of the agitation for justice. Through the CLO, she rallied many organisations to get justice for Abiola. She could not be cowed by the military as she threw all resources at her disposal into the crusade for a better Nigeria.  Shehu Sani  Senator Shehu Sani was fearless in the battle against military dictatorship.  The Kaduna Central District Senator was arrested and clamped into detention by government forces during the administration of Gen. Abacha. Yesterday, Sani shared on his twitter handle, photographs of his time in prison in 1995. He was sentenced to 15 years in prison for treason against the military. He shared on Twitter: “In my Prison Cell, Aba, Abia State, in 1995 serving 15-year sentence for (1) Treason against the Military Junta (2) Managing an unlawful society, The Campaign for Democracy CD. Prison number 95/1186. The other on the right, in my Cell in Kiri Kiri Maximum Security Prison Lagos.”   The Annulment Statement by Nduka Irabor In view of the spirit of litigation pending in various courts, the federal government is compelled to take appropriate steps in order to rescue the judiciary from intra-voyaging. Those steps are taken so as to protect our legal system and the judiciary from being ridiculed and politicized, both nationally and internationally. In an attempt to end this ridiculous charade which may culminate in judicial anarchy, the Federal Military Government has decide to stop forthwith, all court proceedings pending or to be instituted and appeals thereon in respect of any matter touching, relating or concerning the presidential election held on June 12, 1993. The Transition to Civil Rule Political Programme (Amendment Number 3), Decree Number 52 of 1992 and the Presidential Election (Basic Constitutional and Transitional Provisions)Decree Number 13 of 1993 are hereby repealed. All acts or omissions done or purported to have been done, or to be done by any person, authority etc, under the above named decree are hereby declared invalid. The National Electoral Commission is hereby suspended. All acts or omissions done or purported to have been done by itself, its officers or agents under the repealed Decree number 13, 1993 are hereby nullified.”  