In bid to improve wellness and the fitness level of Nigerians, Pan-African payment Card Company Verve International has held a one-day workout and healthy living session in Lagos for the second edition. Not less than 500 Nigerian participated in the body and transformation workout and healthy living sessions held at the Landmark events centre in Lagos which saw increased number of participant. This year’s edition themed “Zero Excuses” was aimed at encouraging both fitness enthusiasts and individuals who are not so keen on exercising. According to the Group CEO, Interswitch, Mitchell Elegbe the 2018 edition of the annual workout session was successful with increase numbers of participants which has indicated that awareness on healthy-life style is impacting. He said, “At Verve, we are concerned about not only our customers’ wellbeing and health; we are equally concerned about the wellbeing of Nigerians. This is why we conceptualized the verve life fitness event last year. “Many of us find ourselves guilty of giving excuses when it comes to picking up our gym bags and staying fit against the constraints of the everyday hustle, particularly in a city like Lagos, so we decided that this edition will be about inspiring people to get rid of those excuses and live the verve life and that’s exactly what we have been able to achieve as you can see from the number of people here today. The Verve Life, in our view isn’t an event, it’s a movement, and we are keen to continue to nurture this conversation and community. “Nobody was left out at the event as even the pregnant women had a session of where they were engaged in exercises to ease delivery at childbirth. The children also had a variety of games to play as well as exercises that will improve their intellectual development. “All attendees were treated to a delightful morning with fitness challenges and masterclasses on Boxing, Strength and Conditioning, Dance, Yoga, Zumba, Martial Arts and Nutrition. Attendees with Verve cards received discounts of up to 20% on items purchased from the different vendors at the event.” Also present were Divisional CEO for Interswitch Cards & Tokens `business, `Mike Ogbalu (III), Group Chief Product & Marketing Officer for Interswitch, Cherry Eromosele, Igwe 2pac, Uti Nwachukwu, Bryan Okwara, Beverly Osu, Wofai Fada and lots of other professionals, corporate executives, celebrities and others. Lucozade Nigeria, Hygeia HMO, Aquafina Nigeria, Nivea Nigeria, Duracell, Truppr and various living/fitness merchants supported the event. Verve is a pan-African payment lifestyle card that offers banks, cardholders and organizations comprehensive payment card products and solutions, providing instant, seamless and safe access to funds and enabling users adopt positive lifestyle choices. 