It was an admixture of tears and tributes as Dr Ifedayo Daramola, a journalism teacher was laid to rest on Saturday at his Ajipowo community in Akure, Ondo State. Daramola, until his death, was the  acting  Head of Mass Communication Department, Adekunle Ajasin University,Akungba (AAUA), Ondo State. At a well attended lying in state and funeral service held in Ajipowo,  family members, colleagues and well wishers paid him their last respects. Daramola  had  published several books which are now being used in Mass Communication and Journalism Departments in several Nigerian  institutions. Daramola died on May 19 during  a brief illness at age 60 and is survived by  a wife and three children. In his sermon, Assembly Pastor of  St. Williams Christ Apostolic Church, Pastor Moses Adeoye, urged Nigerians  to live an exemplary life and touch the lives of others. “Above all, be of good character, desist from evil ways as we will all end up in the grave where termites will consume us, ” he said. Adeoye described the deceased as a man who had deep passion for education and had  helped many to achieve their academic pursuits. His colleague, Prof. Akinsola Agofi, who described  the deceased  as a  hardworking, pleasant and loving scholar, said he  had  impacted greatly on his generation. One of his students, who identified herself as Ronke Adetola,  said the deceased  was a jovial lecturer who made classes interesting with comic relief. “He is one of the lecturers who had a large heart and made classes interesting through his jovial means of teaching. “ He  built academic excellence in us, ” she said. The deceased began his career as newscaster at Radio Lagos in 1983 and later joined Punch newspapers as a sub-editor. He was also a lecturer at the Nigeria Institute of Journalism, Lagos, Lagos State Polytechnic and AAUA. Until his death, Daramola had a  Ph.D in Mass Communication from Babcock University as well as  BSC and MSc in Mass communication from the University of Lagos. (NAN)