It sounds thorny that Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State, who prosecuted his governorship mandate on job creation premise, could scrap the College of Agriculture, redeploy 261 students of the college and sack the school’s 231 employees. This happened nearly four decades after the institution’s establishment. But the devil in the kitchen remains thus: at what point did job creation, productivity and quality education meet? The state government, in a letter signed by the Commissioner for Agriculture and Natural Resources, Monday Osaigbovo, announced the termination of the lecturers’ appointments. In the letter entitled, “Restructuring of the College of Agriculture, Iguoriakhi,” the commissioner said, following the restructuring of the college and subsequent closure, government decided to terminate their services with effect from January 31, 2018. The letter reads: “I am directed to refer to the above mentioned subject and to inform you that following the restructuring of the college of Agriculture, Iguoriakhi and its subsequent closure, government has decided that your services are no longer required with effect from 31st January, 2018. ”You are requested to handover all government properties in your possession to the permanent secretary, ministry of Agriculture and Natural Resources immediately. “Furthermore, I am to add that in line with your terms of engagement, your cheque for January 2018, monthly Bursary with one month in lieu of notice is herewith attached.” The staff, on a protest march to the palace of the Oba of Benin, insisted that their sack did not follow due process. The staff also dropped a copy of their protest letter entitled, “Special Letter for Your Intervention Into The Massive Sack of All Staff of Edo State College of Agriculture, Iguoriakhi,” in the House of Assembly for onward transmission to the Speaker of the house, Kabiru Adjoto. They said: “There was no due process followed by the governor in relieving us of our duties as permanent or confirmed staff in public service and this contravenes the provisions of the public service rules. “By record of service, majority of the staff had put up to a minimum of 10 years in service while others have put in almost 20 years and since the governor visited the school on August 7, 2017 and its subsequent temporary closure till date, there is no evidence of any form of infrastructure or administrative restructuring by the governor as against the six months he promised during his visit.” However, a visit to the institution has shown that the college has been run aground with a traumatic history of not achieving/actualising the purpose for which it was established, 37-year down the road. For the record, the institution was established by the civilian administration of late Ambrose Ali in 1981. But the school was later shot down by the successive military governors and was only reopened by the Lucky Igbinedion administration in 2001. From the foregoing, it is obvious the college has suffered criminal neglect or outright abandonment by a generation of self-imposed leadership that are bereaved of the value of education without arresting the college’s banal fate of churning out half-baked graduates, year in year out. It is heartrending that a critical institution, such as College Agriculture saddled with the responsibility of offering Ordinary Diploma and Higher National Diploma in Agricultural Technology, Animal Science, Crop Science, Agricultural Extension and Management, failed to meet her obligatory role to ensure food sufficiency in every material respect. But for the temporary closure of the college on August, 2017 by Governor Obaseki with a promise to revamp it, nothing of note has been heard about the college. But the counsel to the sacked members of staff, West Idahosa debunked, said the school entered its golden era about 2014 under the leadership of Dr. Obasogie as the Provost. He stated that the school has never been de-accredited, rather the school has gained ascendancy and it’s on the upsurge. “The school’s courses have been further recognised by the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) which elevated the school to HND awarding institution in 2014. The college graduates became eligible to participate in NYSC scheme in 2015. “The staff strength of the college is 300 plus. The breakdown; Academic staff constitute nearly 40%, Registry staff constitute nearly 10%, Farm Laborers constitute the rest. The students are over 300 plus. It must be further pointed out that the college is a monotechnic and only Agric is taught there. Many students were not interested in Agric until lately when FGN prioritised it,” Dr. West said. Like a house divided against itself, twenty eight members of staff of the college who were illegally sacked two years ago by the institution’s management wrote and commended Obaseki “for scrapping the institution to revamp it in the interest of quality education and productive output”. Comrade Osawemwemze Osaro, a former registrar and a victim of the sacked management of the college, said: “We applaud government for paying the salary arrears of the 28 workers who were victims of management’s high-handedness. Also, we laud government’s current efforts at revamping the College. However, rather than the legal option, I humbly, but strongly, advise that all stakeholders appeal to His Excellency’s good reason and sound judgement on the fate of the sacked workers. More importantly, the one who has repeatedly been indicted in crises rocking the College should be sanctioned. The College has been a mess for a long time.” The Secretary to the Edo State Government, Osarodion Ogie, also perforated the claims made by Dr. Idahosa, saying the institution was shut down because it was not worthy of being a school of agriculture due to its poor standard. Ogie said the government is in talk with Okomu Oil Palm Company Plc., Nigerian Institute for Oil Palm Research (NIFOR) and PRESCO Plc to join hands with the government to revamp the school, help train students and provide them with employment. It is clear from my findings that the derailment of the once enviable college began to falter from the core mandate when the institution’s management ethicised and appropriated the college for self-motives at the detriment of the workers and students alike. The kernel of the matter however remains that until government prioritises quality education over and political patronage and unwarranted settlement for the “boys”, poor education and outright stagnation will continue to envelope that. Obaseki needs to be encouraged to clean the Augean stable and obvious rot and inanities in the public institutions across the state because no nation can be greater than the sum total of her own teachers. 