A SOCIO-CULTURAL group, the Arewa Initiatives for Peaceful Co-existence in Southern Nigeria, has urged the former governor of Sokoto State, Dalhatu Bafarawa, to run for president in 2019. Its coordinator in Lagos State, Alhaji Kabir Dinar, said the former governor would put an end to the mindless killings in the country, if given a chance. Dinar said the former is the best among those aspiring for the position on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The coordinator who spoke to reporters at a stakeholders meeting in Lagos recently said Bafarawa’s political experience puts him in a position to provide good leadership at the national level. Dinar described the former governor as the architect of modern Sokoto State. He said: “This is a man who has been in politics for over three decades and has served the people in various capacities. Something is happening in Nigeria right now, which portrays a ray of hope. “Nigerians have been saying loud and clear that too many families can’t make ends meet. That too many people, old and young, are living in poverty. That they have had enough of the same old argument and that they deserve better. “That is why we should dare to transform the Nigerian system, once and for all. You have voted for security, but we hear every day of avoidable killings happening all over this country. “You have voted for robust and sustainable economy, but still your country is failing by all known economic performance indicators. You have rejected corruption and scandals that tarnish politics, but again, we see the same story.” The Arewa coordinator expressed hope that the country would be better if Bafarawa was given the opportunity to serve as the president. He maintained that Bafarawa’s local and international connection would make Nigeria great, stressing that he is bold and courageous. Dinar said the country is facing a grave challenge, because committed leaders have not been elected to serve in the highest position. He added: “You could see that President Muhammadu Buhari has exhausted all the ideas he has about running good government. Today, people are disillusioned and not happy with what is going on in the country. “The problem is not limited to one part of the country, but everywhere; it is even worse in the North and I can assure you that northerners are presently looking for a replacement for the President who they believe have not measured up to the expectation of the people.”  