The Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation has debunked claims by Governor Ayodele Fayose that the Federal Government is deliberately delaying disbursement of Paris Club cash to states of the federation to hurt Ekiti State’s bid to pay workers salary. Fayose had said the alleged move by the federal government was to incapacitate Ekiti State from paying workers salary to enable the All Progressives Congress (APC) use non-payment of salary as a campaign tool against the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Prof. Olusola Eleka, in the July 14 governorship election. A statement by Fayose’s media aide also alleged that Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s administration plunged the state into debt, including leaving two months’ salaries unpaid and that N35.34b was being deducted every month from Ekiti allocations to service the debt. He argued that if the governor had N35.34billion, he would not owe workers. But a statement issued by the Director of Media and Publicity for the Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation, Wole Olujobi, faulted the claims, saying Fayose was using cheap blackmail to get undeserved public sympathy and support ahead of the July 14 poll. Olujobi said  Ekiti total debts while Fayemi was leaving office, according to DMO, was N18billion. He added that contrary to claim that Fayemi owed two- month salary, the administration owed just one month salary mainly because Fayose threatened banks not to grant Fayemi a standing facility to pay salary ahead of Abuja allocation. He said: “This is a cheap blackmail and characteristic propaganda by Fayose who has taken Ekiti people for fools as he often derides them among his friends. How can one claim that N35.34b is being spent to service a debt of N18b? “How can the Federal Government cripple all the states because of the election in Ekiti State as if President Muhammadu Buhari’s government is like President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration that paid Ecological Fund cash to PDP’s states but refused to pay APC states? “How did Fayose spend the Paris Club refunds he earlier collected to pay salary but refused to pay workers? “Fayose collected a bailout of about N20b in two tranches for workers’ salary but diverted all to self-serving projects having earlier taken N2b CBN small-scale business credit scheme but never release one kobo to any small-scale business owner.” 