Outrage and brickbats continued yesterday over the Plateau State killings. Scores of people were killed by gunmen believed to be herdsmen. The state remained calm yesterday after Wednesday’s protest at the Government House in Jos. Governors, after a meeting in Abuja, urged security agents to ensure the arrest and prosecution of the killers. University lecturers called for a rejig of the country’s security system. Former Minister of Education Dr. Oby Ezekwesili, who staged a one-person protest on Tuesday to the gate of Aso Villa in Abuja, urged President Muhammadu Buhari to reveal the identities of all the perpetrators of the killings across the country. She urged the President to give justice to the dead and secure the living. She also demanded sanctions for Inspector-General of Police Ibrahim Idris should the police fail to arrest those who allegedly made the recent herdsmen association statement and their members behind the so-called “retaliatory attacks”. Mrs. Ezekwesili made the demands in a statement titled, “It is time to act now—Enough is totally and truly now. The apex Islamic body in the North, Jama’atu Nasril Islam (JNI), said the atttcks were premeditated having been “deliberately planned with political, religious mindset”. Idris warned politicians to desist from arming thugs. The Presidency weighed in on the declaration of a seven-day mourning by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), describing the opposition party’s action as “dancing on the graves of the dead and playing cheap and infantile politics”. Presidential adviser Femi Adesina said: “These are dolorous times that call for deep introspection on how cheap human lives have become, and the proffering of actionable ideas on how to get out of the bind. “The comatose and prostrate party is declaring seven days of mourning, during which flags in its offices would be flown at half mast nationwide. But, unknown to the party, those flags had been forcefully lowered since its 2015 loss at the polls, and may remain so for a long time to come, because Nigerians are politically discerning, and cannot be hoodwinked by cheap antics.” He added: “A quick checklist of some savage and brutal killings in Nigeria during PDP rule, between 1999 and 2015, for which no national mourning was declared: “November 20, 1999. Odi, in Bayelsa State, was invaded on orders of a PDP President. About 2,500 people killed. No national mourning. “Between February and May, 2000, about 5,000 people were killed during riots over Sharia law in different parts of the North. No national mourning. “In 2001, hundreds of people, including the old, infirm, women and children were killed in Zaki Biam. No crocodile tears. “Between September 7-12, 2001, Jos, Plateau State, erupted in internecine killings. Between 500 and 1,000 people were killed. Flags were not flown at half mast. “In February, 2004, at least 975 people were killed in Yelwa-Shendam, Plateau State. No mourning by the then ruling PDP. “Between November 28 and 29, 2008, Jos was in flames again, with 381 deaths.  No mourning. “In 2010, 992 people killed in Jos. Mum was the word. “In 2014 alone, according to Global Terrorism Index, at least 1,229 people were killed in the Middle Belt. No mourning.” he said Boko Haram killings in PDP years, he said, were over 10,000 while PDP flags were still fluttering proudly in the sky. He added: “Those who take pleasure in twisting statements from the Presidency may claim we are saying that many more people were killed under PDP than under President Muhammadu Buhari. It would be unconscionable to do so. “The intendment of this statement is to show that wanton killings had been with us for awhile; this government is working towards enduring solutions; and should be given the opportunity to do so. “Even a single soul is precious, and no man should take a life, which he cannot create. But when tragic situations as had happened in Plateau State occur, such should never be used to play crude politics. Those who wont to do so should have change of hearts, or lose their very humanity.” Zamfara State Governor Abdulaziz Yari said the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) had resolved to meet with security chiefs to evolve a holistic solution to insecurity challenges. He said: “The forum strongly condemned recent attacks in Plateau State and the spate of insecurity in the country. “Members commiserated with the government and people of Plateau and other states, including victims who were caught in transit travelling to and from neighbouring states. “Governors unanimously called for the prosecution of the perpetrators of the attacks and resolved to find a quick and common solution to the security crises. “The forum resolved to pay a condolence visit to Plateau State to commiserate with the government and people of the state.’’ According to Yari, the governors commended President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice-President Yemi Osinbanjo for their quick response and visit to Plateau, to sympathise with the people of the state. He also commended Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong for the way he handled the situation. Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) President Biodun Ogunyemi said: “We are alarmed at the spate of insecurity in the country, going by what has just happened in Jos. This country has become increasingly unsafe. “Do not forget that where there is no safety and peace, there is equally no development. “Now, having said this, we all know that education remains the backbone upon which every other sector thrives. “We are of the belief, therefore, that the general insecurity in the country is already affecting the quality of education as well as the quality of lives of Nigerians and, therefore, needs urgent intervention.” “The Federal Government must as a matter of urgency deploy all measures to arrest this unfortunate situation to re-assure Nigerians of their safety and freedom to live and work in any part of the country.” Ezekwesili accused President Buhari of bias in the handling of the herdsmen/farmers crises, saying he should stop the killigs as Nigeria should not be turned into a vast killing field. Other demands on the President by Mrs Ezekwesili include: In a statement by its Secretary General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu, the JNI said “It is very demoralizing after experiencing three solid years of success stories of harmonious coexistence between the citizenry on the Plateau to have woken up back to the black-dark days of bloodbath of the past. “Despite the fact that in the past three years, there has been success stories of peaceful coexistence between the inhabitants of Plateau state. It is disheartening that once again, human life does not matter to some disgruntled elements within the nation.” 