Women are mostly affected by lack of access to electricity, Council for Renewable Energy of Nigeria (CREN) President, Mrs. Anita Nana Okuribido, has said. She spoke at the yearly Women in Renewable Energy (WIRE) forum, organised by the Environment Africa Magazine. She said about 90 per cent of Nigerians do not have access to electricity of which women are negatively affected. According to her, women often resort to the use of kerosene and firewood for cooking because they don’t have access to good renewable energy sources. “At night, when they want to cook, they put on their kerosene lanterns to see and to cook, and when their children want to do their school assignments, they resort to kerosene but if you let them have access to electricity through provision of renewable energy sources, they can cook and do whatever thing they want to do because they have access to clean energy sources,” she said, adding women use a lot of energy for illumination, cooking and for doing their chores, so they need clean energy. She stressed the need for green entrepreneurship in the value chain of women owned businesses, particularly those in the small and medium enterprises (SMEs). According to her, if women can really become green and energy efficient and sufficient, they would be energy independent, adding once they are aware of how to make use of green devices and components, the few hours they have to do their commerce, they would be able to increase their earning power and increase their productivity. This, she noted, would create huge employment opportunities and impact meaningfully on the nation’s economy “Women have a lot of challenges, they have to do so many chores, and in the evening when they have the time to do their commerce they found themselves in the dark,” she said Okuribido stated that as part of awareness creation, the body has formed clusters of enlightenment campaign activities for the rural communities in the areas of electricity, food security, education, and health as well as capacity building, adding much can’t be achieved without capacity building and skill acquisition. “When we get to the community we get the women leaders, we get the youth leaders and we do capacity building programme for them, so that they can increase their earning power.