In his first major interview since he left the scene as the coordinator of the Super Eagles, Emmanuel Danjuma Attah shares his good and bad times in the WC 2014. The interview was conducted by MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. EMMANUEL Danjuma Attah served as the coordinator of the Super Eagles during the other ‘golden era’ of Nigerian football; a repeat of the 1990s glorious period when the national team won the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations and debuted at the USA’94 World Cup. In the following cycle, Nigeria also won the African Cup of Nations in 2013 and earned a qualification to the 2014 World Cup in Brazil. Attah has described this spell under the late Super Eagles’ coach, Stephen Keshi, as one of his unforgettable moments. “I had great moments as coordinator of the Super Eagles but first and foremost, I want to be grateful to God for giving me the opportunity to serve in that capacity,” Attah who is currently Osun State’s National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) coordinator exclusively told The Nation. “One of my most unforgettable moments was winning the Africa Cup of Nations in 2013 in South Africa because this was against all human expectations. “Another important moment for me was qualification for the 2014 FIFA World Cup in Brazil. It’s good to watch the World Cup on TV but you can’t compare it with the same feeling of being a part of it as a competitor. I was lucky to be at two World Cups with the Super Eagles; 2010 and 2014, but 2014 was greater because we were also there as the African champions. We would have gone beyond the second round in 2014 but some extraneous factors stopped us from achieving such result. We did not deserve to lose that match to France. One of the major lessons I took away from the World Cup in Brazil is that administrators and players must resolve all financial issues before going to a major tournament. In fairness to the NFF, they were to get the World Cup bonus from FIFA after the event but there had been a lot of mistrust with the players who felt they might not be able to get what was agreed as their own share if they were not paid at that point. There were so much bickering within the team before that match and even when the money was paid, the team had already lost focus because so much time had been wasted on resolving the bonus matter. The government interfered and brought the money to be paid but that alone took its toll on the team and the result was the loss to France. Frankly, we shouldn’t have lost to France because we controlled the game for almost 70 minutes but we were tired in the last 20 minutes of the game. We saw ourselves beating France but you can’t cheat nature.”