President honours Abiola, Kingibe, Fawehinmi Soyinka advocates ‘hall of shame’ Tinubu: we’ll back Buhari for second term Falana: ensure rights and end killings Before a select audience of dignitaries and pro-June 12, 1993 activists, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday apologised for the annulment of the election, which the late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola won. “On behalf of the Federal Government, I tender the nation’s apology to the family of MKO Abiola, who got the highest votes and to those that lost their loved ones in the course of the June 12 struggle, “the President said at the investiture in Abuja of  Abiola, his running mate Amb. Babagana  Kingibe and the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi with national honours. The apology was applauded. Buhari said the country would “no longer tolerate such perversion of justice.”  “The decision … is not an attempt to open old wounds but to put right a national wrong. Nigerians, of their own free will, voted for the late Chief MKO Abiola and Amb. Baba Gana Kingibe, the presidential flag bearer and running mate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the 1993 elections,” Buhari said, adding: “The government of the day inexplicably cancelled the election when it was clear who were going to be the winners. “We cannot rewind the past but we can at least assuage our feelings; recognise that a wrong has been committed and resolve to stand firm now and in the future for the sanctity of free elections.” Abiola declared himself the president–elect and was arrested by the Gen. Sani Abacha junta. He was held in detention for four years till he died in 1998. He was 60. The President conferred the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR) posthumously on Abiola, the Grand Commander of the Order of the Niger (GCON) on Chief Fawehinmi, the activist-lawyer who was one of the vocal voices against the annulment of the election, and decorated Kingibe with GCON. Abiola’s award was received by his eldest son, Kola. Fawehinmi was represented by his wife Ganiat. The government invited eminent Nigerians who participated in the struggle for the actualisation of the election, many of them hounded into exile or jailed by the military government. Buhari added: “This retrospective and posthumous recognition is only a symbolic token of redress and recompense for the grievous injury done to the peace and unity of our country. “Our decision to recognise and honour June 12 and its actors is in the national interest. It is aimed at setting national healing process and reconciliation of the 25-year festering wound caused by the annulment of the June 12th elections. I earnestly invite all Nigerians across all our national divide to accept it in good faith. “Our action today is to bury the negative side of June 12, the side of ill-feelings, hate, frustrations and agony. What we are doing is celebrating and appreciating the positive side of June 12. The June 12, which restates democracy and freedom. “The June 12 that overcome our various divide and the June 12 that produced unity and national cohesion. This is the June 12 we are celebrating today and we will nurture it to our next generation.” “I honestly invite all Nigerians across all our national divides to accept it in good faith. Our action today is to bury the negative sides of June 12, the side of ill-feelings, hate, frustration and agony. “What we are doing is celebrating and appreciating the positive sides of June 12. “The June 12 which reinstates democracy and freedom, the June 12 that overcomes our various divides and the June 12 that produces unity and national cohesion. “This is the June 12 we are celebrating today and we will nurture it to our next generation,” he said He then asked for a minute silence in honour of Abiola and those who lost their lives in the struggle for the actualisation of June 12. Master of Ceremonies Peter Dama announced that former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former military leader Gen. Ibrahim Babangida, who annulled the election, sent regrets for their inability to attend the ceremony. Obasanjo said he was away in Norway for a book presentation. Babangida gave health reasons for his absence. The electoral umpire, Prof. Humphrey Nwosu, said he was overseas. Tinubu: we’ll back Buhari All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu praised Buhari’s courage. He said: “Nigeria, it’s fair that we have chosen democracy as the form of government. We are totally committed to democracy. It has been further strengthened today. “The love of our nation, to search previous regimes and correct the errors of the past … shows you are a great leader. We thank you.” He thanked former Senate President Iyorchia Ayu, Senator Abu Ibrahim and others for the roles they played in 1993 and thereafter. To President Buhari, Tinubu said: “We formed a partnership of very strong democratic principles and you are living up to it. You made a promise that you will be committed to transparency and rule of law… you have done it”. The former Lagos State governor spoke of an ex-president, who “because of the mention of June 12 threatened to throw me out of the helicopter”. But you’ve remained resolute to put Nigeria back on self-discovery, great determination and fidelity with democratic principles. Thank you Mr. President. Thank you for bringing back hope to Nigeria. “Farewell to poverty. It is the struggle of Africa to banish poverty and you are investing in education, which is a great weapon against poverty. You are feeding our children; we are no longer paying for darkness …, thank you Mr. President. On Buhari’s second term bid, Tinubu said: “It is not a question of second term, you deserve it. We are going to work for it.  No annulment on it, you are going to win it.” Create ‘hall of shame’ Nobel winner Prof. Wole Soyinka said the Presidential apology at the event was a dimension which he did not expect. He said: “And l had a lot to say, but fortunately the words have been taken off my mouth. However, l will like to make a request. Mr. president since we are honoring heroes of democracy today, I’ll like to request that you manage to stop creating confusion in the minds of Nigerians. “It is not possible to honour MKO Abiola in one breath and admire his tormentor in another breath. Loyalty is all very well but loyalty can become perverse if that loyalty is retained to an individual who if he were alive today would be before the International Court for crimes against humanity. “The one who broke the laws of Nigeria, international laws, pauperised this nation. It is confusing if professional loyalty is carried so far as to be accorded such an individual. “We had a private conversation some time ago and l remember one of the things which l mentioned to you was this …l said you are fighting corruption.. how come that a notorious dictator, corrupt ruler, is honored by one of the most important avenues in the capital of Abuja, whereas, individuals like the martyrs of the struggle, philanthropists have not been honored? The answer you gave to me was not too satisfactory. But I let it pass.” Mr. Kola Abiola said: “Mr. President, on behalf of the MKO Abiola family, we  accept both the award and the apology. We will like to thank you for the great honour you have done our family. “We thank you for taking the decisive measures to strengthen our democracy and guarantee our future by reconciling our past. Thank you very much sir. Generations to come will honour you for this. “May the souls of our dearly departed rest in peace. God bless the Federal Republic of Nigeria.” Abiola our hero His sister Hafsat Abiola-Costello, who responded on behalf of the family, said: “It is difficult to try to stand in the shoes of a giant of one of the greatest humans that the world ever had but that is … why we are here today. And indeed, even for MKO Abiola it was difficult for him to imagine how he would speak to Nigerians in inauguration. “My mum told me how he would stand in the mirror when he was preparing his speech because the results were coming in; he thought he was going to deliver it. And you know he use to stammer, so he will start… “dear fellow Nigerians” but he never really got past fellow Nigerians. “He would say a few words, he would say; ‘not like that’ and then start again and he kept struggling to say what he would say to Nigerians. Because what MKO wanted to say to the Nigerian people and all that MKO did say to the people of Nigeria is to say, I love you the people of Nigeria, I believe in you the people of Nigeria. “He was born Yoruba but he loved Hausa people, Kanuri, Efik, Igbo people; he loved all. You just needed to be a Nigerian and MKO was your man. If he could help he would do. “There are so many things he already did to show and that was why the people of Nigeria rewarded him with the mandate of June 12, 1993. But we know that he was never able to deliver that speech, but in many ways, the event that transpired later revealed to Nigerians the eloquence in his heart, the fidelity of his commitment and even his own deep abiding wish that if there was anyway his own actions would in anyway compromise the people of Nigeria, MKO preferred to die, he preferred to leave the earth rather than compromise on you, on your integrity as a people and your sovereignty as a nation. “Which was why even the day before he died when he was still being pressured, he asked the question, ‘how do you shave the people’s heads in their absence?’. He knew he was present in the room he was pressured but he knew that so long as he refused to allow his own head to be shaved it was a symbolic message to you the people of Nigeria that you will be saved. “And when he died, we accepted his body and have watched in Nigeria as year after year till now the 25th year, you the people have suffered and he was not recognised at all. “President Muhammadu Buhari, Nelson Mandela it was who said, “It always seems impossible until it is done”. “Who would have ever believed, given the relationship that you had with Chief MKO Abiola, that you would be the instrument God will use to honour this man and to bring recognition and healing to the country. “You apologised to my family and it touched my heart. You know that I also lost my mother in this struggle, so that apology meant so much. Let me use this opportunity, on behalf of the Chief MKO Abiola because I know what he would have done; I use this opportunity to apologise to you, to apologise to your family, anything that he might have done to harm you and to harm your family. “Let me also say at this juncture that Chief MKO Abiola was so committed to us saying farewell to poverty in Nigeria and today we have more people in poverty in Nigeria than we had in 1993. “I read the statement that you made where you said we should prepare now to wage a battle for the defence of the people of Nigeria against those who think of themselves as the landlords of Nigeria. Let me say to you that by recognising June 12, you have awaken so many heroes and heroines of Nigeria’s struggle who have shown, because they stood firm on June 12, that money cannot buy them. “If there is any match that we need to match, if there is any protest that we need to be present to protest, you have called up your new own Army for the defence of this country. And President Muhammadu Buhari, this fight will not take you, God willing as it has taken MKO but let us fight and bring about the conclusion of MKO’s struggle that the Nigerian people should be the ones in full control of this country. It is not for a few landlords, whoever they may be; it is for the 200 million people of Nigeria.” MKO, the Messiah Kingibe praised the President for the courage in recognising June 12. He said: “The decision came to you naturally because you are a principled politician who refuses to be swayed by the expediency of the moment.” “Indeed, MKO was the messiah Nigerians never had the opportunity to feel his liberating impact. The annulment of June 12 election had the tragic consequence of dissolving that unity we as a people exhibited on that historic date and turning us into a divided people who began to see one another as enemies. “We must be thankful that we eventually survived the prolonged crisis, even with all the collateral damage to our body politic. Today, President Buhari has called upon us to inter the ghost of the acrimony surrounding June 12 and celebrate the principles and the joys it brought.” At the event were Vice President Yemi Osinbajo Governors Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Samuel Ortom (Benue), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo)  and Simon Lalong (Plateau).  Chief Bisi Akande, former Interim APC Chairman and APC National Chairman John Odigie-Oyegun, among other, were there. 