The old has given way to the new in Edo State as the 47-year-old Institute of Continuing Education (ICE), Benin has been rested to make room for an innovations hub that is expected to create cutting- edge solutions to problems plaguing the country. While some observers jostle for relevance in the new order, others mourn their loss in the old. OSAGIE OTABOR reports. IN those days it was one of the most popular schools in Benin City, the Edo State capital, because of its unique nature. The Institute of Continuing Education (ICE) provided an opportunity to adults who missed secondary school  and youths who failed their West African School Certificate (WASC) examination to rewrite the exam. And ICE never disappointed its numerous candidates as many passed the General Certificate of Education (GCE) exam with ease. But the times have changed for the ICE as the  government has scrapped it and replaced it with the Benin Technology Innovations Hub. Today, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is expected to inaugurate the Technology Innovations Hub, among other projects. The hub will serve the Southsouth as the innovation project of the National Social Investment Programme (NSIP). The ICE was established in 1972, under the administration of the late Dr. Samuel Ogbemudia, to provide remedial studies for workers or persons too old to attend normal secondary schools. The law establishing the institution was later amended and it began to award degrees in affiliation with some universities. At a time, a clampdown by the National Universities Commission (NUC) affected its programmes, but it continued to admit students for degrees programmes. During Obaseki’s surprise visit last September,  ICE’s Acting Rector Mr Victor Ajagun had hoped that the governor would release funds for the institute’s facilities upgrade. This was not to be. Rather, Obaseki was unimpressed and scrapped the school. After his tour of ICE facilities, Obaseki said: “I am here to see things for myself and this does not deserve to be called a school. I have seen the facilities and I am heartbroken. We are going to take a decision on what to do with the institute.” It was no surprise the governor felt that way.  Books in the school’s library had gathered dust. There were no new books on the shelves. The offices looked unkempt with worn furniture. Some of the classrooms had broken doors and no windows. Chairs in some of the offices were old and dusty. There was general  infrastructural decay. Obaseki believed that converting the ICE to a technology hub would be a greater investment in training youths to contribute their quota to the state’s development. “We are trying to correct the faulty education and prepare our youths to compete favourably with youths in other parts of the world. “We will not lament and continue to make excuses as we have drawn the line to make youths in the state productive. The next generation of children in the state will have world- class basic education that will see them through life,” he said. The Governor’s pronouncement came at a time the institution had just admitted new students into its degree programmes and still had over 500 students at its secondary school in Auchi, Estako West Local Government Area. Some students protested the closure of the institution, claiming it had helped to boost educational growth. Mr Richard Asemota, who led the protest, wondered what would happen to them, especially those studying in affiliation with the Ambrose Alli University, as well as the workers. He said Obaseki should have repositioned the institution instead of outright closure. On the contrary, Obaseki has arranged for permanent workers of the institute to be redeployed to other ministries, while students would be allowed to complete their degree programmes at AAU.  But the casual workers  – cleaners, security officers and clerical staff – were not so lucky.  There was no transfer for them. Not all workers were happy with the closure of ICE.  Some, who spoke on condition of anonymity, blamed poor funding and the clampdown by the NUC as reasons for the infrastructural decay at the institution. A worker said a former governor promised to give the school N200 million during its 40th anniversary, but never released the money. The worker also wondered why prominent alumni of the institute did not defend it. “We wonder why many individuals,  who passed through this school, who are professors, are not talking. We have adults attending evening secondary school here. Where will they go? The government should think well before carrying out its threat.” But the Commissioner for Education, Emmanuel Agbale, defended Obaseki’s decision. He said the institution went out of its vision to start doing courses in affiliation with some universities. As there is no vacuum in nature, the new Innovations Hub may erase all memories of ICE.  The government has rehabilitated one of its structures for the hub. When it starts functioning, youths would be encouraged to develop innovative ideas to solve problems of oil spillage, security, education and provide viable solutions to tourism in the Southsouth. Already, a pitch competition has held in various parts of the Southsouth and the best ideas in the above areas have been shortlisted for presentation before Osinbajo during the inauguration of the hub. Head of the Hub Oluwatobi Gege said over 4,000 youths from the Southsouth participated in the programme. He said the winner would be invited for a booth camp during which their ideas would be tested. Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Communication and Strategy, Crusoe Osagie, said the Southsouth Hub is being run through a partnership between the Federal Government and the Edo State government. He said the state provided the space and other structures. Obaseki said while inspecting work at the hub that it would offer innovative training and certificates to youths. “The facility will be inaugurated by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, and over 25 companies will use this innovation hub for different forms of training and certifications.Those that will benefit from this facility are both the young and old residents in the state, as they will get industry-relevant skills and certification,” he said.