If you are very concerned about the cleanliness of your home, you are clearly on the right path to a healthy life for you and your family. The truth is that the benefits of a good hygiene for all parts of a home cannot be overemphasized. But you may not be able to clean every part of your house extensively every day, hence the need to prioritize. So, what areas should you focus on? The toilet? The sitting room where guests stay? Your dining area? Or your kitchen? Well, it’s fine to clean all these areas of your home but your kitchen is perhaps the most important and I will tell you why. According to researchers, many parts of your kitchen actually contain more bacteria than a toilet seat! Yes, a toilet seat. In fact, according to the BBC, one study that tried to analyze different parts of the kitchen observed that the kitchen sponge harbors 200,000 times more bacteria than your toilet seat. You may flush your toilet and clean it often to ensure it sparkles, but when last did you try to disinfect or clean up your kitchen sponge? I am sure you now understand why the results of the study came out that way- it will probably yield the same results if performed in your home. Now that we have established the need to clean your kitchen, let’s get deeper into areas that you should specifically clean that are very much prone to containing a lot of bacteria. Your kitchen sponge comes in contact with all manner of foodstuffs, dishes, and cutlery that it is itself a home to different bacteria from decomposing food matter. Many of these food particles get trapped in its fabric and are pretty hard to get out. So, how then can you effectively clean your sponge? Well, some people suggest that you place it in the microwave to heat it up a bit or use a dishwasher to disinfect it. Chopping boards are often used when cutting meat and chicken, they easily become laden with bacteria and other microorganisms. So, emphasis must be made to clean it. It is advisable that you keep a separate board for cutting meat, fish and other animal products, and another board for cutting vegetables like carrots and cabbage. You should also wash them properly before and after use. People often have an erroneous belief that cleaning equipment need no cleaning. The fact that a device is used to clean up dirt from the dishes is the more reason why you need to also clean it. How then do you clean your dishwasher? Well, you can use liquids like vinegar to give your dishes a very good clean. Here’s a guide on how to get it done easily. Usually, oven ranges come in different styles, some are single or double, so you need to put in an effort to clean and disinfect their interior parts. You should also not neglect the electric surface range or the gas surface range. You really don’t need to use antibacterial soap to get it done, regular soap and a clean cloth work well to clean off these ranges. Many people use the same cloth for cleaning their countertop surfaces, carrying hot pots from the range to the sink, drying their chopping boards and cleaning their hands. This is very inappropriate and can easily spread microbes around. You should have different pieces of cloth for these separate purposes and use a disposable paper towel to dry your hands after washing them. Using a cloth to clean your hands after washing will only contaminate them instead.  Guest article by Dr. Charles-Davies OA, a medical doctor based in Lagos. He loves to write about health and blogs at 25 Doctors a website for sharing health information, he also serves as an editor of 93 treats, a food blog.