Super Eagles defender, Kenneth Omeruo, is feeling on top of the world for making a back-to-back World Cup appearance. He spoke with TUNDE LIADI before jetting out to Russia. THE late coach Stephen Keshi had elevated the young Kenneth Omeruo to a regular defender/libero in his team going into the 2013 Africa Nations Cup, where Nigeria won the tournament after 19 years. His impressive performance at the AFCON elevated him to the 2014 World Cup, and he played in all four matches before France eliminated Nigeria in the second round. Omeruo informed that appearing at the World Cup a second time is amazing. “It means a lot. It is amazing. I have been to the World Cup before and I knew how magnificent it was. I am really glad to have another chance to represent Nigeria in Russia. “I want to play every game and I will like to start from the beginning to the end. Nigeria is a country with lots of talents and I am only opportune to be here. Every time I go back home to play football on the streets with my former playmates I am always amazed at what I see. We have good players and it is not that I am the best but just because I am lucky to be selected. And no matter who plays it is the country that we are trying to put in focus, not just myself. Anyone that is selected is welcome by me.” On his status at Chelsea, Omeruo who is on loan with Kasimpasa in Turkey, said he made the right move by opting to go out on loan. “For me, I know the situation in Chelsea. We have lots of amazing talents at the club and they are all doing well in their respective positions. It is no longer about playing for Chelsea for some of us. Every player wants to play in a recognised league where they would be mentioned regularly. If I decide to stay at Chelsea not minding if I remain on the bench while waiting for a player to get injured, I don’t think I will have the opportunity I am having now to represent my fatherland at the World  Cup for the second consecutive time. “I would have loved to stay and fight for a shirt like Victor Moses did, but as I said, I have gone on several loan moves, which has made it possible for me to play more games than I should have been with Chelsea. I will like to see what my involvement with the Super Eagles at the World Cup in Russia brings. It is obvious that I need a (more stable) home. They are aware of this as well and I hope I get a good World Cup and have more options in the summer transfer.” Omeruo speaks more in the exclusive interview. Excerpts: Leaving home to play abroad One of the difficulties we African players face is going abroad to play. It is difficult but I thank God for where I am today. Parents’ endorsement Things have changed now than it was when I started playing. My parents are not saying anything to my siblings that have decided to play football because of the success that I have brought to the family in the course of representing Nigeria. Mother’s belief I think my mum had more belief than myself because she predicted that I would wear the national team jersey one day. For us, we felt she just wanted the best for us but it worked the way she predicted it. I played and my younger brother was also in the Under 20 camp some years ago. It was amazing because I never believed even when Chelsea called me that they were interested in me. I didn’t believe it. I didn’t take them seriously. Football family  I don’t really think I had any role to play in their career as footballers because three of us started playing the game almost at the same time. I will say I was just lucky to be the first to really make it but football has been what we do since we were at school. Nigerian league I played a lot of games for Sunshine Stars but the one I won’t forget in a hurry was the one with Enyimba because I dislocated my shoulder during the game. It was bad because it affected me later in the future. I had an amazing time with Sunshine Stars and this toughened me up for the challenges ahead. Before playing the Under 17 World Cup which we hosted, I never played any league and it was good for me. Kasimpasa experience My form is fine and I can say that I had an amazing season for myself in Turkey. It was good partnering with Oboabona. We won a trophy and I think we can still win more trophies with the present Eagles. I will keep doing what I am doing, which is working hard and also be keeping myself fit and to be ready whenever called upon; whether I start or coming from the bench. We had a good team. We had a coach who played a pattern that suited me very well. I adapted quickly to his pattern and it helped me to play every week. 2013 AFCON When I received my invitation to the national team, I was playing at a right back for Den Haag in Holland and when I saw the invite I was actually thinking I was called up to fill the space and that before the team departed for South Africa I would be dropped. But for me when I had the chance to play, I was very focused and it made me do well. I went into the Nations Cup not knowing if I would play any game at all because I was just coming into the team, but when I started the second game, I did that as a centre back and it was different from the position I had been playing before then. It was my position and I was able to cope very well there. Experience at Chelsea It was good. Initially, when I signed for Chelsea and I stayed back in Holland there were so many questions I couldn’t answer because young players who were my teammates in ADO Den Haag wanted me to furnish them everything about the club, but I couldn’t provide the answer. They were eager to know about the facilities at the stadium, but I haven’t been there before at that time because I signed for them while in Holland and I remained there. There was a player that kept on teasing me that I called myself a player on a team but I was yet to go there. I didn’t go to England until after the 2013 Nations Cup and the FIFA Confederation Cup. I was supposed to come into the main team of Chelsea but the injury I copped during the Confederation Cup in Brazil, which was a recurrence of the shoulder injury I had while playing for Sunshine Stars against Enyimba, slowed me down. I had already secured almost everything including getting a work permit but that injury changed a lot of things. After my injury, I went back to England with a view that I could still go with them to the pre-season but I felt the shoulder injury had not been properly treated because of the kind of pain I experienced few days before our departure. I had to go through a surgery and they recalled Kurt Zouma to take my place. I was out for like four months and I had to go on loan to Middlesbrough because it was a World Cup year. I went there to seek more playing time so that I could be in the Eagles team to the World Cup. Marriage and career I feel focused and more responsible. I have more responsibilities now more than before. I am really focused. You said you will like to have a home which means you are not really comfortable with present arrangement of sending you on several loans. Most memorable game for Nigeria It is certainly going to be the game against Burkina Faso in the final of the 2013 AFCON. It was my first trophy for the Super Eagles and also my first game for Nigeria’s senior national team. It was a good way to launch my career with the Eagles. If not a footballer I really don’t know. It may be probably going to school and becoming a banker. Football idol Former Super Eagles captain, Joseph Yobo, was my idol while growing up. Most troubled striker I will have to choose between Edin Dzeko and Karim Benzema. Eagles as youngest squad in Russia It is a blessing. Only a few of us that have played in the World Cup before and the new ones are determined to prove their mettle in Russia. It will have a positive influence on us. Difference between current squad and Brazil 2014 team I will say we are younger now. We are the youngest team this time around unlike 2014 when we had a blend of experience and young players. Favourite Nigerian dish I will say okaze soup and eba. Favourite all-time 11 Enyeama, Omeruo, David Luiz, Xavi, Marcelo, Ronadinho, Coutinho, Ronaldo, Ibrahimovic, Neymar, Victor Moses Between C. Ronaldo and Messi Ronaldo. Favourite colour? White. FIFA or PES? FIFA! It is more mature and real. Most dressed Super Eagles player I will pick Uche Agbo. Team’s pastor Daniel Akpeyi. Most jovial player in the Eagles camp Uche Agbo. Which will you call the biggest stadium that you have ever played? I was at Wembley Stadium but I didn’t play. I will say the stadia at the 2014 World Cup in Brazil were amazing. Will you allow your son to play football in the future? Definitely, I will and he will also play for Nigeria by God’s grace.