The Ekiti State House of Assembly yet again treated the people of the Fountain of Knowledge to another comical show by suspending a member for “sleeping too much” during legislative sessions. The lawmakers slammed an indefinite suspension on the member representing Ikere Constituency II, Mr. Sunday Akinniyi, for allegedly sleeping at plenary for three years. They also accused Akinniyi of “breeding terrorism within the institution of the House, violence towards the Mace in a properly constituted plenary session and belligerence attitude and acts of bellicosity against his colleagues.” He was also accused of pugnacious behaviours in his constituency against his own people, all amounting to gross misconduct and unbecoming of any honourable member of this House. The Assembly further accused Akinniyi of “regularly regular in absenting himself especially when issues relating to his constituency are slated for discussion.” A source at the Assembly told The Nation on Wednesday that thesuspension was carried out to pre-empt a plan by Akinniyi and two other lawmakers to announce their defection to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Akinniyi, who has fell out with Governor Ayo Fayose was removed as the Chief Whip on May 24 for his alleged disloyalty to Governor Ayo Fayose and other unparliamentary activities. He was axed for his alleged loyalty to a former People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, who has since defected to the APC. Akinniyi was removed alongside the former Deputy Speaker, Mr. Olusegun Adewumi. Every attempt to get Akinniyi’s reaction proved abortive at press time but one of his political associates said he would address a news conference “as soon as possible.” House Committee Chairman on Information Dr Samuel Omotoso said the suspension follows series of allegations levied against him by the Leader of Business, Mr. Tunji Akinyele, after due diligence investigation carried out by a panel led by Mr. Ayodele Fajemilehin Omotoso claimed that Akinniyi was initially removed as the Chief Whip of the House “when his malfeasance was becoming unbearable, in an attempt to wake him up from slumber and alive to his responsibilities to his people.” Omotoso said: “Rather than achieve this, the few occasions he presented himself for official duties in the House, Hon Akinniyi is in the habits of sleeping from the beginning of any program to the end to the extent that he was nicknamed ‘the sleeping Honourable.’ “Several attempts by the Hon Speaker advising him to pay attention to his people and his health has been rebuffed with insults. “It is in reference to all these that this House viewed the failures of Hon Akinniyi as incompatible with the spirit of good governance and quality representation of the present House of Assembly and he is hereby suspended indefinitely.” The House also barred Hon Akinniyi Sunday from the vicinity of the Asembly and mandated the Clerk to lodge a formal complaint of threat to lives of Honourable Members against him to the security agencies. The Information Committee chair added that the Assembly will be alive to the noble doctrine of active service as elected representatives of our various constituencies. Omotoso also advised Akinniyi to pay more attention to his health and use the period of his suspension “to come out of his embarrassing Sleep Syndrome by sleeping at home rather than chasing shadows.”