• Picks SDP governorship nomination form in Abuja Former Deputy Governor of Osun State, Senator Iyiola Omisore has criticised all arms of government for the late passage and signing of the 2018 budget. Omisore, who is an erstwhile chairman, Senate Appropriation Committee, is also one of the governorship aspirants, contending for the ticket of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) ahead of the September 22 gubernatorial poll in Osun State. He spoke in Abuja during the official purchase of the SDP governorship nomination form. He attributed the development to lack of commitment among agencies of government adding that: “Our budget process is a problem in this country. When you sign a budget in June and another one is coming in September and this is an election year the outcome will not be good. The difference between democracy and the military regime is the National Assembly. And the National Assembly major work is the appropriation of funds. “The problem of budget today is the issue of commitment among agencies of government. We must not see any arm of government as enemies. That is the problem we have in this country. When you allow self interest before national interest there will be problem.” Omisore is the first person to pick the SDP governorship nomination form. He vowed to deliver Osun State to the SDP in the forthcoming governorship election His words: “Courts have installed more governors in this country than politicians and the people. They have taken advantages of the problem in the system and the none awareness of our public. I am here as a democrat from Osun State. I was in detention and a won election in this county. Nigerians do not celebrate history. And I won every polling unit in 2002. “Osun State is the worst governed state in this country. The state is in the intensive care now and it needs someone with experience, a person who has done it before to emerge and govern the state. I am sure that very soon I will emerge as the governor. I will do my best to emerge through a free and fair primary. We should put the past issues behind us and move forward and I promise the party, Nigerians and the people of Osun State that I will not fail.” National Secretary of SDP, Alh. Shehu Gabam, assured that the party will conduct a free and fair primary adding that: “We are convinced that Omisore will deliver Osun State to SDP. Whatever we do in the party we subject it to the feelings of Nigerians. By God’s grace SDP will provide the next president of Nigeria in 2019. “The party will provide level playing field and conduct a free and fair primaries in Osun State. We believe in the independence of legislature, judiciary and the executive. We will never be supportive of any act that will intimidate the National Assembly. We urged the present administration to allow democracy to grow.” Former Minister of Information and leader of SDP, Prof. Jerry Gana, was optimistic that the party will go far beyond 2019 election. He said: “This party is a very serious party. If you are going to transform Nigeria the party structure must be organized. Nigerian should be ready for SDP to transform the nation from poverty to prosperity. “The SDP has put together some of the best brains in the land. We will give meaning to governance that produce development. Your vote will count in Osun State and we shall win again.”