The Headmaster of State School 2, Nvakaohia-Rumuekpe in Emohua Local Government Area of Rivers State, Chief Edward Anthony, gave an idea of what the ancient community had passed through, in spite of hosting four oil companies: Total Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited (TEPNG), Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC), Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) and Niger Delta Petroleum Resources Limited (NDPR). Anthony, at the inauguration on June 21 of six-classroom block built by Total oil giant for the school, said: “My effusion of unmitigated joy and happiness on this occasion is predicated on the singular fact that some years ago, precisely between June 2005 and October 2008, the continued existence of Rumuekpe was severely threatened in the wake of cult war that rocked the community. “To God be the glory, we can now boldly assert that healing, peace, unity, progress and prosperity have returned to our land. Since we came back from exile, Total oil company has helped us in so many ways. Erection of the six-classroom block has rekindled a new hope for education to the parents and the pupils.” The headmaster also pleaded for fencing of the school, provision of electricity, water, school band, desks, chairs and tables to facilitate teaching and learning, as well as to provide school bus to convey the pupils, especially during the rainy season, and incentives for the teachers to motivate them, while assuring that the provided facilities would be well protected. In Rumuekpe, Total oil firm also provided a block of six classrooms for the Community Secondary School and built two blocks of lock-up shops in Imogu-Nvakaohia. The Ovelle-Nvakaohia Ancestral Hall and two blocks of open shops in Ovelle-Nvakaohia were equally constructed by the oil giant, as part of its corporate social responsibility to one its host communities in the Niger Delta. The Junior Principal of Community Secondary School, Rumuekpe, Friday Welenya, who was accompanied by the Senior Principal, Collins Didia, described education as a tool for development and generation of manpower. Welenya disclosed that the oil company earlier provided for the Community Secondary School, reading desks, executive chairs and book shelves for teachers, while urging the firm to still assist the school in the provision of desks for the students, assembly hall, mowing machine, science equipment, library, school van, ICT centre, generator, ceiling fans for classrooms, fencing of the school and payment of volunteer workers. The representative of Rumuekpe in Total oil company, Richard Ajuru, in his welcome address at the inauguration of projects initiated and completed under the negotiated Memorandum of Understanding (MoU), revealed that the event was the first of its kind in the community. He noted that besides the five inaugurated projects in Rumuekpe, the Total oil giant was also embarking on three major projects in the community, which according to him, had reached 70 per cent level of completion, namely: Ekwutche-Nvakaohia Health Centre, Imogu-Nvakaohia Town Hall and Ovelle-Nvakaohia Civic Centre. Ajuru said: “It is noteworthy to state that Nvakaohia community, Rumuekpe plays host to four major international oil companies. It is heartwarming to inform that among the multinationals operating in Rumuekpe community, Total Exploration and Production Nigeria Limited is second to none. Its operations have been smooth and peaceful, its policies have been developmental, environmental and people friendly. “We wish to sincerely thank the management and staff of Total oil firm for the neutral role they played and the supportive role they displayed during and after the fratricidal crisis that decimated lives and property of unquantifiable value in Rumuekpe from 2005 to 2009.” Representative of Rumuekpe in Total oil firm also stated that the people of the community would not have been out of the crisis, but for Total’s supportive roles in the provision of potable water, grading of the access roads and making available other relief materials, while condemning the incessant blasting of the oil company’s pipelines and assured that the few criminals involved in the dastardly act would be apprehended and handed over to the security agencies. The Deputy Managing Director, Port Harcourt District of Total, Mr. Francois Le-Cocq, in his address on the occasion, which was spiced up with cultural displays by students of the benefiting schools, men and women of Rumuekpe, as well as traditional wrestling by men of the community, stated that the use of the provided facilities in Rumuekpe would satisfy some identified needs and aspirations of the people, as well as greatly enhancing communal well-being. Le-Cocq, who was represented by the oil giant’s Advisor, Community Affairs and Development, Enefiok Peter Akpan, said: “We are aware of the scale of devastation of social and physical infrastructures within Rumuekpe, as a result of the past communal crisis. This caused the children to be attending schools in neighbouring communities like Elele, which is about ten kilometres away. Completion of the projects will ensure that the children will now attend schools in the comfort of their homes. “It is very important to note that each of the projects was nominated by Rumuekpe community, within the scope of the 2012 to 2016 MoU with TEPNG, and each project was conceived to address specific deficiencies in social infrastructure within the community. “There is the need for us to maintain peace in our communities, because peace is the oxygen that nurtures development in all climes. It is for this reason that the MoU between TEPNG and its host communities explicitly demands that communities should provide peaceful ambience for the company to operate its business, in order to earn resources to fulfil its MoU commitments.” Deputy Managing Director, Port Harcourt District of Total also reiterated that whereas the oil firm was striving to fulfil its MoU commitments to the people of Rumuekpe, but regretted that the oil giant had not enjoyed the envisaged peaceful ambience to operate, with the company’s physical assets and facilities in the community being persistently impaired through vandalism. He noted that the vandalism had caused disruptions to the oil firm’s operations, weakened the integrity of the facilities, inflicted huge financial losses to the company and most importantly, it adversely degraded the environment and the host community’s sources of livelihood. Le-Cocq lauded the community vendors that executed the projects, which he described as a testament to their abilities to perform creditably, when given the opportunity within the context of the local content policy. In order to ensure commensurate development of the Niger Delta, other multinationals should emulate Total oil firm and people of the warring communities should give peace a chance, while the errant youths should also put an end to pipeline vandalism and other criminal activities.