 Blood it is said is thicker than water, a statement of fact which scientist are yet to prove wrong. Friday June 8th 2018 was special if you like in the Super Eagles camp in Vienna Austria.  The team received what you may call an August visitor in June, less than five days in fact to the start of the World Cup in Russia.  It was the visit by the Austrian National team led by David Olatukunbo Alaba, the 25 year old Nigeria born Austria international and Bayern Munich midfielder.  The visit was confirmed by the team informing “@NGSuperEagles had guests who came to see them train on Friday. It was the Austrian National team led by David Alaba, a Nigerian by blood. #SoarSuperEagles #Team9jaStrong” Born to a Nigerian father,George Alaba and mother Gina who migrated from Philippines, Alaba has made over 190 appearances for the Bundesliga side Bayern Munich carting away so many awards with the team and basketful of individual awards including a record 6-times Austrian footballer of the year award and back to back Austrian Sports personality of the year 2013 2014 just to mention a few. You wonder what could have been going on in his mind in the course of the visit to Eagles camp.  No doubt if he had chosen to play for his fatherland his current age completely fits into the age bracket of the team coach Gernot Rohr had chosen for this year’s world Cup and you bet, with his exploits in bundesliga side Bayern Munich, he would have made both the provisional and final list. Although Alaba did not make his impression of the Eagles known on his handle choosing to rather congratulate compatriot and Austrian tennis player Thiem Dominic for reaching his first French Open final and then announcing that he can hardly wait for Sunday’s Friendly match between Austria and Brazil, it is safe to say that the Nigerian blood in him may have imagined what it would have been like being in the Super Eagles jersey!. Austria will take on Brazil at the Ernst Happel Stadium, Vienna on Sunday just four days to the start of the World Cup. Austria have not qualified for the World cup since 2002. Their last appearance was in France 1998 where they made Group stage exit after playing 1-1 draw against Cameroon and Chile and then losing 2-1 to Italy. Super Eagles are expected to depart Austria for Russia on Sunday. Alaba’s visit is a goodwill mission which could be summed up into “Wish you luck brothers, go there and do you best”