Innoson Vehicles Manufacturing (IVM) has accepted that it erred on information concerning the recent judgment delivered by the Supreme Court between the company and Guaranty Trust Bank Plc (GTBank). Admitting the error on the company’s official twitter handle, @Innosonvehicles, the company blamed the “error” on the staff of the agency managing its social media accounts. Last week Thursday, Innoson caused a social and online media storm by falsely claiming that the Supreme Court had ruled in his favour for GTBank to pay him N14 billion in 14 days. However, original records of the court proceedings showed no such ruling. GTBank had also advised the public that Innoson’s claims were false, mischievous and malicious. As facts on ground became clear very quickly, Innoson first of all moved to delete his declaration on social media that the apex court has ordered GTBank to pay him N14 billion within 14 days. As facts became clearer to the public, the embattled businessman silently deleted the false tweet from the company’s Twitter account. GTBank had also advised the public that Innoson’s claims were “false, mischievous and malicious”, emphasizing that there was no directive or order issued by the Supreme Court of Nigeria to the bank to make any payment to any of its debtor customers, calling for Nigerians to disregard the statement in its entirety. “The management of Innoson Vehicles Manufacturing want to bring to the attention of the public to the caption: Supreme Court Orders @gtbank to pay 14b to Innoson made on its official twitter handle @Innosonvehicles,” the company stated. Continuing, it said: “The caption was a slight distortion of the information. When the information came to our notice, we had to correct the error made by the staff of the agency managing our social media accounts. We apologise for that misleading information.” GTBank had also advised the public that Innoson’s claims were “false, mischievous and malicious”, emphasizing that there was no directive or order issued by the Supreme Court of Nigeria to the Bank to make any payment to any of its debtor customers, calling for Nigerians to disregard the statement in its entirety.