A community leader in Iyin-Ekiti in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government Area, Chief Wale Alade, has accused Governor Ayo Fayose of unleashing hardship on traditional chiefs in Ekiti State. Alade, who is the Aro of Iyin, said palace chiefs were owed nine months salary arrears, despite the fact that their pay is “very meagre”. He recalled that his monthly salary which used to be N1,800 during the last administration has been cut to N700, adding that lower grade palace chiefs received as low as N150 and N100 monthly. Addressing reporters yesterday in Iyin, Alade described the alleged maltreatment of Obas and chiefs by Fayose as “shameful and very annoying.” He explained that the traditional institution enjoyed better treatment during the tenure of former Governor Kayode Fayemi through regular payment of salaries, release of N450,000 security allowance to each community and special health mission for Obas, chiefs and their families. Alade said the July 14 governorship election offers the chiefs an opportunity  to vote against Fayose and his anointed candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola. He said: “The way forward is for us to vote him out and put somebody who is responsible there. We need a governor that will respect the leadership of our communities. “We need a governor that will respect the traditional institution, the Obas, their chiefs and other community leaders. “This is what we want our people to do; we are mobilising ourselves and we are going to vote him and his candidate out. “It is very shameful and annoying that we have a governor who calls himself a chief, the Apesin of Ado-Ekiti, maltreating us.” Alade added: “It is frustrating to be paying us N700 and still be owing nine months’’. the chiefs in various communities in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government, the local government of Fayose, who happens to be the current governor. “He paid September 2017 and we are having outstanding arrears of nine months despite the annoying salaries we are collecting from the government now. “There are some of us who are collecting as little as N150 in a month, those who are in ‘Elegiri’ category. At times, they collect, N100 and at times, N110. These are facts that can be verified in our various communities. “Even the Obas, are they paid properly? Are they given what they are supposed to have? This is the situation, we are suffering and when you see us wearing beads all around, you will think we are having money. “The whole thing is from the government and they tell us that if we are not satisfied with what they are giving to us, we should leave it. “The senior chiefs have cried out to the governor but nothing is forthcoming at all. We collect salaries by hand, nothing to sign, no voucher, no document.”   