Since it crept into the calendar of national holidays, Southwest states, under the progressive umbrella, especially Lagos, have never reckoned with May 29 as the Democracy Day. The ‘real’ Democracy Day is June 12, 1993, when Nigerians shoved aside religion and ethnicity to vote a candidate of their choice, Chief Moshood Abiola as president. It was learnt that leaders of thought advised then president-elect Olusegun Obasanjo to organise a nationwide thanksgiving in appreciation of the enthronement of democracy. But, in his inaugural speech, Obasanjo proclaimed May 29 as Democracy Day. However, save for the holiday that was declared, the first anniversary of Democracy Day was without any activity in the Centre of Excellence. Bola Ahmed Tinubu, who held forte as governor, proclaimed from the outset June 12 as Democracy Day. He demonstrated faith in June 12 by building monuments in public spaces to immortalise those who staked their lives in the battle to actualise the results of the annulled June 12, 1993 presidential election. Some of such cenotaphs are for the acclaimed winner of the poll, Abiola, at Ojota; his wife and “Heroine of Democracy” Kudirat Abiola near the old Toll Gate Plaza at the Ojota end of the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway and the giant-size statue of Campaign for Democracy (CD) chieftain Beko Ransome-Kuti at Anthony. Tinubu’s successor, Babatunde Fashola, built the Freedom Park for rights’ crusader Gani Fawehinmi at Ojota. All the monuments are being maintained by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. For the eight years that Tinubu was in the saddle, lectures and symposia were organised to keep the hope alive. All the Southwest states but Lagos observed May 29 as Democracy Day between 2003 and 2007 following the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) “tsunami” that dislodged the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in its stronghold. Former Abia State Governor Orji Uzor Kalu was so enamored by the agitation for the revalidation of the election that he declared June 12 as holiday in the Southeast state, despite being under PDP. Beginning from next year, Democracy Day will no longer be observed on May 29, following the proclamation by President Muhammadu Buhari that “June 12th, 1993 was the day when Nigerians in millions, expressed their democratic will in what was undisputedly the freest, fairest and most peaceful elections since our Independence.” The President said: “The investiture will take place on Tuesday, June 12th, 2018, a date which in future years will replace May 29th, in celebration of Nigeria Democarcy Day.” 