•We’re not boycotting party’s convention, says Baraje FORMER Nasarawa State Governor Senator Abdullahi Adamu has called on the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to ignore what he described as the antics of members of the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) bloc. In a statement in Abuja yesterday, Adamu dismissed the group’s claim of marginalisation, saying that their insistence on meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari was to blackmail, intimidate and ambush the President. Adamu, who is chairman of the Senate Committee on Agriculture, hailed Buhari’s decision not to interfere in the nPDP issue. According to him, the matter should be left to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and the leadership of the party to deal with. He accused the nPDP members of a deliberate attempt to distract the President from focusing on governance and added that members of the bloc were bent on resurrecting their defunct platform to fight personal political battles. Adamu said: “I belonged to the nPDP and as I have said before, there was nowhere we held a meeting to resurrect the group for the purpose of protesting alleged marginalisation of our former members by the APC-led Federal Government. Apart from that, the basis of the group’s allegation is tenuous.” The lawmaker, who is the coordinator of Buhari’s 2019 presidential campaign for the North Central Zone, urged Buhari not to succumb to the group’s blackmail. “While the antics of the so-called nPDP to portray the Buhari administration as being unfair to the group in its appointments are reprehensible, I commend the President’s governance style and his litany of progressive decisions that are in tandem with the collective aspirations of our party,” Adamu added. The senator lauded the President for signing the 2018 budget into law despite the shortcomings and coming about 200 days after the presentation of the proposal to the legislature. He insisted that it was disingenuous of members of the nPDP to create the impression that the Buhari administration had been partial in its appointments, saying nothing could be farther from the truth. Adamu urged the leadership and members of the APC to be focused on the tomorrow’s convention, saying the goal was to strengthen the party ahead of the 2019 general elections. He hailed the Convention Planning Committee for doing a good job and urged candidates and delegates to cooperate with the committee and support it to deliver on its assignment. But, aggrieved members of the nPDP have denied planning to boycott the APC national convention slated for tomorrow. The members said they will attend and participate fully in the party’s convention. In a statement by his media office in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, Leader of the nPDP Alhaji Abubakar Baraje, who had been leading other members of the group in their consultations with APC leadership, on Wednesday returned from Saudi Arabia where he had gone to perform the lesser Hajj. He emphasised that his group has no cause not to attend the convention. “We are looking forward to the Saturday convention. We will be at the convention and after that, we shall see how things unfold,” he declared. According to him, as a member of the convention committee, he attended a meeting once with other members of the committee. But after that initial meeting, he had not been able to attend subsequent ones. Reacting to the claims in some media that the President was not interested in meeting with his members, Baraje said though he was not privy to such statement, the group or himself as the leader would not officially react now. He explained that when it is necessary for the Presidency to invite them for discussion or talk, they will be waiting for such invitation. On allegations that names of some people not in the fold of the mainstream APC in Kwara State were included as part of members of the Convention Committee, Baraje said he was not aware of such development and that he or any member of his group had not been briefed either by the Presidency, the party leadership or the chairman of the convention committee of the nomination of such names. However, he said if such thing happened, it would be part of the issues to be raised at the eventual meeting with the presidency when such meeting is called.