Lagos State deputy governor, Dr. Idiat Oluranti Adebule has highlighted on the importance of a Safe and Healthy Workplace at the safety summit Lagos which held at Civic centre . The deputy governor who was represented by the permanent secretary Office of Civic engagement, Mr. Adeshina Odeyemi stated that workplace safety helps in prevention of illness, injury, and hazards in the workplace for all employees. She advised that Organizations should develop health and safety standards based on laws, regulatory requirements, organizational policies, and historical occurrences. “I want to advise various business organizations to comply with regulatory requirements and prevent high costs resulting from injuries and illnesses” said Adebule “Industry experts here today can attest to the fact that proactive safety measures would save the health and medicinal costs of workers. The management can maintain high levels of productivity and efficiency by creating a safe and healthy working environment. Conversely, employees will work with dedication due to their perceptions regarding the commitment of the organization with respect to their wellbeing. “Various business organizations in the state need to create a safe working environment and increase the awareness and knowledge of all employees with respect to safe working practices. The employees and workers also need to understand the importance of workplace safety and reduce personal injury through attentiveness and removal of hazards”. Speaking at the summit, the Project’s Lead, Safety Summit Lagos 2018, Fola Ademosu, said the summit is aimed at bringing wholesome safety awareness and enlightenment to the spheres of workplaces and occupations. He said “It is meant to be an avenue of learning and comparison of practices, while enabling participants to buy into regulations/policies, and if need be; re-channel these policies; to serve the people better. “It is hoped that participants would leave Safety Summit Lagos 2018 with a renewed passion for keeping themselves and others safe, healthy and productive”. Chinyere Emeka – Anuna,  Senior Programme Officer, International Labour Organization (ILO) emphasized on the need to implement safety practice in work places by the government. “The government can enforce safety measure at the workplace by having the relevant laws and regulations in place and also make sure that they are implemented. Also you can have OSH policies both at the national, sectorial and enterprise level. “And then at the national level you are supposed to have a national tripartite body which is made up of the government, the employers and the workers discussing and also monitoring the implementation of OSH