Governor Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna state has admonished the newly elected chairmen not to discriminate against those who did not vote for them in the recent local government election. El-Rufai who gave this warning during the swearing-in of the local government councils chairmen on Tuesday, reminded them that “from whatever party you have emerged, you are today assuming a sacred mandate to do right by all our people, in accordance with the laws of the land and the oaths you have freely sworn.‘’ The governor reminded the new council chairmen that ‘’you are, from today, custodians of a sacred trust. You must, therefore, be fair, just and reasonable in all your dealings, decisions and interactions.’’ According to him, the council chairmen must not ‘’favour those with whom you share the same ethnicity or religion as that will offend your oath of office. May God give us all the grace to do justice to all according to law. The governor recalled that since 2015, his administration has spent considerable time and effort to reform the local government system so that it can deliver public service at the grassroots. Malam El-Rufai also recalled that the government has had to rescue  insolvent local governments, before his administration embarked on series of reforms to enhance the quality of personnel serving at area councils. “We have taken careful steps to reform the local government system for performance and service delivery. This government has addressed the capacity deficit by directing the recruitment of professionals, including lawyers, engineers and architects for the local government service,’’ he said. The governor also drew the attention of the chairmen to the new presidential system of local government administration that is now in place, which was achieved with ‘’ the kind support of the Kaduna State House of Assembly. El-Rufai pointed out that ‘’while executive powers shall vest in the chairmen, the elected councillors shall constitute the legislative arm. Specific roles are assigned to the vice-chairmen, and supervisory councillors. I urge the new chairmen to study this law carefully.’’ According to the governor, the Ministry of Local Government Affairs has organised a retreat to fully acquaint the new council chairmen with the new system of local government, urging them to fully participate for the greater good of the state. 