It cannot be denied that the 2018 FIFA World Cup will continue to spring more surprises especially with Russia’s stunning 5-0 victory in a thrilling opener against Saudi Arabia last Thursday. Moreso, with another spectacular performance from Portugal’s Cristiano Ronaldo popularly known as the King of goals in a suspense-filled match against Spain, one can boldly say that the World Cup 2018 is here with a lot of dramatic actions that will leave a lasting impression in the minds of football lovers for centuries to come. Thus, Russia 2018 might leave us with another talent that will join the list of the Top Goalscorers in FIFA World Cup History considering its whole lot of actions so far. The Nation in its quest to provide answers to the copious questions bordering on the aforementioned name the Top Goal Scorers in FIFA World Cup History. Statistically, over 2,300 goals have been scored at the 20 editions of the FIFA World Cup final tournaments, excluding penalties converted during shoot-outs with the first goal scored by French player Lucien Laurent at the 1930 FIFA World Cup. Also, further report confirmed that over 1,200 footballers have scored goals at the World Cup, only 90 of which scored at least five goals. To start with, Argentina’s Guillermo Stabile became the top goal scorer of the inaugural competition in 1930 with eight goals. Since then, only 22 players have scored more goals at all the games played at the World Cup than Stabile did throughout that tournament. Thereafter, Hungray’s Sandor Kocsis joined the race with 11 goals scored in 1954. At the next tournament, France’s Just Fontaine improved on this record with 13 goals in only six games, holds the record for the most goals scored at a single tournament. While Gerd Muller scored for West Germany in 1970 and broke the overall record when he clinched a record 16 goals across four consecutive tournaments between 2002 and 2014. On the contrary, the lowest scoring tournament’s top goalscorer was in 1962, when six players scored only four goals each. Further statistical breakdown shows that across the 20 previous editions of the World Cup, 29 different footballers have been awarded with the most tournament goals, and no single player has achieved this feat twice. These 29 top goalscorers played for 19 different nations, the most (five) for Brazil. Another five came from other American countries, and remaining 19 came from Europe. In summary, the top goalscorers in World Cup history are approximately 90 in total, representing 30 different nations, with 13 netting for Brazil, and another 14 for Germany. In sum, 60 of the above category came from Europe, 27 from South American, and three from Africa.  Additional reports from Wikipedia