Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Quaker Dokubo, has a tall dream: to refocus the Amnesty Programme to its original mandate for sustainable peace, stability and economic development in the Niger Delta region. In this interview with selected journalists, he explains his focus and how he was able to host a meeting with the top five leaders of ex-agitators in Lagos recently. Excerpts YOU are coming as an academic to a new role. What are your responsibilities? This is a new office, a new challenge and a new environment. In the past, I had written about the Niger Delta and my position had always been that the Niger Delta people have been marginalised; that was my view. But with the coming of the Buhari administration, which I witnessed, there is a lot of commitment by this administration in Niger Delta in terms of funding and in terms of looking for peace and security in that environment. You mentioned information about the increase of oil production in the Niger Delta, I think that also testifies to the fact that without peace there will be no development and without development, there will be no peace. I will let you know about that office to which I have just been appointed, but the fact is that I don’t want to question or criticise my predecessor. Though I made inquiries of the situation of the office, my work was to immediately resolve issues; make it possible that the right people were employed at the right places and also put in all the efforts I can to do my best to make sure that the office works perfectly. The programme started very well but with time, it was driven by other demands that made it not to be very impactful. What I am doing now is to refocus the amnesty programme so that it could positively impact those who are meant to be catered for by this programme and you know that on my own, I can’t do it. That was why I initially made an attempt to meet the critical stakeholders; that is the big five. I think it was the first time in the programme that the big five had come to sit down with me and agree that they are going to drive my programme. For me, that was the best thing I have ever done; that I could bring these big five, talk to them, listen to them, and put forward the programme that I have developed for the period that I’m appointed. They all bought into that idea and are willing to push it forward. But it will not be complete without taking along members of the fourth estate of the realm. I believe that as I try to explain what I want to do with the programme, you will understand me and know where I am coming from and how you will respond to my demands; so it’s a two-way thing. There are certain things you will demand from me; Charles, what are you doing with this programme? I am ready as always; I’m willing to give you the way forward and then the way I have designed the programme so that it will meaningfully impact the people of Niger Delta. I’m a Niger Deltan. So, for me, I am ready and willing to carry this project and ensure that those who are groomed to benefit from this programme benefits from it. What do you mean by the big five? The big five are those who help to maintain peace and security in their areas in the Niger Delta. Who are they, can you mention their names? I don’t call them by their names; I see them as Niger Delta people that are interested in maintaining peace and security. They are stakeholders. They’ve been involved since the beginning of the programme and whenever there’s crisis in a particular part of the Niger Delta, we will always refer to them; they know the way to deal with it. And they are on your side? They are now on my side, yes. But the people that are supposed to enjoy the benefits of the Amnesty Programme, how happy are they? Are they happy with what’s going on? The fact is that most of them have undergone vocational training and most of them have been empowered to set up their own businesses. Some people have been sent abroad for schooling and all that, although I’m trying to put a stop to offshore training because of the amount of money that is expended on the training of one person. If we can have those people in Nigeria, I think it will be better for us to train them in Nigeria, because I see no reason why you send somebody to do Political Science in England, while most of the universities in Nigeria offer Political Science. Why can’t they do it here? The amount of money you’re going to spend on one person going to United Kingdom or USA for a political science degree, we can use that money to train four, five people in Nigeria. And as far as I am concerned, my first assessment of that offshore education is to keep it as a discount. Those who are there will finish; but to get new people there; that I will not like to do. You mentioned security, development and enhancement as your focus. Can you give us few things you want to do in terms of security and development? Can you mention some exact projects that you are working on? The fact is that to maintain the existing peace in the region is quite important for our function. If there is crisis in the region, then, basically all we are putting in place will not work. So, that’s why the security aspect of it is very important for me and in doing that, you have to pay stipends to the boys, who are working there, enhance their training and empowerment in the areas that we set up vocational centres. Do you have anything focused on the ex-agitators in the region? You know they cause a lot of destruction to development. Do you have any strategy focused on them? Yes, by interacting with them; by trying to let them know that the region belongs to them; that blowing up pipelines does not affect those who are in Lagos or Kaduna; it affects the people there, the ones that you claim to protect, so please stop that. What else do you want? So that we can do all that it takes to satisfy your aspirations and ambitions of the Niger Delta people. An aide to the Minister of State (Petroleum) said the Amnesty Programme is not sustainable and here you are, addressing journalists. I would have felt that you cleared the air on that. If the amnesty programme is not sustainable, are you working towards an alternative? If somebody said that the programme is not sustainable, the person is not talking from my office and the person couldn’t have known the way the programme has been designed to move. But I know that this programme is sustainable. I know the environment; I know the security environment of the Niger Delta and how it has been sustained to this level where we have massive production of oil and all that. Hitherto, there was a feeling of marginalisation; that the Nigerian people had taken sides with the multinational oil companies so that the Niger Delta people could not be trained and will not be part of that oil that comes from their place. But now, programmes are being done; we work with the oil companies, we also send our people to be trained. There might be some trouble but surely, I know that with time, these people would be trained to a level that they could see themselves as co-equals to anybody in any part of Nigeria and could be employed to do the work. The alternative will be too ghastly to contemplate. I see a complete disconnect in the agencies handling the Niger Delta, the Amnesty Office, the NDDC and the Ministry of Niger Delta Affairs in terms of coalescing. The second is that I do not think there is enough engagement with the people. I think you need to do more of such engagements with the communities to be sure that even what you are putting there, represents the needs assessments of the people? You said there is disconnect between the various agencies in the Niger Delta. I think it was so in the past but not recently. It appears the federal government is not truthful in its dealings with the Niger Delta. It’s like its actions are driven towards oil production and not towards development of the area and that is where the problem of perception is created. I tell you, the situation in the region now needs some kind of psychological handling; the people feel abused because of the heavy security presence there. The people feel under siege. The people feel so abused in spite of federal government’s efforts to address the problems of the region? I think abuse is the word I would not accept because the fact is that you must also understand that the government has the right to maintain peace and security in any part of the country. I see no disconnect because like I said, if there’s no security, there will be no development and if there’s no development, there will be no security. How will your office manage the perception of the people over the overwhelming presence of the military and the feeling that you are just there to collect oil? Changing of perception is not something that you do overnight. The fact is that if there’s stability, these soldiers could be withdrawn. This place is owned by the people who live here; it is not owned by any security organisation. Do we have a deadline for the Amnesty Programme? Are you still collecting arms? What is your response to the protest by the people of Niger Delta whose complaint was that they were not being accommodated? As far as I’m concerned, I have not been given any deadline. Just to add to what you said, there are people in Ondo State where the government just did amnesty programme, a disarmament programme and they said they should be added to the Presidential Amnesty Programme. That’s beyond the limit of my office. I don’t declare amnesty for any person; it’s only the President that declares it, and when the president declares it, then they will be part of the Amnesty Programme. It is not within my purview to include any person into the amnesty programme. For me, we have to look at it as if it is work in progress, and then, the more we curtail the situation, the better for the programme itself.