The management and board of the Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (LSUBEB) has been commended for making concerted efforts towards the implementation of the 2015 Action Plan. Giving this commendation recently was a cross-section of experts drawn from the respective local education districts (LED) across the state. The occasion was the public dialogue to discuss the outcomes of comparative analysis of the LSUBEB 2015 Action Plan and Project Implementation exercise for the period under review. The forum organised by the Human Development Initiative (HDI), a nonprofit, nongovernment organisation whose thematic areas include but not limited to girl child education, literacy, gender equality, amongst others, also had other implementing partners such as The Wellbeing Foundation Africa, Youth Child Support Initiative, Patriotic Citizen Initiatives, in attendance. In her welcome address, the Executive Director, HDI, Mrs. Olufunso Owasanoye thanked the independent monitors for the laudable role they played in helping to track development, especially project implementation exercise in the area of basic primary education within their respective localities. According to her such gestures has the potential to galvanise positive action and ultimately improve service delivery on the part of project executors once they know the end beneficiaries of such development programmes would ask questions if not satisfied with the level of work done. Olayemi Samuel, one of the focal persons working on the project, while presenting the report on the implementation of the 2015 LSUBEB Action Plan noted the overall aim of the monitoring exercise is to track the utilisation of the Universal Basic Education (UBE) matching grant in Lagos State towards ensuring improvement in teaching and learning environment. Speaking on the modalities used for assessment, Samuel recalled that HDI constituted and trained a group of independent monitors saddled with the responsibility of monitoring the implementation of UBE projects in Lagos State. The independent monitors, he stressed, comprise representatives of school based managed committees, community development associations amongst others. Specifically, he said, the monitoring exercise was carried out by the monitoring team between November 2017-March 2018 with the aid of monitoring and evaluation tools designed by HDI for tracking projects including construction projects, renovation/rehabilitation work, fencing projects amongst others. The tools, he noted, were used to collate additional facilities required by the beneficiary schools to aid planning and engagement with relevant government institutions, most especially LSUBEB. According to him, the total UBE intervention fund allocation to Lagos State in the period under review was over N1.7billion while the main projects to be implemented include construction of blocks of classrooms in 17 beneficiary schools, rehabilitation of school buildings, supply of furniture amongst others. While commenting on the outcome of the report, Johnson Ibidapo who moderated the session with active participation of some of the monitors observed that the monitors did have access to bill of quantity of projects for the year under reference this making it impossible to track specifications of building materials used. Besides, monitors were denied access to project site by some school administrators despite proof of letter of approval from LSUBEB to monitor ongoing projects in the state While the monitors were unanimous in their decision to applaud the management and team of LSUBEB, they however recommended that the Board should ensure strict compliance in implementation of projects in accordance with the expressed project duration. The group also urged proactive disclosure of approved UBE Action Plans, bill of quantity of projects on LSUBEB website and other social media platforms to ensure civic participation in tracking the implementation of projects.