Ahead of the next general elections, political parties have agreed to abide by a set of rules before, during and after the polls, to make the process peaceful, free and fair. The exercise was brokered by the Political Parties Leadership and Policy Development Centre of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS). Correspondent TONY AKOWE, who obtained a copy of the Code of Conduct, reports. REGISTERED political parties in the country have resolved to ensure the 2019 general elections is devoid of inflammatory languages, hatred or intimidation based on ethnicity, religion or gender. The parties have resolved not to allow any of their members to wear uniforms and emblems depicting militant activities or carrying dangerous weapons during political rallies or at election venue or registration centres and that any party should not be seen to have sponsored such activities. This is contained in the Code of Conduct for political parties brokered by the Political Parties Leadership and Policy Development Centre of the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) and signed by the leaders of majority of parties in Abuja, the federal capital territory, recently. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and about 12 other parties failed to sign the document, which is meant to guide the activities of political parties before, during and after elections. The Nation gathered that the Code of Conduct, which has been deposited with the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), is also meant to stem the use of incumbency factor by candidates to the disadvantage of other parties and candidates. The code reads in part: “No political party or its candidates shall during campaign resort to the use of inflammatory language, provocative actions, images, or manifestations that incite violence, hatred, contempt or intimidation against another party or candidate or any person or group of persons on grounds of ethnicity, religion, gender, social status or any other reason whatsoever. These conditions apply to the use of social media by political parties, members and/or their candidates.” It also states that all political parties taking part in any election will sign a peace accord ahead of the contest, while all the parties, their candidates, officials and agents shall work towards ensuring an environment conducive for successful, peaceful, free and fair campaigns. The code also makes it mandatory for all political parties to ensure that the process of nomination of their candidates comply with the provisions of the Nigerian constitution, as well as the Electoral Act and the party constitutions. The code, a copy of which was obtained by The Nation states that: “All political parties shall sign a peace accord ahead of all elections at all levels, while their candidates, officials and agents shall work towards ensuring an environment conducive for successful, peaceful, free and fair election campaigns. “All political parties shall mobilise in ensuring that their members and Nigerians of voting age are encouraged to fully participate in the Continuous Voters Registration exercise. All political parties shall ensure that their agents and officials are sufficiently trained to mobilise for Continuous Voters Registration and other election related activities. “All political parties shall take all necessary steps to coordinate their campaign activities in such a way as to avoid holding rallies, meetings, marches or demonstrations close to one another at the same time. “Where there is a clash in the date, venue or timing of any such activities of different political parties, their representatives shall meet, in the presence of law enforcement agencies or the Commission, where necessary, to resolve the issue amicably, without recourse to intimidation, force or violence. “No political party shall sponsor or cause to be sponsored or allow the wearing of uniforms and emblems depicting militant activities or the carrying of dangerous weapons during rallies, marches, and at polling, collation and registration centres.” The code also frowns at a situation where parties influence the release of persons arrested with dangerous weapons of engaging in violent activities during elections, saying: “All political parties, their agents or their candidates shall not protect, or exercise undue influence for the release of persons arrested for carrying offensive weapons, violation of any electoral law, regulations and guidelines of Commission and the provision of the Code of Conduct. “All political parties or their candidates shall not prevent other parties or their candidates from posting their posters or distributing their leaflets, handbills and other publicity materials in authorized public places. “Furthermore, all parties and their candidates shall give directives to their members and supporters not to remove or destroy the posters and other campaign materials of other parties or their candidates. All parties, their members and supporters shall ensure that all their party posters, leaflets and other election campaign materials are removed from public places as soon as practicable when the campaign period ends. “All political parties shall discourage their members in government from using their power of incumbency to the disadvantage of other parties or their candidates during campaign. “All political parties shall specify in their constitutions and guidelines, ceilings on spending during nomination and campaign in accordance with existing legal framework.” It also stipulates that: “Political parties should ensure that the processes of nomination of candidates for any election comply with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended), the Electoral Act 2010 (as amended), various Party Constitutions and the Commission’s guidelines and regulations. “They should also ensure that the nomination processes, including the substitution of candidates, are transparent, democratic and non-violent and are conducted by legally recognized organs of the party and also ensure that nomination and/or substitution of nominated candidates are done democratically within the period stipulated by the Commission.” The code also states that all political parties, their candidates and agents shall respect the law restricting access of unauthorised persons to polling stations, collation centres and discourage undue interference with the voting process. It adds: “All political parties shall instruct its members and supporters that no dangerous weapons shall be brought to the polling stations or collation centres and that no party attire, colours, symbols, emblems or other insignia shall be worn to a polling stations or collation centres, on Election Day. “All political parties, their candidates and members shall cooperate fully with law enforcements agents to ensure the safety and security of election materials, election officials, party agents and the electorates on Election Day. “All political parties shall refrain from procuring votes and/or election results by fraud, invasion or forceful occupation of polling or collation centres, manipulation of ballot boxes and/or result sheets. “All political parties and their agents shall work with the Commission to ensure that persons living with disabilities (PWDs) are able to cast their votes without let or hindrance.”