From the picture painted on Wednesday at the Council Chamber of the Presidential Villa, Abuja, those who do not believe in the present Super Eagles would need to have a rethink. Not only is the team that is bound for the 2018 FIFA World Cup starting on June 14 in Russia expected to do well at the championship, the Eagles are also being tipped to return to Nigeria in July with the prized trophy. The occasion was the official presentation of the team to President Muhammadu Buhari by the Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung. Some of the present team’s strengthen, which is expected to work for them in Russia, according to the handlers included their youthfulness, discipline, unity, and the clearance of all their welfare allowances. They are also scheduled to play some friendly matches that will prepare them better for the championship. Speaking on the team, the President of the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick said “This Super Eagle’s you are seeing today is the most disciplined, the most united in the historiographic literature of the annals of football in the country. “And I am happy to tell you that according to FIFA statistics, this team is the youngest going to the World Cup, which means this team will serve you for long, this team will serve you in the next five years. We have a team that will prosecute this World Cup and a team that will go for the next World Cup in 2022 and we have a team that will also go for the World Cup in 2026, because you have created that environment for us to thrive. “I can assure that this team you are seeing today  will make Nigeria very proud. It is a team that is very disciple and discipline is the bedrock of any success. “We thank you for providing that fatherly love at all times and we know when we go to Russia, with your magic wand, by the special grace of God we will come back to this same chamber with the trophy.” he said Dalung said, “Once again Nigeria is drawn in difficult group along our perennial opponents Argentina, Croatia and Iceland.  It is difficult but by no means a mission impossible. The team and the technical crew are in high Spirit and are highly motivated to soar above their opponents at the World Cup. The captain of the team, Mikel Obi, also sure of victory said: “This is the first time we will be going to a tournament like this without any issues on money, bonuses or anything like that. I think everything is sorted now for us and all we have to do is to go out there as players and make this country proud. “And with your support as the father and leader of this country, we will go out there, give our best and come back with the trophy.” he assured This, to some Nigerians sounded like a wild goose chase considering the poor performance of their predecessors in the past editions of the FIFA World Cup at the senior level. The present team, according to some football loving Nigerians, also haven’t got the experience and exposure most of the World Cup finalists have to their advantage. As a starter, they noted that the team may find it very difficult to scale through the group stage as they are up against world football giants including Argentina, Croatia and Iceland. Sensing that it was not going to be an easy task to win the World Cup trophy in Russia, the Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr, in his remarks at the short ceremony simply said “Your Excellency, to come out of this difficult group with Argentina, Croatia, Iceland is the first step but I think the players are able to do it.” Notwithstanding the hurdles the team would have to contend with in Russia, President Buhari gave the team his fatherly blessings. “This is our time; we look up to you to make us proud. All Nigerians join me in saying to you, best of luck,” he said. No doubt, many football loving Nigerians will continue to pray and hope that such luck will take the Super Eagles far in tournament.  Osinbajo humour Vice President Yemi Osinbajo last Tuesday night again showed that he was very well qualified to go into comedy. Those who attended the 2018 Democracy Day Dinner / Gala Night at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja will not agree less that Osinbajo will rank high with the best comedians in the country or perform better than them if he ventures into comedy. When it was his turn to make remarks, Osinbajo made the gathering to laugh and laugh with jokes after jokes. He started by saying “I for one can say that five years ago if someone had told me that I would be Vice President at all, let alone celebrating three years in office, I would have doubted that they were thinking right, but here we are. “One of the reasons why I never thought I would be in politics is because I always thought I had enough baggage already. “I recall that when I was about to rent a place to live, the landlord said to me that there were two kinds of tenants he didn’t want. He did not want a lawyer and he didn’t want an Ijebu man.” The hall, which was filled to the brim, immediately erupted in laughter. After the laughter subsided, Osinbajo went on “And I qualified on both disqualifications. So, now you can imagine what it is like to add one more – a politician, to all of that. “In fact, I was greatly discouraged when a gentleman at an event like this, told a story about how an armed robber walked into a bank and there were three people standing there and he said to the first, pointing a gun at him saying, “Give me your money,” and the man said, “I am a doctor”, and he said “bring your money”. The robber pointed to the next man and said, “I am sure you are a teacher, bring your money.” “He went to the third person and said give me your money,” and the man replied, “I am a politician”, and he replied saying, “okay, give me my money”. The gathering again burst out laughing and clapping for the Vice President. Not done, he added “I think, with all these baggage, one must be careful about being a lawyer, a politician and then an Ijebu man. This again made the guests to almost laugh out their hearts from their chests.  Shattered hope The expectations of some athletes were last Tuesday dashed at the 2018 Democracy Day Dinner/Gala Night held at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja. The occasion was used to receive the Team Nigeria that participated at the XXI Commonwealth Games in Australia. While making his remarks at the occasion, the Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung had disclosed that athletes and officials that excelled at the Games were rewarded with cash bonuses for winning medals. According to him, Gold, Silver and Bronze medalists were rewarded with $5000, $3000 and $2000 respectively. But from what played out at the end of the dinner, it was clear that the athletes were still expecting some cash reward from the Presidency. After Vice President Yemi Osinbajo made his remarks, he went ahead to cut the cake. Rather than make pronouncement for additional cash for the athletes after Osinbajo cut the cake, the Master of Ceremony (MC) immediately called for the rendition of the national anthem. Sensing that the event has come to an end without any cash splash on them, the athletes immediately started grumbling before they filed out of the hall to their waiting bus at the car park. 