A man, Olalekan Olatawura, has lost one of his legs to the gunshot injuries he sustained in an attack by armed robbers in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. It was learnt that the man, who was amputated in Akure, the Ondo State capital, accompanied his boss to a bank for a transaction in Ado-Ekiti. Olatawura is an associate of an Ekiti State prominent politician, who is the Director General of the campaign organisation of an All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant during the party’s recent primary. According to him, after cashing the money, he and his boss headed to Bawa area of Ado-Ekiti without an inkling that they were being followed by armed robbers, who accosted them as they entered their compound. He said: “Around noon on May 4, we left Efon-Alaye for Ado-Ekiti for a on Bank Road in Ado-Ekiti. We made a withdrawal and headed to Bawa Estate. “At the Estate, we noticed that a car was following us. Before we knew what was happening, the assailants blocked our car and two guys with guns ordered us to come down from the car. They ordered us to lie down as they started ransacking the car. They got the money and shot at me. They left the scene without leaving a trace. I was rushed to the State Hospital in Ado-Ekiti.” Olatawura said he was bleeding profusely from the bullet wounds on his leg, but was well treated by the hospital workers. Due to the extensive damages the bullet did to his leg’s veins, which blocked the flow of blood to his lower limb, as well as the bleeding, which needed to be controlled, he said an operation could be performed immediately on the wounded leg. By the time the medical doctors were ready for the operation, he said, the strike by the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) prevented the doctors from operating the leg to remove the bullet from it. To save his life, Olatawura said he was relocated to a private hospital in Ondo State where he was operated upon. According to him, a team of experts removed the bullet at the private hospital. But due to the extensive damages to his bones and veins carrying blood to the lower limb, which he said had been totally damaged, the doctors advised that he must be amputated to save his life. Thought the victim is recuperating, he noted that governments should tackle increasing insecurity in Ekiti State.