The Oyo State government at the weekend allayed the fears of butchers in Ibadan, the state capital, about the relocation directive to the central abattoir at Amosun Village. It said tight security and transportation systems were in place to sustain peace across the state as well as facilitate the ease of doing business. The Executive Secretary of the State Bureau of Investment Promotions and Public Private Partnership, Mr. Yinka Fatoki, who spoke in Ibadan, said the relocate of the central abattoir to Amosun village in Akinyele Local Government Area was reached after consultations and deliberations with major stakeholders. The agency chief said this led to the signing of a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between the government and the National Butchers Union of Nigeria (NUBN), the umbrella body of the butchers. Fatoki said Governor Abiola Ajimobi addressed various issues that were raised before the signing of the MoU, adding that the petition by some members of the union on insecurity was uncalled for. According to him, the government has reassured of tight security while the MoU addressed security matters. He said the state government was surprised by the actions of those he called disgruntled and recalcitrant members of the butchers union, who allegedly resisted government directives to relocate to the central abattoir after several meetings with the governor. Fatoki said the government would not be deterred by what he called fabricated security challenges to reverse its decision. The executive secretary noted that peace, security and safety formed the foundation of the Ajimobi administration while the interest of the public supersedes that of a few members of the union. The agency chief said the decision to move all abattoirs in Ibadan to the central abattoir was hinged on sanitary and health importance of the residents. Fatoki said the Ministry of Agriculture had unlicensed all slabs or abattoirs in Ibadan for about two years (since 2014) for reasons bordering on unsanitary condition of the major slaughter slabs at Bodija, Aleshinloye and Gege area among others. He said: “It was on this premise that the state government met several times with the butchers and the chairmen of the 11 local government areas in Ibadan to discuss the relocation to central abattoir and address the issues raised. “After the discussions, all parties agreed to sign an MoU that butchers in 11 local government areas of Ibadan should relocate to the central abattoir on June 4. On Monday, June 4, majority of the butchers moved amid fun fair and during the prayer session to commemorate the commencement of operations at the central abattoir, the butchers, represented by the South West Coordinator of NUBN, praised the state government for the relocation. It described it as a welcome development and that the facility is the best in Nigeria and Africa. It is now surprising that a few members of the union are proving recalcitrant. “The present administration, being a responsible and responsive one, owes it a duty to protect its citizens against infection and diseases that can arise from unhygienic handling of meat. Hence, the steps to centralise abattoir operations by relocating them to the central abattoir with state-of-the-art facilities that would be coordinated by professional veterinary officers to ensure that hygienic meat is produced for people’s consumption.” 