A PEOPLES Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Kwara State, Alhaji Mohammed Ajia, has lamented the disunity, internal wrangling and acrimony within the the state chapter of the party. Ajia warned that the seemingly irreconcilable differences in the PDP would mar the party’s chances in the next general elections, against the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The aspirant made the disclosure in Ilorin yesterday at an event to commemorate Sallah celebration. He said there was no way the party could embark on a war fragmented and expect to defeat the ruling party. Ajia challenged party chairmen in the 16 local government areas to reconcile aggrieved members and work with unity of purpose and sense of direction. He also called on party faithful to work as a team ahead of the primary elections and ensure that the best candidate emerged to fly the flag of the party at the polls. He said: “I urge you all to recognize that the unity of this party is the first thing that can give us victory. For those of you who are enjoying peace in your own local governments, you need to tell others and teach them how you have done it, so that when we have a one party we can face the war. You can’t go to a war with a divided house. This thing is giving me a lot of concern. “I think the elders are ready now; they have shown concern that they want this party to be united. So, party chairmen across local governments, the time is now to work together. Let us kick start. “From now on, everybody will take a responsibility. Let us be talking on how we can make sure that we have a successful primary election and a united political party to face the problem of the state. “The war before us is not a small war, and here again, we are fragmented. So, this is the thing that gives me concern from time to time. Let us go into partnership; let us sign a social contract, so that we can have a new Kwara, where a son of nobody can become somebody, where you don’t need to know somebody before you can buy forms and say you want to represent your people anywhere. This is the Kwara of my dream. “A Kwara where a local government chairman can live in his local government headquarters, a Kwara where a commissioner on Friday will be eager to close from work and go back to his local government. “It is time for us to tidy up our trousers. We need to put politics aside. We need to identify the potentials in all the individuals that are out.” 