Dr. Ore Falomo was the physician of the late Chief Moshood Abiola, the symbol of the historic June 12, 1993 presidential election. The medical doctor, who is also an in-law of the late politician, relives his experience during the five years Abiola was in solitary confinement. In this interview with Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN, he also speaks on the lessons of the election’s annulment. How do you feel with the honour done to Abiola by President Buhari’s declaration? Ah! I feel elated, I feel justified. I am very happy that at long last truth has been elevated over lies and conspiracy at the highest level against Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale Abiola. He had triumphed over his enemies live or dead. Being a living witness of the grave injustice meted out to Abiola in the past 25 years, I and other associates of MKO had carried on the struggle for the recognition of June 12 by the powers that be to no avail. Until Buhari said enough of this, we should stop deceiving ourselves; MKO won June 12 presidential elections. With that pronouncement, President Muhammadu Buhari has declared Abiola President posthumously. I don’t know why some people are so wicked about June 12, an election that was adjudged by local and international observers as the freest and fairest election in the history of Nigeria. The election was the most acceptable by Nigerians, compared to others before then and since then. I can’t believe that Buhari would be the one to restore Abiola’s mandate, because they were not friends when Abiola was alive. I cannot estimate my joy over what Buhari did on June 12 presidential election. Thank you Mr President for healing the wounds inflicted on us by the military cabal. Are there lessons to learn from Abiola’s travails? The lessons are many for those at the helm of affairs. They should know that power is transitory. No position is permanent in life. When you are doing something, don’t do it for what you are going to benefit. You should consider what it will benefit the country, because tomorrow will judge your actions. Those who do things for personal benefits will perish. Twenty five years after, we are still celebrating Abiola, because of his good deeds when he was alive. We are celebrating as if it happened only yesterday. No matter the gang up by the opposition, continue to do good because tomorrow will judge you. Abiola sacrificed his life for democracy we are enjoying today. I am sure another Abiola will emerge. It may not be in our life time.  As a close associate of MKO, did he ever had the premonition of what befell him? He knew that problem was ahead before entering into presidential race. Abiola told me that before he declared his ambition to contest, he consulted Gen. Ibrahim Babangida to know whether he would relinquish power or not. He said Babangida had sworn on the Holy Quran that if he (Abiola) won he would not deny him his victory. One day, the civil right activist, Dr Beko Ransome-Kuti, came to my house and said he had a hint that Babangida would not hand-over, if Abiola won. We went to MKO’s house to inform him. We met him watching a football match between Nigeria and Senegal that day. Beko repeated the same information to him. Abiola said Babangida had assured him and swore with Quran. Beko told Abiola not to believe IBB, because he was known to have reneged on many promises. The next statement uttered by Abiola was that if Babangida reneged, it would involve life; meaning that he was ready to sacrifice his life. That was exactly what happened. Babangida annulled the election. Abacha put him in solitary confinement for five years where he died.  The United States Ambassador in Nigeria at that time sent me to Abiola to tell him that he should allow another presidential election to hold, so that he could regain his freedom and participate in the new election. When I conveyed the message to Abiola, he rejected the proposal. Abiola said Nigerian people gave him a four-year mandate and he had not been allowed to rule, why should he go back to them to seek another mandate? That he made promises to the electorates, they voted for him; people didn’t say he should not rule, why should he go and tell them to vote for him again? He sent me back to the US envoy with the message that on June 12 mandate he stood. What message do you have for those who worked against Abiola’s mandate? Tomorrow has caught up with them. All the lies and scheming to deceive people have turned against them. Buhari has sent two messages: First, that what Olusegun Obasanjo told us in making May 29 Democracy Day was not true. Obasanjo said May 29, 1999 was the first time the military would hand over power to civilians. It was a lie. The first time the military handed-over to civilian was in 1979. It was he (Obasanjo) as military Head of State that handed over power to former President Shehu Shagari that year. Second, that the June 12 election is the watershed of Nigerian democracy. It was the day all Nigerians, irrespective of tribe or religion, voted for a president of their choice. Abiola won in his opponent’s state. Bashir Tofa accepted defeat. It was an historic event. That June 12 is the real Democracy Day in Nigeria. Abiola read Bible and Quran four times in detention. He knew the end was coming. I was with him one day when he said ‘had it not been destined, who are these people to put me in chain?’ Some of those who had hands in Abiola’s travails had passed away with ignominy and those still alive, be they judges, prosecutors and schemers are dying gradually in pain. If Obasanjo becomes President of Nigeria 10 times, he will never be a Yoruba candidate. Nigerians have now known their messiah. Buhari has exposed Babangida’s deceit; he can’t come to the Southwest to seek support for anything. The five years of struggle for the restoration of Abiola’s mandate was traumatic for me. Whenever I want to leave my house, I would be thinking that I may not return alive, because of my support for Abiola. All my friends deserted me for safety of their lives, all because of June 12. It was a hilarious day for the Southwest. The Yoruba will never compromise; we have triumphed. Some are saying that Buhari should formally declared Abiola President and accord him all the paraphernalia of office posthumously. What do you think? He has bestowed the highest honour of the land, the Grand Commander of the Federal Republic (GCFR), which is meant for presidents, on him. With that, he has become an ex-president of Nigeria. Buhari also honoured Abiola’s running mate, Babagana Kingibe, with Grand Commander of Nigeria (GCON). Buhari consulted locally and internationally before he took decision on June 12 presidential election. It amazed me that some people are saying that Buhari’s decision on June 12 was for political reasons; that he wanted to use it to catch votes in the Southwest in 2019. When Buhari came to campaign in Southwest in 2015, he never promised that he would assuage the Yoruba feelings on June 12 and the injustice against Abiola. Yet, he won in the Southwest. Now Obasanjo is telling Buhari not to contest in 2019. Who is he to tell Buhari not to contest? Every Nigerians deemed qualified has the right to contest. Presidency is not the birth right of anybody.  The sovereign power lies with the Nigerian people; they are to decide through their votes in 2019. I admire Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. I wish to acknowledge that fate has put him in a prime position to determine to a large extent the direction that the Yoruba people will go. He has been the game changer since the advent of democracy in 1999. He saw in Buhari the qualities of an incorruptible leader and supported him after he had failed three times to win presidential election. Buhari acknowledged him and realised that Tinubu was instrumental to his victory in 2015. I pray Tinubu will triumph over his opponents. What would have Nigerians benefit from Abiola’s presidency if he had been allowed to rule? The corruption that Buhari is fighting today would not have been there. Abiola was totally against corruption in the military. You can see the revelations from Buhari’s anti-corruption war; how military chiefs diverted public funds meant to buy arms and ammunition into private use. Many of them had agreed to return billions of naira to the Federal Government under plea bargaining. Abiola was so rich that he could never be poor in his life. He would not have embezzled public funds and would not have allowed politicians to share money meant for execution of projects as we experienced in the previous administrations. The mantra of his administration was to liberate Nigerians from the shackles of poverty. He promised life more abundant for Nigerians and he would have achieved that if he had been allowed to govern. What is your advice for the Abiola family? I don’t know if any of his children would go into politics now or in future. All I can advise them now is that they should sustain the good image and name of their father. They may not be endowed with enough resources to do as much as their father did; they should always help the downtrodden. That was what their father was known for. Abiola touched many lives; he lifted so many people; he restored hope in many Nigerians. Remember that when Abiola was alive, a lot of people used to line up in front of his residence seeking assistance every day and he would attend to them. What about the controversy over his will? It would be resolved by those of us who are guiding Abiola’s legacy. We will not give up. He had many things that are enough to share. The children should keep the good name of their patriarch. As a close confidant of Abiola, we will continue to prevail on his siblings to always protect the family name. I had been his in-law, friend and doctor. I had the privilege of assembling a team for his autopsy. It was a big challenge and a big honour. I thank God I was able to do it. At the appropriate time, we will ask Buhari to set up inquiry on what led to Abiola’s death. We will give him all the support; we have documents. We want Buhari to demystify all factors surrounding the death of Abiola and Abacha, so that Nigeria can move forward. What about the debt the Federal Government owed Abiola? We will take it up with President Buhari later. When the former military Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar, paid condolence visit to Abiola’s family, he promised to pay the debt. He didn’t fulfil the promise. Do you know that Abacha paid part of the debts? As a patriot, Abiola financed Nigerian troops to Liberia and Sierra Leone on peace keeping mission, through provision of food and uniform.