In 2013, the Federal Government secured a deal to buy the Bob Oshodi furniture firm located at Sapele Road in Benin City, the Edo State capital for the purpose of training repentant militants in the Niger Delta region. Millions of dollars were paid to the firm as part payment but the death of Oronto Douglas stalled further processing of the deal. The Federal Government Amnesty office opted to send ex-militants to learn furniture making abroad instead of ensuring to secure ownership of the firm. Ex-militants were thus sent to Italy, Germany, Trinidad and Tobego and other countries for training. Five years on, the Amnesty Office under Prof. Charles Dokubo appeared keen to conclude negotiation with the owner of the furniture and take possession of the place. During a facility tour of the factory last week, a Consultant to the Amnesty Programme, Mr Gallant Paul, blamed the delay in taking over of the factory by the government on the demise of Oronto Douglas. Mr. Gallant noted that Prof. Dokubo requested them to visit the facility and see how the issues could be resolves for the purpose of getting ex-militants to train learn furniture making. Gallant said the owner of the factory was desirous to see that the government take over the place and utilise same for the benefit of the Niger Delta youths and that of the country in general. He insisted that the place was owned by the amnesty programme because ‘legally and otherwise, money had been paid and MOU has been signed’. According to him, “I am aware of this place because I had the opportunity to come here with the late Oronto Dauglas, who was in the presidency of the former government when the negotiation was on. “I also knew and opportuned to know that money was paid for this place, millions of dollars, the money was for the purchase of the factory and the training of the ex-agitators. The drivers, the promoters of this wonderful interest, where huge millons of dollars have been committed into this facility, are late. “The few hundreds we have trained here are doing very well and if we can bring them back to train the trainer programme, I am sure a whole lot could be achieved without having to spent much in achieving it. “I am aware and also obliged to know that we train carpenters in Italy, Germany and various places. These carpenters can come here and see what we have here. “The detail of what was paid and what is left is not fully available to me. What know is that he (The owner) confirmed to me that huge money, millions of dollars, was paid to him for this factory. “There is no country in the world that will have this kind of huge facility and will go home without utilising it. Prof. Dokubo, who was represented by his Special Assistant on Legal Matters, Mr. Richard Okolocha, said the visit was aimed at finally taking over possession of the facility. According to him, “I am impressed not only with the seize of the factory, but the state of the art of equipment, as well as the products. I have not seen this kind of factory before in the entire West Africa Sub-Region.