• Urges quality infrastructure accreditation United Nations Industrial Development( UNIDO) and the European Union ( EU) have tasked Nigerian government and other stakeholders on the need to give priority attention to developing a  stronger framework for a more credible accreditation process in its implementation of national quality infrastructure projects. The global organisations, while expressing concern during this year’s World Accreditation Day in Abuja said that though the Nigerian National Accreditation Service (NiNAS) was gaining some global recognition, the country’s accreditation process was still below standard. They said more efforts were required to ensure total compliance to global standards in all infrastructure and service chains in the country. UNIDO Representative to ECOWAS and Regional Director in Nigeria, Jean Bakole, stated that standard accreditation system helps in delivering a safer world. This, he noted, was critical because to a great extent it enhances consumers’ confidence in safety, security, and authenticity of food and water they consume. He added “this confidence is gained through application of common food safety management systems, supported by credible testing and inspection regimes. Many organisations in Nigeria check compliance with food and water safety and cleanliness standards through testing, calibration, inspection services, and certification services.” On her part, the European Union (EU) Representative, Cannata Nadia, said the European Union was finding the National Quality Infrastructure Programme in Nigeria to underscore the importance of having standard accreditation that will position the country to contribute effectively to delivering a safer world. She explained that “Quality infrastructure is about having each institution play its role in the best possible way within an agreed framework. This is a condition sine qua non, which is at the core of the National Quality Infrastructure Programme, funded by the EU and implemented by UNIDO. She said that more has to be done in strengthening institutional framework in Nigeria for the purpose of achieving quality infrastructure accreditation. 