The Federal Government at the weekend said it had developed policies and programmes that would help reduce the impact of climate change. Director in charge of Climate Change department, Federal Ministry of Environment, Dr Yerimah Tarfa, stated this at a roundtable series put together by the Institute for Public Policy Analysis and Management ( IPPAM ). Dr. Tarfa, who spoke on the theme: “Climate Change, Livelihoods and Public Policy Responses in Nigeria,” said that his department had put in place policies, measures and activities that are all inclusive and geared towards implementing policies on climate change. He said the focal points and approaches of the government in tackling climate change was hinged on adaptation and mitigation. He said: “We have put in place a national policy on climate change which is available in our website. “The structure of the department is such that there is a greenhouse gas inventory division, vulnerability and adaptation division, mitigation division and the education awareness and outreach. “These divisions are supposed to be the entities that will touch on each of the activities that relates to climate change.” He also said Nigeria was the third largest emitter of greenhouse gases through gas flaring. Dr. Tarfa therefore said there was need for an urgent action to be taken by government which would enable the country tackle these challenges. He also stressed the need to engage climate-smart agriculture and focus more on renewable energy. Member of the Governing Council, IPPAM, Prof. Eric Eboh, said the roundtable series was to foster cross-fertilization of critical thinking, innovative ideas and interactions between researchers, policy practitioners and non-state actors towards canvassing evidence-informed public policy options for sustainable social and economic development in Nigeria and Africa. He also added that proceedings and recommendations of the roundtable which featured presentations from the Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Federal Ministry of Environment and other stakeholders drawn from the community would be developed and transmitted to relevant government institutions and public policy agencies. In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor, Alex Ekwueme Federal University, Prof. Chinedum Nwajiuba said it was sad that Nigeria does not have a thorough and comprehensive policy document on climate change. Prof. Nwajiuba, who was the keynote speaker said: “The focus on agriculture with respect to the roundtable discussion on climate change is very obvious due to its contributions to the GDP, employment and its vulnerability to climate change. “When Nigerians talk about policy, they most times get a few friends to write up a certain document that they will never come around to implement because it never really passed through much rigour, and we call that policy.”