In a bid to rid the country of substandard construction products that has lead to several building collapse, the government is taking a step towards developing frameworks in that regard. Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, through the Nigerian Building and Road Research Institute (NBRRI) is bringing together experts in the country to chart a way forward. Director General NBRRI, Prof. Danladi Matawal stated that this is to review the impact of the present construction materials/methods on the environment. Speaking in Abuja at a press conference to introduce the International conference sheduled for June 12-14 2018. Matawal stated that the event is to profer solutions that will enhance performance, relevance. innovation and drive a robust environment. His words, “This year. the Institute has decided to focus on achieving the Sustainable Development Goals using the Nigerian Construction as a tool to address critical issues and challenges in the industry and profer solutions that will enhance performance, relevance. innovation and drive a robust environment to fast track sustainability in the built environment with emphasis generally on the Built Environment especially Town/Regional planning, Housing/Building, Roads and infrastructure. “The Conference will provide an avenue for all key stakeholders such as the Public sector, state Governments, Local Governments, Civil Society Organizations, Private sector, Non Governmental Organizations, Development Partners, Academia, amongst others to review the impact of the present construction materials/methods on the environment and proffer actionable framework for implementation of SDG’s in the Construction industry. “The key objectives of this years conference are to create awareness on the need to implement sustainability in construction practices, evolve new strategies and methods to embed sustainability in construction activities to suit and solve the Nigerian environment, as related to Alternative Construction Materials for Building and Road Infrastructural development, inspire key stakeholders to partner with the private sector and multilateral agencies in developing a mechanism to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals in the construction industry. “In particular with tangible contribution of the construction sector to the GDP, how can we leverage on the potential of the Built environment through the platform of the UN SDGs for Nigeria to close developmental and economic goals to complete globally.”