Observing Ramadan under an extremely harsh weather has created an awkward experience for Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) students, who required ice to battle dehydration during the fasting period. But the situation was exploited by ice vendors and Students’ Union Government (SUG) officials who made brisk business, selling ice to students at ‘exorbitant’ price. TAOHEED ADEGBITE reports. Unfriendly weather heralded the beginning of Ramadan in Sokoto State. May – the month during which the Muslim fasting started – was supposed to be a rainy season, but this was not the case. Residents groaned under a tropical weather brought about by scorching sun and daylight heat wave. Dundaye, the host community of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), also experienced the extreme weather, which created a harsh experience for Muslim students observing the fasting. They battled dehydration. But some vendors and the Students’ Union Government (SUG) exploited the situation to make brisk business, selling sheets of ice to students at exorbitant price. After hours of lecture on a hot afternoon, Qomariyah, a 200-Level Modern European Languages and Linguistics student, was dehydrated. She returned to her hostel with the aim to relax and wait for Iftar (break of fast) to beckon. The extreme heat in her hostel could not make her relax in her room. Unable to bear the heat wave, Qomariyah opted for a cold bath and stepped out to buy sheets of ice at the hostel mini mart. But, on getting to the mart, she met a crowd of students scrambling to get ice for the same purpose. She was shocked on discovering the price of ice had gone up because of the high demand. “Why should the ice vendor increase the price from N10 to N50 when students need the ice to prevent complete dehydration resulting from this hot weather?” Qomariyah queried. She added: “There is nothing that warrants this open extortion and exploitation. This is a period basic commodities should be made affordable for students who are fasting.” Due to the high intensity of sun in the state, which caused the atmospheric temperature to rise from 39°C to 42°C, the students depended heavily on ice to prevent complete dehydration. This situation created hardship for Muslim students observing Ramadan under the harsh weather. But ice vendors on the campus turned the situation around to make money. They increased the price of sachet of ice, which was sold for N10 before Ramadan. Students bought ice at exorbitant amount, compounding their experience of fasting in such harsh weather. The SUG intervened on the pretext that it wanted to break the monopoly of the ice vendors and stop students’ exploitation. The union, through the office of Welfare Director, placed mass order for ice from town and sold to students at ‘subsidized’ rate. It took no time for the union intervention to become controversial, as students described it as exploitative when a sachet of ice was sold at N30. Wondering why the union would join the vendors to exploit students, Salihu Muhammad, an Agricultural Science student, was stunned when he visited the SUG-appointed vendors to buy ice after returning from a lecture. He could not hide his surprise when he learnt he would pay N30 to get a sachet of ice. Salihu said: “We expected that the ice being sold by the SUG vendors would be far cheaper than the ones brought to school by mini mart operators. But we were wrong. I am aware that a bag of ice, which contains 20 sachets, is sold in bulk by off-campus wholesalers at the rate of N200. As you can see, I just bought a sachet from the SUG vendor at the rate of N30. It would have been better if it had been sold at the rate of N15.” Posing as a retailer, this reporter, last Saturday, visited one of the wholesale ice merchants in the town, from whom the union bought, to find out the unit price of bag of ice. It was discovered that the union made N20 each on a sachet of ice after buying a bag from the wholesaler at N200. “One bag of ice goes for N200 and this price will be brought down if you are buying in dozens,” Mallam Abdul, a wholesale ice dealer, told CAMPUSLIFE. Investigation by our reporter revealed that the wholesalers sold the ice, per sachet, for retailers at the rate of N10. The reporter compared the prices at four different wholesalers in places, such as Dandima, Runji Sambo, Gidan Dere and Arkila. All had fixed price of N10 for a piece of ice. Campus vendors explained that they increased the price of ice from N10 to N50 because they paid for rent and electricity. But, students wondered why the union-appointed vendors that neither paid electricity bill nor rent still exploited them. As days went passed by, the union vendors brought down the price of a piece of ice to N25, bringing down the profit from N20 to N15 on each sachet sold. Students described the SUG intervention as “exploitative welfare”, wondering why the union wanted to make profit at their expense. Responding to the allegation, the union’s Sales Director, Abdulmajeed Ashiru, said each sachet of ice was purchased from wholesalers at N20. He said the union only added N5 as profit on each sachet of ice to make up for the cost of transportation in bringing the ice to the campus. He added that the union earned no profit from the intervention. He said: “The union has no freezer to produce ice. To prevent students from being exploited, we bought sachets of ice in bulk at N20 each from wholesalers outside the campus. There is no wholesale vendor selling it at N10 in town. We bought the ice from Runjin Sambo, Emir Yahaya and other areas in the town for N20 per sachet of ice.” A student, who simply gave his name as Nurudeen, said: “Any profit-oriented business has a pushing factor for venturing into such business. The SUG could not exonerate itself from this simple economic theory, regardless of the motive of its action. The economic theory gives room for the seller to make profit in as much as the consumers find no alternative to their needs.” Another student, Zainabu Aliyu, said: “The Students’ Union leaders should stop claiming they are catering for our welfare in the month of Ramadan when the reverse is the case. Students’ welfare should be the pushing factor for any intervention the union is making. But, they bought cheap ice and sold to us at exorbitant price. Is that their definition of welfare? “The union paid no dime in bringing the ice from the town to school, because the union has the means of transportation. The capital used for this business is owned by the students and it is without any interest as likely for others to have.” Dr Muftau Olarinde, a lecturer at the Department of Economics, flayed the union’s action, saying it was an exploitative act. He said: “In this holy month of Ramadan when everyone is supposed to be engaging in an act of charity, members of SUG are investing students’ money to make profit from the same people whose welfare they swore to cater for. Justice is not done in this regard. “The capital they used for the business is not a loan on which they have to pay interest. Secondly, the means of transportation is through union bus. Then, let’s assume they bought it at the rate of N20 as they claimed, adding N5 to the price is too huge, considering the quantity of bags used per day and as regards the analysis of welfare economic theory. “On the flipside, it could be said that they exploited the opportunity to make profit, and traditional economic theory allows them to make profit from any business. But the timing of the business is what makes it bad.