Two days to Saturday’s National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), where former Edo State Governor Adams Oshiomhole is contesting for the party’s National Chairmanship position, former chairman of Mushin Local Government, in Lagos State, Prince Bayo Osiyemi, recalls how the late Admiral Mike Akhigbe spoke in glowing terms about Oshiomhole over three decades ago, when the latter was vying to become the president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC); at a time trade unionists and the ruling military class then were usually antagonistic to one another. SOME 32 years ago, my departed friend and Chief of General Staff (CGS) during the transitional government of General Abdulsalami Abubakar, Admiral Okhai Mike Akhigbe sought my help in his crusade to push the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) presidential aspiration of Adams Oshiomhole. Akhigbe was a Naval Captain and the military governor of Lagos State at the time. The history of trade unionism in Nigeria, especially during the military interregnum, is replete with constant antagonism between labour and the various military governments of the time. Most of that time, strong arm tactics were employed by the jack-boot khaki men in their repressive measures against trade unionists across the land. My curiosity was therefore fired that a soldier could be rooting for any trade unionist to become the arrowhead of trade union movement in Nigeria. Was he assigned to recruit a lily-livered person who would turn a blind-eye to the anti-workers measures of the military high command of General Ibrahim Babangida? Or, was he about to carry out an experiment, using labour as a plank? So many thoughts welled up inside me but I remember vividly, as if it were yesterday, that Admiral Akhigbe regaled me with the fine stuff of the academic brilliance and labour activism of the then nationally-unknown guy he affectionately called Oshi-o-mho-le, with an emphasis that borders on fanaticism. Akhigbe spoke of Adams Oshiomhole in the superlatives; how focused and dynamic he was, and how cerebral the young man he was touting, was. And how confident he was that Adams would make a difference in the labour movement. Of course because of my intimate knowledge of Mike Akhigbe as himself a focussed and part of the intelligentsia in the military, I found him convincing; which was why it was convenient to talk to our other friends in the media that Oshiomhole was worth investing our media expertise on. On his emergence as president of the Nigerian Labour Congress, Adams Oshiomhole lived up to his rating by his proving that he was an undiscovered expert in modern and progressive trade unionism. He was as militant as he was meticulous in driving the new labour movement. And his impeccable command of English language and oratorical skills are an uncommon plus in the history of trade unionism in the modern era. When he sought and won election to be governor of Edo State, many dismissed him as more of a critic than a doer but those of us who had encountered him when he was being midwifed by his many friends, one of which was Okhai Akhigbe, knew the guy was primed to achieve exploits. Oshiomhole went into government against formidable foes and odds. For example, Sir Gabriel Igbinedion is a man of means. He is gargantuan in stature as he is in material possessions, much of which he deployed to getting his son elected as a governor of the same Edo State before the emergence of Oshiomhole. When he set down to work from his  Benin government house base, his political adversaries bared their fangs and moved to demolish him but diminutive and doughty ‘aluta governor’ unveiled his own wizardry and started uprooting all obstacles in his governance path, be they human,  minerals and vegetable, in his remodelling of Edo State. I never visited Benin city throughout Oshiomhole’s governorship stint but those who did, as well as residents in the state, attested to his achievements in office, and likened his tenure to Samuel Osaigbovo Ogbemudia’s time in the defunct Bendel State. I have not read anywhere that Adams Oshiomhole was a fluke in government; instead he was accorded a rousing reception at his exit as governor. The acclaim was deafening and applauded in Edo up to Abuja that I thought he would be a federal minister by now. Signalling now that he wants to succeed a fellow Edo governor before him as national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), I have no doubt that he will make a huge difference. How I wish Okhai Mike Akhigbe were alive today. If he’s not in APC, he would have decamped to come and cast his vote for Adams Oshiomhole, the odds-on favourite for the top job. I’m staying tuned to seeing the transformation of President (of NLC) to the Chairman (of the APC); it promises to be a spectacle!