The word “fake” in this context is seen as something not real, false, fraudulent or counterfeit of the original. Fake lifestyle on the other hand is pretense based on what you are not. The Nigerian campuses in recent times have become topsy-turvy as a result of the malady exhibited by some students who pretend to be what they are not in the real sense, making others around them feel inferior because of their flamboyant lifestyles among other excesses. Moreso, the students living fake lifestyles try all their best to buy every latest wears such as clothes, shoes, make latest hairstyles, buy latest phones to intimidate their fellow colleagues in school. Again, these set of students do not mind getting starved or extorting others to belong to the proudly acclaimed “hottest babes/most expensive on campus”. They sometimes claim to be children of politicians or associates of high caliber of people in the society but in the real sense, 90% of these set of fake students come from average or very poor homes with their parents or guardians working very hard to make ends meet for both them and their siblings. In contemporary time, these categories of students follow trends by ascribing themselves names like boss lady, slay mama, slay queen or slay king etc in the name of fashion. Meanwhile, they extort money from parents, guardians, older siblings and even go the extra miles of “scamming” people, cohabiting with rich men popularly known as sugar daddies just to furnish their rented apartments with sophisticated gadgets and furniture and in turn distort their education in the process. This trend on Nigerian campuses is really alarming as those who are not in the game may be left wondering if there’s a price to be won in the long run. The academic performance of these students however is seriously affected as many at times they perform so poorly in their academic activities. They hardly attend lectures but how they manage to pass with higher grades still becomes a mystery to other minors as the said students always have a way of buying themselves through. In conclusion, the above trend might be so difficult to stop because the perpetrators are mostly secretive and deceptive in nature but the university authorities can put a check on this malady by implementing schemes that will best cater for the needs of students on campus. A vivid example is organizing workshops or seminars that will propel the entrepreneurial skills of their learners and in turn “fake life” on campus will become a thing of the past.