FT: Those that thought that the World Cup may have already peaked before this – think again! We have witnessed a quite breath-taking football match with twists, turns and world-class goals. France will play either Uruguay or Portgual in the last eight. Mbappe stole the show with two goals and he also won the opening penalty that Griezmann stuck away. However, Argentina were 2-1 up at one stage with goals from Di Maria (a thunderbolt) and Mercado. Then France came to the party with a stunning strike from Pavard and Mbappe’s double. Aguero set up a grandstand finish but Argentina and Messi could not find a late equaliser. Good job, too, I would have had fainted. Stunning game. HT: Wonderful game. France looked in control from the moment Griezmann netted from the spot after a mesmerising run from Mbappe. However, out of nothing, Di Maria scored a magical equaliser from 30 yards. Pure theatre, this. See you in 15. The first Knock out match in the ongoing FIFA World Cup in Russia is underway as Lionel Messi’s led Argentina files out against France at Kazan Arena, see the preview below. ARGENTINA TEAM NEWS Team to play France: Armani, Rojo, Otamendi, Pavon, Mercado, Tagliafico, Banega, Perez, Mascherano, Messi, Di Maria. Team to play Argentina: Lloris, Hernandez, Umtiti, Varane, Pavard, Kante, Pogba, Matudi, Griezmann, Mbappe, Giroud  Six changes made from the dismal 0-0 with Denmark. Paul Pogba and N’Golo Kante among the players to return. They’ll go at Argentina with a frontline of Olivier Giroud, Antoine Griezmann and Kylian Mbappe. The Kazan Arena is the setting for today’s clash – and it’s a fitting stadium for a heavyweight battle. Kazan is the capital of the Republic of Tatarstan and is home to 1.2 million people. It was designed by the same firm of architects behind Wembley Stadium and the Emirates Stadium. France have already experienced the conditions in Kazan as they played their opening Group C game with Australia here. ARGENTINA: HOW THEY GOT HERE? Rating out of 10 so far? A debatable five. This is not a vintage Argentina team despite having a genius leading their charge. They looked vulnerable against Iceland, were completely disjointed in the defeat to Croatia but did show fighting capabilities to pull a 2-1 win out of the bag against Nigeria. There has been reported unrest in the camp while defensively they are all over the place.  FRANCE: HOW THEY GOT HERE? Rating out of 10 for France so far? A solid six I’d say. They haven’t gelled or impressed with their attacking but Didier Deschamps’ team negotiated their way through Group C with seven points and only conceded one goal – a penalty against Australia. But World Cups aren’t given out in the group stages – are the French coming to the boil or are they a team of individuals? We’ll find out more today. 