On June 23, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold its national convention in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the factors that will guarantee a free and fair exercise. For the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), this is a moment of sober reflection. The chieftains are warming up for a national convention. Ahead of the exercise, the house does not appear to be in one accord. The political family is battling with predictable contraints and self-inflicted wounds, which have made the preparations for its first post-2015 national convention very hectic. On June 23, delegates from 36 states and Abuja, the Federal Capital territory (FCT), will converge on the Eagle Square for the strategic national congress. It may not be a competitive convention as only an aspirant, former Edo State Governor Adams Oshiomhole, is likely to be the consensus candidate for the national chairman, which will be reluctantly vacated by Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. If the tenure elongation plot had succeeded, the Third Republic governor of Edo State would have been a major beneficiary. The controversy over the illegal tenure extension is still raging in the party. The convention will be the climax of the intra-party leadership election at the ward, local government and state levels. The exercise was successful in some states. In other states, they were inconclusive. Yet, in others, the exercise polarised the party, thereby compounding the challenge of harmonisation and reconciliation. At the weekend, there were reports of cancellation of some state congresses. In other states, the party’s national leadership issued directives on harmonisation of parallel executive committees. However, the historic convention, to many stalwarts, is a welcome relief. It may provide an opportunity for self-assessment, reconciliation and renewal of faith and loyalty to the core values that motivated its birth by four defunct platforms-the Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN), the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP), the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and a faction of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA)-before new-Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) elements teamed up with the party in 2015. According to observers, the ruling party has been beset in the last four years with leadership failure. This may have been due to inaction, aloofness and lip service to the party. Many founding fathers cried out over the style of the national chairman, who they perceive as a divisive factor. Multiple crises have nearly crippled the party, despite its status as the ruling party. Many members and followers were taken aback when the party could not hold its mid-term convention two years ago. To analysts, post-2015 APC may not be as popular as it was before the last general elections. The saving grace, in their view, is that there is no credible and formidable alternative. After winning presidential power, no concrete attempts were made to really form the party through reforms. The  division and gulf among the legacy groups were not closed. The party is big; so are its challenges. Not only did the APC failed the two critical tests of party supremacy and party discipline after becoming a ruling party, it also failed to lay example for smaller parties in crisis resolution. The legislative/executive feud, the governor/senators face-off in some states and governor/ministers tango in other have further conveyed an impression of cleavages. Although the APC has the majority in the National Assembly, passage of budgets have always been herculean task. However, many believe that APC still has a brighter future, if it puts is house in order. The chairman of the National Convention Media and Publicity Sub-Committee, Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi, said the party will wax stronger. He said the convention will unite the party and set the stage for future electoral fortunes. “We are confident that we will have a very successful national convention, which, at the end of the day, will unify our party; make us stronger and put us in a better position to further fulfil our electoral promises,” he stressed. Ahead of the exercise, President Muhammadu Buhari, has thrown his weight behind Oshiomhole. But, Ajimobi told reporters in Abuja that the door is not closed to other contenders. We would also want Nigerians, who gave us overwhelming support in 2015, to know that in line with our tradition of excellence and transparency, the convention will be open to all aspirants who are deemed qualified in line with the convention guidelines, to vie for positions they are interested in. This is in keeping with our vision of entrenching true democratic ideals, not only in our party but also in our national politics. The business of the convention shall be conducted strictly in line with the most sacred democratic principles and the process will be free, fair and credible,” he said. The governor said other national officers will be chosen through zoning. He said the party has resolved  to maintain the “current zoning arrangement”. In his view, purpose of zoning is to ensure equitable representation for the entire country. “To this effect, we have also introduced measures to ensure adequate representation for special interest groups such as women, youths and people with disabilities. In fact, we made history by appointing leaders for people with disabilities both in the national leadership of our great party and at zonal and state levels. “Members of these special interest groups are especially encouraged to aspire to leadership positions within the party. That is why concessions have been granted to women and people with disabilities. Aspirants who fall in either category will only be required to pay 50 per cent of the cost of the application form for the positions they wish to run for. We are hopeful that this will result in enhanced representation for different groups within the party,” Ajimobi added. Ajimobi reflected on the controversy over the ward, state and local government congresses, saying the party has risen up to the challenge of conflict resolution. “Our Party the APC has put in place a comprehensive mechanism to deal with all of these issues in line with the party’s constitution and we are confident that at the end of the day, we will overcome and emerge stronger as one big happy family,” he added. A member of the committee, Jigawa State Governor Abubakar Badaru, said the party will ensure a peaceful convention that will serve as a reference point. “We are committed a free and fair exercise that will command the applause of all our party members,” he said. Also, a member, Mrs. Abike Dabiri, Presidential Senior Special Assistant on Diaspora, said that the convention will not fail, adding that it will lead to the emergence of a leadership that will take the party to 2019. “Our party is still the envy of other smaller parties. It is a dynamic party. It is growing from strength to strength. Many members look forward to the convention with hope and enthusiasm. The exercise will be successful. Ewe are prepared,” she said. 