The number of youths in world has not been ascertain, but United Nation estimation put it at as being the highest number of the world population. Half of the global population is under 30, and yet 73% of countries restrict young people from running for office, even though they can vote. Around the world, campaigns are underway to promote the rights of young people running for public office by seeking to lower the legal age of candidacy, and bring it into line with the age at which you can vote. Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari signed the “Not Too Young To Run” bill into law. The new law is aimed at relaxing some of the stringent and discriminatory provisions of the constitution. The bill seeks to alter the Section 65, 106, 131, 177 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) to reduce the age qualification for the office of the President from 40 years to 30 years; Governor 35 to 30, Senate 35 to 30, House of Representatives 30 to 25 and State House of Assembly 30 to 25. The Bill also seeks to mainstream independent candidacy into Nigeria’s electoral process. However, in a brief remark after he signed the bill, Mr Buhari told his audience comprising representatives of young persons from the 36 states and Abuja that “You can aspire for President but Please postpone your campaign till after 2019 election.” Based on the foregoing, the writer bares his thought as regards the aforementioned bill that can best be described as a “tricky game of politics”. The “Not Too Young To Run” bill is a very good initiative if it is strictly based on the interest of the masses and not a political game to seek votes from the younger generation during the 2019 election. Recall that the President said the younger generation should drop plans of contesting in the 2019 election. The question now begging for answers is this, why would Mr Buhari signed a bill when he knows it won’t take full effect until after the 2019 election? This shows that there is more to the bill than what many think it is, considering the post comment of Mr President after the bill was passed into law. Bearing in mind that the expectation of the teeming population of Nigerian youths is far beyond a child’s play but that the government includes them in its programme policies because the youths of today are not only the leaders of tomorrow that we think them to be but the leaders of today as well. It is obvious that the political gestures of Mr President is aimed at adopting the youths as leaders of tomorrow if not, why would he have denied them access from conducting in the 2019 election without stating out in clear terms why he made that derogatory statement. In summary, the government would have been fair enough to implement another bill that restricts the oldies (above 70 years of age) from contesting in any electoral process. Thus, there should be provision for “Too Old To Run” bill then there can be said that there is synergy in the President’s speech.