To many Nigerians, Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is a reference point in good governance. In this piece, EKENE OKORO highlights the achievements of the administration, which have made it a model. Like a captain already certain of the routes to navigate to get to the destination, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode took over mantle of leadership and commenced sailing the ship of Lagos State on May 29, 2015 albeit on a shaky note which was not unusual with any expedition with a bigger picture in mind. The governor was just about settling in for business of governance when the corollary of the rocky start began to be felt in major sectors especially security and traffic management. Naturally, tempers flared and people started asking questions to the point of raising doubt about the ability of the Governor to step into the “big shoes” left by his predecessor, Mr Babatunde Raji Fashola now Minister of Power, Works and Housing. In the face of the initial turbulence, Ambode kept calm and remained focused on the big picture and soon, the story changed and people who castigated him initially started showering accolades on him for sterling performance in office. The governor, who later explained the reason for the early hurly-burly experienced by his administration, said any organization with success in mind must first think through its policies, plan and then act by brilliantly executing the well-rounded programs. The process of thinking and planning the programmes brought about the initial drawback, but today the story of Governor Ambode’s Lagos is a potpourri of positively impactful infrastructural renewal as well as focused and dynamic leadership in all sectors and sections of the State. To ascertain that he is a public financial expert extraordinaire, Governor Ambode came up with checks and balances for revenue inflow and also introduced the Treasury Single Account which in turn blocked revenue leakages and loopholes. The development ensured that there were funds to carter for government activities, while he immediately followed same with N11billion approval to offset arrears owed since 2010, not only for Lagos State Government mainstream retirees but also retirees in Local Governments and Parastatal organizations. As we speak, the government has done a lot in that regard in terms of taking care of retirees and of course the staff that are still in active service. In response to the public outcry over the increase in spate of crime, governor Ambode rebranded the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) of the Nigerian Police, and in an unprecedented move, he donated equipment worth N4.765billion to the State Police Command. This was done in September of 2015 and the items include 100 4-Door Salon Cars, 55 Ford Ranger Pick-Ups, 10 Toyota Land Cruiser Pick-Ups, 15 BMW Power Bikes, 100 Power Bikes, Isuzu Trucks, three Helicopters, two Gun Boats, 15 Armoured Personnel Carriers, Revolving Lights, Siren and Public-Address System, Vehicular Radio Communicators, Security Gadgets including Bullet Proof Vests, Drones, Helmets, Handcuffs, Uniforms, Kits and Improved Insurance and Death Benefit Schemes for officers. The governor, in coming up with the policy framework of his administration, had hinged it on security, job creation and infrastructural renewal. According to him, when there is security of lives and property, more businesses will spring up and such will facilitate job creation, while the taxes derived from the jobs would be judiciously utilised to provide amenities for the people, thereby making life comfortable and easier for them. Flowing from that, the governor in March 2017 donated 48 Patrol Vans, 385 Walkie Talkies, 11 Base and Repeater Stations, 1,150 Uniforms, 570 Handcuffs, 1,150 Belts, Berets and boots to boost the operation of the Neighborhood Watchers to keep all the communities in Lagos safe. It must, however, be noted that the Neighborhood Watchers have been rebranded and transformed to Neighborhood Safety Corps Officers with 171 Vehicles fitted with communication gadgets, 377 Motorcycles, 4000 Bicycles, Metal Detectors, 7000 members of staff, among others to improve security in all communities in the State. As part of the transport reforms in the state, the governor in another unprecedented move, commissioned the Mile 12-Ikorodu Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) Extension Project and injected 434 new air-conditioned and comfortable BRT Buses into the transport scheme in November 2015, while as part of the integrated transportation system aimed at ensuring intermodal transportation of rail, water and land, Governor Ambode re-launched the Blue Line Rail Project which upon completion would ease connectivity in the State as over 500, 000 passengers would be conveyed daily between Marina and Okokomaiko. The project is to be followed by the second phase which is the Red Line Rail Project from Alagbado to Lagos Island. In terms of easing traffic, in the first two years Governor Ambode’s administration, several laybys and modern segregated bus parks have been constructed across the State with some still ongoing notably in Ikeja, Oworonshoki, Lekki-Epe expressway, Ogudu, Alapere, among others, while in a move to find a lasting solution to the perennial traffic gridlock along Ikorodu Road, Governor Ambode on November 9, 2017 commissioned multiple Layby and Slip Road in Alapere. On the same day, the Governor also launched the Intelligence Transport System (ITS), the e-ticketing for commuters using the Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), the Ojota BRT Depot and the new complex for the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority known as LAMATA Place. In area of road infrastructure, perhaps the sector is the biggest beneficiary of the impactful administration of Governor Ambode as no part of the State was left behind in the last three years. Briefing reporters, Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure Adebowale Akinsanya said in the last three years, the State Government has completed about 500 significant projects which have in turn contributed to make life easier for residents and positively changed the landscape of the State, while several others are ongoing. From Ikorodu to Lagos-Abeokuta expressway to Badagry, Epe, Ikeja and so on, one road project or other is either completed or ongoing simultaneously including 21 Lagos-Ogun boundary roads with two bridges in Alimosho inaugurated in March 2018, Pen Cinema Flyover, 181 inner roads, Epe arterial roads, and the recently approved flyover to be constructed in Fagba to permanently address the perennial traffic associated with the axis. In the health sector, the governor expressed his readiness for the sector as early as August in 2015 when he commissioned 20 Mobile Care Units Ambulances and 26 Transport Ambulances which were deployed across the various General Hospitals and primary healthcare centres in the State. He also approved the purchase of generators and x-ray machines for all General Hospitals in the State to ensure 24-hour power supply. Since then, it has been good tidings for the sector with major upgrade of facilities in all the General Hospitals and Primary Healthcare Centres (PHCs), with more springing up. The first state-owned helipad for medical emergency was also constructed within the premises of Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), among others. Giving details of the strides of the present administration recently, Commissioner for Health, Dr Jide Idris said in area of tertiary healthcare for instance, LASUTH benefited from the supply of medical equipment by the Governor, while renovation of some buildings in the hospital was carried including Old Admin Block, Surgical Emergency, Kitchen, Laundry Section, Chest Clinic, Engineering Workshop, Main Laboratory, Tailoring, among others. In area of food security and agriculture, Ambode entered into a strategic partnership with Kebbi State in 2016 which brought about the famous Lake Rice. The initiative forced down the price of rice in the market and the Governor is building on that to install a 32 metric tonnes per hour rice mill in Imota, a suburb of Ikorodu. It is projected that when operational from February 2019, the mill will ensure availability of rice in the market and will also facilitate the creation of about 200, 000 jobs across the Agric value chain, while it will also bring about cultivation of 32,000 hectares of farm land to produce rice paddy equating to an estimated 130million kg of processed rice per year (an equivalent of 2.6million 50kg bags of rice). Also, the scheme will be aligned with the Western Nigeria economic integration agenda whereby the States in the South West will supply the mill with rice paddy. In the same vein, work is progressing steadily at the new Mile 12 Regional Foodstuff Market in Imota which will accommodate the traders in Mile 1 and other markets in the area. The idea of the new market was conceived in response to the fact that the activities of traders in Mile 12 were already impacting negatively on traffic and the environment, hence the need for them to move to a more bigger, comfortable and convenient place. And in order to forestall the chaotic traffic situation in Mile 12 as a result of the market, government had begun moves to expand Ikorodu-Itoikin-Imota- Road up to Epe. In that axis too, work is already completed for operational take-off of the Timberville Sawmill in Agbowa/Ikosi Ejirin LCDA where plank traders in Okobaba Sawmill will be relocated to. The development will pave way for the regeneration of Okobaba. In the power sector, the government through the Ministry of Energy and Mineral Resources, has scored many first. First, the Governor unveiled the Light Up Lagos Project with three-pronged approach focusing on street lightening, community electrification and embedded power programme. Through the street lightening component of the scheme, major highways and streets are now well lit at night thereby enhancing secuvironment and bringing about major boost to the night economy of the State. On the community electrification component, many communities across the State have so far been connected to the national grid and many others had their either moribund or non-existent transformers replaced with new ones. On the embedded power programme, Ambode had set up a Power Advisory Committee made up of key stakeholders from the public and private sector to drive the bid by the State Government to generate 3000 Megawatts of power and distribute it in the State to ensure power security. Also, a legislation to legalize the initiative has been passed by the State House of Assembly. Perhaps, one of the major achievements of the Governor is the N25billion Employment Trust Fund (ETF) set aside to provide minimal interest loan for members of the informal sector and Small and Medium Enterprises (SMEs). So far over N4.1billion has been given to about 5,000 beneficiaries. In the area of tourism, several statues of illustrious Nigerians who contributed to the growth of not just Lagos,                                      but Nigeria in general have been erected such as that of late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo; human rights crusader and philanthropist, late Chief Gani Fawehinmi, among other monuments across the State. Aside the fact that tourism master plan is being developed for the State and would be ready by end of May 2018 which will drive tourism potentials of the State for the next 15 to 20 years, work is at various stages on new Lagos Museum in Onikan, redevelopment of J.K Randle Centre for Yoruba History and Culture and construction of six new theatres in Ikeja, Badagry, Igando, Epe, Ikorodu and Lagos Mainland. As part of the smart city project, many online portals have been developed to enhance residents’ interaction with government, while High Definition CCTV cameras with gantries are being installed across the state. Also, the State Government has concluded plans to transform the Sabo Industrial Estate in Yaba into a technology hub and another Silicon Valley where new set of entrepreneurs and innovators will be raised to address the challenges confronting the nation in the ICT sector. In education, considerable achievements have been made with completion of new model colleges, revamping of infrastructure in public schools and ingenuity in coming up with innovative initiatives such as Ready.Set.Work (RSW), Code Lagos, among others. Giving details of activities of the government in the sector recently, the Deputy Governor, Mrs Idiat Adebule said a total of 12,500 final year students in tertiary institutions have so far been trained in the last two years on entrepreneurship and employability skills under the RSW, while plans have been firmed up to train 25,000 students through the scheme in 2018. The RSW is an intervention of Governor Ambode’s administration designed to equip graduates of tertiary institutions in the State with knowledge, skills and attitude required to gain employment upon graduation. It is a 13-week training through which participants are prepared for immediate entry into the workforce as employees and employers of labour by equipping them with market-aligned soft skills, business tools and a mindset of re-orientation. Besides, the deputy governor, who is overseeing the Ministry of Education, said as part of efforts to improve the learning environment, 160 projects for rehabilitation of schools were awarded and completed in the last one year at a cost of N4.8billion. Also, many projects have been completed in state-owned tertiary institutions and significant ones are ongoing including the 6000 capacity hostel and Senate building at Lagos State University (LASU), among others at various stages of completion. In the environment, the State Government introduced the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI) which like the present administration started on a shaky note but is gradually being addressed. Under the CLI, the three Transfer Loading Stations in Agege, Oshodi and Lagos Island have been upgraded and retrofitted to international standard, while the first engineered sanitary landfill in the whole of West Africa is nearing completion in Epe. 27,000 community sanitation workers are being employed to sweep the inner streets, while mechanized sweeping equipment have been deployed to the highways. Also, brand new compactors and other equipment are being deployed to collect waste, and the positive results are already being felt. Major parks such as Johnson Jakande Tinubu (JJT) Park in Alausa, Badagry Recreational Park, Rafiu Jafojo Model Recreation Park in Alimosho, installation of connecting walkways to Eyo Fountain and flag area of JJT Park, and rehabilitation of Gani Fawehinmi Park, Ojota and Muri Okunola Park, Victoria Island, while various major and mini waterworks were completed and some ongoing in Adiyan, Ishasi, Imeke Iworo, Akute Intakes, Oke-Odo, Iju, Surulere, Ikeja, Magodo, Isheri Osun, Epe, Ikorodu, Dolphin, Ajangbadi, Lekki, Ojokoro, Victoria Island, among others. In housing, the government in April 2016 introduced the rent-to-own policy whereby home owners under the scheme will just pay one month rent and spread the remaining payment over 10 years. Through the scheme, thousands of residents have become home owners and the allocation of homes is now a regular occurrence as the houses are being allocated as soon as completion. In the area of Sports, the present administration successfully reintroduced the Lagos Marathon in 2016 and the event has now gained international recognition as IAAF bronze label marathon race. In area of sporting infrastructure, the government approved comprehensive upgrade of Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos Island; Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere; Mobolaji Johnson Sports Centre, Rowe Park, Yaba; Isheri Football/Swimming Pool; Ijede Mini Stadium, Ijede, Ikorode; as well as the reconstruction of Onikan Stadium awarded at the cost of N3.6billion. When completed in 2019, the Onikan Stadium would be an all-covered ultra-modern international stadium with FIFA certified artificial turf. It will also be a multi-purpose arena where entertainment concerts and other activities would be staged with capacity for 10,000 people. Within the period under review, the Agege Stadium was also remodeled to Confederation of African Football (CAF) standard. Due to the transformation, the stadium now houses a state-of-the-art dressing room equipped with modern information and communication technology facilities, among others. Another significant milestone recorded is the progress recorded with gigantic projects such as Eko Atlantic City (EAC) and Lekki Free Trade Zone. The first residential building in EAC was unveiled last year and work is progressing well thanks to the support given by the State Government. In the Ibeju-Lekki axis, the petrochemical, refinery, fertilizer and gas plants being constructed by the Dangote Group are moving well, and the company recently completed an industrial jetty to rev up the projects, while the Federal Government launched the Lekki Deep Seaport project in partnership with the State Government. Apart from giant strides in provision of infrastructure, the Governor also came up with new offices to enhance government including Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Office of Overseas Affairs and Investment (Lagos Global) to drive investment, Office of Civic Engagement to enhance relationship with government, and re-engineering of the finances of the State to the point that Lagos now generate an average of N34billion monthly revenue. With the completed and ongoing projects, it is expected that the ship of State under Ambode will berth safely and triumphantly in 2019 and will hopefully be renewed by the people for another four-years. 