GLORY FC, Oshodi defeated Sunshine FC, Ifako 1-0 in the final to emerge winner of the first Under 15 Ubong King Cup 2018 at the Legacy Pitch of the National Stadium, Surulere in Lagos last weekend. The competition sponsored by Ubong Thompson King, Chairman, Protection Plus Services Limited and founder of Ubong King Foundation, also saw Brown United, Ipaja beat Santos FC, Epe 3-2 in the 3rd place match. For emerging champions at the final, Glory FC went home with a trophy and the sum of N400,000, Sunshine FC got a trophy and the sum of N300,000, while Brown United and Santos FC were rewarded with the sum of N200,000 and N100,000 respectively for their efforts. In a chat with NationSport, Ubong King said sponsoring such competition is to catch them young at the grassroot, while also giving the youths opportunities to excel through sports. “I am excited because I could see the future in their eyes. They played with passion and determination and that is all you need to succeed in the future. And I see in the future that these gentle boys will represent Nigeria well. “I’ve started looking at the possibility of inviting more of my friends to get involve because I believe that if we have more football pitches, well publicized tournaments, we can have many corporate organizations coming to encourage them. Whatever they make today is small, it can’t make them far. But if you get the corporate world to begin to showcase these young boys, put them on stage, they would make decisions for themselves. So there is assurance that Ubong King Foundation will still be part of this and also get some of our other friends to be part of it as well,” Ubong King said. In his speech, Chairman of the final, Mr.Nibo Komonibo (Esq) Commissioner of Police ( Rtd), who commended Lagos Grassroot Soccer Association for helping in discovering and developing young talented players by creating a platform like the Ubong King Cup for them to express their God given talents, expressed appreciation to the Executive Governor of Lagos State, Akinkunmi Ambode for his passion, effort and commitment to making the state a safe and secured habitation for everyone because without safety and security this kind of competition will not take place. While describing Ubong King as a good man with a large heart and willing to accommodate any project that has to do with capacity building of young people, Komonibo thank him for taking the pains and efforts to bankroll the tournament at a time when people are crying of recession.