 With so many payment solutions out there, pundits already fear cash may soon be dethroned as ‘king’. Digital payment systems are now so ubiquitous. It is becoming increasingly difficult for consumers—businesses and individuals—to make the right choice. Ideally, this right choice is based on payment needs. Irrespective, it should be one that is seamless, easy to use, efficient, fast and secure. A few brands that have been able to deliver these qualities are leading globally. By now, almost everyone in Nigeria, who is averagely financially literate, can mention one or two of such payment providers, mostly foreign (If you can’t we are working on you, never mind). What many do not know is this- from Nigeria, developed at the very heart of Lagos, is one payment solution on its way to becoming a global brand. It is called Remita. What makes Remita tick would not only be that it is taking the lead in helping individuals and corporates redefine their financial transaction experience, it is the fact that it was developed by an indigenous company, SystemSpecs, one of the country’s longest-standing fintech firms. There is a good chance you have used Remita without realising, especially if you have ever paid to a federal government ministry or parastatal. Yes, Remita has made a name for itself having been tested and trusted by the Nigerian government in its drive towards transparency in the public sector, but it is important to note that Remita is everywhere, not just in the public sector as often misconstrued. SystemSpecs have been in the software business for over 26 years, delivering superior human resource and payment solutions across the country. And unlike newer types of payment solutions developed by most startups, SystemSpecs’ Remita has worked so well for users. It has won several national and international awards for the innovativeness it brings to the diverse payment processing needs of Governments, Organisations, SMEs or Individuals. Remita has the most robust payment facilitation options in Nigeria and has become a one-stop financial shop for all payment needs. Those very familiar with Fintech products emanating from Nigeria and the rest of Africa have described Remita as one of the most remarkable yet. It’s developers, SystemSpecs is a company that has always been ahead of the curve in the Nigeria’s payments industry. Remita boasts of a large clientele and it processes over $30 billion worth of transactions annually. With Remita, anyone can start receiving payments on their website in less than 48 hours with ZERO activation fee. It also makes it easy for customers and service users to pay you using any of the following channels: Online Banking site, Remita (on app, mobile & web), Debit/Credit cards (Visa, Verve, MasterCard, UnionPay); Branches of any commercial bank nationwide; Microfinance Banks; POS, Direct Debit and Digital Wallets. What’s more? Remita has a full suite of comprehensive payment solutions to meet different business or personal transactions needs. Here are some of the packages of this leading brand: Remita Payment Application (Mobile and Web) Remita online and mobile payment application enables Governments, Businesses, NGOs & Individuals to manage bill payments, funds transfers, invoicing & real time tracking of all transactions on a single platform. The mobile app version of Remita, which is available on Android and iOS, is loaded with a lot of features to have consumers experience the best of transactions with their phones. The mobile app helps users aggregate all their bank accounts across different banks on a single screen and make payments seamlessly. This app is perfect for you if you are tired of overburdening your phones with many bank apps, each eating up storage space and slowing down processes. Also, if you have a hard-time remembering a thousand and one passwords and usernames from your many bank accounts, you can easily download a Remita app and connect all your bank accounts on a single screen. It is as simple as it sounds. Thousands of public and private sector organisations, as well as individuals, consider the Remita Online and Mobile Payments and Collections App as one of the best that has ever happened to them. Apart from being able to pay almost any biller in Nigeria’s private and public sector, the mobile and web platforms also incorporate an integrated payroll processing solution. More interesting features include scan/tap to pay, standing orders, e-invoicing and comprehensive expenses and transactions reporting. Remita Payment Gateway Remita provides payers with a wide range of payment channels on a SINGLE platform, including Debit/Credit Cards, Bank Branches, POS Terminals, Micro-Finance Banks, Internet Banking, Collection Agents, Mobile Wallets, Account Payment and Direct Debit. lt can be used by Billers, Merchants, e-Commerce sites etc. The Federal Government of Nigeria adopted the Remita integrated multichannel Payment Gateway as a one-stop solution for the collection of all revenue types through diﬀerent transaction channels under its national Treasury Single Account (TSA) initiative. The Remita Payment Gateway that drives the TSA is integrated with other payment technology solutions at the core of its design. This has always been one of the very unique and verifiable features that has distinguished the Remita solution in the marketplace. Remita Payment Infrastructure For clients who need more than just a payment gateway, SystemSpecs deploy Remita as a complete end-to-end payment infrastructure that facilitates seamless funds transfer, settlement and reporting between ﬁnancial scheme operators (Central Bank, Commercial Banks, Mobile Money Operators, Micro-Finance Banks, etc.).  It also provides visibility over the entire payment ecosystem. Remita Payroll Remita payroll is ideal for any organisation with 2-200,000 employees. It is a powerful and comprehensive Payroll and Human Resource Management solution, which has been effectively deployed across private companies, and governments in Nigeria. Remita Payroll & HR is based on SystemSpecs’ highly successful HumanManager solution that has been a market leader for more than 20 years. Among other things, it allows organisations to save costs, detect ghost workers, compute all staff allowances and deductions, and automatically send electronic Payment Notification, Payslips and Tax analysis slips to each staff at the end of every pay run. It also allows them to pay salaries without the need to upload salary schedules from a separate software to the e-Payment platform. Although the need to automate payroll processes end-to-end inspired the birth of Remita, it has grown beyond just salary payroll to include payment of taxes, loans, pensions, cooperative deductions, among others. Today, Remita does beyond salaries and vendor payments system; it does financial collections. Recently, SystemSpecs formed a strategic collaboration with Access Bank to offer salary earners ‘PayDay’ loans, without human interaction, the need for collateral or guarantor, or the need to visit a bank. This has been made possible through Remita’s robust database.