Some July 7, top dignitaries, including Lagos State governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, are expected to storm Epe, Lagos State as popular gospel minister, Evangelist Dunni Olanrewaju, aka Opelope Anointing marks the eighth anniversary of the Opelope Anointing Foundation (OAF), an initiative designed to touch the lives, especially of the underprivileged, aside spreading the gospel through music. The event which will hold at the Epe Town Hall, Ita Opo, will also attract the Osun State Deputy Governor, Chief (Mrs) Titi Tomori, Elder Akin Ognbiyi; actress, Mrs Idowu Philips, popularly known as Mama Rainbow; Lady Evangelist Iyabo Ogunsola; Pastor Taiwo Idris; Bishop Rachael Ibironke and guest speaker, Prophet Caleb Olulade among others. Gospel musicians expected to perform at the event include Evangelist Esther Igbekele, Biyi Samuel and Seyi Lewis. The highpoint of the event will be the charity programme where the people of Epe with benefit free healthcare services, free drugs and eye test, free glasses and windows, as well as supports for the underprivileged. “This initiative surfaced eight years ago and I thank God that we have been able to sustain it through the support of well-meaning Nigerians,” said Evangelist Olanrewaju. “We have toured different states including Osun, Ekiti, Lagos, affecting lives positively in the last eight years. It is our delight to mark this year’s anniversary with the people of Epe. This is significant, because it is the country home of the Lagos State governor, His Excellency, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode and we are happy to give back to his people, as well as inaugurate the Epe chapter of the Opelope Anointing Fans Club in his source. This will in a way serve as a token of appreciation to his tremendous works in Lagos State.” The two-day event, which will feature the inauguration of the Opelope Anointing Fans Club, Epe chapter, on July 6, would be graced by Governor Ambode and his wife, Bolanle as the special guest of honour and chairperson of the day respectively.