Beyond casting their ballot, Nigerians muts be actively involved to ensure good governance, Nigeria’s former High Commissioner to the United Kingdom (UK) has said. In a paper entitled: “Christians and governance”, delivererd under the auspices of Christ the Redeemer’s Friends International (CRFI), Dr. Kolade cautions elective office holders against constitutional abuse. It is often appropriate to start with definitions, especially because both terms – Christianity and governance – have been used in so many contexts that we need to avoid any possible confusion by ensuring true clarity in the usage that we are adopting for this discussion. Take the word ‘governance’, for instance, a short definition, often seen in some United Nations (UN) documentation, sees governance as “the process of decision-making and the process by which decisions are implemented (or not implemented).” Some have gone from that statement to assume that governance (decision-making and implementation), being activities frequently carried out by governments, should be synonymous with government. However, as soon as we accept the reality that decisions are taken and implemented at multiple levels of the society, we have to agree that ‘governance’ is broader than ‘government’ because other sectors of society are included in it. These include non-governmental organisations, businesses, professional associations, civil society movements, and religious organisations, to name only a few. Wherever we can identify a group that sometimes exercises some influence on the crafting of public policy or its implementation, that group is asserting its relevance to, and active participation in, governance. Indeed, all of us, as citizens, sometimes elect or appoint individuals into roles in government, in which they volunteer to take the responsibility for leading the governance endeavour, it is also true that society needs the active participation of all its members in ensuring the success of the governance plans and policies, not only today, but all the way into the future.  Purpose of governance  Therefore, rather than seek a definition of governance, we may do well to ask the question – What is governance for?  In other words, what is the purpose of governance? Why do we practise governance, and what does it help us to achieve?  Once we adopt this approach, it is reasonable for us to conclude that any governance that fulfils its purpose with sustainable success would qualify to be described as, and this immediately allows us to consider the possibility that Christianity – or, indeed, any other philosophy that extols noble values and high standards – can have a beneficial influence on the quality of governance in which its adherents participate. We must also acknowledge that governance is a responsibility, since it is designed to achieve important outcomes for everyone in the society. It should not only ensure welfare, peace and security; it should also enable every citizen to be the best he can be through his productivity and adherence to the laws of the country. We may also ask, at this point, what or who is a Christian, and what role should he or she play in governance?  If we are true Christians, this means that we have chosen to follow Jesus Christ, not just when it is convenient or unavoidable, but, indeed, in everything, and at all times.  It means that we have chosen Christianity as our way of life, a way of life to which we are committed, and which should reflect in everything we say or do. So, considering what we have already said about the need for all members of the society to participate in governance, we should have no problem in agreeing that, when we do so as Christians, all our decisions and actions should be an accurate reflection of our Christianity. One of the ways in which the Christian brings Christ into governance is to follow the example of Jesus Christ, especially when He had to deal with situations involving human considerations and preferences.  We take note of the fact that He would usually go to the word of God in order to establish the validity of the position He was taking.  He chased greedy tradesmen out of the temple because they were turning the place that God’s word described as a house of prayer into a “den of thieves”. Again, when Jesus Christ was tested by the devil at the start of His ministry, He answered every test by quoting the Word, thus effectively disposing of each assault. The Christian in governance – and this means everybody – can do no better than to take refuge in the word of God, where experience has shown us that there is always an effective answer to every question that we may raise in any situation. With specific reference to the governance responsibility, the true follower of Jesus Christ actually stands in a place of distinct advantage.  We have already mentioned the fact that the word of God can provide an effective answer to every challenge that the Christian may encounter. In addition to that powerful resource, the Christian also has the teachings and example of our Lord Himself when He lived as a man here on earth.  His teachings have given the Christian the noblest values and highest standards that should be applied in all situations.  Then, on top of all that, Jesus Christ has fulfilled His promise that the Holy Spirit would come to live in Christians and guide them to all truth.  When this first happened openly to the disciples, Peter was quick to remind everyone that the promise of empowerment by the Holy Spirit was available to “all whom the Lord our God will call” (Acts 2:39).  This gives us, the Christians of 21st century Nigeria, the confidence that, indeed, “we can do all things, through Christ who gives us strength.” (Philippians 4:13) The essence of all this is that Christians today are able to address their governance responsibility, not only by showing themselves to be practitioners of good governance, but also by standing firm to defend their Christian values and standards whenever they come under attack by people who are inclined to violate them.  What is good governance?  As we observed earlier, it is often helpful, in this kind of discussion, to try to understand a concept by its purpose, and by the outcomes that take place as a result of applying the concept. We have also suggested that the word of God offers enormous help in answering the questions that we confront as we pass through life. When we study the Bible at the 29th chapter of the Book of Proverbs, we are given a number of instructive pointers, which I quote here in the Contemporary English Version of the Holy Bible: Verse 2: “When justice rules a nation, everyone is glad; when injustice rules, everyone groans. Verse 4: “An honest ruler makes the nation strong; a ruler who takes bribes will bring it to ruin. Verse 7: “The wicked don’t care about the rights of the poor, but good people do. Verse 12: “A ruler who listens to lies will have corrupt officials. Verse 14: “Kings who are fair to the poor will rule forever. Verse 16: “Crime increases when crooks are in power, but law-abiding citizens will see them fall. Verse 18: “Without guidance from God law and order disappear, but God blesses everyone who obeys his law. Verse 26: “Many try to make friends with a ruler, but justice comes from the Lord. Verse 27: Good people and criminals can’t stand each other. In a paper by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP), published in 1997, we are also offered the following as the characteristics of good governance – the factors that we should look for in order to be sure that good governance is actually happening: An institutional set-up that ensures good governance usually has the following features: Participation: All men and women should have a voice in decision-making, either directly or through legitimate intermediate institutions that represent their interests. Such broad participation is built on freedom of association and speech, as well as capacities to participate constructively.  Rule of Law: Legal frameworks should be fair and enforced impartially, particularly laws on human rights.  Transparency: Transparency is built on the free flow of information. Processes, institutions, and information are directly accessible to those concerned with them, and enough information is provided to understand and monitor them.  Responsiveness: Institutions and processes try to serve all stakeholders.  Consensus Orientation: Good governance mediates differing interests to reach a broad consensus on what is in the best interests of the group and where possible, on policies and procedures.  Equity: All men and women have opportunities to improve or maintain their well-being.  Effectiveness and Efficiency: Processes and institutions produce results that make the best use of resources.  Accountability: Decision-makers in government and civil society organisations are accountable to the public, as well as to the institutional stakeholders. This accountability differs depending on the organization and whether the decision is internal or external to an organisation.  Strategic Vision: Leaders and the public have a broad and long-term perspective on good governance and human development, along with a sense of their rights and duties. There is also an understanding of the historical, cultural and social complexities in which that perspective is grounded.  Best practice in governance  If we place the UNDP list alongside the statements in Proverbs, Chapter 29, we easily see that the proposed values that should underpin good governance performance are very similar. Both passages make repeated allusions to truth, justice, equity, transparency, inclusiveness. In both passages, we also receive the information that those who follow best practice are most likely to succeed in governance.  Again we can find important help to confirm this in the word of God. Take the example of Joseph who went from the position of a slave to the role of prime minister in Egypt.  Consider also the important governance role that Daniel earned while in exile in Babylon.  In the New Testament, we also have the example of Stephen and his group of seven who were chosen for governance responsibility in Acts of the Apostles, Chapter 6.  All three references provide examples of best practice in governance, and the one attribute that they all shared was that they were driven by the Spirit and wisdom of God.  The same is what Jesus Christ promises His followers – if they keep His commandments.  And He expects them to keep His commandments because they love Him.  The Nigerian Christian and governance  The final question that this paper wants to pose is one that people ask me on many occasions when we engage one another in these discussions.  In the light of all that keeps happening in our country, people ask if it is possible for the Christian – indeed, for anyone – to be an apostle of best practice in governance in present-day Nigeria. My answer, always, is that it is not only possible, but indeed easy, if the Christian is in a functioning relationship with Jesus Christ, and if, with help from the Lord Himself, the Christian in governance is determined to be totally faithful to the Constitution of our country, and to the declarations that we make in our National Anthem and National Pledge. The third commandment warns that God will not overlook the guilt of all those who take His name in vain! Too often, our Christian identity withers in the face of any challenge that threatens our comfort, our love of money, or our yearning for personal importance and power.  In the end, the kind of best practice that produces good governance is determined by Christ’s expectation of those who claim to be His followers.  His values, His standards, and His unrelenting discipline are laid upon Christians in His own clear declaration – If anyone would come after me, he must deny himself and take up his cross daily and follow me. (Luke 9:23) But Jesus Christ also extends the invitation to us to enjoy the benefit of His help and care: Matt 11:28-30 28: Come to Me, all you who labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. 29: Take My yoke upon you and learn from Me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. 30: For My yoke is easy and My burden is light.” 