 What a way to go.  That is probably the only thing on the mind of World cup winning coach Joachim Low after the defending champions were sent packing on Wednesday in Russia. Low and his Germany side produced a superlative performance at the 2014 world cup in Brazil cruising all the way to the final and picking the cup after defeating Argentina by a lone goal in the final. The team had in the semi final beaten Brazil 7-1 the worst defeat Brazil had suffered in the FIFA World Cup history. But the 2018 edition has turned out to be a nightmare for Low and his team as they were bundled out on Wednesday  in Kazan, Russia The Germans posted what could pass as their worst display against already eliminated Korea Republic, failing to score a goal and losing the game 2-0 against all predictions. The German machine as they are popularly called failed to live up to expectation struggling to score despite having shots on goals that were rather very weak. The Korean defeat of Germany has already been dubbed the miracle of Kazan. The Koreans will be going home with a record of knocking out the defending champions, which explains why they celebrated they way they did. Interestingly the two goals came in the closing minutes of the game. Kim Young-Gwon had scored the first goal in the two minutes of added time with the VAR employed to ascertain whether or not he was off side. The second goal however was a outrageous as goalkeeper Die Mannschaft in an attempt to contribute to last minute effort to remedy the situation abandoned his post and headed up front allowing Son Heung-Min to chase a long pass and score in an empty net in the 6th minute of added time. Germany only managed to clinch a 2-1 win over Sweden losing two of their group matches.   Only six times in history have the champions crashed out in the first round, and four of those have happened since the turn of the millennium. Only Brazil, returning champions in 2002, made it past the group stage. France, Italy, Spain and now Germany four European giants of the game – have been shown the door in the group stage in the while attempting to defend their title      