 Remember Shakespeare?  I don’t think you have forgotten him neither have you forgotten his play Twelfth Night. “If music be the food of love, play on, Give me excess of it; that surfeiting, the appetite may sicken and so die” Music no doubt is not only the food of love, but has also been found to be the food of concentration depending on the type you listen to. Soft rhythm and even sometimes just instrumentals like the Saxophone some say could aid maximum concentration. Perhaps that was what Super Eagles Captain John Obi Mikel was thinking when he decided to buy every member of the World cup bound Super Eagles team a head phone. Certainly a headphone is meant to help the user listen to music, video of his choice without necessarily distracting a neighbour who may not at that moment be interested in what you are watching or listening to.  It hands you an opportunity to select and privately listen to inspirational song or track that can help you focus and ultimately serve as ginger. The World cup is 14 days away and every team hoping to make an impact will not only need to train well but will also need to be focused. Ability to concentrate is a plus which can aid action on the pitch. Captain Obi Mikel wants maximum cooperation and concentration from every player, believing it is the only way they can as a team give their all. A leader is not only reactive but equally proactive. A captain who knows his onions will mobilise his team, lift their spirit to achieve set target. Although the former Chelsea ace who now plays and captains Chinese Super League side Tiajin Teda will lead his team in a friendly match against Three Lions of England later today at Wembley, the gesture is not aimed only at today encounter but is expected to sow seed of maximum concentration on the players all through the duration of the world cup in Russia. Of course his teammates appreciated his effort. John Ogu revealed this appreciation when he displayed his own headphone on social media. “The Super Eagles captain @mikel_john_obi bought each member of the @NGSuperEagles a @beatsbydre head phones said @ogujohnugo at their camp the @HiltonWembley Saturday. Eagles will open their campaign at the world cup on June 16 against Croatia before taking on Iceland and Argentina respectively.