The National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI) will be collaborating for the distribution of metres in the country. Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) NASENI, Prof. Mohammed Haruna said that the agency has been doing some research on metres and will be collaborating with NERC for a way forward. According to him, metres found in the country are of different models and from different countries, with no standardization but a solution will be found with the collaboration. Speaking Wednesday in Abuja, at the renewal of his tenure inauguration, Prof. Haruna stated that now that he is back in office, his point of action will be accommodating everybody. He said that he is determined to put everything that has happened behind him and focus on things that will move the agency forward. It will be recalled that before the recent renewal of his tenure by President Buhari, a row broke out at the agency, which created a crisis of confidence among top directors and staff of the agency leading to a division. Prof. Haruna while speaking with newsmen revealed that the agency is determined to get new products that will solve the economic and social problems affecting the country. His words, “The most important thing that we are starting with now that I am back in office is accommodating everybody, putting all that happened behind us and focus on things that will move the agency forward for the benefit of the nation. “We are determined more than ever to get new products that will solve the economic and social problems affecting the country, things that will benefit the general public that will transform rural areas for the progress of the country, which is our main mission. “NASENI has been doing some research on the area of meters, we intend to collaborate with the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) on the best way forward, their are variations of metres. Metres in the country presently are of different models and from different countries, there is no standardization but with the new team in NERC, we are sure that in collaboration with NASENI we will find a solution. “The major challenge we encounter is for Nigerians to believe in science and technology, for Nigerians to believe that the problem of the country’s economic predicament is lack of impute from engineering science and technology. We are grateful with the current administration that is putting science and technology forward for repositioning our economy.” Director, Technology Business Development, Nathan Pawa stated that the management of the agency is happy to have him back. His words, “I want you to know that government is all about continuity, the letter given to Prof. Haruna for a second tenure stated clearly that his tenure started from the 3rd of April 2018 that is immediately after the end of his first tenure, so whatever has happened between then and now is for the government to sort out not us. “To those of us in management, we are very happy to have him back because as you might have noticed, he has done so many things within a few years and now that he has five more years to work, I assure you that with the support of all staff, we are going to turn this place into a huge organizations that will be a source of good things for this country.”