 A total prize money of $12,000 (About N4.3million) will be won at the maiden edition of the Moorhouse-Epe Cycle Race scheduled to hold in Epe Town in Lagos State on Sunday, 30th September, 2018, the eve of Independence Day. According to the organizers, Moorhouse Properties, the event would be divided into several categories and would accommodate secondary school children, professionals, and veterans (amateurs). The course will be an 18-kilometre undulating circuit within and around Epe Town on smooth roads newly reconstructed by Lagos State.  Participants will take in the main sights of the town, the gateway to Epe, the Marina, and the hinterland as the hilly topography of Epe Town is certain to make for an intense ride. Professional cyclists from around Nigeria, Africa and Europe have already indicated interest to participate in the Moorhouse-Epe Cycle Race. “We are proud to be part of this because as a hospitality company, we want to promote tourism and this serves as an opportunity to do just that,” said Mr. Bruce Prins of Moor House Properties. Project Manager, Habiba Balogun confirmed that female participants will race the same distances and have an equal share of prize monies as their male counterparts.  Professionals will cover a distance of 108km, while the distance for veterans (amateurs) is 54km. The first, second and third place finishers will be rewarded with equal prize monies of $3,000, $2,000 and $1,000 prizes respectively in both male and female categories. There will also be lots of consolation prizes to win for the first ten finishers as well as categories for best team and displays of skill, strategy & stamina. A separate race will be held for the schoolchildren over one 18km lap. To entertain residents and tourists for the Independence Day weekend of 29th and 30th September and 1st October, 2018, the organisers will be working with the community, that is famous for its fishing, to line up other local events such as a boat regatta, live music at its two prominent leisure resorts, Jubilee Chalets Epe, and Epe Resort, as well as food, drink & entertainment on the newly reconstructed Marina. “A carnival-like weekend is what we anticipate,” project manager, Habiba Balogun said. “The purpose of the event is to encourage a healthy and active lifestyle, as well as to promote Epe Town as a tourism destination,” Balogun said.