A stalwart of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, Olorogun Otega Emerhor on Wednesday night declared that President Muhammadu Buhari has done well in Delta State more than former President Goodluck Jonathan, who hails from the zone. He spoke with State House correspondents after meeting with the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari. On what are the chances of Buhari in the South South, Emerhor said, “In 2015, we had President Jonathan who is from the south south, that created an emotional issue but we have seen now that even when Jonathan was in power, he did not do for Delta what President Buhari has done for us. “The Ogoni cleaning exercise that is going on there is one of the major thing we can count on. The east west road is being completely rehabilitated and that did not happen when one of our own sons was the President. “So, we are very confident that the south south this time around wants to belong to the center and that is why we are going to be able to deliver the President there.” he added Giving more reasons why the South South will support Buhari, he said that the Buhari’s administration has reactivated the amnesty programme; the Maritime University in the Ijaw-Ishekiri side of Delta is now functioning. He went on: “And he has done a lot for us in Delta. He has empowered a lot of our people in Delta. “We have the Minister of State Petroleum and the Minister of Transportation from South-South, the N-Power programme is working so all these have created the enabling environment for us to deliver the President in 2019.” he said Optimistic that the APC can take over the reins of leadership in Delta State from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), he said that the current Governor off the State has not done enough thus, clearing the coast for the APC to take over. “Let me tell you, we are so fortunate that the Governor of Delta Sate, who is a PDP man, is not doing anything. Delta has a lot of resources and the expectation is that the State should be doing better than Edo State for example, which is our neighbour but the APC Governor in Edo is doing so well; even Willie Obiano in Anambra that doesn’t having anything is doing so well. “So it’s so obvious that the finances of Delta State are not being applied and everyone in Delta is now convinced that APC must takeover because they produce performing Governors,” he stated. Commenting on alleged divisions in the APC in Delta State, he said the issue was not peculiar to Delta State. “The issue of congresses and division did not happen only in Delta. It happened across the country but this is the period of reconciliation. There is a group that did not work with the majority of the people in Delta; we formed a unity group in Delta that had so many Governorship aspirants and leaders working together. “But as you know, the Ogboru and Omo-Agege group put their own governorship aspiration ahead and decided to work separately but the move we are making is to bring everybody together, provide a level playing field so that all the Governorship aspirants will work together. “But the great objective we have is how to deliver the President in Delta State 2019. That is our priority and the ground is ripe for us to take over that State and deliver 2 million votes for President Buhari in 2019,” he said. 