After weeks of speculations about his political future,the  National Chairman of the All Progressives Congres (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun,  last night  confirmed that he is through with the office. Odigie-Oyegun told reporters in Abuja that he has decided to step aside in the best interest of the party. He will thus not seek re-election  at the national convention of the party scheduled for  June 23. He said it was his personal conviction not to seek re-election. But he said he would always be available to serve the party. The party chair  said though he had  initially desired to re-contest the position he had now  ”taken this decision without prejudice to my commitment to the party in helping to solve some of the subsisting and emerging difficult issues and my ability to continue to provide necessary leadership.” He added: “I believe that the party faces difficult days ahead and all critical stakeholders in its leadership would be required to bind together for a common purpose. Therefore, the less contentious our national convention is, the better for the party. “I have always sought to be part of solving the problem of the APC. I do not intend to be part of the problems for the APC to solve. “It is for this reason I hereby declare that I will not be seeking re-election as the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). “However, I will continue to perform my functions as the National Chairman of the party till my tenure officially ends on Monday, the 25th of June when  a new set of party executives will be inaugurated.” Chief Odigie-Oyegun said the decision to have the present executive remain in office in an interim capacity was to avoid going into the 2019 elections as a divided house, saying “with the 2019 general elections looming on the horizon, some of us considered it to be in the best interest of the party to go into the elections as a united fighting force, rather than one that is potentially weakened by internal conflict arising from competitive congresses. “It was for this reason that we canvassed and obtained the NEC decision of February 27 asking all executives of the party to continue in office in acting capacity for another period of 12 months.” He acknowledged the encouragement  of many stakeholders of the party at all levels who began to rally round him, saying: “I believe that these loyal party men and women instinctively chose to support me because they recognized what was in the best interest of the party at that point in time. “Quite fundamentally, they were demonstrating their love and commitment for the party, realizing that perhaps, what was needed most at this point in time in our history as a political party was experience and stability.” Only Comrade Adams Oshiomhole ,the immediate past governor of Edo State,has signified his intention to contest for the position of APC national chairman. He has been endorsed by President Muhammadu Buhari.