The much-awaited national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) is holding tomorrow in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), amidst fears that the crack earlier in some state chapters may widen. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN highlights the factors that will guarantee a successful exercise. ALL is set for the national convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC) holding in Abuja tomorrow. As witnessed in the past under the former ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the various interest groups within the APC are pulling the party in different directions, to position themselves ahead of next year’s general elections. Indications are that the APC is strategising towards a rancour-free convention, by trying to end the schisms that have rocked its various state chapters in the last one year. The crisis in some state chapters had led to the emergence of parallel delegates and parallel executives in 10 states. The states are Kwara, Delta, Rivers, Ondo, Lagos, Enugu, Kogi, Bayelsa, Oyo and Ebonyi. At the heat of the controversy, the APC spokesman, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, denied that there were parallel congresses in the states mentioned. He said the party recognises only congresses conducted by the committees set up by the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC). Nevertheless, some aggrieved stakeholders are still making issues out of the parallel congresses. The party has gone ahead to swear-in the new executives that emerged at the congresses supervised by its committee. The implication of this action is that the factional groups have been shut out of the convention, because only delegates that emerged from the recognised congresses will be allowed to participate. But, this has not put an end to the schisms in some state chapters and this development has fuelling the speculations that the convention may not be rancour-free. In Rivers State, for instance, the faction that will produce the delegates to the convention is still not clear. The crisis in the chapter took a new dimension with the annulment of the congress that produced Mr Ojukaye Flag-Amachree as chairman. The Flag-Amachree group is the mainstream one sponsored by the Minister of Transport, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi. But, the former deputy chairman in the immediate past executive, Prince Peter Odike, who is loyal to Senator Magnus Abe, has taken over the chairmanship position, on the strength of the judicial annulment of the recent congresses, in the absence of the substantive chairman, Mr. Davies Ikanya, who he claimed was hospitalised. Odike said his executive will submit a statutory delegates’ list to the national body for the convention.  Odike buttressed his argument thus: “With the voiding of the Ojukaye Flag-Amachree midnight congress, our State Working Committee which they sought to succeed is still in place and intact.” Now, given the court ruling, which executive would the national convention committee recognise? In Oyo State, a faction of the party under the aegis of the APC Unity Forum has gone to court to challenge the recognition of Chief Akin Oke-led executive. Members of the forum were supporters of the former governor, the late Lam Adesina. The group calls itself Lamists. The faction faulted the process through which Oke and members of his executive emerged, saying the congress that produced them breached the party’s guidelines. The forum prayed the court to disband the Oke-led executive, which is loyal to Governor Abiola Ajimobi and declared its own congress is the legitimate one. The Lamists have snubbed the reconciliation moves by the governor. In Delta State, there were also two parallel executives. The group loyal to Senator Ovie Omo-Agege held its state congress and elected a state working committee, despite the postponement of the exercise by the national leadership of the party. Omo-Agege is in league with one of the governorship hopefuls, Chief Great Ogboru. The faction is said to have the Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, as its major chieftain.  At the rescheduled congress, the group loyal to the APC leader in the state, Olorogun Otega Emerhor, elected a new state executive, led by Chief Cyril Ogodo. The new executive has been sworn-in by the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun. The National Executive Committee (NEC) had foreseen that the crisis within the various state chapters would spell doom for the party. That was why it sought to delay the national congress for one year and extend the tenure of its members from the ward to the national level. But the uprising against the move forced President Muhammadu Buhari and other leaders of the party to prevail on NEC to shelve the idea and conduct elective congresses. Is this scenario likely to affect the outcome of the convention negatively? A senior party official who does not want to be mentioned has ruled out the fate that befell the PDP during a similar convention before the last general election. He said the contrary to speculations making the rounds that the APC would not implode and that there would be no violence during the exercise. The source disclosed that the party has been making some moves behind the scene to reconcile the aggrieved stakeholders who lost out in the congresses. He said the reconciliatory moves is aimed at giving the aggrieved factional leaders a sense of belonging. He added: “Our leaders are still talking to them on the need to work together for the success of the convention and unity of purpose to confront 2019 general elections. I can assure you that we have been receiving positive response from them. There is no cause for alarm. The party is on top of the situation.” When reminded that some of the aggrieved party members had approached the court to scuttle the convention, he said they have the right to seek redress in the court of law and at the same time they have the right to withdraw such suit at any given time. But a lawyer, Mr Akin Adegbola, blamed the party’s national chairman for what he described as his inconsistency on the parallel congresses. He faulted Odigie-Oyegun’s directive that the APC chairmen in states like Rivers, Lagos and Oyo should not swear- in their executives until the issue of parallel executives were resolved. Adegbola said the chairman’s statement negated the earlier stance of the NEC that it would not recognise state party executives produced by parallel congresses. Odigie-Oyegun’s statement had emboldened the “dissident groups” in the party to continue their nefarious activities. He said: “There is no parallel executive in Lagos State chapter. Do they exist? How did they emerge? Who conducted the ward, local and state congresses for them? Some aggrieved members just assembled in a hotel and claimed to be holding state congress that was not conducted by the committee from the national headquarters of the APC and which was not supervised by the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). That is the so-called parallel executive that the Odigie-Oyegun-led executive has dignified. It is ridiculous. “I think Odigie-Oyegun is deliberately working against a rancour-free convention or that he is creating problems for his successor. He is also probably using the convention to settle scores with his imaginary enemies.” The lawyer boasted that the alleged illegality of ward and local council congresses raised by aggrieved members in some states would not affect the outcome of the convention. He said the complainants have failed to use the party’s internal conflict resolution mechanism to seek redress before rushing to court. He said issues arising from congresses are internal problems of the party which must be resolved internally. Another issue that is likely to cause a stir is the complaints of former members of the PDP in the party, otherwise known as the ‘new PDP’ or ‘nPDP’. They had petitioned President Buhari, alleging marginalisation by the APC controlled Federal Government. They claim that despite their contribution to the victory of the party in 2015, they have not been compensated. They had recently given an ultimatum to the ruling party to address their grievances or they will quit the party. But, a chieftain of the APC who is also a member of the ‘nPDP’, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, said the claim was not true. He said the ‘nPDP’ members are holding high political offices, such as Senate President, Bukola Saraki; Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogora; and Minister of Transport, Chief Rotimi Amaechi. He said many of them have been appointed as Chairmen and Board members by President Buhari. Adamu said the threat by ‘nPDP’ members to pull out of the fold, if their grievances are not addressed, is an empty one. He said: “It is not a political party. It is a block from a political group that joined the APC after its formation and registration.” Indeed, contrary to rumour making the rounds, the aggrieved ‘nPDP’ members, led by Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje (CON), have indicated that they will participate fully in the convention. Baraje who had been leading other members of the ‘nPDP’ in consultations with APC leadership said that his group has no cause not to attend the convention. The ‘nPDP’ leader said in a statement from his media office in Ilorin, Kwara State: “We are looking forward to the Saturday convention; we will be at the convention and after that, we shall see how things unfold.” The face-off between Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and NWC members from the Southeast region is another issue that may mar the cohesion of stakeholders from the zone. At a meeting in Abuja recently, some stakeholders announced that they have decided to return Senator Osita Izunaso, Chief George Moghalu and Chief Emma Eneukwu as National Organising Secretary, National Auditor and National Vice Chairman (Southeast) respectively. But, this development did not go down well with other stakeholders, including Okorocha. In this regard, majority of APC governors are rallying round Okorocha, who is also the Chairman of APC Governors’ Forum. The governors believe that the development is a plot to humiliate their leader. They have now joined forces to stop the re-emergence of Izunaso as national organising secretary. Izunaso, who is from Imo State, was an arrowhead in the allied forces of the APC stakeholders in Imo State who collaborated to pull the party structure from Okorocha. Despite Izunaso’s endorsement by the Southeast caucus of the party, the governors had reached an agreement to either force him out of the race or collaborate to vote him out on the convention ground. One of the governors privy to the plot was quoted as saying: “This humiliation given to our chairman could also happen to anyone of us. So, there is no way we can allow this to go like this.” 