A HUMAN rights activist and lawmaker, Senator Shehu Sani and National Coordinator of Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) and Aare Onakakanfo of Yorubaland Gani Adams have urged those who annulled and betrayed June 12, 1993 presidential election to apologise. Sani, who spoke yesterday in Ogba, Lagos, at the 25th anniversary of the June 12, 1993 presidential poll, said it was unfortunate that “these saboteurs did not allow the late Chief MKO Abiola to realise his dream of enabling Nigerians to say farewell to poverty. “I hail President Muhammadu Buhari for recognising and declaring June 12 as Democracy Day, but he should ensure that the senseless killings ongoing in the country are stopped. “The greatest honour President Buhari can do to the late Chief Abiola is to sustain his ideals by promoting unity and ensuring that Nigerians enjoy the good things of life. “Traitors of June 12 must not be honoured. Those who worked for the late Gen. Sani Abacha and Gen. Ibrahim Babangida to truncate the June 12, 1993 presidential poll must not be honoured.” The senator lambasted the people who abandoned Chief Abiola during the struggle and hailed heroes of democracy like the late Gani Fawehinmi, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, Prof.  Wole Soyinka, the late Dr. Beko Ransome-Kuti and others “for ensuring that Nigerians now enjoy democracy”. Adams thanked Buhari for “taking this bold initiative of honouring the late Abiola and the late Fawehinmi.” He said Nigerians would not forget him for putting the country’s democratic history in the right perspective. Adams added: “All over the world, issues of security, good health, education, enduring social structure and good economy always take the centre stage. “I implore the Buhari administration to take care of these and other good things of life, which will ameliorate Nigerians’ sufferings. “The way we clamoured and struggled to make June 12 Democracy Day, we need to make sacrifice, struggle and make a case for restructuring. “We need to stand firm and raise our voices in support of restructuring. If Nigeria is restructured, the federating units or states will develop at their own pace. “Our democracy has been so monetised that to some Nigerians, it defies logic. The result is that electoral malpractice has become the order of the day.” Chairman of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Lagos State Council Dr. Qasim Akinreti hailed President Buhari for doing justice at the right time by recognising Chief Abiola and declaring June 12 as Democracy Day. Personalities who fought for June 12 were given awards at the event. 