Senators, Reps give 10 conditions 162 oppose impeachment plan at stormy session Parliamentry group warns against dragging National Assembly into private matters Pressure group Parliamentary Support Group (PSG) yesterday warned against heating up the polity for selfish reasons. The PSG described the stormy joint session as a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) affair because members of All Progressives Congres (APC) did not partake in the debate to avoid issues degenerating into rowdiness. The group said rather than heat up the polity for selfish political reasons, any senators or member of the House of Representives who is facing corruption or criminal allegation, should clear his or her name without dragging the entire institution of the National Assembly into the matter. The statement signed on behlf of the group by Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC,Kano), said  the resolution of the joint session was predetermined and drawn up by an ally of Senate President Bukola Saraki. The group reiterated its support for President Muhammadu Buhari adding that the resolution was not voted on according to parliamentary norm. The statement reads: “The Parliamentary Support Group of the Senate and House of Representatives is aware of the joint Executive session of the National Assembly held today and wish to state as follows: Immediately after the session a member of the House of Representatives Mohammaed Gudaji Kazaure (Jigawa State) told reporters that lawmakers from the north would not support any impeach,ent move against the President. . Although he expressed support for the resolution, he rejected any bid for impeachment, saying soe of the issues could not be carried out immediately by the President. He advised the President to look inward and review the activities of some of his aides. He said some of the President’s aides that could not command electoral relevance were undermining his efforts at moving the nation forward. According to him, Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara appealed to the sponsors of the impeachment move to have a change of mind. He said while all the members were unanimous on the resolution, all hell broke lose when the invocation of necessary constitutional provisions against President Buhari, if he failed to implement the resolution, was raised. He said: “I have never seen this kind of hot joint session.  What is the necessary legislative action, if not impeachment?  Many of us are not interested in threatening the President” Kazuare noted that immediately some of them from the North got wind of the plot to impeach the President, they quickly mobilised and formed a group of 162 Northern lawmakers to frustrate the move. He said: “Many of us are not in support of threatening the President because he is a man of integrity. We know his heart is clean. But people are complaining about some people surrounding him. “Today,  I call on the President to checkmate those people. Let him remove anybody that people are complaining about. “Let him remove them and bring people that will move this country forward, because enough is enough. “We don’t want a situation whereby some people will create problems for the president, then at the end, we will come to this House and complain against the President. “While the President is around in the Villa and doesn’t know what is going on in the country. Because unless they come and brief him, and sometimes, they brief him wrongly, and that is the reality. “As we are in the House of Representatives, I’m sure we have some members in the Senate, I’m sure we will not allow anybody to threaten the President. “The President will remain the President and he will be re- elected, when he finishes his eight years, he will go, then anybody can come. But that threat is the only thing that worried me in the Chamber. “Because after all the resolutions, they said without the executive adopting the resolutions we will use any legislative power that we have against them. “The issue of people collecting signatures to serve notice of impeachment to the president, we know it’s there in the House. But we know nobody can afford to come and show us that they will impeach the President in the Chamber. “Nobody will do that, because there is no two-thirds. I’m sure there is no two- third in the House of Representatives because our group, we are strong enough to stop any impeachment “I agree with the legislature for saying that we have to improve the security of this country and that the killings must end. This is accepted, and the issue of the people around the president that are not performing, I accept that the president should change them or sack them. “Issue of intimidating people like intimidating a whole Senate President, saying he sponsored a robbery, a whole Senate President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, it embarrassed this institution. I will not support it and I’m sure the President never supported it”.