Albesta Academy, Eleko, Ibeju-Lekki, Lagos has   emerged third time winner of the Tolaram Science Challenge – an initiative of Lekki Port LFTZ Enterprise (LPLE), Lagos. The challenge is a special Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) initiative aimed at promoting science education among  pupils in Lekki-Ajah. This edition featured 14 secondary schools. Questions were drawn from Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics and General Knowledge. Presenting Albesta Academy with the first prize trophy and cash prize, LPLE Chairman, Mr. Emmanuel Adesoye, commended the hard work, diligence and intelligence of the participants, stating that their brilliant performance has seen them clinch the first prize for the third time. “Winning this year’s edition of the science challenge makes Albesta Academy a third time and all-time winner of the competition, which goes to show how hard-work always makes you stand out,” Adesoye said, urging the students not to relent as they climb higher the educational ladder. Speaking after receiving the trophy, Principal of Albesta Academy, Mr. Thompson Imhanbor, appreciated LPLE for its immense contribution to the development of education in the entire area. “We really appreciate the efforts of Lekki Port, especially in the area of education development and advancement. Thanks to them, the students of this area are better at their science subjects and always look forward to this competition,” Imhanbor said. The schools that participated include: Senior Grammar School, Magbon Alade; Community Senior Secondary School, Debojo; Community Senior High School, Magbon-Segun; Community Senior High School, Idata/Ilagbo; Community Senior High School, Akodo; Community Senior High School, Orimedu; Community Senior High School, Ise; Community Senior High School, Lekki; Community Senior High School, Iwerekun; Ibeju Senior High School, Ibeju- Lekki; Jona Josh College, Orofun/Akodo; JOAK Private School, Magbon Alade; and LACAPERIA Academy, Obadore. Speaking on the project, LPLE Chief Finance Officer, Mr. Sandeep Parasramka, assured that it would continue to deliver impactful contributions to the community around it through its CSR initiatives. “While we are at our primary assignment of delivering a world-class port that would make Nigeria the transshipment hub for West Africa, we would continue to engage all our stakeholders especially the communities around us to further develop them for all round advancement,” he said.