Anybody living with sickle cell disorder can live to old age as there are interventions – medical and lifestyle modifications – that can ensure that. A Senior Consultant and Head, Pediatric Hematology Oncology Immunology and Bone Marrow Transplant, Artemis Hospital, India, Dr Gaurav Kharya, has said. Kharya spoke in Lagos, during activities marking this year’s World Sickle Cell Day . He noted that it was good to give hope to sickle cell patients, rather than painting a bleak future. Kharya said bone marrow transplant caould help a patient living with sickle cell to live a normal life, free of the extreme pain crisis they experience. “Sickle Cell is a disease across the world but 85 percent of it affects people more in Africa. SCD is not a death sentence for those suffering from it there is need for advocacy on prevention, and the need to reduce the burden.” Kharya explained that bone marrow transplant, also known as stem cell transplant, has been perceived as the only curative measure for SCD and other genetic issues, in which damaged or destroyed bone marrow is replaced with healthy stem cells. HE said SCD could be managed and cured with the transplant contrary to what is being circulated that investing in a child living with SCD is a waste, he emphasised that SCD is not a curse. “The quality of life before and after the Bone Marrow transplant procedure is noticeable. After the transplant, the family will no longer worry about the disease crisis, frequent visit to hospital will no longer be there, financial drain will tremendously reduce and the child will live a life free of pains,” he explained. Kharya said there can be voluntary bone marrow donation towards the procedure, “Bone Marrow donation is just like normal safe blood donation and the donor has nothing to worry about.  This gesture will be of a great relieve to those suffering from SCD who have no relative/siblings to donate bone marrow for them. Successful bone marrow transplants improve quality of and potentially reduce everyday healthcare expenses”. 