BASF, the world’s largest chemical company, has announced the launch of this year’s “Young Female Pharmacist of the Year” awards for BASF West Africa. The award is in partnership with the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), the umbrella body of licensed pharmacists in Nigeria with membership strength of over 25,000 pharmacists in manufacturing, academia, hospitals, retail and research industries. The pioneering awards programme is an open and competitive process to only women pharmacists between 25 and 35 years old who are registered in Nigeria. Applicants can be drawn from manufacturing, academia and/or public research institutes and they may be nominated or elect to apply themselves, the organisers said. At the inauguration of the awards programme with the committee, which has validated and assessed the entries, the Managing Director of BASF West Africa, Dr. Jean-Marc Ricca said: “This awards programme will serve as an incentive for innovation and scientific excellence in Nigeria as we honour women who have shown exceptional commitment and have made extraordinary achievements in their scientific fields. “…We hope to contribute our quota to the achievement of Sustainability Development Goals 4 and 5, which relate to quality education and gender equality respectively.” Ms. Sharmila Govind, Head of Human Resources for Market Area Africa, applauded the initiative, being the one that speaks closely to the rewards and recognition scheme of BASF. She said: “I am very excited about this because the topic of women in leadership is one that is close to my heart. With this kind of initiative, I hope we see more women step into the limelight and grow in their careers.” Also, PSN’s President Ahmed Yakasai expressed delight at BASF’s intervention. He urged the union members to use the opportunity well. Yakasai advised the selection committee, led by a former Deputy Vice Chancellor of Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU) and fellow of the PSN, Prof Mbang Femi-Oyewo, to discharge its duties judiciously and present candidates the society will be proud of. The finalists will be announced and awards will be presented at PSN’s annual conference in October. 