…Killers could be Boko Haram – Ojukwu  Executive Secretary of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC), Tony Ojukwu, ex-Ekiti State’s Attorney General, Olawale Fapohunda and others have given insight into how the Federal Government could address the incessant killings across the country. Ojukwu, Fapohunda, Law Professor, Agbo Madaki and rights activist, Chino Obiagwu suggested a general overhaul of the nation’s security architecture to enable the country address the heightening insecurity in the land. They spoke in Abuja Monday at an event tagged: “Civil Societies/NHRC dialogue on the state of human rights in Nigeria,” jointly held by NHRC and Human Rights Agenda Network (HRAN). They contended that the Nigerian government cannot argue not to have failed in the area of rights protection where its security agencies appear helpless when its citizens are massacred daily and yet the perpetrators are not identified. Ojukwu argued that the reluctance of security agencies to properly situate the identity of perpetrators these killings was either a lapse or a deliberate ploy to shield them. He added: “See what is happening in Benue and Plateau states. I keep telling people that this may be another Boko Haram in another guise, because the way these killings were being done, I am surprised that herdsmen can kill people like this. “I am really surprised that people will just wake up and take joy in just killing human beings. For what? Just for you to have your herds graze in the bush? “I think there is more than meets the eye. But, because they just want to maintain the narrative that Boko Haram has been degraded and defeated, they don’t want to look at that direction that this could be another Boko Haram. “This is because when they scattered them in the North-East they (the Boko Haram members) dispersed into small groups and entered communities and that is what we are seeing. “The clinical way these people are handling AK47 and killing, it is difficult for me to accept and believe that these are herdsmen,” Ojukwu said. On the need to overhaul the security arrangement, the NHRC boss said: “I have been one of those, who have always said that unless we have state police in this country, it is going to be a problem to protect us. I can give you an instance. “We have a federal police, yes. You take a man from Katsina and send him ke him my village and transfer him to my village, he does not understand Igbo language. There is not enough he can. “But, look at how the vigilantes work in some villages or even in towns. Every neighbourhood has its own vigilante. They put a bar and it is working for them. “Look at what happened in the North-East. Part of the problem we had while fighting Boko Haram was that they were brothers living among brothers. The soldiers did not know who was who. “But when the indigenes themselves formed the civilian JTF, they were able to know those, who among them, were Boko Haram and they started fishing them (Boko Haram) out. “If you continued sending soldiers from Abuja to go to those places we would not have been able to record the successes we have recorded now. Can’t we see? Do we need anybody to tell us? So, part of our duty as human rights commission and civil society organisations is to engage government. “”So we can use advocacy to wake them up to their senses, so that we talk true to power. Otherwise, it is going to be difficult to change things,” Ojukwu said. Fapohunda argued that it was wishful thinking for anyone to think that the present Nigeria Police Force (NPF), as currently constituted, will be able to respond to the country’s security challenges. He added that the NPF “today, is incapable of solving our security problems.  The policemen are not even the problem, because the institutional framework is weak. “I am sure you will not be surprised that the law that governs the police force now was drafted in 1948. The law is not responsive to the police needs; it is not responsive the security needs of Nigeria,” Fapohunda said. Madaki argued that it was wrong for the NHRC not to act in the face of the endless killings in the North Central and part of North East, because it has the powers to investigate and monitor human rights violation and make reports to the President. He added: “I am also suggesting that the enabling Act of the NHRC be amended to confer on it the power to prosecute criminal cases that relate to human rights violations. “Because, it is not enough to seek redress by way of compensation, let the power be extended to the commission to prosecute those who are responsible for rights violation.” Obiagwu, who expressed disappointment that the killings have gone on unabated, said “our sense of humanity has been lost because we see corpse lying on the streets and people will leave the corpse and go to church or mosque. “We are very religious, but not godly. I think we should begin to re-visit our sense of humanity. Right to life is primary to our sense of humanity and I will call on the NHRC to reflect on this,” Obiagwu said.