Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has been described as a blessing from God to the people of Lagos State. Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef, said this while speaking with newsmen at the weekend. According to the Commissioner, God’s unwavering love for Lagos State has manifested in the leadership of Governor Ambode, whose methodical approach to governance has brought about rapid development in the state. Describing him as a special gift to the state, AbdulLateef said the governor has addressed the challenges  inherited when he assumed office three years ago, including traffic congestion, kidnapping, cultism and other crimes that were hitherto. Although he noted that the state is not a stranger to progressive leadership, especially since the defining era of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the commissioner added that Ambode has raised the tempo of governance with ongoing massive infrastructural projects dotting the landscape of the state. AbdulLateef said: The network of roads in the state has improved under the current administration, with construction of inner city roads and those of the highways with lay-bys and bus-stops. The face of traffic flow and management has been redefined. Travel time within the state has reduced. You will certainly see the improvement while driving on Lagos roads. I am sure driving and living in the state would be more interesting and enjoyable by the time several ongoing urban-renewal projects are completed. Flyovers are springing up on highways to prevent residents from losing their lives while crossing the highways. Lay-bys are being constructed on major roads to also prevent indiscriminate parking by motorists, a practice which used to contribute to the traffic gridlock. “Nothing less than modern 1000 bus-stops will soon be completed to ease traffic flow. The lay-bys and slip roads are constructed with installation of wire mesh fencing to bring out orderliness on our highways like never before. And of course the icing on the cake is the sustained Light-Up Lagos, which has been able to perform multi-functions on our roads and metropolis. It enables motorists to see clearly at night. It has also chased criminals and other night marauders away from the black spots in addition to beautifying our city. We can now feel the beauty of having our streetlights illuminate the nooks and crannies of Lagos at night. What about the gains accruable through the night economy in the areas with streetlights? Gradually, Lagos is becoming a Smart City of our dream.” The Home Affairs Commissioner, however, added that what is being witnessed in the state is just a tip of the iceberg, insisting that the future promises to be better and more rewarding for Lagosians. “More massive capital projects will be completed before the end of the year. While others are busy playing politics of bitterness, Governor Ambode remains committed to fulfilling all his electoral promises because he believes all residents, regardless of their tribe, religion, age and sex, would be positively impacted if government truly works for the people. This is what the governor means by running an all-inclusive government. Under Ambode, Lagosians don’t have to know somebody in government before they feel the impact of the administration. That is the new Lagos, a dream that is fast becoming a reality,” he said.