On Sunday, BET Networks recognized an exceptional lineup of artists, entertainers, cultural provocateurs and inspiring humanitarians across over 19 categories at the 18th Annual BET Awards. The ceremony, hosted by Academy and Grammy-award winner, Jamie Foxx, aired live from the Microsoft Theater at L.A. LIVE. This year’s broadcast celebrates 18 years of impactful performances from the hottest names in the business and appearances from entertainment’s most talked-about players. More than ever, the BET Awards continues to tackle and support culturally and socially relevant narratives and conversations, setting the standard for one of the most intently unconventional, news-provoking and talked-about broadcasts. Nigerian musician Davido, won the award for “Best International Act” beating fellow nominees Tiwa Savage, Booba(France), Cassper Nyovest (South Africa),Dadju (France), Distruction Boyz (South Africa), Fally Ipupa (DR Congo), J Hus (UK), Niska (France), Stefflon Don (UK) and Stormzy(UK). During his acceptance speech, Davido sent his condolences to D’banj and also urged American artistes to collaborate with their counterparts in Africa. “And as I go on, I wanna talk about Africa. My continent has been so blessed to influence many cultures,” he said. “Come to Africa, eat the food, wear the clothes. Get ready for me, let’s collaborate. My album drops this year. J. Cole. Yo Quay, I’m waiting on that verse Quay.” Nicki Minaj took over the BET stage with a fierce version of her current single, “Chun Li.” She later re-appeared alongside 2 Chainz and Big Sean as featured artists onYG’s performance of “Big Bank.” Meek Mill delivered a powerful performance of his first new song since being released from prison, “Stay Woke,” addressing the abhorrent inequalities in the criminal justice system, and included vivid imagery of police violence and mass incarceration. Presenters included the entertainment industry’s top black actors, artists, and entrepreneurs including Michael B. Jordan, Kevin Hart, T.I., L.L. Cool J, Bobby Brown, Tyra Banks, Tyler Perry and Questlove.