Millions of football-loving Nigerians will tomorrow switch on their television sets to cheer the Super Eagles to victory against the Croats’ national team at the 30,000-capacity Kaliningrad Stadium at the 18th edition of the FIFA World Cup. ADEYINKA ADEDIPE writes on the preparation of the team for the tournament. The Squad Goalkeepers Francis Uzoho Ikechukwu Ezenwa Daniel Akpeyi  Defenders William Troost-Ekong Abdullahi Shehu Tyronne Ebuehi Elderson Echiejile Bryan Idowu Chidozie Awaziem Leon Balogun Kenneth Omeruo  Midfielders Mikel John Obi Ogenyi Onazi Wilfred Ndidi Oghenekaro Etebo John Ogu Joel Obi  Forwards Ahmed Musa Kelechi Iheanacho Victor Moses Odion Ighalo Alex Iwobi Simeon Nwankwo Never in the history of Nigeria’s participation at the FIFA World Cup has the Super Eagles departed the country with fans feeling despondent. The team on show in the last three friendly games against England, Serbia and Czechs Republic seems to be a ‘counterfeit’ of a team that booked a slot in the World Cup with one game to spare in the qualifying round. And if this version of the Eagles’ show up in Russia, it will definitely be on the next available flight back home after the first round. The first half against England was awful, with the players putting every foot wrong and bumping into each other at the famed Wembley Stadium. Two Eagles defenders went for the ball in the air with no England player nearby. One of them was injured after a clash of heads. Goalkeeper Francis Uzoho was the busier of the two goalkeepers in that forgettable half and the Eagles were lucky to go into the break 0-2 down. At the resumption of the second half, two changes by Coach Gernor Rohr made the needed impact as the Eagles halved the deficit through a goal from Alex Iwobi. With England looking rattled, the Eagles failed to seize the initiative and eventually lost the game 1-2. It was the same against Serbia, with the Nigerian team losing 0-2. The Eagles had a better game against the Czechs, but still lost 0-1 and were left to rue their profligacy in front of goal. The fans have shown their anger and disappointment on social media platforms, bashing the Eagles and wondering what could be wrong with their darling team that tore apart reigning African champions Cameroun, North African powerhouse Algeria and the irrepressible Zambians in the qualifiers. The fear of a disastrous outing at the World Cup has gripped an entire nation with only die-hard and patriotic fans still hoping that the Eagles can fly in Russia. The hope of some football enthusiasts that the Nigerian team can still spring surprises may, however, not be misplaced, considering the unpredictable nature of football. Shocking results like Cameroun’s 1-0 win over Argentina in 1990 and France’s 0-2 defeat in the hands of their former colony Senegal at the 2002 edition of the World Cup points to the fact that the underdogs can ruffle feathers. But, for an upset to take place at a major tournament, the underdogs must be resolute, an attribute that is lacking in the floundering Super Eagles team. From the goalkeeping to defence; to the midfield and the striking positions, the Eagles have looked indecisive. The defence has found it difficult to keep a clean slate. The midfield has failed to effectively link up properly with the strikers to get the goals. Even when they find their rhythm, the players have been wasteful in front of goal, a shocking situation, considering how the team scored goals aplenty in the qualifiers. The team has become vulnerable at defending set pieces, a weakness that the Eagles’ first round opponents – Croatia, Argentina and Iceland – can take advantage of. The team also seems to have lost the creativity it is known for, while the never-say-die spirit associated with Nigeria appears to have taken a flight. Coach Rohr tried two playing styles (3-5-2 and 4-3-3) in the friendly games, which seemed to improve the Eagles’ second half performances. This is an indication of what to expect as the Eagles file out against Croatia tomorrow.  However, a source close to the team said that Rohr prefers the 3-5-2 formation as it gives room for more solidity at the back. During the team’s trainings, Hapoel Beer-Sheva midfielder John Ogu was deployed as one of the three defenders alongside William Troost-Ekong and Leon Balogun. And in midfield, Wilfred Ndidi, Mikel Obi and Alex Iwobi, were flanked by wingbacks Tyronne Ebuehi and Bryan Idowu. Victor Moses played behind Odion Ighalo in attack. However, no matter the formation adopted, the players must be ready to put in their best and jettison the lethargic display in the build-up matches. The team has about 15 players making their debut. It is a young team with the few experienced players like Skipper Mikel Obi and his deputy Ogenyi Onazi as well as Ahmed Musa and Elderson Echejile, who are expected to provide steel to the squad. Hopefully, the coach will get it right and present his best 11 for every game. The emergence of Uzoho as the team’s first choice goalkeeper is still a puzzle as he never participated in the qualifiers He has shown flashes of brilliance but the 19-year-old ought to be a star for the future. It was good that the eight days of closed camp at the Avita Resort in Austria provided the handlers of the team the opportunity to look back at the pre-World Cup friendly games with a view of making amends and more importantly, lifting the spirit of the players, so that they will deliver in Russia. Realising that the players needed to be knitted into shape after scoring just two goals in the three friendly games, Rohr placed emphasis on shooting. The three goalkeepers  -Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa and Daniel Akpeyi – took their turns to receive shots as Rohr drilled the players in a shooting practice that lasted for almost an hour a day before their departure from Austria to Russia. He ensured the players did light workout after breakfast. It was usually a short walk, but it helped in keeping the players fit.  Rohr hopeful  Highlighting the gains of the training in Austria, Coach Rohr expressed delight that no member of the 23-man squad suffered injuries before they arrived in Essentuki, Russia. “Nine days here was hard work. Every day, we had two training sessions in very good conditions, wonderful grass, the country side is nice with clean mountains. “Unfortunately, we had heavy rains for the match against the Czechs. We wanted to play on the seventh or the eighth, but we had to play on the sixth, it was too close to the England match. So, we had small time for recovery and for traveling. The organisation could not be made better. But, we did the work, especially after the game against Czech Republic. “Everybody is fit, no injury, which is the most important that they did very well, and I think everybody is much better now. So, it was a good preparation.” After arriving in Russia on Monday, the team had its first training the next day with Rohr certifying all his palyers fit. The news was delightful to Nigerians. The Eagles also had a meeting to discuss logistics, technical and administrative issues, concerning their participation at the World Cup.  The move  will ensure the players’ concentration on their primary task in Russia. Rohr however admitted that the Croatia team is better than the Super Eagles but added that his players would give their best in the game. He said: “We admire this team, but we do not plan to watch them when we play against them, we hope to fight. They are all wonderful players. They play in the biggest teams in Europe. On paper with their names, Croatia players are much better than us. But, sometimes on the pitch, it could be different. We don’t have the big stars, but we try to play collectively with our young team.”  Players optimistic  Some of the players also expressed optimism over their chances in Russia. Star player Victor Moses said that Nigeria has the wherewithal to achieve big things at the tournament. The Chelsea of England star told ESPN during the week that Nigerians are aware of the quality of the Croatians who are also capable of beating any team. Moses said: “Every team in the group is touted to be the favourite to advance to the next stage and what I believe is that the best team will progress. But, it is very important to play well in the first game and win. Croatia’s team is very athletic with quality players who can all score goals. They are strong from the goalkeeping department to others and so, we must stay together as a team against them. We just need to concentrate and make sure we give our best. “We need to work hard as well because I believe we can achieve big things in Russia. I am confident we can do well against any team if we play together and play as a team.” Kelechi Iheanacho, who had been one of the oustanding players in the team’s eight-day training tour in the serene village of Bad Tatzmannsdorf in Austria, has no doubts about the fitness of the Super Eagles. The former FIFA U-17 World Cup winner who scored a couple of goals during the qualifiers, pointed out that his teammates looked very fit in the preparation as the Nigerian team opens its campaign tomorrow against Croatia. “We are sharp, strong, fit and ready to go” the former Manchester City forward told NationSports in Austria”, Iheanacho said. Nicknamed ‘chief’ by his teammates, Iheanacho commended the coaching crew for working very hard to put the team in top shape. He said: “The coaches are doing a great job by giving us quality training so that we can be in good shape for the World Cup. We train two times a day which has been very tough for us. But, we have to do whatever the coaches ask us to do. We are in good condition and we can’t wait for the World Cup to start to show the world what we have learned in camp.” The Leicester forward declined to set a personal target, adding that the team has resolved to make Nigerians happy by playing well in Russia. Iheanacho said: “Everybody is excited going to the World Cup but we have to remain focused on our first game against Croatia. I have not set any personal target. All we want to do as a team is to work hard and make our compatriots happy. “We have a collective target because this team is not a one-man show. Our group is tough and therefore, we have to work together to pull through. As a striker, I want to score and make the team happy but the important thing is for the team to win even when I can’t score.” He also said the results of the friendly matches the Eagles played against England and Czech Republic did not dampen the morale of the team. The striker said: “It’s always good to have confidence going to games and training sessions. Whatever may have happened recently, you have to remember we finished well during the qualifiers and I still believe we have a good team. “We know that we are going to be facing big teams in Russia. But, I must tell you that there are positive vibes from our camp that we will do well.” Team captain Mikel assured that his mates have stepped up preparations for their World Cup opener against Croatia tomorrow.  According to the former Chelsea star, he is satisfied with the training facilities at the Super Eagles base camp in Yessentuki. “We need to continue to work hard; we need to continue to train and do exactly what we want and what the coach asks us to do,” Mikel told reporters, including TASS. He went on: “I think it’s (the base camp) good, the field is very good, the fans and the children who came to support us are amazing. It was nice that after the training, we had the opportunity to give some autographs to the guys. We are in a very good place, I believe.” Amkar Perm defender Brian Idowu said the team has a primary target to qualify for the round of 16. He confirmed that the fans have been backing the players as they prepared for their World Cup opener against Croatia. The Russia-born defender, who is scheduled to make his competitive debut against Croatia, said that just like every other team, the eagles are also hoping to do well in Russia. Idowu stated: “It’s clear. Everyone has come for victory in this tournament. The situation will clear up as the tournament progresses. “We will prepare for the first match with Croatia, Depending on the results, we will try to leave the group, achieve the maximum and common goal. There is faith and support of the Nigerian people. We will try so that they can be proud of us. The reception is wonderful, the base is pleasant, everything is in order, the pitch is good.”  Experts speak  Former Super Eagles star Finidi George, who played at the 1994 and 1998 World Cup tournaments in United States (U.S.) and France,  urged Rohr to ensure Mikel and Moses play in positions that would help the team against their first opponent. “It depends on what formation they want to play. If they want to play a triangular midfield, Mikel should be directly playing in front of the back four, Ndidi playing on the left side and Victor Moses playing on the right side,” Finidi said on a television programme. “If they are playing the diamond formation, somebody playing in front of Moses and Ndidi, and try to make sure we make use of the fullbacks. I will go for the Chelsea formation, the 1-3-5-2, two wide players, three players in midfield,” he said. Finidi stressed the importance of Nigeria controlling the midfield tomorrow, pointing out that world-class midfielders such as Real Madrid pair Luka Modriæ and Mateo Kovaèiæ and Barcelona’s Ivan Rakitiæ, are expected to be in the middle of the pack for Croatia. “We have to play as a unit; we are not doing that now. When they go in the attack, it takes them too long to get back. If you don’t do that, you will always have a lot of space in the middle and you don’t want to do that against Croatia with Modric, Kovaèiæ and Rakitiæ. These guys are playing top football, you just have to make sure you have good grip of the midfield, with that, we have a chance,” he added. Another former international and one-time coach of the national team, Samson Siasia, who was part of the squad to the 1994 World Cup, said the unpredictable nature of the Eagles could work in favour of the Nigerian side. He stated that the combination of Mikel, Moses and Iwobi, would be key to Nigeria’s performance in Russia. Siasia said that despite the poor results in the friendly games, the Super Eagles can still do well in Russia. He said: “I am sure that many people are still at a loss on how Nigeria did badly in the friendly games but I am sure the Eagles cannot be written off. The erratic nature of the team is a trait that will also bother their opponents, who do not know which Super Eagles team would up against them.” He stated that the team must get a good result to be sure of progressing to the second round. “In top competitions like this, the first game is very important. So, the Eagles must fight for a good result against the Croats tomorrow. If the Eagles win, it will give them the needed confidence to approach the remaining group games,” Siasia said. No matter the permutation, the consensus is that the Super Eagles must get a decent result against Croatia tomorrow. A win against the star-studded opponent will inspire the team as it battles other group foes – Iceland and Argentina to book a place in the second round. 