Association for Formidable Educational Development (AFED) has thanked Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for providing access to loans for low-cost private schools through the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF). Speaking at the congress of the association held in Maryland, Lagos, at the weekend, its National, President  Mrs Esther Dada, said: “We want to thank our amiable Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode for looking inward. He has been able to give us loans through the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF). He is a listening governor. Those who received the loans, their schools are not the same again. That is what a responsive government is meant to do, not to drive us away.’’ Mrs Dada also praised the  government for sponsoring 40 low-cost private schools under the CodeLagos initiative which builds capacity of school children to learn computer programming. She however called for financial assistance to help the association provide materials to its members at an affordable rate. “We, as an association, require help in the area of financing the publication and distribution of continuous assessment kits, students’ diaries, register, and many other teaching and learning materials. Our members require a cheap but standardised materials which has to be on time (beginning of term) to deliver quality services to their students.We are soliciting financial support for the association to enable us meet this demand from our members and also contribute to upgrading the standard of their services,” she said. Dada noted that the congress was the last of her eight-year tenure, urging members of the association to participate in the process of choosing a befitting leader to continue where she stopped.  However, she promised her support as she would continue to serve on the association’s board of trustees. In her keynote address with the theme: “Bridging the gap in education quality: The role of technology in low-fee schools,” the Office of Education Quality Assurance Director-General, Mrs Ronke Soyombo, said technology had become an enabler of quality education, urging schools to tap into it to enhance quality education delivery. “Positive implications of digital technologies in schools include turning around the challenges of educational change, communicating ideas, generate, share and distribute knowledge,” she said. Mrs Soyombo said AFED Schools had improved over the years. “Quite a lot of AFED schools we have visited lately, we are seeing that your report keeps getting better and better,” she said. Over 3,000 proprietors of low-cost private schools from Lagos, Rivers, and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) attended the congress to learn how to improve their schools, particularly using technology during a panel discussion that featured as part of the congress. Representative of the Developing Effective Private Education Nigeria (DEEPEN), Mr Adeyemi Adebayo, urged AFED members to make use of the service providers that DEEPEN mobilised to help low-cost private schools access products and services that would make their schools better. Mrs Olanrewaju Oniyitan, W-Holistics Business Solutions CEO, said her firm had been helping AFED schools create transformation plans and keep to them. She added that many schools had also been connected to some opportunities, including voucher system for pupils, and loans through her firm. Others speakers, who participated in a panel of discussion for the programme, were Dr Eze Akani of the Rivers State University of Education and Mr Ibukun Daramola, a former director in the Lagos State Ministry of Education.