• CIAN honours I-naira.com The Lagos State government said it will not relent in efforts in designing and implementing innovative policies that would strengthen auctioning practice in the state. Its Commissioner for Commerce and Industry, Olayinka Oladunjoye, said during the presentation of award to 1-Naira Integrated Resources Limited by the Certified Institute of Auctioneers of Nigeria (CIAN) on the basis of industry standard and professionalism in Lagos yesterday. She said the government is at the forefront of creating conducive business environment to make auctioneering practice more operational and attractive. According to her, Lagos has written agencies of government (state and federal), manufacturing, insurance firms as well as financial institutions in the state on the implication of auctioning assets without working with a recognised and licensed auction company in the state. 1-naira.com is the first online auction platform adjudged as transparent by the Organised Private Sector (OPS). I-Naira’s strength is derived from the innovative use of technology to deepen the need for probity and accountability while running auction events for its clients. Also speaking on the occasion, former Chief Judge of Lagos State, Hon. Justice Samuel Ilori said the auction profession is growing in leaps and bounds in the country, adding that the profession is constituted by the finest professionals in the country with wealth of experience in their respective professions. Receiving the award, the Founder/CEO, i-Naira.com, Hillary Nwaukor, said he felt honoured because the simple idea to build an auction solution for the OPS five years ago has become a reality. “Not only has it become a reality, we have equally become a force to reckon with after three years of operations. I am happy and thankful to the registrar Mr. Adeleke Hassan, the chairman, Lagos State CIAN chapter, Dr. Jogunola Onabanjo and the Governing Council, Certified Institute of Auctioneers for the recognition. “I-naira.com auction system is a software designed with transparency as our watchword. Our customers and clients alike are always happy with bid outcomes whenever we run online auction,” Nwaukor who was also admitted as Fellow, CIAN during the first Lagos State Auctioneers Forum, said.  