He abandons his wife and engages in trysts with his student, committing suicide when he realised that the relationship is no longer a secret affair. The implication of the above observation is to the effect that these characters who constitute the elite of their society are suffering from the crisis of petit-bourgeois radicalism. A good number of them are opposed to the shenanigans going on in their society but lack the correct methodological and ideological template to address the problems of their society. Confronted with the impotence of the ruling and petit-bourgeois elites of their society, the corruption of the leaders at all levels of governance, ‘Dale and his colleagues and friends do not know what and where to turn to. In the novel, there are hints about the crises and contradictions that are part and parcel of an under-developed country. According to Dr. Jackson, those who have the guts for criminality have become the super-rich of the society: “No, no, no! I was only telling you that in an under-developed c ountry where everything has gone completely whacho you don’t need more than the guts of a burglar to be super-rich” (The Year, 162 – 163).  ‘Dale, in his testament to Dr. Jackson before committing suicide also acknowledges the limitations and hypocrisies of their society: “The tragedy of this age is that the worst criminals become the arbiters of law. Frauds cry to heavens against frauds. Traitors point accusing fingers at traitors… We are faced with a grave situation” (The Year, 181). One would have thought that with the recognition of the grim situation confronting their society, these elites should have organised themselves for the needed change that their society requires. ‘Dale, the moral crusader thinks that he alone can fight and restore the health of his society. He distances himself from ideologues like Segun. In fact, he says that he hates ideologues like Segun, observing that Segun, a redoubtable Marxist scholar should go to Angola: “Let him go to Angola”, ‘Dale said in malicious disgust” (The Year, 28). The Year of the Locusts reminds us of Wole Soyinka’s Interpreters in which about half a dozen intellectuals who give dynamism to the novel engage in an interpretation of their country (Nigeria) by their various self-interpretations. We see not only their varying degrees and levels of agony, despair and disillusionment over the lot assailing them and, necessarily, their country, but also their impotence before this rot. It is not surprising that at the end of the day they remain incapable of delivering their society because of their aloof and self-interested interpretations. They represent in every material particular, Nietche’s superman. Such characters cannot bring a genuine change in their society. They are free radicals whose consciousness is characterized by a deep feeling of disillusionment. ‘Dale’s case is a practical demonstration of the failure that comes with individuals who see themselves as constituting an Island unto themselves. No man is an Island. Dale foolishly forgets the implications of the story of the strange man in the clan who was told of the approach of locusts and against all pleadings and entreaties; he went to drive them away single handed from the surrounding farms to his own peril. ‘Dale’s mother had told him this story when he was a child. But instead of taking it to heart and as an article of faith, he allows his effete individualism to direct his actions. As much as we identify or disassociate ourselves with ‘Dale and what he represents, it is clear that ‘Dale’s failings point to the failure of the elite in the society that is being portrayed in the novel. The novel tries to show that to understand the problems of a society and correct them, one must transcend individual daring and exuberant one-upmanship and work with the collective. The Year of the Locusts is full of cynicism; portraying the counter elite as irresponsible as those they are criticising and incapable of leading any change. Williams does not give hope for change as the leading characters as epitomised in ‘Dale are not change agents but noise makers. There is no doubt that The Year of the Locusts is influenced by the critical realist tradition with its petit-bourgeois consciousness and conservatism. The administrative wing of the university is seen as being corrupt and the academics and some of the students are not above board. Apart from Titi who ends up in a sexual relationship with ‘Dale, another student, Funmi Martins is notorious for her dalliances with men who are even older than her father. Colonel Wabi is said to be dating her.   The novel is awash with the crises and contradictions buffeting a neo-colonial country (Nigeria) but the characters lack the capacity of challenging the status quo with a view to changing it. Williams’ characters remind us of Soyinka’s interpreters who retreat into cynicism, individualism, or into empty moral appeals and even into committing suicide as ‘Dale engages in The Year of the Locusts The Endangered Nation and the Call to Duty The Remains of the Last Emperor, his second novel is the story of a bandit-turned ruler who saw himself as a tin-god and declared himself an emperor and unleashed mayhem on his people. The story of the novel is recounted by an old man, Sir Dandy who witnessed it all and decides to narrate the story to a young editor who is expected to do a proper documentation of the story for the attention of future generations. As is known by any reader who is familiar with Williams’ writings, The Remains of the Last Emperor is the writer’s continuing attempt to expose the ruling elite of his country and the inability of this class to rise to the demands of governance and civilized behaviour.  In his essay (1996:353) “Literature in the time of tyranny: African Writers and the Crisis of Governance”, he avers: In most African countries, internal colonialism had merely replaced external colonialism. Africans, in the words of some local wits, had only exchanged monkeys for baboons. What made the situation even more galling was the fact that in most cases, yesterday’s freedom fighter had become today’s remarkable tyrant. From the first paragraph of the novel, the image portrayed is that of a shitty, stinking environment with huge mounds of human waste everywhere along the winding lanes of the setting of the novel, coupled with a horrifying traffic snarl with the attendant chaos. There are beggars everywhere.  Earlier in the day, there had been a fierce skirmish between two rival begging syndicates.  Everything appears to be ill at ease. There is no doubting the fact that there is crisis in the land. It is under this state of affairs that an old man who looks like a mystic and philosopher sitting on the bridge in a Ghandi-like posture approaches a younger man who looks distraught.  The old man and the young man had had their first meeting four days earlier and the old man must have made some revelations to the young man.  The young man works at A.J. Wiseman as the principal editor. It should be recalled that the young man was in his first year at the university two decades earlier when a terrible calamity had befallen the country.  The economy had been pillaged beyond redemption. The leaders of the students’ union had issued a 48 – hour ultimatum asking the government to quit or face the wrath of naked undergraduates marching on the capital.  The following morning, a group of patients from the nation’s premier mental hospital institution, joined by a huge army of the jobless, the hungry and the disposed marched on the capital and seized the Liberation Building, the nation’s premier symbol of independence. The young editor is confronted by the old man who disallows him from going: “Mister, you can’t go. I have a message for you” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 10).  The old man says he has been on the road and has lost count of the years. He says he is a boomerang and begins to sing: If you don’t know the elephant. Don’t you know the elephant’s voice? If you don’t know the lagoon. Don’t you eat salt in your soup? I am Ogidi Olu owner of the dawn well I’m Olukotun (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 10-11). The old man brings out an old but well-kept newspaper with a banner headline: Disaster At Noon: Madmen take over the country and on the page another screamer: Hunt for psychiatrist continues (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 11).  The old man confesses that he was one of the mad men said to have been cleared by the inferno twenty years before as a result of the protest then.  The old man goes further to chastise the young editor and the people for accepting the lie of the government that the poor sick fellows like him had the explosives to blow up the huge building. The young editor informs the old man that the shabby reality of their existence is that “they believe what they are told and told what to believe” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 12). For saying this, the old man decides to deposit the truth with him: “You are truly a worthy son of your ancestors, a noble custodian of the truth. I have been asked by the greater powers that be to deposit the truth with you” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 12). As earlier mentioned the bundle is called a book of “revelation” by the old man: “It tells you what happened on the day of the boa constrictor. Don’t open it, because the more you look, the less you will see. I will tell you the full story in four days’ time at the sailor’s Quay side” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 13). With the two manuscripts (the General’s own and the one given to him by the old rustic man) the editor decides to go to his office. He tells his director that the General’s manuscript contains a tissue of lies but that he has a manuscript which tells all about what had happened in the past. As he goes for the manuscript in his office with his boss and wife in toe following him, the manuscript disappears leading to his being seized by a fainting fit.  After three days of lying in bed; he goes to his office and finds the missing manuscript lying under his desk.  He rushes out in uncontrollable excitement and orders one of his office clerical assistants to switch on the photo-copying machine only for the manuscript to vanish again. On opening the shutters, he sees the old man in the distance, clutching the manuscript and smiling at him: “So young man, take this pen and these sheets and put down the revelations for the generation unborn” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 20). The old man further tells the young man that he is ninety years and further reveals of how he abandoned his teaching career to become a musician. As a musician he went through an ordeal occasioned by his randy life style, ending up as an inmate in Lugard’s asylum ward. The Lugard’s ward is a harsh and inscrutable environment known as “the place of the skull).  He explains that given his humiliating experience in the ward, he resolved to devote the rest of his life to a worthy project: “the study and recording for posterity of the wise-sayings, riddles, mysteries, puzzles and puns of my people” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 28). The old man narrates the story of one of the inmates to the young editor of his ordeals in the hands of the state. The inmate’s land had been taken over from him for a road project and all attempts made by him including bribing everybody that mattered came to naught. In frustration, he wanted to behead the master and ended up in the ward for pleading madness. Again, while in the lunatics’ ward, according to the old man: “the whole land had been gripped by a sense of unease… with reports about an unprecedented wave of hooliganism, political murders, ethnic uprising, botched elections, students unrests, a rumored army take-over…” (The Remains of the Last Emperor, 34). Continued next Saturday  *Dr. Uwasomba is of the English Department, Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile Ife.