Students have been advised to be focused and study hard to acquire knowledge rather than obtaining only certificates. Founder and chairman of Governing Council of Heritage Polytechnic in Eket, Akwa Ibom State, Dr Emmanuel Ekott, gave the admonition during the ninth matriculation of the polytechnic. Ekott said the school will not condone misconduct and vices, urging cultists not apply for admission to polytechnic. He lamented that tertiary institutions in the country were turning to certificate centres, noting that some admission seekers apply only to get certificates rather that acquiring knowledge. He warned the freshers against indolence, stressing that management would not tolerate examination malpractice and cultism. He urged parents to advise their children to stay clear from acts that could terminate their academic journey. Hie said: “Students should study hard for knowledge and not for certificate. Students should not be looking for certificates, but knowledge which will take them to wherever they want. People go to school nowadays for certificates and they just need the paper because they have godfathers somewhere, who will give them jobs after graduation. All they need to do is to present their unmerited certificate.” Ekott said the polytechnic has not experienced any incidence of violence on its campus, charging the freshers not to be involved in vices. Any student found engaging in vices, he warned, will be expelled from the school. He said: “The problem we are having in the society is that people join cultism at primary and secondary schools. Coming to tertiary institutions, it would be hard to tell them that they should not join cultism because they have already joined. If you are a cultist, it is better you don’t come to Heritage Polytechnic because you will not be given admission. “Let me sound a warning to all matriculating and continuing students that management of the school will not tolerate any act of examination malpractice and cultism. This is a private institution and we shall do everything within the law to deal with cultists. The polytechnic is not a cult centre and cultists must not come near. I urged parents to advise their children to stay clear of these vices as all measures shall be deployed to check cultism in this institution.” Ekott added that indecency would not be tolerated in the polytechnic, pointing out that the management would deploy punitive measures to students engaging in seductive and provocative dressing. He also said lecturers of the institution subscribed to the code of professionalism, noting that measures were in place to discourage sex-for-marks activities. He said: “We have put in place a central marking mechanism, which means examination scripts can be given to anybody to mark and it can be assessed outside the institutions. There is no handout to be sold to students. We have only textbooks and we have all the copies of textbooks used in the school in our library. Anyone, who can’t afford to buy,  can go to the library and read.” Ekott’s wife, Mrs. Helen, stressed that the polytechnic would continue to support decent and proper dressing among female students. She urged students to be diligent, hardworking and dutiful in their studies. 