Senator Shehu Sani (APC-Kaduna) yesterday advised  Mr Adams Oshiomole, the new National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), to resist blackmail and stranglehold of detractors within the party. Sani, who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Local and Foreign Debts, said in a statement in Abuja that the new national executive members of the party should also not allow the problems that bedevilled APC in the past three years to persist. He was confident that Adams “Can take the party out of the woods and lead it to a new path and a new future.” Sani regretted that the party had in the last three years fallen short of its mission and vision. “In the last three years, APC’s broom was stained by the faeces of inequities and glued by the mucus of injustices. “In the last three years, APC became an unruly ruling party presiding over ruins of its sub chapters. “Chief Odigie-Oyegun is leaving behind an APC that he fashioned and erected on a heap of fraudulent congresses, Cold War and civil war. He is leaving behind hatchets buried with leaves. “He is literally leaving behind grenades covered with flowers of which Comrade Adams must detonate. “In the last three years under the outgoing leadership, APC’s broom was unable to clean the political space and even itself,” he said. Oshiomhole and some officers of the party had emerged unopposed. On his part, Gboyega Oyetola, a gubernatorial aspirant in Osun State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), has congratulated the newly elected national chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and other national executives. In a congratulatory message by the Gboyega Oyetola Campaign Organisation signed by Dayo Fasola, he said, “We join other well meaning and committed members of our great party, APC, to congratulate our new National Chairman for the successful Abuja Convention which has produced him and other executives with the task of repositioning the APC for greater heights.” Oyetola, who is also the Chief of Staff to Governor Rauf Aregbesola, advised the national executives on cohesion and unity saying, “We must continue to reiterate our unwavering loyalty to the ideals and ideology of APC as this will further strengthen all members of the party across the country.” Earlier before the official kickoff of the convention, supporters of Oyetola had stormed Eagle’s Square Abuja, venue of the ceremony in branded vehicles as they sang praises of Aregbesola and Oyetola. 