A 37-year-old man, Nurudeen Bakare, went wild on Wednesday, stabbing his 65-year-old mother, Bosede, to death. He was said to have killed her after rented argument at their Oremeji, Ilasamaja, Mushin, Lagos home. Bakare was said to have been away from home for 12 years before his recent return to the area. He was said to have accused his mother, popularly called Iya Fali, of sitting on his father’s property, warning that he felt like killing someone. Iya Fali allegedly responded that he would end up in jail if he did. Shunning his mother’s warning, he allegedly picked up a knife and started stabbing her. As if possessed, he started shouting: “I have killed her! I have killed her!!, I have killed her!!!,” witness said. When people rushed to the scene, they saw Mrs Bakare in her pool of blood. Some youths immediately grabbed Bakare and started beating him. He reportedly begged them not to kill him, but to call the police. An eyewitness, who simply identified himself as Ola, described the scene as horrible. He said he had never seen such a thing in his life. “I heard that this kind of thing happened or watched something close to this in movies. This is my first time of seeing something like this. It is horrible. I can’t stand watching Iya Fali in her pool of blood on the ground. What could have gone wrong with her son,” he said. Another eyewitness, Iya Seun, said she heard them arguing, not knowing that it will lead to the woman’s death. She said: “Both of them were arguing inside the woman’s shop. We thought it was their usual tirade until we saw the man with blood stain on his hand and cloth, saying he has killed her. We quickly rushed to the woman’s shop and saw her gasping for breath. She was stabbed in the stomach, chest and her throat was slit. I don’t believe a normal human being could do that.” A man, who does not want his name in print, said “Bakare appeared mentally unfit.” According to him, some of the things he said after the incident were meaningless. Lagos State Police Command’s spokesman, Chike Oti, a Superintendent (SP), said Bakare had been arrested and taken to Homicide Section of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) at Panti, Yaba. He said: “About 7:10pm, one Sunday Tifase of Odofin Street, Itire, Lagos reported that his younger brother, Nurudeen Bakare, 37 stabbed his mother, Bosede Bakare, 65, with a knife at her stomach and neck without any reason. “The victim was taken to Mainland General Hospital where she was confirmed dead by a doctor. The suspect was arrested at the scene of the crime. “The remains of the deceased have been deposited at same Mainland General Hospital Mortuary for autopsy. The case has been transferred to SCIID, Yaba for discreet investigation.”