Arepo Central Community Development Association (ACCDA), in Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State, has launched its newly constructed gate road and N150million for the repair of its access road. 
OLATUNDE ODEBIYI writes. Having waited endlessly for the Ogun State government to come to their aid over the repair of the community’s main access road, residents of Arepo Central Community Development Association (ACCDA) in Obafemi Owode Local Government Area of Ogun State have resorted to self-help. They have decided to levy each landlord in the community N100,000 to enable them raise N150million to fix the road. Some of the residents have already been paying, which has enabled the ACCDA to fix the road on the community’s main gate. On June 9, residents gathered at the main gate for the inuaguration of the sample road (the fixed road on the Arepo community main gate). The sample road is about 600 square meters, while they still have about 1.7 Kilometers of the main access road in the community to go. ACCDA President Kehinde Adeyemo, said since government has refused to come to their aid despite the fact that the road was awarded six years ago, they have decided to help themselves. “Our main access road in this community was awarded six years ago at the inception of Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s administration and ever since then we have been engaging the government on the need to come to our aid on this road, but to no avail. The road was awarded to First August in November 2012 under contract 11 with a sign post erected at the Journalists Estate Phase 1 gate end has since remained untouched and impassible for the motorists and pedestrians. He recalled that there was a time the road was cut into two due to erosion at Journalists’ Estate Phase 2 gate. “We gathered funds and we commenced work on the culvert, but before we moved to the second stage of the culvert construction, the state Ministry of Works came and helped us out. During the rainy season, we usually record casualties on this road, especially among pregnant women and children because the road is completely unmotorable and we all resort to Okada, which is vulnerable to women and children most especially. “We have also regularly sand-filled and graded the road in the past and we (residents of Arepo, purse of ACCDA and individual estate effort)  have so far spent over N18 million naira cumulatively on the road,” he said. He noted that when Governor Amosun came to the community in 2015 to seek re-election, they made it clear to him that the road was their priority. “When Governor Amosun came to our community in 2015 to seek re-election, we made it clear that the road was our priority because of the pain we are going through on daily basis, but we are still expecting them up till today. Each time we appeal to the state government, he used to give us assurance that the road would be fixed during his tenure, but nothing has been done till date. “Because of our concern for the road, we became close to almost everybody in the corridors of power in Abeokuta. Sadly enough, all we got were empty promises. It was while we were appealing at our end here that the state government contracted and constructed Magboro road, a neighbouring community. We felt neglected and disappointed. “It is saddening that with all the efforts we have made in ensuring that the government comes to power, this level of neglect is what we are getting from this government.” He said it is not too late for Ogun State government to redeem their promise to the community by mobilising First August to move to site. “We may not have the population, but most of us here are critical stakeholders with our own priced election values. We know that there are too many pressures from every quarter most especially that Obafemi Owode is the largest in Ogun State, but failing us is the saddest. “Since we saw that help is taking too long to come from the state government, we decided to take our destinies in our hands. Today, we are saying that if all of us in this community can come together with the money we are using to fix our cars and we pull the resources together, we can achieve a smooth hard surfaced road in Arepo . “What we are doing here today is for the public launch of the road in Arepo; this 600square meters in the Arepo main gate is a sample of what we intend to do on the Arepo access road, which is about 1.7 kilometers. This public launch is for the community to see that we can do this road ourselves and we appeal to everybody to donate towards the completion of the road. “We are calling on all landlords and residents to support this course. We propose a minimum of N100,000 per house hold. We don’t expect that everyone will drop it immediately, but if we have the project in mind, with N10,000 monthly, we would make it in 10 months or N5,000 monthly it can be done in less than 2 years. “We want to assure all ACCDA members and Arepo residents of prudent fund management and accountability. We would post regular updates on a notice board at the gate house and on the ACCDA WhatsApp platform. We need every kobo we can raise through the support and participation of all to fix this access road,” he said. Shallom Estate Residents Association Chairman, Mr Adeshina Shittu, said the public inauguration was to mobilise more resources for the completion of the project. “The estates in the communitites have been supportive and we expect that by sometime next year, we should have completed the road. Arepo is a town and the fact that the only road leading into that community is in a state of disrepair does not help the reputation of the state government,” he said.