The organised labour is set to do battle with the federal government in its quest to actualise the proposed new minimum wage The Nation can authoritatively report. Giving this indication at the weekend was Comrade Ayuba Wabba, President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC). Speaking with our correspondent on the sidelines of the International Labour Conference, in Geneva, Switzerland, Wabba said the organised labour will ensure that the timeline set by the Tripartite Committee on the Implementation of the National Minimum Wage is not altered. While commenting on the readiness of the new minimum wage by September, Wabba said the date was achievable. “Certainly, if all members of the tripartite committee are committed to doing what is right and working within the timeline that the committee has already set for itself. I’m of the firm belief that it is something that can be achieved.” He was however quick to add that labour will not hesitate to wield its big stick should the federal government renege on its plan. “I don’t want to keep repeating myself. I have told you that at the tripartite committee, we all commit to a timetable and timeline which is known and everybody is aware of it. So the organised labour represented by NLC and TUC are committed to following that timetable and timeline. We made that very clear from the beginning after the inauguration of the committee because the first thing they did was to look at the scope of the work and the time it will take for us to deliver, to complete the tripartite negotiation and make sure that we are able to deliver a comprehensive report. Given the process of give and take, with the commitment we have also received from the National Assembly, I don’t think that the centrality of the issue require any delay. So as organised labour, we are committed to the timeline that the committee has set for itself.” The organised labour, the NLC boss noted, is determined to actualise its mandate as far as the new minimum wage is concerned. “We have many ways of responding to issues and as we progress in the process, we will consult our organs and constituents and will be able to push the process through any other means that is legitimately allowed by law.” Echoing similar sentiments, Comrade Peters Adeyemi, Deputy President, NLC, who spoke with our correspondent at the weekend expressed dismay with the sudden volte-face by the federal government. “The issue of the national minimum wage where there was an understanding among the tripartite that everything be concluded by September. We were shock to read the Minister saying that September is no longer feasible. That is clearly unacceptable because Nigeria workers need the minimum wage. We know the efforts we put in even before government decided to set up the committee.” It would be recalled that the Labour Minister, Chris Ngige had noted that the new National Minimum wage is expected to conclude its work by the end of September and present its report to the government for deliberation and approval. President Muhammadu Buhari had last November inaugurated a 30-man Tripartite National Minimum Wage Committee headed by a former Head of Service of the Federation, Ms. Ama Pepple, urging the members to come up with a fair and decent wage for Nigerian workers. 