•It’s a lie, says govt A woman, Mrs LittleMary Onuh, has accused Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) officials of locking her and her family up in a building sealed off since Tuesday for contravening physical planning laws. She said locking her, her son and niece up in a shut property was illegal and barbaric. But the government denied the allegation, saying it was impossible to lock-up anybody during such exercise. The LASBCA officials with armed policemen were said to have stormed Allen Avenue in Ikeja and sealed off some buildings around 9am on Tuesday. They were said to have blocked the gates of many buildings three weeks ago, but got information that the tenants were using other entrances to access their compounds. Based on that information, they were said to have returned to reseal the buildings. The Nation learnt that some of the buildings meant for residential purposes were being used for commercial. Mrs Onuh, who runs Dubliner Restaurant and Irish Pub inside her shut building, said: “We were at the back of the building unknown to us that the building was being sealed. I came out on Tuesday morning to find out that the place has been sealed off. “I hope the people in diaspora don’t see this happening to me because it would discourage them from coming home. I just got back from overseas after living there for over 30 years. I started this business three years ago and my business has been sealed off for unknown reason. “When these people came to seal off this place, they should have come into the building to be sure no one was in. I would have gladly left. I am not a law breaker and I always obey the law.” Another tenant, Thomas Ogundipe, owner of a chartered accountants firm, said the buildings were built for residential and commercial purposes. Ogundipe, 81, said he had been a tenant in the building for over 35 years. “Now that the place has been sealed off, we cannot work, we are not making money, and how do we pay salaries. I have lost over N3million since this place was sealed off three weeks ago. Men of my age are sitting down at home but I am helping the state government and all I get is to seal off my business over an offence I did not commit.” Another company owner Otunba Adewale Oshinowo said they got no notice about the exercise, describing the act as trespass. He said they were tenants who should not be made to pay the price for whatever the landlord might have done. “Government should know the right thing to do, they are not meant to embarrass people in their offices; they have deprived us of our livelihood,” he said. Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development Prince Rotimi Ogunleye told reporters in Alausa, Ikeja, that it was not possible to lock-up anybody during enforcement. He said there was usually an alternative outlet whenever a place is sealed off. “There is no way people will be shut inside their buildings. LASBCA officials are educated people, there is no way they can lock-up any tenant or anybody inside a building.” Ogunleye said the seal on a property was symbolic and represented a legal document under Section 75 of the Urban and Regional Law, adding that it was a criminal offence for anybody to break the seal. “We enforce the law because people don’t want to obey the law and we do our enforcement under the confine of the law. LASBCA is the enforcement arm of the government to ensure that the law is implemented.” 