The Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife has recalled six students suspended for various acts of misconduct. The reinstatement was done after a brief meeting between the University management, the suspended students and the campus journalists last Friday. The students, Omole Ibukun (500-Level, Faculty of technology);  Oloniran Gbenga (400-Level, Social sciences);  Alowode Afolabi (Arts),  Oyedeji Samson (Pharmacy), Oluwalade Babatunde (Arts) and Kazeem Olalekan (Administration) were reinstated after a round table discussion with the management of the school. Commenting on their reinstatement, the vice chancellor, Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede said they should as ambassadors of the university, portray a good image of the institution. “We don’t have interest in our students being jailed. The whole court case was initiated by the state not the institution.  They have been restated and the Division of students Affairs has been ordered to open the portal without any late registration payment,” he said. Speaking on the suspension of the Students’ Union, the VC said: “Some told me that the last year fracas of the students Union was just an internal issue. As a vice Chancellor I can’t be looking at things going wrong and still take it internal. That’s the reason why you can’t find Adedeji Emmanuel (lamba) and Jacob Tosin (Emerald)here today being reinstated, they will serve their two semesters rustication to the end, sanity must be propelled”. He however noted that the suspension of Students Union activities would be lifted soon. Reacting to the reinstatement, one of the affected students, Ibukun said “It is not yet victory until we rid Nigerian campuses especially OAU off victimization and depression.” Another student Israel Tobiloba (not one those affected) of the English Department said “it is a good development, and I hope it will bring more freedom to students.” The Dean of Students Affairs, Prof. Aransi concluded the meeting by showing grattitude to the Vice Chancellor for the gesture and further addressed the affected students to be of good behavior henceforth.