Kogi State University (KSU) students have expressed grievances with the delay in the compilation and release of their results by some departments. The students said the tactics employed by the affected departments had brought pains and agony to them, wondering why there should be a delay in the collation of final year students’ results. The affected departments include Mass Communication, Economics, and all the departments in the Faculty of Education, except Library and Information Science. With the delayed results, many students would be left out of mobilisation for the National Youth Service. Some of the affected students, who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE, expressed their displeasure, urging the management to sanction the departments. A graduating Law student, who identified himself as Premium, said the management must do something fast about the issue. He said: “I hope the school addresses the issue and does something fast about this. Law programme that should not exceed five years has turned out to be six years, courtesy of strikes and results issues. Months after finishing our final examination, our results are yet to be released. This means we cannot proceed to Law School. I am tired of everything.” Jeff Friday, a 400-Level Political Science student, described the situation as pathetic, saying: “I am in final year but I have only seen my 100-Level results; no other results have been released since 200-Level.” He added: It is so pathetic. The management appeared unperturbed, leaving the students to suffer the agony of withheld results. The worst part is that, those guys coming to ask us to vote for them during students’ union elections represent their own personal interest without standing firm to address some of these key issues affecting the generality of students.” Musa Omale, a graduate, faulted the Students Union Government (SUG) for its inability to address the issue with the management. He said: “To have this whole issue resolved and settled, we need a credible SUG leadership that can stand for the truth and fight for the interest of the students. And if the school fails to conduct the SUG election this time around, then it should be left for all the departmental presidents to stand up and speak for the students they are representing.” Bidemi Ibiyanmi, a yet to be mobilised graduate of Mass Communication, said explaining the situation to his parents was tougher than awaiting for the results. He urged his department to fast-track the process. “I failure is due to the management’s inability to discharge its duty efficiently. It appears the school lacks technological expertise to management this important part of academic activities. Some departments claim the results were delayed because the database crashed down without being backed up,” he said. An academic staff, who pleaded for anonymity, said the management was “seriously working hard to see to the end of these lapses”. He said: “The school has been working to ensure that this whole issue is addressed. We are experiencing little hitches in the system because of the method adopted in terms of collation of results which is a bit slow but efforts have been made to see that all things are put in place to ensure that the terminal results are released on time.” 