OIL giant Aiteo and his Chief Executive Benedict Peters have rejected the allegation that they were behind the protest against the Joint Task Force (JTF) in the Niger Delta. With 90,000 kobp, the NNPC/Aiteo Joint Venture produces five per cent of Nigeria’s output. It issued a statement yesterday, denying allegations by the JTF leadership. The management, Aiteo Eastern Exploration and Production,  said: “We have read with consternation, comments attributed to the embattled Commander of Operation Delta Safe, Rear Admiral Apochi Suleiman, on or about June 1,2018 in which, ostensibly in defence to serious allegations levelled against him, he unfoundedly suggests that ourselves and our Chief Executive Benedict Peters are somewhat responsible for the publicly aired complaints about actions and outcomes arising from his work at the JTF.  To put the factual matrix in perspective, it appears that on June 1,2018, hundreds of youths connected to the Niger Delta region organised a World Press Conference at Abuja. One of the central themes was to draw attention to the activities of Rear Admiral Apochi Suleiman in his role as the JTF Supremo.  Allegations were made against him, accusing him of complicity in the growing menace of illegal bunkering and oil thefts and calling for his immediate removal from office. “For the avoidance of any doubt whatsoever, any attempt by the embattled Admiral Suleiman to suggest our involvement in the activities of those who undertook the event or indeed any other related activity is a distraction designed to fail.  It does not, in any way, detract from the weight of allegations with which Admiral Suleiman has been publicly confronted nor the overwhelming need for him to engage in a process that will allow him deal with the substantive issues that flow from that event.  Admiral Suleiman’s attempt at diverting attention from himself represents an ill-conceived, reckless and ineffectual response aimed at fabricating a distant alibi to aerate a degenerating sore of a festering personal wound.  Clearly, the Admiral misguidedly considers that there is some form of wrongdoing around genuine agitation by a people to get protection for their land, property and assets from the vile criminality that oil theft has become.  For one who professes to lead a security entity whose principal objective is to engender community safety and protection, this disposition suggests abject insensitivity and a total lack of responsibility, issues presumably at the top of the list of those seeking a change to JTF’s leadership. “Aiteo has enormous responsibilities in the oil industry requiring focused intensity and attention in the execution of our quite considerable commercial obligations.  With a daily production in the region of 90,000kobp, the NNPC/Aiteo JV is now directly responsible for producing 5% of the country’s daily oil production.  In doing so, the group employs over several hundred direct staff and thousands of others indirectly through contractors and service suppliers.  This sense of responsibility is the bedrock on which our commercial and other activities are founded.  Sadly, these oil thefts have meant that we are the one of the biggest victims of oil theft in the country. “As the opportunity regretfully presents, we consider it apt to clarify a number of “matters arising” from the Admiral’s unfortunate comments: (a)  Why has large-scale illegal oil bunkering and refining assumed unprecedented dimensions in recent times? (b) Is it correct that the security forces are now offering protection/escort services to those allegedly responsible for oil thefts? (c)   How is it that vessel movement of the oil thieves occurs unnoticed in the region despite heightened activity in large scale illegal bunkering.? Aiteo did not “mastermind” any of the protests by Niger Delta communities. As a socially responsible organisation, we understand that the community bears the brunt of illegal bunkering and refining activities. Indigenes of these communities remain morally and legally free to exercise their constitutionally guaranteed civic rights to peacefully protest against ills in their community till their voices are heard and desired remedial or corrective actions are taken. Aiteo utilises this opportunity to reiterate its long-standing commitment to due process and international best practices in the discharge of every aspect of its statutory mandate.”