Lai Mohammed, A li Baba, Banky W, others mourn with pop star over son’s death A PALL of grief descended on the cozy Ikoyi, Lagos home of one of Nigeria’s top pop singers, Dapo Oyebanjo, better known as D’banj, on June 24, 2018. Death snatched his lovely son, Daniel Oyebanjo lll, in a tragic manner. Little Daniel, who was born on May 27, 2017, was said to be playing with some visiting family friends, when he strayed into the backyard of their residence, slipped into a pool and drowned. It was said that the little boy was rushed to an unnamed hospital where he was confirmed dead. D’banj, popularly known as Koko Master, according to media reports, was in Los Angeles, United States of America, for the 2018 Black Star Entertainment Awards (BET) when the incident occurred. It, however, emerged that the one-year-old boy was left in the company of some grown up children in the house at the time the unfortunate incident occurred. In what looked like a confirmation of the sad incident, D’banj took to his Instagram page to post a black-pitch image with a caption: “Trying Times. But my God is Always and Forever Faithful”. His Instagram page message was trailed by torrents of sympathies from colleagues and friends and even from the Federal Government through the Minsiter of Information and Culture, Chief Lai Muhammed. According to reports, the remains of the child have been moved to the morgue.  Commiserating with D’banj, popular comedian, Alibaba, said: “I cannot imagine what you are going through. I have experienced losses that shook me to the bones. Zakilooooo and Endurance… two of my brothers.  “I still wear a black band for each one till date. That’s like five years after. So I cannot say snap out of it. Because it doesn’t go away.” Rotimi Martins a.k.a. Alariwo of Africa, wrote: “It’s a very sad news; woke up in the middle of the night to speak with a friend abroad because of our time difference, only to hear the sad news. May God give Dapo the strength to bear the loss and bless him with twins in little time.”  Popular singer, Banky W, described the death of the child as “a nightmare and heart wrenching news.” “Sending prayers up for @iambangalee, his wife and their entire family. This is a nightmare. Heart-wrenching news. May God strengthen and comfort you all in this absolutely terrible time, in Jesus name,” he said.  Another notable pop singer, Wizkid, wrote on Instagram: ‘’Wow! Praying for strength for you and your family Dbanj… God’s own!” Also, sympathising with D’banj, Nigerian actress, Shan George, wrote: “It’s a very sad day for the industry and the country. I pray that the Almighty God comforts everyone who has lost their loved ones. “I have lost close family members before; the pain is not something I will wish for even an enemy.”  Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, in a statement by his Special Assistant, Segun Adeyemi, said although words can never be enough to console D’banj, the family should take solace in the outpouring of condolences from Nigerians.  “My prayers and kindest thoughts are with you and your family at these trying times. May God give you the strength and the comfort that will see you through,” Mohammed said. But the circumstances surrounding the death of the todler had triggered harsh commentaries on the social media, with some respondents accusing D’banj’s wife, Lineo Didi Kilgrow, who was at home at the time of the incident, of ‘negligence’ for not monitoring her little boy enough.  Popular fashion entrepreneur and mother of two, Toyin Lawani, however, defended D’banj’s wife, describing the accusations as baseless and unfeeling.  In a post on her Instagram page, Toyin recalled how her own son, Tenor, almost drowned in a pool where she had gone to work while the son was in the care of her nanny, noting that the incident does not in any way portray her as a bad mother. She wrote: ”I had to put this right here. I’m super irritated. This is not about any of us, but we can learn from our mistakes. That is why I said people pointing fingers should go watch how it happened to my son, ’cause it happened so fast and I was right there. No one is selling any market here, just stating the obvious. I can’t believe even in death, people still criticise, Jesus is Lord.  ”I had to delete my previous post, ’cause of all the silly comments. Today is not the day for trolling and point fingers. Give yourselves brain. I was so disappointed with the comments I read online about this issue. Why, why, why do you people do this all the time? “It’s so sad for our nation to always bring down people, even at their  lowest. What if the mum hurts herself with all your harsh words? Think for once about the damage your comments can cause. No parent prays for this.”  The trying times for the pop star and his wife may be far from over, going by a statement issued by the Police, asking them to officially explain how his son died. While sympathising with D’banj, the Lagos State Police Command, in a statement released via their official Instagram page and signed by Police Public Relations Officer Lagos State Police Command, Mr Chike Oti, asked the singer to formally report the incident to the police when the mourning period is over. The statement reads in part: ”The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Edgal Imohimi, on behalf of officers and men of the Lagos State Police Command, wishes to commiserate with the family of Mr and Mrs Oladapo  Daniel Oyebanjo a.k.a D’BANJ @iambangalee on the death of their one year-old-son, Daniel (Jnr) Oyebanjo whose sad event took place yesterday 24/06/2018, at the Ikoyi-Lagos residence of the family. The CP wants the family to know that at this period of their grief, the entire Command shares in their pain.