A non-government organization -Emmy-V Global Services, on Friday settled the hospital bills of less privileged children receiving treatment at the Federal Medical Centre Jalingo, Taraba State. The organization also distributed food items, including Milk, Milo and Serelac to all the kids on admission in the hospital. Some parents and guardians were emotional while receiving the money and food items for their ailing children and wards. Chairman and Managing Director of the NGO, Emeka Chinweokwu, who presented the cash and the food items, said he was moved by the spirit of this year’s Children’s Day celebration to visit those that were tied down by ill health. He added that the beautiful songs and dexterous dance steps showcased by kids on Children’s Day thrilled and motivated him to assist them. “It all started on May 27, on this year’s Children’s Day celebration. I was moved while watching them happily singing and dancing. I quickly imagined the faith of those suffering in the hospital. “Though, the day has come and gone, I have decided to visit them in the hospital today (yesterday), to lend a helping hand and enhanced their wellbeing; to pay their bills, especially for those whose parents could not afford to pay,” he said. The hospital bill of Mrs. Peace Zafania was also settled by Chinweokwu. Mrs Zafania, The Nation learnt, had been discharged by the doctors, but was held with her new-born baby for nine days by the hospital authorities over her inability to settle a bill of N62,000 for the Caesarean Section (CS) carried out on her. Through the CS, the poor woman gave birth to male twins but only one survived. The surviving baby was premature and had to be incubated, thus, raising the bill. “I lack words to express my gratitude to Emmy-V Global Services,” a visibly happy Zafania said when her N62, 000 bill was paid. She told newsmen that she will continue to pray for God to bless Chinweokwu and members of his team for coming to her aid after nine days of stay in the hospital, even as she was discharged. Ade Bayo, a father to one of the benefiting kids, commended the organisation’s leadership for its kind gesture, particularly for having compassion for less privileged children. Head of Nursing Services in the FMC, Mrs Hajara Mazang, hailed the company for the gesture. She called on organisations and individuals who are well to do in the society to emulate Emmy-V Global Services.