Super Eagles midfielder to the FIFA World Cup Russia 2018, John Ogu, has caught the Shaku Shaku bug and has enthused about displaying dancing steps should he find the net at Russia 2018.
Shaku Shaku is and reportedly ‘done by stretching out the arm and crossing them over each other in front with the legs widened out and launching into a graceful half-galloping.’
Thanks to rap superstar Olumide, Shaku Shaku is now the most popular dance step in Nigeria and the 30-year-old Hapoel Be’er Sheva midfielder truly loves it, saying he has mastered the dancing step which he will show case as the Super Eagles search for goals and glory in Russia.
“I know everything that is trending in the country and when I heard about Shaku Shaku dance, I took time to know about it,” the 30-year-old Hapoel Be’er Sheva midfielder told THE NATION. “So, if I manage to score at the World Cup, I will definitely celebrate with Shaku Shaku dance.”
However, the burly player has assured that it would not be all about fancy dance steps for him at the World Cup.
“I am a different person when I get to the pitch. I don’t talk to anybody on game day. I like to focus on the game. I am a very serious minded player when I am on the pitch because I try to be as professional as possible.”
Meanwhile, Ogu also expressed his delight for being part of the Super Eagles squad for what would be his first attendance at the FIFA World Cup even as he takes us through his trajectory with the beautiful game in this interview with Correspondent TUNDE LIADI. Excerpts… eginning My football started on the streets. I was playing without football shoes. I did so with pants with my friends. It was tough growing up but we are here today because I worked hard. I was lucky I didn’t have parents who were opposed to my playing football. They were there for me. I am happy so far with my achievement. Where I wanted to be is not where I think I am, but I am really grateful to God for how far he has brought me. I have so many ups and downs and I fought hard to surmount them. For one, I never played in any club in the Nigerian league. I grew up playing for a youth side in Surulere, Starlets FC – an academy in Surulere, Lagos. It was there that Marshall Braye of Flying Sports Academy in FESTAC, Lagos, spotted me and took me out of the country to Slovenia where I started professional soccer for Drava Ptuj. I was there for four years before moving to Almeria in Spain. I stayed in Spain for only eight months and moved on again to join third division Atletico CP in Portugal. In Portugal, I played for two other teams; Uniao Leiria and Academica, for two seasons. I never expected I would move to Israel. When I played against Hapoel Tel Aviv in one of our pre-season games at Academica I never knew I would end up there. I’ve been there now for four seasons. 2017/18 Israeli top league season The beginning of the season was really difficult for us because we had lots of ups and downs; injuries and the like. It was a tough season for us as a team. Our captain, who was a very important member of the team, was suspended for doping. A reliable defender also got injured and was out for many months. We struggled at a time, but in the end, we came out tops in spite of the fact that many people had written us off. We won many games and showed the right character that fetched us the league title. Europa League experience It was my second time playing in the Europa League for Hapoel, but I had a taste of it with Academica in Portugal. It is always an experience when you play against top teams from different countries. We were not in same shape we were two seasons ago when we beat Inter Milan and other big clubs but the comfort we have is that we won the domestic league again. We hope that we can do better next session to get to the Champions’ League group stage. Support for Arsenal Yes! I remain an Arsenal fan. When Arsene Wenger announced he would be leaving Arsenal at the end of last season, the announcement was actually made on my birthday. A lot of my friends said it was a gift from Arsene to me. I think Wenger has done enough for football in general. It was an emotional day when he announced his exit and we wish him well in his future endeavours. That Unai Emery is taking over as new manager is also a good thing. First, he is coming from PSG which is a great side and has won lots of trophies with them. He was able to manage big players successfully, including Neymar. He is a coach that has made a name for himself at Sevilla and PSG where he won the Europa League and the league titles with both clubs. I think handling Arsenal is going to be a big one for him and I wish him well. If he is able to get the right players – players that are willing to fight and work harder, he can make things happen. All-time favourite player in Arsenal Everyone knows it is Thierry Henry. Kanu Nwankwo also played his part but Henry was everything for Arsenal while Kanu was one of the reasons I started watching Arsenal. Love for social media I believe in the streets. I see it worthwhile to associate with those that are supporting me. I don’t call them fans. I know that some people say it is not necessary but I feel I am getting the love that I don’t deserve them and must reciprocate. It is because of this I take my time to reach out to them on my various social media platforms. First call up to Super Eagles If you see me that day at home, I could not curtail my joy. It was Elderson (Echiejile) that called me because I was in Portugal. He told me that the late Stephen Keshi would like to speak with me. I didn’t believe because a few months earlier, I watched him win the Nations Cup. I was invited to the next Eagles game. It was amazing because I have always supported the Super Eagles, watching all their games on TV. It was when I reported to camp and I got on the pitch with team captain, Mikel Obi, that I knew it was real. Everything that happened to me today is just by the grace of God and I give Him the glory at all times. Bidding my time I did not play many matches but I know that if it is my time no one can deny me that opportunity. I respect every manager that I work under and I abide by their decisions. People may see it outside that maybe I wasn’t doing well in training but it is not only about that. Sometimes, some managers have their players and they just have others around because they know that they can also help. I am happy to get the call-up and whenever I am in the Eagles camp I don’t come to party or to relax. I come to work and to help my country. Unwinding I listen to all songs. I know songs that are trending in Nigeria. I like both Davido and Wizkid; they are doing well. They are role models and some other artists are also looking up to them to be like them. Our artists are doing well but some of them do not have the funds to realise their dreams. Buzz around Super Eagles Camp We are like one big family here. Gone are those days when we were not united. We are now very united. We even have a group chat where we keep in touch with everyone on the team. The funniest person I think is Uche Agbo. When you see him eat and engage in other things, you will not but laugh. Everyone has their own swag and fashionable in their own way. Biggest football achievement I will pick two. One is winning the league title with Hapoel Be’er Sheva when no one expected us to do so and the second is being in the Nigerian team to the World Cup. I could not make the provisional list for the last World Cup in Brazil and here I am today in the World Cup squad to Russia. If not a footballer I wanted to be a banker because of the respect people have them. I was a brilliant student but football took that and there is no going back. When I had to leave school for football, I had a big fight with my mom and other members of the family. They tried everything possible to dissuade me from playing football but they were unable to change my resolve. I did go to the university but I had to drop out because my love for football had taken over. I read Business Administration. It was the only thing on everybody’s lips back then but when I got an offer outside Nigeria I had to pull out. Goal against Algeria All the games before the qualifying game in Algeria, I did not get a chance to play and people were asking questions why I get called up. But when I heard the manager say that all the players that didn’t have the chance to play in the previous matches will get their chance against Algeria I was looking forward to that game. We had a Europa League before that game against Steaua Bucharest (Romania) where I got injured in the match. I was told that I would be out for three weeks so I was really worried. But I was lucky as I started running after two weeks because I really wanted to be fit for the game with Algeria. I wanted to show the coach that he could trust me. I am happy that the manager was impressed with the way I played not just for the goal but the way I played generally.The goal was later nullified but for me it is still relevant and if you go on YouTube and other social media outlets, I still get to watch my goal. Pre-World Cup win against Argentina Many people didn’t know that the formation we played in that game was achieved at the last training session which was just a night before that game. It was tough for us in the first half but we have an experienced captain (Mikel Obi) who spoke to us and his views were backed up by the manager (Gernot Rohr). I think everyone came out prepared in the second half to lift their game and we were delighted to get the goals and to beat them. It was really nice winning that game because if we had lost that game, many of us might not get a recall.  I am happy that we were able to prove everybody wrong that we could do it.  Future plans in the Israeli league I want to continue to bring the motivation and energy into the national team also. I always say to myself that anytime I have the chance to play for the national team, I will bring that same spirit to it. I played a lot of games this season. I featured in over 40 games and I know that playing in Hapoel has really helped me. Everyone there sees me as the captain of the team. I am highly respected and they inspire me to do more. I like that kind of challenge. I don’t know. I have one year contract left. Every year we play in the Europa League and this year we are fighting to play in the Champions League again. If we get to play in the Champions League, where else will I want to go to? I have to play in the Champions League. I have a year contract left and I have been asked a similar question too by the club’s management. I was told that the president of the club is afraid that if I go to the World Cup and I get to play, I may leave them. I let them know that if I am not wanted again by the club I may be allowed to leave and if they want me to stay, they have to pay. Teammate with Anthony Nwakaeme I remember I told him before he joined us that if he comes to our club he will win titles. He came and he made such huge impact. I didn’t say he was the best player in Israel because I was joking. He is actually the best foreign player that has played in Israel League. We may have a strong case for Yakubu Aiyegbeni and Vincent Enyeama who also did well while they were playing in Israel. They saw Aiyegbeni more when he was here because he took Maccabi Haifa to the Champions League and scored some goals but you need to see how Nwakaeme play. He scores and makes assists. Retirement plans It is going to be tough after football. I am even scared to think of a day that I will have to hang my boot and stop playing. I don’t know how I am going to feel, but after football, I will take a year or two to rest. If I am going to come back to football after my retirement, it will probably be as a coach.  SHORT & Sharp Favourite design I don’t have any favourite design. I just put on anything that looks decent on me. Favourite boot I have an endorsement by Adidas, so boots under their stable are my preference for now. Best 11 Ter Stergen, Dani Alves, Sergio Ramos, Gerrard Pique, Marcelo, Sergio Busquest, Luca Modric, Toni Troos, Neymar, Messi, and C. Ronaldo. FIFA or PES I don’t play any of the two. I don’t play PES. I don’t like it. I bought it one time but I had to pack it. Relaxation I listen to music. Favourite Nigerian dish All African foods but dog meat. Favourite colour I don’t really have any. I don’t look at colour when I put on cloth. I’m good to go with good cloth irrespective of the colour.