The March 28, 2015 election was indeed like none the country had witnessed; it will go down in history as one of the most watched election on television in Nigeria – akin to watching a world cup final. We saw pictures and footage’s of women in north waiting patiently on very long queues in the blazing sun to cast their votes. Some of the women who came out to enforce their fundamental rights spent the last four years – prior to 2015 – burying husbands, children, sisters, brothers and neighbours killed by Boko Haram (BH) insurgents. These women – whose children could not go to school because of the threat of kidnap and murder, should be commended. They decided to vote even after BH threats that they should not. We equally saw pictures of women in the south – I saw some breast feeding their children as they waited to vote. The story from Delta State, where the women of Madangho town acted as our heroines of democracy is quite touching. After they had cast their votes, some “soldiers” drove into town and wanted to whisk the ballot papers to a neighboring village – Ajudaiboh for “collation.” It was alleged that a chieftain of one of the political parties was waiting there to conduct the “collation.” The women resisted. When the soldiers insisted, they stripped naked and harassed the armed soldiers out of town. It was indeed an election like no other. These brave mothers, sisters and wives were vigilant, and most importantly they knew what they wanted. They are tired of environmental pollution; they’re tired of the pains of subsistence living – hand to mouth – in a land of abundance. All they ask for is to have a clean land to fish and farm. Is that asking for too much? There’s something special about women when it comes to struggle. The civil rights movement in the United States of America got a boost when Rosa Parks (February 4, 1913 – October 24, 2005) defied the law to rise for a white man on a bus in December 1, 1955. For her action, she was dubbed “the first lady of civil rights” and “the mother of the freedom movement.” On that day in Montgomery, Alabama, Parks refused to obey bus driver James F. Blake’s order to give up her seat in the coloured section to a white passenger, after the white section was filled. Being with late Martin Luther King Jnr, she must have heard times without number that “freedom is never voluntarily given by the oppressor; it must be demanded by the oppressed.” In Nigeria’s case, the Permanent Voters’ Card (PVC) became the weapon of freedom. We equally saw pictures of Nigerians standing in the rain to vote – like yours sincerely. We saw the elderly standing, or sitting on wheel chairs to vote. I saw the picture of an elderly citizen brought from his hospital bed, assisted by nurses, who came to vote! This is the Nigerian spirit that often refuses to die. Just like the classic Volkswagen Beetle advert of years ago said: ‘you can’t kill the beetle;’ I make bold to say you can’t kill the Nigerian spirit! As we were battling to vote against all odds, we also have some of our ex-Campuslife writers who were busy serving their fatherland in election duties. We are all true heroes of a country we all love and desires to be great. For once I saw Nigerians waiting without much of a fuss despite hiccups with card readers in some polling units. Some had to wait till 2am on Sunday morning for their votes to be counted; some came back the next day to continue the exercise. What does this tell us? It tells us that the good thing about the 2015 election is that, no Nigerian leader will take Nigerians for granted anymore; and that things would never remain the same again and it won’t be business as usual. In the past, we had problem with voters’ apathy as most voters believe their votes won’t count. But not today; the masses have realised that it is a suicidal strategy for them to bury their heads in the sand, hoping and praying things work out well, without their input. They’ve discovered it does not pay to sit on the fence. Today, they are now active participants in the democratic process. There’s also the issue of ignorance. In my opinion, the best way to enslave a people is to keep them ignorant of their rights and privileges. An example would suffice here; when slavery was abolished in America, some slaves in the South were unaware of their new status and continued working for their masters. In many ways, the Nigerian masses in a democratic setting are ignorant of their huge powers over the political elite. Again, the PVC will definitely change things for good. This is why the Dr. Oby Ezekwesili led Red Card Movement (RCM) should be commended for traversing the length and breadth of Nigeria raising awareness and consciousness of the power of the citizen in the democratic dispensation. Since it was unveiled on April 18, 2018 at an elaborate event held in Abuja, the federal capital, the movement has gone to the six geopolitical zones to raise voters’ consciousness. Reminding Nigerians of the crucial roles they have to play, Dr. Ezekwesili pointed out that the effect of the cyclical truncation of democracy in Nigeria since the termination of the First Republic in 1966  is that key institutions, systems, principles and ethos that underpin democratic practice has remained extremely problematic and largely underdeveloped. One of such key institutions are dynamic, strong, inclusive and accountable political parties that can articulate sound policy positions and inspire confidence that they – the political parties -are capable of governing effectively when voted in by the electorate. As a result of this lacuna, she said the movement is stepping in to sensitise Nigerians on the need to vote out bad leaders. To achieve this, the movement have outlined some programmes that would be carried out in three phases. They include #OfficeOfTheCitizen; #RedCardToAPCAndPDP; and #MyPVCMyRedCard which would be carried out in the first phase. The Office of the Citizen highlights the fundamental importance of the citizen in the democratic process as democracy thrives on active participation. RedCardToAPCAndPDP is anchored on the pedestal that neither of the two main political parties have the capacity to effect sustainable growth and development; while MyPVCMyRedCard is aimed at galvanising Nigerians who have not registered to do so and obtain their PVC – the only way they can vote out bad leaders. However, in the fight against bad leadership poverty remains a fundamental factor, and will remain one for a long time to come and politicians know this. But, just like we are beginning to get the electoral process right, RCM is strategically drawing citizen’s attention to the nexus between poverty and bad governance. I’m glad this has increased the level of political awareness among ordinary Nigerians. Nigerians are gradually beginning to embrace elections, realising that it is only by participating in the electoral process that they can effect a change in the society. I believe we are going to see a greater level of involvement in 2019 because of changing perception of Nigerians about politics. I hope it will also change our perception about governance, especially about holding our leaders accountable. Our vibrant youth populations have also become more politically involved in the democratic process, this is a good sign. More than ever before, they participated in the build-up to the 2015 elections by attending rallies, engaging in debates and being at the forefront in mobilisation for campaigns and the voting process. Their involvement is not surprising because they constitute about 70 per cent of the population. Their impact was also felt on social media platforms. In a few months’ time campaigning for the 2019 election will begin; it is becoming clear that it may likely expose and widen our fault lines like previous elections. We should guard against whipping up of ethnic and religious tension and focus squarely on issues of governance. This should be the main challenge of citizens who want the best for themselves and their children.