ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE writes on how the World Bicycle Day (WBD), the maiden edition of which was celebrated on June 3, may change the narratives around biking not only in Nigeria, but across the world. IT  was a spectacular sight to behold.The Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi rode on a bicycle. Penultimate Tuesday, Amaechi rode in the ministry’s premises to felicitate with the Nigerian Bicycle Federation (NBF) members, who were at the ministry to celebrate the maiden edition of the World Bicycle Day (WBD). But he neither rode it to his office nor to the Federal Executive Council’s (FEC) chamber as one of his predecessors, the late Chief Ojo Maduekwe did. The National Council on Transportation (NCT) has been trying to make bicycle riding  as part of the transportation policy with success. In many cities across Nigeria, bicycle riding is not common as it  used to. This is because the roads are not safe. Despite this, however, some Nigerians take biking as a means of transportation. Joshua Ademola is one of such people. Decked in blue shirt, suit and tie to match with his hatch bag hung on his back, Ademola said he loves the bicycle as a shuttle alternative. Six of his colleagues also do the same. “Gradually, we are 10 using bicycle in my work place and we have secured a park within the company to park for safe-keeping,” Ademola said. It is not Ademola and co alone. Some youths have joined the bicycle train, not for fun or sports. In Lagos, there are being suported by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode who has restated his commitment to promoting non-motorised transportation. In the beginning Nigerians romance with bicycle predates the nation’s independence. Introduced as a means of transportation by the British District Officers (DO) to access the interlands, it soon became the vehicle for the emerging local middle class – teachers, traders and merchants. Then, it  was a status symbol with the Raleigh brand of bicycle as the toast. With the industrial boom shortly after independence, motorised vehicles overtook the bicycle and wider roads were constructed across the country, without consideration for other forms of road users outside the motor car users. Though the Maduekwe initiative to promote bicycle riding failed to connect with the emerging middle class and business executives, it gave the Federal Road Safety Corps FRSC) an opportunity to develop an enlightenment programe to promote its use. FRSC agreed with Maduekwe that bikes are not only healthy, they are the best ways to get out of the perennial gridlocks. United States, United Kingdom, China, Holland and Cuba, are countries where bicycles are central to transportation planning and policies. FRSC admitted that roads are not riders’friendly, but insisted that bike riding is one sure way to promote healthy living. Coming of WBD Arguments were canvassed to draw global attention to bicycle riding. The declaration of June 3 yearly as World Bicycle Day, according to Worldurbancampaign.org, is the crystalisation of efforts by the World Cycling Alliance (WCA), a network of the European Cyclists Federations, to achieve this. At the Paris climate summit COP 21, last year, WCA presented to the UN, the contributions of cycling to global goals on the environment and its commitment to getting “more people to embrace cycling, more often”. WCA and ECF Secretary-General Bernhard Ensink said: “There are undeniable evidence that cycling contributes to cleaner environment and with the WBD is to get greater buy-in of cycling by governments and international institutions worldwide. ‘’The observance by the UN of a World Bicycle Day, he reasoned, would offer a strong support towards better awareness of the potentials the use of the bicycle has for the achievement of the Global Sustainable Goals.” Though the day was announced on April 12, the WCA had on April 28 embarked on a global twitter campaign that saw over 3000 tweets and two million people across the world talk about bicycle and its advantages to health and the environment. Benefits Ensink argued that bicycles have been promoting increased health,  environmental benefits and sustainable economic growth. “Cycling 1km by bike saves 250g of CO2 compared to 1km in a car, cyclists accounted for 111billion Euros in 2013, and provides 4.89 per 1m euros of turnover, compared to car manufacturing which delivers 1.63 jobs. In Europe cycling is responsible for 650.000 jobs – more than the defence and steel industries,” he says. Ensink believes the WBD will increase the number of cyclists. He believes cycling can  help actualise SDG5, which would empower women and girls, achieve SDG11, which seeks to make cities and settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable. More cycling could save the world $24 trillion by 2050, and about two giga tonnes of CO2 emission yearly, thereby promoting cleaner environment. On its page, un.org, the UN said WBD would draw attention to bicycle as a simpler, affordable, reliable, clean and environmentally fit means of sustainable transportation. It said the bicycle can also serve as a tool for development and as a means not just of transportation, but also of access to education, health care and sport. The UN envisages that the WBD would encourage member-states to devote attention to bicycle. Such inclusion, the world body said, would also encourage member-states to improve road safety and integrate biking into sustainable mobility and transport infrastructure planning. This, according to it, would further achieve broader health outcomes, particularly the prevention of injuries and non-communicable diseases. Wikipedia insisted that a UN bicycle day is out to drum attention to the benefits of using bicycle for transportation and leisure. Leszek Sibilski, who led a campaign for a UN Resolution for the Day, eventually gaining the support of Turkmenistan and 56 other countries. Novelty Happy with the global turn of events, Amaechi assured of the readiness of his ministry to promote cycling. According to him, the ministry would liaise with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and state governments to create easy pathways across the country for riders to move around without impediments. Amaechi, who received the cyclists, led by the Cycling Federation of Nigeria (CFN) President,  Giandomenico Massari, said: “Apart from competing in sports, cycling also assists to improve the mental well-being of an individual. Creating a path for cyclists is not the job of the Federal Government but FCT and state government.’’ He added: “If more bicycles are on our roads, it would help reduce traffic. Cyclists need safer routes to ride. If safe paths that would ensure safety are in place, more elites will also be encouraged to ride bicycles.” The minister criticised those who see biking as a sign of poverty. “Riding bicycle,” Amaechi said, “is not a sign of poverty, but people are afraid of losing their lives because motorists are impatient and motorcycle and bicycle riders are exposed to danger without a dedicated lane.’’ He said though the Federal Goverment may not be able to create dedicated lanes, he assured that it would mobilise the states through their commisioners of transportation to do this. “States can create bicycle paths. If this is done in a state like Lagos, most people will be going to work on bicycles because the traffic alone from Third Mainland Bridge to the mainland is enough to stress one out,” Amaechi said. Massari hinted that the WBD would help to resuscitate cycling culture and improve healthy living. According to him, their visit was part of their advocacy to draw the government’s attention to creating safer routes to encourage bicycle riding. CFN, he added, would collaborate with the FRSC and other stakeholders to organise a cycling rally in Abuja. The ministry’s Director, Road Transport and Mass Transit Mrs. Anthonia Ekpa assured the cyclists of their support. “I am happy that Nigerian cyclists successfully joined the rest of the world to celebrate the World Bicycle Day. The event was remarkable because riders have their way on the road without traffic or hitches.” ‘’A dedicated lane, either at the road shoulders or median as is the global practice, would further help to drive home the needed support for safety being advocated by riders.’’ Patrick Adenusi believes with the UN backing, biking may soon become a preferred mode of transportation for its sundry benefits. He foresees bicycle manufacturing companies return like the pre-60s era. “With 198 million people, 60 percent of which are youths, Nigeria, he said, has huge market for bicycle manufacturing. It could also create massive jobs.