With the growing tide of students’ restiveness, addiction to harmful substances as well as crisis in tertiary institutions, it has become imperative that students’ managers find solutions to issues bedeviling institutions of higher learning. These and many others formed the thrust at the 2nd Annual Conference of the Association of Deans of Students’ Affairs in Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria (ADOSATI), which held at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (NAU), Awka. Expounding on the theme: “Sustainable Peace Building and Crisis Management on our Campuses”, the keynote speaker and Resident Electoral Commissioner in Imo State, Prof. Francis Chukwuemeka Ezeonu, listed some of the ills bedevilling  the education system in the country to include poor funding, poor remuneration of teachers, poor management, teacher quality and delivery and great emphasis on paper qualifications. He maintained that poor welfare on campus remained a major cause of conflict, identifying inadequate hostels and classroom accommodation leading to congestion, poor transportation, inadequate water supply, poor health facilities, epileptic power supply, increase in service charges or extortion, bureaucratic bottlenecks, and dictatorial style of administration by vice chancellors, among others, as contributing to conflict in higher institutions. His words: “There is too much emphasis on paper qualification in Nigeria, rather than knowledge, skill and competence. Most students with requisite knowledge, skills and competence, but lack the ability to reproduce what the teacher taught often feel frustrated.” This anomaly, according to him, frustrates most students to the level of taking solace in bribing lecturers for marks, while the female ones resort to offering sexual gratification to lecturers, just to acquire certificates, thereby abandoning the skills and competence they earlier acquired. The former Students’ Union leader and former Dean of Students’ Affairs in UNIZIK averred that the burden of managing crisis in tertiary institutions rested on the shoulders of deans of students’ affairs, advocating that the deans must try to establish interpersonal relationship with students, such that they retain the confidence of students as that was the only way they could access information about cases of planned restiveness among students. Prof. Ezeonu condemned the growing cases of drug addiction among students, calling on the association to dedicate part of its three-day conference to mapping  out strategies to nip the trend in the bud. He further opined that improving funding, providing teaching and learning materials, ensuring proper consultation with stakeholders as well as encouraging private partnership in running institutions were the panacea for mitigating conflicts. Ezeonu urged managements of tertiary institutions to avoid conflict suppression by encouraging responsible unionism, pointing out that managements should be impartial, but firm. Earlier in his address, the President of the association, Prof. Stanley Udedi, said Nigerian students’ situation was characterised by an increased uncertainty and by lack of trust in the future. Providing evidence to the assertion, Prof. Udedi noted that it is meaningful to take into account the steady rise of youth unemployment, which adversely affects students’ performances. He posited that the conference was expected to proffer solutions to the myriad of challenges bedeviling institutions. He stated that peace and crisis management were indispensable for the smooth running of academic programmes, effective interactions among stakeholders and quality scholarship. This, he noted, underpins the importance of the conference and the gathering of the Deans, who directly superintend over the students in institutions of higher learning.