Parents have been told not to neglect the oral healthcare of their children. This was the call by experts in oral/dental health unit of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba, as it marked this year’s Children Day. According to the Head of Department (HOD), Orthodontic Clinic, LUTH, Dr (Mrs) Ifeoma Utomi, tooth decay; caries, and bad breath are very common oral problems among children, which are preventable conditions. Dr Utomi said Tooth decay refers to the loss of minerals from tooth structure caused by bacteria and proper dental care can take care of. She explained: “Caries, or tooth decay, is a preventable disease. While caries might not endanger your child’s life, they may negatively impact the quality of life. When teeth and gums are consistently exposed to large amounts of starches and sugars, acids may form  to eat away at tooth enamel. “Carbohydrate-rich foods such as candy, cookies, soft drinks and even fruit juices leave deposits on children’s teeth. Those deposits bond with the bacteria that normally survive in the mouth and form plaque. The combination of deposits and plaque forms acids that can damage the mineral structure of teeth, with tooth decay resulting.” Bad breath called Halitosis can also be prevented by brushing two times daily. Also, flossing helps prevent the buildup of food particles, plaque and bacteria in their mouth. Food particles left in the mouth deteriorate and cause bad breath; consistent bad breath may be a sign of gum disease or another dental problem, “bringing them to the clinic early enough is the right step to take”. He said: “Our focus for having this party is to further create oral health care among the children, who are drawn from staff children and patients.” A lecturer at University of Lagos College of Medicine (ULCM), Dr Chioma Nzomiwu, said children are easy to teach, so parents should train them early in their childhood on how to take care of their oral health. “Children’s common dental problems are cavities, caries and plague. The teeth, bones and soft tissue of the mouth require a healthy, well-balanced diet. A variety of foods from the five food groups helps minimise (and avoid) cavities and other dental problems. Most snacks that children eat cause cavities, so children should only receive healthy foods like vegetables, low-fat yogurt and cheeses, which promote strong teeth. “Too much sugary foods expose and endanger children’s teeth to cavities (hole in the tooth). Dental care in children should start right from childhood. Normally the first tooth erupts between ages six to 12 months. Gums are sore, tender and sometimes irritable until the age of three. Rubbing sore gums gently with a clean finger, the back of a cold spoon or a cold, wet cloth helps soothe the gums. Teething rings work well, but avoid teething biscuits-they contain sugar that is not good for baby’s teeth,”she said. Dr Nzomiwu said while a baby is teething, it is important to monitor the teeth for signs of baby bottle decay. “Examine the teeth, especially on the inside or the tongue side, every two weeks for dull spots (whiter than the tooth surface) or lines. A bottle containing anything other than water and left in an infant’s mouth while sleeping can cause decay. This happens because sugar in the liquid mixes with bacteria in dental plaque, forming acids that attack the tooth enamel. Each time a child drinks liquids containing sugar, acids attack the teeth for about 20 minutes. When awake, saliva carries away the liquid. During sleep, the saliva flow significantly decreases and liquids pool around the child’s teeth for long periods, covering the teeth in acids. “Primary teeth are important for several reasons. Foremost, good teeth allow a child to eat and maintain good nutrition. Healthy teeth allow for clear pronunciation and speech habits. The self-image that healthy teeth give a child is immeasurable. Primary teeth also guide eruption of the permanent teeth,” she said.