About 6800 delegates are expected at the National Convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Secretary of the Convention Committee Senator Victor Ndoma Egba, said yesterday. Ndoma Egba dispelled speculations that the convention would be shifted because of lack of funds, saying the convention would go ahead as planned. The former Senate leader said efforts were being made to resolve all pending issues from the states, especially those with court cases. Dismissing reports of the likely postponement of the convention, he said “It is not correct. The convention is going on as planned. Nothing has happened to suggest the contrary. So, I can say categorically that the convention is going ahead. “We are expecting about 6800 plus delegates. Of course you know that we will have observers, vendors, the media, entertainers. In all you should expect about 8000 people.” On disputes from the states as a result of ward, local and state congresses, he said: “We are hoping to resolve those issues before the convention, especially in states where we have court processes. We are working to resolve them in one way or the other. This is politics and at the end of the day, you must leave a window open for harmonization and reconciliation.” On the outcome of the screening of the 179 aspirants for the various offices, he said “the screening committee finished its assignment yesterday. As we speak, the screening appeals committee is sitting. After the screening, there is an appeals panel to review the cases of those who feel aggrieved with the outcome of the screening committee’s assignment. He also dismissed alleged pressure on the committee from the Presidency, saying “I am not aware of any pressure from the Villa. I have never received any call or invitation from the Villa. I have been allowed to do my work as best as I can. So, I am not aware of any pressure.” On the convention, he said: “We have a security committee and they have been interfacing with the security agencies, reviewing the strategies of not just securing the venue, but also securing the perimeters and the entire Abuja because all these people will be coming into Abuja. “So Abuja has to be safe and so, we are not leaving anything to chance. We have been interfacing at the highest level. I want to assure you that security will be topmost. We look forward to a very grand and successful national convention.” 