The dispute between artiste, Kiss Daniel and his former label, G-Worldwide doesn’t seem to be letting up as the case, which is currently in court, will be due for hearing again come June 26. This time, information has it that both parties will attempt to settle out of court. According to information, the label is claiming ownership of songs like ‘4 Dayz’, and ‘For You’, a collaborated with WizKid, both from the artiste’s ‘Evolution’ album. The label is also claiming the artiste’s new name, ‘Kizz Daniel’. A statement released by the management of G-Worldwide reads; “The matter of G-Worldwide Entertainment Ltd vs Oluwatobiloba Daniel Anidugbe before the Federal High Court, Lagos Division, is still ongoing. Following several requests and enquiries by Nigerian and foreign online media and entertainment outfits about the status of the matter, it has become needful to notify the public of the current state of facts. “The suit at the Federal High Court last came up on 16th May, 2018 whereupon our lawyers informed the Judge of a pending application for status quo to further restrain the rebellious acts of the artiste in view of the recent release of previously unreleased songs from the ‘Evolution’ album, as well as the continued use of the name Kiss Daniel without our approval.” The statement further revealed that the Judge emphatically told the Kiss’ lawyers to explore a settlement of the dispute as he does not believe the matter is one which should go to trial and that the lawyers should report on any settlement at the next adjourned date, 26th June 2018. “We are unaware at the time of this release that the lawyers to Kiss have submitted any proposal with terms of settlement to our legal team. “All digital platforms have been put on notice for take down of infringing materials where the name Kizz Daniel is in use, and we have responded to foreign and local media outfits on this issue following calls for clarification.” Despite all the allegations, the artiste is yet to address any of the issues.