National Library of Nigeria plans to take reading campaigns to motor parks in the country, the National Libarian/Chief Executive Officer Prof Lenrie Aina has said. Prof Aina added that the extension of reading campaigns to motor parks is to enlighten drivers and would-be travelers on the benefits of reading. This according to him will make drivers and would-be travelers realise that through reading, they would be able to assimilate and observe traffic rules and regulations. “Passengers would equally be tutored on the need to read books and newspapers while traveling to reduce stress and boredom in the cause of their journeys,” he said. The national librarian said this in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital at the reading promotion campaign organised by the board. He added that “in the present dispensation, which is part of the scope of this year’s campaign, books will be distributed to expectant women in some selected hospitals during ante-natal days for mothers to read to their unborn babies. “The National Library of Nigeria is strengthened to pursue this line of action by taking a clue from renowned writer and child psychologist M.M Sabah. “While our target this year is primary, secondary schools and pregnant women, i will want to make it clear that the objective is to cover the whole strata of the Nigerian society. “Similarly, to broaden the campaign strategy, we are engaging the forum of National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members to establish reading clubs in their orientation camps and places of primary assignments across the country. This is to ensure that Nigerians cultivate reading culture. In addition, because of the enormity of this assignment, we would in the future collaborate with the National Orientation Agency (NOA) of Nigeria to spread the gospel of promoting reading on the citizenry.” Prof Aina said that the objectives of the campaign are to encourage reading among Nigerians, promoting the increase of reading materials in Nigeria and identifying major obstacles that inhibit reading and ways of addressing them.