The death toll in Tuesday night’s crash at Ojuelegba, Lagos Mainland, has risen to three. The third victim died yesterday in hospital. Chairman of the Medical Advisory Committee (CMAC) of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) Prof. Olufemi Fasanmade, and his driver, Godwin Ejike, were injured in the accident. A plywood-laden truck tilted on the Ojuelegba Bridge, dropping its content on Fasanmade’s car and three Danfo buses around 8pm on Tuesday. A LUTH official told The Nation that Fasanmade and his driver were receiving treatment. “I can confirm that Prof Fasanmade was injured in the accident. His driver too was injured. You can’t talk to him (Fasanmade) now because he is receiving treatment in the ward. His driver is also being treated. Their cases are not that critical. They are responding to treatment well,” he said. The vehicles were removed from the accident scene yesterday. Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) General Manager (GM) Adesina Tiamiyu said on Channels Television yesterday that the accident occurred because the truck was overloaded. His men, he said, were clearing the plywood from the Ojuelegba underbridge. “As things are; three people died, two people injured.  Initially, two people died and after some time, one more person among those who were initially injured eventually died. “We got a call at about 8:25 pm from the call system that a truck fell off the bridge in Ojuelegba but when we got here, we discovered that a truck actually did not fall off the bridge but the content at the back of the truck which is mainly plywood. “Obviously overloaded and when it got to the bridge, it tilted and half of the content fell off the bridge and landed on top of four other vehicles – three yellow danfo (commercial) buses and a Toyota Corolla car,” Tiamiyu said. He enjoined commercial drivers to park at designated bus-stops. Tiamiyu said: “If the buses were not parked indiscriminately, the accident would not claim lives. Commercial drivers should not turn Ojuelegba into a bus-stop. Let’s have free drive under Ojuelegba Bridge.”