A coalition of some civil society organizations (CSO) in the country wants Senate President, Bukola Saraki to resign from office immediately on the strength of claims by some of the Offa robbery suspects that they have a relationship with him. The Coalition of Civil Society for Good Governance and Democracy said yesterday in Abuja that Saraki should also go and clear his name over allegation of non-declaration of his assets when he served as governor. Another group, Concerned Citizens of Offa Community, yesterday disagreed with the  Olofa of Offa, Oba  Mufutau Gbadamosi  and the Offa Descendants  Union (ODU)  for  their support for Saraki in his stand-off with the police. Addressing reporters in Abuja, convener of Coalition of Civil Society for Good Governance and Democracy ,Alhaji Adamu Kabiru, challenged the  Senate to impeach Saraki should he refuse to resign. The coalition claimed that Nigeria has become a laughing stock before  the international community in view of the many corruption cases involving its number three citizen in government. Kabiru said:”for Dr Saraki to threaten President Buhari with impeachment only because the police rightly invited him is the height of arrogance,  and abuse of office and disrespect for the rule of law. “It is, therefore, our considered view that the President of the Senate be impeached immediately and until this done, he will continue to hold to ransom the entire country and her development. “We are gathered here to affirm that for good governance and democracy to thrive,  Saraki must excuse the Senate as their president and face his multiple criminal cases ranging from,  financial crimes, to abuse of office,  non- declaration of assets and sponsorship of militia in Kwara State. President of Concerned Citizens of Offa Community, Mr.Tunde Yusuf and the Secretary, Segun Balogun, in a statement said the Olofa and ODU were wrong to have absolved Saraki at a time the police are still investigating allegations made against him by some of the Offa robbery suspects. “Absolving Dr Bukola Saraki of any accessory to crime of this nature is not only an attempt to preempt,  out of place, but a self-serving  move to distract the attention of the security agencies,” they said. “This actually represents the vestiges of the general decay affecting our society.” They hailed  the manner of police investigation of the robbery attack which they said would lead to the root of the robbery. They added:”On behalf of the majority of Offa citizens at home and abroad,  we want to assure the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies that we are in tandem with them in their quest to get to the root of the sad robbery incident by bringing to book,  all those that are found culpable or committed accessory to this gruesome act. “The entire Offa community are eagerly calling for Justice not only to be done on this matter but must be seen to have been adequately done by ensuring that all those found guilty face the full wrath of the law,” the group stated. Similary, a group known as Yaman Peace Frontier (YPF) yesterday backed the IGP for his level of investigation on the Offa robber saga. Converner of YPF Olawale Gbadeyan spoke this in Ilorin, the state capital at the inauguration of the association. He said:“We are happy about the level of investigation being carried out by the Inspector General of Police (IGP). We are happy that they are doing it in a proper way and we are in support of the IGP. “We want him to do a full and thorough investigation in the Offa robbery saga. “ We also pray for full persecution of whosoever engaged in the robbery. Our people were killed during the incident.