The Anambra Governorship Election Tribunal has dismissed two of the three petitions against the victory of Governor Willie Obiano in the November 18, 2017 election in the state. The tribunal affirmed Obiano’s victory in two separate unanimous judgments delivered by its chairman, Justice H.A. Olusiyi. Justice A.O. Ayoola and Justice Birnin Kudu were other members of the tribunal. The All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) were first and second respondents respectively. The African Democratic Congress (ADC) candidate, Dr. Chukwudi Obianaso and his Mega Progressive People Party (MPPP) counterpart, Ms Praise Okechukwu, had prayed the tribunal to nullify the governorship election. Obianaso had said in his petition the election should be nullified because it was marred with irregularities perpetrated by Obiano and his agents in connivance with INEC. “INEC should conduct a fresh election and Obiano be disqualified from the fresh election,’’ he said. In her petition, the MPPP candidate said Obiano was not duly elected or returned by the majority of lawful votes cast and that the exercise did not comply substantially with the Electoral Act. “Obiano did not score the majority of valid votes cast in at least two-third of the 21 council areas in Anambra in the election; thus his return by the third respondent is unconstitutional, irregular, null and void and of no effect whatsoever,’’ Okechukwu said. The tribunal said Okechukwu could not substantiate her claims of electoral malpractice with credible evidence. It said those allegedly involved in vote-buying and polling units where the alleged corrupt practices took place were not mentioned, and that only one witness was not enough to testify on the claims. The tribunal said: “The petitioners have woefully failed to prove by any credible evidence that the first respondent was not duly elected or returned as governor of Anambra by the majority of lawful votes cast. “The petitioners have abysmally failed to prove with any modicum of satisfaction that the election in question was invalid by reason of corrupt practices and non-compliance with provisions of Electoral Act 2010 as amended. “On the whole, the petition failed as it patently lacks substance and merit, it is accordingly dismissed in its entirety, consequently we affirm as valid the election and return of the first respondent as governor of Anambra.” NAN  