Nova Merchant Bank Limited  Chairman, Phillips Oduoza, has said building a successful businesses requires courage and resilience. He spoke while delivering the Convocation Lecture to the 2017/2018 Leo Graduating Class at Babcock University in Ilisan Remo, Ogun State. Oduoza, a former Group Managing Director/CEO of United Bank for Africa (UBA) Plc, said: “Courage and Resilience are character traits common amongst all entrepreneurs, who have been successful as it enabled them to take risks and overcome various obstacles on the road to success.” Explaining further, Oduoza said courage is not the absence of fear, but the ability to persist in spite of it, while resilience is the ability to recover from or adjust easily to misfortune or change. He challenged Nigerian youths to take advantage of opportunities currently available in the country, especially in agriculture, FinTech, arts and entertainment. “The government’s focus on the diversification of the Nigerian economy has created opportunities across the agriculture value chain for aspiring entrepreneurs covering inputs, such as fertiliser, farming, storage, processing, manufacturing and transportation. The tech startup ecosystem in Nigeria is awash with opportunities for young entrepreneurs to create innovative solutions to address many of the structural issues facing the country. Emerging areas such as FinTech, the sharing economy, artificial intelligence amongst others present opportunities to start innovative businesses,” he said. On what graduands and aspiring entrepreneurs could learn from his personal life, Oduoza said young business leaders should seek knowledge, build a strong network, be true to themselves, but most importantly “must work very hard, no matter how intelligent you are. It is very rare to find a successful person, who is not a hard-working person. There is no substitute for hard work.” President/Vice Chancellor, Babcock University, Ilisan Remo, Prof. Adeola Tayo,   eulogised Oduoza, who he described as a loyal friend of the institution. He acknowledged his efforts in forging a good relationship between Babcock University and his former institution. “There is no better person to speak at this event than Oduoza, who having had a successful tenure as CEO of one of Africa’s largest financial institutions, midwifed the birth of a new Merchant Bank, which has achieved many feats in its first year of operation,” Tayo said.