I was in Jos in September 2001 and witnessed firsthand the mayhem that would later define the beautiful city, and subsequently some parts of Plateau State. The intensity of the mayhem was so massive that it took the Nigerian Army days to bring a semblance of normality to the city despite a 24 hours curfew which was put in place. The reality of what happened did not immediately sink in until days later. Some students of the University of Jos who were holed up in their hostels for days had to brave it and plead with soldiers to take them “anywhere.” I was at the epicenter when the killings, burning and looting began that afternoon. I was lucky I got a bus heading toward Bukuru metropolis. There was a space for one passenger and the driver stopped at the Central Bank junction and expectedly, there were scores of people waiting to head anywhere possible. I sat at the front with another passenger and was staring directly at a heavily pregnant woman. I didn’t know what came over me, but I asked the woman if she would be able to sit on my lap. She gladly thanked me for the gesture. How she was able to sit on my lap in front of the bus with her protruding stomach beats me, but she got to her destination in one piece. Did my gesture save her life? Maybe. These clashes have continued to date. At a point, newspapers even struggled with how to cast headlines because everything followed the same trajectory with ethnic and religious colouration. One defining – but unfortunate – fallout of the 2001 mayhem was the balkanisation of Jos city into ethnic and religious enclaves. People began living in neighbourhoods according to their ethnic stocks or religion. Successive governments have battled to find solutions to these recurrent clashes with little results to show for it. The latest one that happened last Saturday in Barkin Ladi local government area led to the death of over 100 people, according to the police. There are times Nigeria simply fails one, this is one of such times. Several questions ran through my mind when I started seeing gory pictures of mutilated corpses on social media. Is this how we will continue? Who are these “faceless” killers? Why can they not be apprehended? Is this not a classic case of leadership failure? Who will unmask and tame these heartless murderers? Where are our bridge builders? Why is human life so cheap in Nigeria? Can we begin to imagine what family members will live with for the rest of their lives when they remember how their loved ones were killed? Didn’t we read and watched on television what happened in Rwanda over two decades ago? The questions were endless but unfortunately there appear to be no easy answers, or were there? Rev Pam Chollom, a pastor of the Church of Christ In Nations (COCIN) in the area, blamed the attack on armed herdsmen. He said most of the victims were returning from the burial of a community leader when they were attacked and mauled down. President Muhammadu Buhari condemned the killing and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo immediately left for Jos in an attempt to douse the palpable tension. But a leader of Fulani herdsmen said he believed the killing was a reprisal attack. He suggested the killings were in retaliation for the killing of hundreds of cows allegedly by ethnic Berom youth. “These attacks are retaliatory,” Danladi Ciroma, the chairman of the north central chapter of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), said on Monday. “As much as I don’t support the killing of human being, the truth must be told that those who carried out the attacks must be on revenge mission. “Fulani herdsmen have lost about 300 cows in the last few weeks – 94 cows were rustled by armed Berom youths in Fan village, another 36 cows were killed by Berom youths. In addition to that, 174 cattle were rustled,” he added. What do we make of this? We cannot excuse the fact that cattle are being rustled. However, this is a lawful society and not a lawless one. There are mechanisms to seek for  justice but engaging in “retaliatory” attacks is definitely not one of them. It was also alleged that one of those attacks led to the death of four cattle traders last Thursday who were returning from a cattle market. They were allegedly ambushed and killed, in what appears to be part of the bloody cycle of attacks and retaliatory attacks in Plateau State. A day after the attack, the Cattle Breeders Association, Barkin Ladi Local Government Area chapter, accused the Beroms of being behind the attack which occurred along Haipang, Barkin Ladi road. The scribe of the association, Abubakar Gambo, also accused the attackers of whisking away the corpses of the victims. “The unfortunate incident occurred between 6.30 to 6.40pm, Thursday at Haipang. The Berom people ambushed and killed four of our people, burnt the car they were in. The people were returning from a cattle market in Bukuru, Jos South Local Government Area. They took away their corpses. We informed security operatives, members of the Special Task Force on Jos crisis came to the scene. They got there while the fire on the cars was still burning,” he said. On the other hand, the national president, Berom Youth Moulders Association, Dalyop Choji, confirmed the attack but said the Beroms were not responsible for it. “The situation that led to the whisking away of the said Fulani people was a ‘chaos’ at Haipang. I can authoritatively tell you that those who kidnapped the Fulanis are not Berom. Those who witnessed the scene said a Vectra car was on the trail of the vehicle conveying the Fulanis, only God knows from where?” the Berom leader said. “Occupants of the said car opened fire on the car the Fulanis were in, forced them into their Vectra car, set the car ablaze and drove away, shooting sporadically in the air. The process created commotion, residents of Haipang ran for safety. How could that be Berom people? Herein lays the problem. Choji’s explanation reflects a deeper problem beyond the ethnic colouration many Nigerians give to repeated violence in Plateau and neighbouring states. Beyond killer herdsmen, is it also be a case of criminality by armed gangs unleashing terror on citizens at will in the face of glaring loopholes in our security and intelligence architecture? We need answers fast. Thousands of people have been killed this year alone in violence mainly between marauding herdsmen and their host communities. In most cases, the attackers are never apprehended. In the case of the Fulanis in Haipang their attackers are yet to be identified or arrested. Also, the killers of the scores of mourners on Saturday are yet to be arrested; and may not be if recent history is to be considered. Expectedly, there were reports that the Saturday killings led to retaliatory attacks in other parts of Plateau, leading the government to impose a dusk to dawn curfew in three local governments. Though the state government and President Buhari have condoled with the victims and called for calm. But for many Nigerians, the Plateau killings, alongside similar ones in Benue and other parts of the country, show a failing government. The recent comments by former Chief of Army Staff and Defence Minister, Lt. Gen. Theophilus Danjuma (retd) where he alluded to collusion between the killers and the military will be ringing in most people’s ears this time. Though the army said no such thing existed following the outcome of a panel it set up to look into the allegation. These killings are far too many and consistent and the sponsors are bent on provoking an ethnic/religious conflict. The people behind these killings have put a knife on the things that held us together and it will take the highest form of brinkmanship to return us to status quo ante. Terrorism operates under the guise of religion and masquerades with the mask of ethnicity. The carnage grows unabashedly; home is no longer an abode of peace and comfort. This certainly is a “new” Nigeria different from the one we grew in.