Owners of land forcibly taken over in previous conflicts in Plateau State will get them back, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said. Briefing reporters on the outcome of his Monday night meeting with the government of Plateau State, traditional rulers and religious leaders  following last weekend’s killings, the vice president said the return of land was part of the measures to end the carnage. Osibanjo said: “The emergency meeting has to do with an emergency security situation that came up in Plateau state and we had very robust deliberations on causes of the violence, the lingering issues and the way forward. “We have discussed the problems that gave rise to killings in the Barkin Ladi Local Government with emphasis on what we need to do so as to ensure such killings stop forthwith. “Part of the short term steps we need to take is the immediate deployment of security to reinforce the existing ones and halt the conflict. We commend the state governor for declaring curfew immediately. That has helped as a short term solution to the violence as calm has returned. “Similarly, government will direct the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to deliver some relief materials to those displaced as a result of the attacks to cushion the effect of the conflicts.” “On the medium and long-term measure to be taken, government has taken note of a very serious issue raised in the meeting which is the issue of people forcefully chased away from their land in previous conflicts. “Government is going to guarantee the return of the land to their original owners so as to calm the anger of victims of that attack. Such displaced persons were part of the security challenges this present governor inherited. “We have also agreed to the establishment of security posts in the flashpoint areas to enable them react faster when an attack is reported to them. We have equally agreed on the locations of the proposed security posts. “One fact we cannot deny is that these conflicts and violence have been there; they are not new, but we can’t afford to ignore them as was done by past administrations. We can’t afford this cycle of violence anymore, it must be brought to an end. “Attacks by herdsmen anywhere is condemnable; it is barbaric, inhuman, and the perpetrators must be fished out and be made to face the law, they must not escape justice. Good enough, the security agencies have told us arrests have been made. Government will ensure they are prosecuted. The security should go after anyone that has link to the killings and make further arrests. “Community leaders should be bold and open to reconciliation. They should be able to make sacrifices, make concession where necessary for peace to reign. Community leaders should resist being ruled by your people; you should rule over them, make concessions. Peace is all about give and take.”