The Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation has enjoined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to prepare for defeat during the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State, because the Governor Ayodele Fayose-led administration has abused the people’s right to good governance and development. The organisation’s Director of Media and Publicity, Wole Olujobi made the remark yesterday in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, when he was reacting to an opinion poll conducted by information analysis firm, NOIpolls, predicting victory for the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prof. Kolapo Olusola, in the July 14 election. Olujobi said the realities on ground in Ekiti State did not support NOI’s assertion in its projection. He said all those that would have helped the PDP to mobilise for votes have defected from the party to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in recent weeks, over irreconcilable differences with Fayose. He said: “In virtually all the strongholds of the PDP, its leaders have defected with their supporters to render the party prostrate in those areas. “For example, leaders in local governments, such as Ise/Orun, Efon, Ido/Osi, Ikole, Ikere, Ekiti West and Oye where the PDP used to be strong, have since defected to the APC with their supporters, citing Fayose’s alleged greed and inhuman conduct. “Besides, the critical segments of the society, including workers that are denied their salaries, market women, trade groups, farmers and private businesses that now pay suffocating taxes with several businesses closing shops as a result of Fayose’s undemocratic and bullish conduct are up in arms against the governor and so we wonder where NOI will recruit the spirits that will give PDP victory in the July 14 poll.” Olujobi dismissed the opinion poll as nightmarish, adding that it is a premeditated arrangement to fulfill a contractual engagement by a politician working for other politicians with common partisan interest He noted that the NOI poll result would not have been different from what was published as pre-conceived, because of the ownership profile. Olujobi’s words: “NOI poll result would not have been different from what we read giving victory to PDP, because of the ownership structure. “The outfit is owned by former Minister of Finance in President Goodluck Jonathan’s administration, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, a staunch member of the PDP that is struggling for breath after bequeathing the legacy of waste to Nigerians now at the mercy of poverty and squalor. “Truth is NOI is an abbreviation of Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala (NOI). The poll company had earlier conducted several opinion polls with bizarre projections in 2014 and 2015 with ridiculous results that diminished its worth, so much that we thought the organisation would have closed down its operations as a result of its unprofessional and inaccurate projections. “But because NOI’s assignment in Ekiti is more of political interest than service provision to Nigerians, it is fraudulent for a partisan outfit like NOI to pretentiously present itself as serving on non-partisan platform. “In 2015, working with President Jonathan, NOI grossly failed in its mandate to objectively project the outcome of the presidential election, giving Jonathan over 70 per cent chance above APC candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, who NOI rated as the fourth in the ballot, but who eventually emerged as the winner with a wide margin in the presidential contest. “NOI went to a ridiculous extent to predict that Jonathan would win the entire Northcentral with Buhari only winning Northeast and Northwest. Jonathan, it predicted, would clinch the entire Northcentral, the Southwest, Southeast and Southsouth. “In its polls before presidential primaries, NOI rated Buhari fourth behind Jonathan, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso and Governor Babatunde Fashola of Lagos among the prospective presidential aspirants. “But Buhari not only defeated Kwankwaso in APC primaries, he also went ahead to defeat Jonathan in the presidential election, thus NOI’s prediction collapsed on its promoter’s face after Jonathan had wasted his money to produce a misleading projection. “NOI is today doing more of political gambling in Ekiti State than statistical analysis of information to produce valid result ahead of the July 14 poll.” 