Telecoms operators have lamented the crippling effect of multiple taxation, arbitrary charges and other challenges besetting the industry. The operators, acting under the aegis of Association of Telecoms Operators of Nigeria (ATCO), also lamented that the sector was left out in this year’s Appropriation Bill, which was assented to by President Muhammadu Buhari. Its President, Olusola Teniola, said lamented that the budget demonstrates the incapability of the government to further fund and spend on the much-needed infrastructure projects, such as power and information communication technology (ICT) and other essential items without reducing the recurrent expenditure to a level that reflects greater efficiencies in the way governance is run in the country. It also reflects a reality that the government’s diversification programme is slowing down or in doubt. “So this budget will only indirectly impact the telecoms sector, when the government removes the 38 different taxes and levies being applied to the sector to fund government spending. The government also needs to address the leakages in the 2018 budget, as the current taxes contributed by the telecoms sector alone per year is more than N450 billion and this is not reflected properly in their revenue line, highlighting  a problem with accountability within government and shortchanging the effort that the industry plays in the nation’s economic development. “The fact that many projects were removed and replaced with National Assembly projects demonstrates a problem in what is going to be implemented in 2018 and early 2019 to support this diversification,” Teniola said in electronic interview. He said Buhari  should address his concerns with the legislature and other stakeholders in the polity to ensure that any gaps that exist are closed in a manner that benefits the citizens. The fact that differences exist is not a problem, he said, adding the area the that needed to be addressed is transparency and relevance of projects that both sides of the government seek as priority within the remaining term of the administration. He said collaboration is not only key between the executive arm of government, but also with legislature, the private sector  and civic society in ensuring that this budget delivers the dividends to each citizen and more importantly that the private sector has the much needed funds that government seeks to deliver on its promises. However, he said this could only be harnessed when the government provides an enabling environment and a level of accountability as to how taxes are collected and spent to provide the basics to its citizens. The recurring expenditure is one line item that speaks to that, it needs to be reduced and not increased going forward.