.As police arrest 23 ‘cultists’ For allegedly gang-raping a 15-year-old girl, three men have been arrested by operatives of the Lagos State Police Command. The suspects, Ibeji Chukwuemaka, 21, Caleb Isaac, 21 and Paul Ehimika, 23 were apprehended by policemen attached to Ilemba-Hausa Division, Ajangbadi in Ojo. According to the police, the suspects took turns in raping the victim (names withheld), who they coerced to their 52, Jagua Street, Itakete Imude residence. Briefing reporters on the issue, Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said the victim was blindfolded and savagely raped such that they tore her private part. He said: “A report was made at Ilemba-Hausa Division, Ajangbadi that a 15-year-old girl was viciously raped by three men. “The suspects allegedly blindfolded her with a red scarf and took turns to rape her in their room at Ajangbadi. “During interrogation, the suspects denied being cultists but confessed raping the teenager. “Meanwhile during execution of a search warrant in their abode, the following items were recovered- a cutlass and one red scarf with which they blindfolded the girl. They would be charged to court at the conclusion of investigation.” Similarly, the police said they arrested 23 suspected cultists across the state between last Monday and yesterday, adding that four firearms, an expended and eight live cartridges were recovered from them. Edgal said undercover operatives in collaboration with men of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) smashed an armed robbery syndicate that operated around Ladi Lak in Bariga, Fadeyi, Onipanu, Ikoyi, Victoria Island and Ilasan. Giving their names as Ibrahim Odulana (Santa), 30, Ahmed Alegbe (Big Ahmed), 25, Adebayo Fabiyi, 20, Balogun Segun (Paparazzi), 27 and Abass Ganiyu, 35, the police chief said the suspects confessed to belonging to Aiye cult group. “A pump action rifle, two locally made pistols, eight live cartridges, two mobile phones were recovered from them. “Arrested for similar offence in Ajegunle were Chinonso Uzoma, 32, Seun Alaba, 25, from who a locally made pistol and an expended cartridge were recovered. “On May 30, at about 2pm, credible information was received by the Officer in Charge of Anti-Cultism Unit on a notorious cultist, Fatai Olayinka, a member of Eiye confraternity, who was trailed and arrested at Owode Onion, where he was in the process of selling one stolen brown Toyota Avenza marked EPE124DH. The suspect confessed to have stolen the said vehicle and confirmed he was a cultist.” Continuing, Edgal said six suspected cultists were apprehended at Itire and Meiran respectively, two at Ikorodu, three at Elegushi Beach, three at Ajangbadi, two at Badagry and one in Oworonshoki.