Nigerians have been urged not to discriminate against people living with albinism, but rather to relate with them as normal people with different skin pigmentation. The founder of Onome Akinlolu Majaro (OAM) Foundation, Mrs  Rita Chinwe Okagbare, stated this as the foundation marked this year’s International Albinism Awareness Day, in Lagos. Mrs Okagbare said OAM Foundation was founded on the belief that enlightenment and a little act of love and kindness can change the way people living with albinism are treated, “and this year’s International Albinism Awareness Day is another good day to further shed more light on the subject. And also ensure they get good employments”. A co-founder of the foundation, Akinlolu Majaro, said everyone should celebrate albinos and understand that they have souls like every normal people. Majaro said albinism is not a disease and albinos are not disabled, adding, “as persons living with albinism they can equally use their skills for society when the platform is given. The only thing that marked them out is the skin pigment, which makes them different from other people. It is just the skin colour and absence of melanie from the body”. On the reason for hosting the awareness day, Majaro said the event was to celebrate albinos and show them affection, “The society has to embrace people living with albinism they can leave a normal life and their condition is not a disease that spreads and they should be treated fairly. “As a society we should treat them well, the society must accept albinos, our attitude towards them should be lovely. Society should embrace them and change their perception about them. They have been socially and medically neglected.” He said: “He said the OAM Foundation is equally to assist people with albinism not to wallow in self pity but rather developed their personal skills.” On how the government can better advance their lot, Majaro said Nigerians, generally, are experiencing a lot of deficiency in the health care system, “so there is the need for an improved medical service for persons living albinism to cope with them, especially in the area of their skincare. Government can do more enlightenment and actual provision in dermatology units/departments in health facilities across the country.” He added: “You all know that when their skin is exposed to the sun ray without sunscreen they tend to have some spots and patches in their skin due to harshness of the sun on their skin. They are equally prone to skin cancer. If proper care is given to their skin it would prevent skin cancer that majorly affects them. They just need to pay attention to their skin, once they are using the right skincare and they don’t expose themselves to the sun, or and if they must be under the sun they should be well protected by covering themselves. “On the government role concerning Albinos, the government should contribute to the welfare of albinos, there should be a free skincare products that can protect them in government hospital at no fee. Since their skin has both cosmetics and health complications what I expect from government to do is to collaborate with organisations like the OAM foundation that has taken the campaign of this vulnerable group advocating for a better treatment and welfare of person living with albinism using personal funds.  These people need adequate sun protection strategies in order to inform future provisions for them. “Children in rural areas living with albinism needs protection strategies the ones in such environment do not have access to sun protection strategies. The government needs to aid the campaign by partnering with us. The challenge here is poor vision and skin deficiency that affects them which can be addressed when they used skincare products that help their skin.” Also, according to Majaro, the society can provide adequate sun protection for albinos especially children who are at high risk because the age groups tend to spend more time out-doors in the sun. They are vulnerable due to the fact that they lack Melanie, “Also, on their vision, a lot of persons living with albinism need visual impaired aid. Government should review their health policies and address the deficiencies. They must accommodate albinos in their allocation. I recommend they should be provided with health care information, like appropriate styles of hat to wear and how to assess commercial products on their skin.” Majaro called and all and sundry to rise up against the killing for ritual purposes saying though the killings are not basically in Nigeria but, “other parts of Africa have been affected by such killings but not in Nigeria but my charged to community leaders as a whole is to discouraged such killings and myths associated with albinism. “Another way to stop the stigma is disabusing myths on albinism. Most of the people living with albinism never end up with who they intended to marry based on family pressures. That is why they should get enough information about albinism and ensure that people living with it are adequately taken care of. “ He challenged those living with albinism to live their normal life. Build a network, developed their skills and, “ensure that they have fun that is the essence in life”. Human resource personnel of Forte Oil, Paschal Ejechukwu who presented a paper on Career Prospect/Developing the good resume said albinos are smarter and more intelligent people compared to human beings that have Melanie in their body, “as someone that recruits people for employment, I am speaking from experience that albinos spend more time to acquire and develop themselves because of the way society view them. I will encourage them to continue with their multi tasking ability and ensure that  they don’t stop maximizing their potentials” Also, they should structure their career to jobs that do not require a lot of sun exposure like civil engineering, oil drilling, engineering, but indoor jobs, like teaching, IT among others.”