Former Oyo State Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He spoke with Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU on his ambition, the recent controversial congress of the party, the agitation for power shift by the people of Oke-Ogun, and the chances of the party in next year’s general elections. What are issues or factors that will shape next year’s governorship election in Oyo State? It has to do with the people of Oyo State. The people of Oyo know the type of person they want to vote for. I don’t think that my party will like to gamble. They should be able to present an acceptable candidate to the electorate. They will like to vote for somebody that they know, not somebody that will be introduced to them by somebody else. It is better to have a known person to go for the election. It is about personality, not about party. The election in 2019 is crucial. You have to present your self well. You have to have a good personality and be acceptable to the people. What are the qualities you expect from the person that will succeed Governor Abiola Ajimobi next year? I have told you what is very important. Apart from the constitutional requirements, I have told you what is required. People will to vote for personality, not necessarily party. It is being said that you are going to throw your hat into the race again. Why do you want to return to the Agodi Government House? There have been calls on me to run. They have seen my performance while in office. If you have tasted a soup before, perhaps, you will want to have it again. There are constitutional provisions. I still have the constitutional right of contesting again. There have been calls on me. I am considering the calls. I will soon come up with my decision. I told them to allow me to do some consultations. You don’t take decisions without consultations. Very soon, you will hear from me on that particular issue. Is zoning likely to play a role in the selection of the governorship candidate? I don’t think there will be any zoning. Somebody who is also aspiring to be governor of Oyo State said in an interview in your paper that there is no zoning. So, there will be no zoning. We just want a good man to lead Oyo State. That’s all. What is your assessment of the recent APC state congress in Oyo? It was okay. Politics is about conflict resolution. You need to make sure that you solve problems in politics as they arise. We are talking to the aggrieved. The governor is doing his best by inviting everybody on board. I know the governor will soon see what he can do to persuade them to know that united we stand and divided we fall. So, if we are united, the opposition will not be able to get anything in 2019.  Crises and division are very dangerous. So, we are appealing to the aggrieved that they should come and let’s reason together and talk. Politics is just like that. In politics, you will always see people who are aggrieved. We have to talk and resolve it. Are the aggrieved chieftains now responding to the reconciliation? They are responding. They have started. We will resolve every issue and move forward as a united family. You came to the APC from the PDP. What is your assessment of the struggle for power now by the APC and the PDP in Oyo State? I am telling you that the APC is on ground. We are going to win. The PDP has no chance. We just have to sit together, talk together and understand one another. We know one another. We know people to talk to. PDP can’t have any chance any longer. Unfortunately for them, I have left them. I was the soul of the PDP in Oyo State. You can ask anybody. I was the soul of the PDP in Oyo State. Since I left the PDP, The PDP has never been the same again. It was a painful decision for me to leave the PDP. That’s why I said the PDP will not be the same again in Oyo State. They are battling with the constitution of their exco. Only today, they published in The Nigerian Tribune that they have harmonised their exco. They can’t win the election. APC will win. Our president, Muhammadu Buhari, will also secure a second term. Why did you leave the PDP, where you enjoyed so much relevance….? One thing is this: I told you it was a painful decision for me to leave. I couldn’t stand the impunity again. They were behaving as if you are nobody. Then, you have to prove to them that you are somebody. If your interest is not being protected, then, you leave for another place. That’s why I left. When they were engaged in a lot of impunities and they thing they could go away with it, I had to leave. The PDP is not the only party in Nigeria. The people of Oke-Ogun are clamouring for zoning. Zoning is not in the constitution of your party. How do you see their agitation for power shift? Everybody have the constitutional power to agitate for anything in democracy. I told you that politics is about interest. The agitators want to be part of what is going on in Oyo State. A lot of indigenes of Oke-Ogun have shown their intention to contest for governor in 2019. It is their constitutional right. They have the right and freedom of association, assembly and expression. There are many people in the race for governor in Oyo APC. Would that not result into chaos? There were so many people in the race in Ekiti. Only a person was chosen as the candidate. Most of them were qualified. So, in Oyo, many people want to be governor. When the time comes, we will choose a candidate that will make us win. There were so many aspirants in Ekiti before a candidate emerged. That is what will happen too. How can the strife and rancour that marred the Ekiti exercise be averted? We will avoid it. That is why we have started now. We still have some months to prepare. But, what is important is that we should first of all get the party right. Let’s have a very strong party. Restructure and nurture the party. Reposition the party. We need to build the party and take it to a more enviable level. After that, things will work. We will continue to engage in talks. That’s why they say politicians talk too much. We will continue to hold meetings upon meetings to resolve issues. When we get to the bridge, we shall cross it. What are the selling points of the Oyo APC? What are you going to tell the electorate that will make them to vote for your party in next year’s elections? Governor Abiola Ajimobi has done a lot. He has a lot of achievements to showcase to people as what he has done. He has a lot of accomplishments. He has done a lot of projects. Has done many things to contribute to ‘life more abundant’ in Oyo State. So, we will showcase all these. If you add to achievements of Governor Ajimobi to mine, we will have a lot to tell our people. I know what I have done for the people of Oyo State. So, when we join the two together, we will have a lot of things to tell them. The records are there. Outgoing governors used to have anointed candidates. Are you one? With due rest to Governor Abiola Ajimobi, any out-going governor who is interested in installing a successor should not use the word ‘anointed.’ It connotes that you can do it alone. People have to be carried along. With due respect to Governor Ajimobi, I don’t think he has an anointed candidate. You need to carry along a lot of people. People should not be seen as candidates of somebody. In politics, you don’t portray yourself as the candidate of a particular person so that you don’t miss a whole thing. What is happening is that, as time goes on, we will all sit down. It is not possible for a particular person to anoint. Anointing a candidate will not work in Oyo State. It has to be through consensus. A consensus candidate is better. Everybody will support a consensus candidate. Is it not confounding to you that while the APC is still the ruling party in Oyo State, you are losing a by-election in Ibarapa? It is one of those things. We have seen where we got it wrong. We are addressing the issues.  Some people are aggrieved. There is a lot of in-fighting. Some people decided to work against the party. If they didn’t work against the party, the PDP cannot win. But, they worked against the party by supporting the candidate of another party. We just open our doors for enemies to come in. but, we have realised the mistake. We will correct it. It won’t happen during the general elections. We will move ahead. People are saying that during the nominations for next year’s poll, a big crisis will break out between you and the governor…. There will be no crisis. We are grown up people. We will put the prophets of doom to shame. If there is conflict in our party, we will always resolve it. The party is more important than the individual ambitions of members. We will apply maturity to whatever we do. We are adults and senior people in this business of politics. We will not fight. As your party prepares for election in Ekiti, how would you advise the chapter there? They should carry all the chieftains along. You should secure the commitments of aspirants who contested with the candidate, possibly through writing. They should be given opportunity to participate in the campaigns and in the government after winning the election. Nobody should be sidelined. You should carry everybody along. We should watch the movement of our opponent there, who has the power of incumbency. If we are really united, I don’t think we have problem in Ekiti. Unity should be the watchword. Everybody should be brought on board. The candidate should commit the aspirants in writing that this is how we will go about it. It is like people going for hunting. When people are going for hunting, somebody can bring a club for killing small rats. Some will come with their hunting dogs. Some will come with double barrel for killing elephants. When the chips are down, you gather the animals you killed during the hunting expedition, you know that somebody who brought gun is entitled to a big part of the elephant. Those who also brought cutlass to kill rats will have from the share of the elephant too, but you will first consider those who brought gun and cartridges to kill big animals. Going for an election is like going for a hunting expedition. After winning, you allow those who contributed to victory to be part of the government. Your party is preparing for a national convention. What are your expectations? We will have a successful convention. We have started by putting things right. There will be a lot of politicking before the exercise. The high command of the party is making preparations. I forsee a rancour-free convention. How can your party ensure amicable or cordial relations between the Presidency and the Nationl Assembly? The party got it wrong from the beginning. They got it wrong from the beginning. Look at our brother, Comrade Adams Oshiomole and how he is moving. He has not become the chairman, but he has started consultations with the National Assembly caucus of the party. Our national chairman has never done that. With due respect to him, he disconnected himself from the National Assembly. He shouldn’t have done that. He has allowed a lot of things to happen between the executive and the legislature. If don’t talk to me, I won’t know your intention towards me. I will try to defend myself first. That is what the national Assembly is doing against the executive. The party is supposed to be in charge. They are not in charge. You don’t talk to them. They feel they are not wanted. It is like O-Y-O, you are on your own. They will misbehave. But, our incoming chairman, by the grace of God, will solve the problem. He has not become the chairman. But, he has visited the APC National Assembly caucus. The party caucus is important. There must be caucus before caucus. You have to lobby. In the United States where we copied our political system, they lobby. Before the executive takes anything to the National Assembly, they would have discussed it at the party caucus. You can’t just rely on just normal correspondence or mere transmission of letters to the National Assembly. The party caucus would have discussed it and there will be party supremacy. The party should have ratified it before any correspondence between the executive and the legislature. The president may be busy. But, the party and the liaison officers to the Senate and the House of Representatives should actively work together.  That’s why there is a logjam. How can the president of a ruling party with the majority in the National Assembly send something to them and they say no. Why? It is because there is gulf. We should return to party caucus. The foundation has been faulty. That is why we are having problems. What do you expect President Buhari to focus on in this last lap of his first term? Security, security and security. The president should please, for God’s sake, fund the Nigerian police. Funding of the police is very important. Police is a civil organisation. If the police is well trained and well funded, there will be security. With what is happening now, with soldiers all over the place, we will soon be having civil-military conflict. Let the president establish more police stations. Instead of establishing military posts here and there, what we need are more police units. Recruit more police personnel, train them and fund them. I am emphasizing training. In those days, before you were promoted, you had to go for course.  You can’t get promotion without going on course. If there is no training, they will not be prepared for the work. The role of the police is to tackle insurgency. But, are they properly trained? We were trained. In those days, when you heard about mobile police, you shivered. They were called ‘kill and go.’ Do you how where we started failing. Gozer is where the training used to take place. Boko Haram captured the place. No tool to fight Boko Haram. Let’s fund the police. Soldiers will not be there forever. Police will be there forever. Build police stations in those areas liberated by the army. The president is trying in other areas. But, he should develop the police, train the police and fund the police. I am not talking about this because I am a former police officer. If our police are well trained and well equipped. I know they will perform. If you interview  people at the United Nations, they will tell you that our policemen were the best in peace-keeping. The police should not promote any policeman who has not gone on course. What is the chance of President Buhari in next year’s elections? There is nobody who can beat President Buhari as at today. Snot in the PDP. I am a politics and I know this country very well. There nobody yet who can beat Buhari. I have not seen any. May be, as time goes on, there can be other candidates. But, today, there is none. He will get more votes than he got the last time. I don’t see anything that has changed. The opposition is not preparing yet. I don’t see anybody who can beat him now. In politics, some politicians have political value. Others have electoral value. Fortunately, Buhari has the two; political value and electoral value. If the election holds tomorrow, Buhari will win. 