 Super Eagles Captain John Obi Mikel may have adopted Cristiano Ronaldo’s approach ahead of Nigeria’s second group game against Iceland at the Volgograd on Friday. The Tiajin Teda of China captain who is eager to turn the table after the Eagles   lost 2-0 to Croatia in the opening match at the Kaliningrad Stadium, was seen training 10 minutes ahead of official training time on Monday, apparently aimed at improved performance. Mikel who reportedly received a call from Nigeria’s President  Muhammadu Buhari, a few hours to the Croatian tie that ended in defeat received some bashing from the ever critical Nigerian fans and analysts alike for posting a below par  performance against Croatia. But in a video posted Monday on Youtube the Nigerian captain was seen burning the calories even before his other teammates arrived the training groundin Essentuki. Mikel’s show of added commitment is comparable to that of  Portugal international and Real Madrid forward Cristriano Ronaldo known to have the habit of  to stay behind after training for further personal training both in the club and national levels. His extra training some say may be responsible for his sometimes out-of-this-world performance on a good day.  The five time Balloon d Or winner produced a spectacular performance in Portugal’s opener against Spain in Russia scoring a hatrick in the 3-3 thriller, garnishing his feat with breath-taking free-kicks that stunned spectators. Meanwhile the Presidential call put to Super Eagles captain just before the tie against Croatia has generated mixed reactions.  While some fans believe it was to serve as a ginger for the team others said it put undue pressure on the boys “I thought they said we have psychologist in the team what is their job?  How come they couldn’t underscore that such a call could mount pressure on the team? “Queried a group of fans who expressed their views in a chat with Sportinglife.ng on Eagles performance in Russia so far, recalling that the team visited the President who prayed and wished them well at the Villa before they left for Russia After losing the first match Nigeria will need to pull a win against Iceland to stand a chance of progressing to to the next stage.  The thinking is that with at least three points in the kitty before the last group match against Argentina the Eagles can scale through.