An Islamic cleric has urged Nigerian leaders to emulate late former Appeal Court President, Justice Mustapha Akanbi for his uprightness and incorruptible nature, as panacea to the challenges militating against the growth and development of the country. The Abuja based cleric, Ustaz Abdulwahab Sharani, who made the urge Sunday evening in Kaduna, also tasked Muslims to use the remaining few days of holy month of Ramadan to pray intensively for peace and security to return across the country in the place of killings, herders/farmers clashes, kidnapping, cattle rustling, armed robbery and other criminal acts that ha held parts of the country hostage. Speaking at a 8th day fidau prayer for late pioneer chairman of Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Justice Mustapha Akanbi, organised by General Secretary of Textile Workers Union, Comrade Issa Aremu, Ustaz Sharani said Nigerian Muslims should constantly seek Allah’s blessings, because the blessings with Allah are in excess of humans needs. “Late Justice Mustapha Akanbi was an honest and just man who treats everybody equally. He would rather please an outsider than please a relation or family member. “Justice Akanbi was incorruptible and fair to everybody. Nigerian leaders should emulate and take after him by being just, fair and especially incorruptible, that is one way of regaining our lost glory as a people and as a country. “Prayer is very important in life, Allah wants us to always beseech Him and He gets angry if we fail to seek His blessings. We should use the remaining days of Ramadan to pray for Allah’s abundant blessings, because His blessings is more than what all the people on earth needs. “As I was about to leave Abuja for Kaduna this afternoon, I was feeling somehow about the trip, so I asked my Islamiyya students to pray and we all prayed. The importance of the prayer was that upon entering Kaduna, I was involved in a small accident. The prayer warded off evil and minimised the impact of the accident. So, we need to constantly pray. “But my initial fear was the spate of kidnappings along the Abuja-Kaduna road, how to avoid the kidnappers. Let us pray intensely for God to remove evil from this country and grant us peace and security. “The Muslims should pray in the last days of Ramadan for Allah to bring an end to insecurity in the country and bring lasting peace to Nigeria. “Ramadan is like a cleansing period for Muslims to cleanse them of all their sins, grant them forgiveness and shower them with more blessings than they ask for.”