Through careful planning and visionary leadership, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike has made the traditional rulers in the state part of the process of development.  They have formed the foundation of community involvement in the determination to create a new Rivers State. As a result, right from the beginning of his administration, Governor Wike started attending the quarterly meetings of the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers.  He attended a few at the old dilapidated secretariat.  The governor never liked the environment where the royal fathers held their meetings. Rather than renovate the decayed old secretariat, Governor Wike offered to build a new secretariat with modern facilities. This offer was in the interest of the state. As partners in the development of Rivers State, the royal fathers needed a conducive environment to generate ideas. The initiative of the Rivers State Governor was backed by his full support. In the course of the State’s Golden Jubilee, a day was set aside to celebrate the contributions of Rivers Traditional Rulers to the growth of the state. It was on that day, May 3, 2017 that Governor Wike invited the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa-ad Abubakar to lay the foundation for an ultra-modern secretariat for the royal fathers. Performing the ground-breaking in Port Harcourt, Sultan Abubakar prayed God to grant Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike the strength to continue to deliver development projects to the people of the state. He commended Governor Wike for his commitment to the completion of the ultra-modern traditional ruler’s complex within six months. He described the ground breaking event as historic, pointing out the edifice will help the traditional rulers carry out their duties to the Rivers people. In his address at the ground-breaking, Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike said that the contractor has been fully mobilised to deliver the project in record time. He said that his administration will not tolerate excuses. He said: “Money will not be a problem in the completion of this project within the scheduled period.” The governor explained that the state government resolved to construct a befitting secretariat for the traditional rulers when it was discovered that the existing facility had degenerated to an embarrassing condition. Chairman of the Rivers Council of Traditional Rulers and Amanyanabo of Opobo Kingdom, King Dandeson Douglas Jaja lauded Governor Wike his decision to construct the edifice for the Rivers Traditional Rulers. All through the construction period, Governor Wike supported the traditional rulers.  All their meetings were held at the Government House, Port Harcourt under the right atmosphere. Fast Forward to Friday, June 22, 2018, Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Sa-ad Abubakar and other prominent traditional rulers are back to the premises of the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers. This time, the facility has been transformed by the administration of Governor Wike. An ultra-modern secretariat has been erected with all the needed facilities to enhance the performance of the traditional rulers. The new secretariat has a conference hall that can sit over 400 traditional rulers during their quarterly meetings. There is a smaller 200 capacity hall within the complex for other meetings. The facility has a library, art gallery, lodge and expansive car park. It is fitted with internet and other communication facilities.  There is an elevator for ease of movement. The Sultan of Sokoto was happy that Governor Wike kept to his words of delivering a befitting secretariat for the royal fathers of the state. Commissioning the Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers Secretariat Complex constructed by the administration of Governor Wike on Friday, Sultan of Sokoto christened Governor Wike “Mr Opener”. He said: “We will continue to commend you as long as the people commend you. I call you Mr Opener because you have opened eyes to what governance should be. What you are doing will endear you to the people”. He noted that the transformation of Rivers State under the leadership of Governor Wike is real, pointing out that most of the projects being commissioned as part of the Third Year Anniversary were inspected  by traditional rulers after their national meeting in January, 2018. “We saw these projects with our eyes, nobody told us. You cannot say that this governor has not worked. Even the enemies of progress will acknowledge that something is being done “, the Sultan said. The beneficiaries of the secretariat, the Traditional Rulers of Rivers State could not hide their joy. They made it clear that they were happy that Governor Wike has delivered best facility for Traditional Rulers anywhere in the country. Without equivocation, they demonstrated their appreciation for the good works of Governor Wike to the state. The Rivers State Council of Traditional Rulers conferred on Governor Wike the novel title: “Pride of Rivers State “. Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike said that his administration resolved to construct a befitting place where the traditional rulers will share ideas and contribute to the development of the state. He said that his administration has worked closely with the traditional rulers to build peace which has led to the development of the state. He said: “I will always give priority to the welfare of Traditional Rulers.  The traditional rulers are keys to the stability of the country”. The governor said that his administration is committed to the delivery of projects, noting that the administration will continue to commission key projects irrespective of criticisms by the opposition. He thanked the state traditional rulers for honouring him. He said the honour will spur him to greater service. The development of infrastructure is comprehensive across the state. Governor Wike preparing all sections of the state to contribute to the growth of the state.  For the traditional rulers, a befitting facility has been put in place to create the right environment for them to contribute their quota to Rivers growth.