A veteran broadcaster, Mrs Bimbo Oloyede, has called on English Language experts to take up the challenge of correcting pronunciation errors among speakers in Nigeria. Mrs Oloyede, who worked with the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and Channels TV, said the problem of poor pronunciation is rife among public speakers, journalists, customer service providers, teachers, and politicians. Speaking last Thursday at a briefing ahead the presentation of her book on June 25, Oloyede said she wrote ‘Strictly Speaking’ to address the grammatical imbalance. Oloyede linked the development to poor training, first language intrusion, and illiteracy among others. “Strictly Speaking” would help educationists, information, politicians, corporate and entertainment professionals to learn proper pronunciation,” she said. As non-native speakers of the English Language, Mrs Oloyede said Nigerians, especially programme presenters on radio and television, masters of ceremony, custom officers, especially at the airports, teachers, motivational speakers and preachers required mastery of the language spoken globally to avoid bad influences on their audience, and especially the young ones. She said another publication targeted at students would be available during the public presentation. “As a practitioner in the broadcast sector, I have been concerned about the falling standards of presentation and pronunciation permeating our air waves as well as the poor performance of public officials within our public space. “The book is, therefore, based on the belief that articulation and effective communication, is an efficient tool that strengthens personal and corporate development, promotes educational advancement, and enhances dynamic information dissemination and good governance,” she said. Mrs Oloyede said former Nigeria’s High Commissioner to the United Kingdom Dr Christopher Kolade, would chair the book launch while the Chairman of Channels Media Group, Dr. John Momoh would serve as one of the book reviewers.