Girls and boys at school experience learning differently, because the reality of their social existence is both gendered and diverse. However, the implication of this experience in marginalised communities presents peculiar challenges for how the girl child transition into the next phase of their lives and who they eventual become. Many of these young girls have to endure the hurdles of poverty and the shocks of persistent vulnerability and disempowerment in isolation which may lead to the adoption of risky and unlawful behaviours, substance abuse, domestic violence, dejection, or even suicide. While, this forms the social reality of many young girls, leadership and life skills not only challenges these kinds of behaviours, but it also transforms attitudes in particular ways. Emerging evidence suggests that cognitive skills alone are not sufficient in preparing girls to succeed in school and transition into life after school. Girls as well as boys require other skills and aptitudes that will propel them to be independent, self-confident, negotiate effectively, manage risks, think and solve problems critically, manage time and resources effectively as well as contribute to society amongst others. LEAP Africa has been at the fore front of changing mind-sets and inspiring young people in marginalised communities to realise the possibility of self-actualisation and social transformation in the midst of structural limitations. LEAP’s work brings to the fore the imperatives of leadership and life skills (non-cognitive skills) as a means to maximising opportunities, leaping beyond structural challenges and contributing to society. The grim realities of poverty continue to fan the flames of unequal access to education, employment, health care, social mobility and citizenship. These limit the opportunities available to young people who are unable to advance beyond secondary school levels. In a society where the openings for formal employment is largely shaped by one’s level of education, under-educated youth must rely on the informal sector where employment is essentially volatile and vulnerable. The consequence is even dire for young girls who must also struggle with multiple forms of sexual harassment, early marriage and teenage pregnancy. Hence the need to prioritise leadership and life skills for girls and boys. Emerging evidence from LEAP Africa’s leadership and life skills program in about 15 secondary schools across Lagos, Enugu and Akwa Ibom states suggest that non-cognitive skills have implications for students’ learning outcomes. The leadership program which enrols over 1000 students in secondary schools from low income communities has seen more than half of these students experience improvements in their academic results. A key aspect of the leadership curriculum is visioning and goal setting, where students are equipped with the knowledge on how to engage the SMART technique to set goals. From the five schools in Akwa Ibom, we found that more than 90% of the students are setting academic targets for themselves for the first time. For many of the girls who were interviewed, this means paying more attention and asking questions in class, maximising reading time, as well as collaborating with colleagues to improve on areas where they need help. Improved academic outcomes and being equipped with non-cognitive skills may have significant implications for their employability and future aspirations. A rigorous mid-term impact evaluation of the project found that the leadership and life skills training is helping many of the girls realise that they are responsible for their future outcomes, while also learning that having a positive mind set is crucial in realising their aspirations. In a focus group interview with girls from Mary Hanney Secondary School Oron, Awka Ibom State, we find that the girls have raised aspirations about what they want to do after school. Many of the girls who did not think that advancing into higher forms learning was a possibility (given their background) are confident that they will have a university degree. Most of them recognise that the funding to advance their education may not be readily available, they are preparing their minds to engage in economic activities after school to pay for their university education. The story of 15-year-old Faith in one of the schools in Akwa Ibom was particularly remarkable. She explains that her parents are separated but lives with her father who thinks less of her abilities and considers her going to school a waste of time due to her grades before joining the life skills program. In junior secondary school Faith never had an A, and with a cumulative average grade of 45% her father thinks she will end up like her older sisters. Furthermore, her teacher revealed that Faith had very low self-esteem before joining the program. She would isolate herself from colleagues and wanted to just get married after secondary school so she could be free from her father. However, after joining the leadership and life skills program Faith’s cumulative average has risen to 65%, and had four A’s in her last exam. Faith is having an A on her report sheet for the first time in her secondary school trajectory. Faith who is the last born of 5 siblings, tells us she has learnt to remain self-confident and positive minded. We were particularly stunned by the confidence in the tone of her voice when she said; ‘…it doesn’t matter what my father thinks of me, I know who I am, I am intelligent and I will make an impact in my community, and in Nigeria, because I am the flower that changes the odour of society’. Asides improvements in academic outcomes and raising aspirations, one key lesson from this is that life skills empowers girls to recognise how gender relations shape their interactions with society broadly and how to respond to these dynamics. This is particularly important at this stage because they are beginning to experience new feelings, physical and emotional changes, questions and difficult decisions as they begin to also recognise the foundations of gender norms. Although, it is difficult at this point to determine how malleable these skills are at different ages, life skills training is providing an opportunity for girls to reflect on their self-identify, self-awareness and aspirations. Leadership and life skills exceeds the provision of or information. While this is important, by helping young girls discover and reflect on their self-worth and inner strength, they come to realise and identify the attitudes that will help them become complete and healthy human beings. These attitudes transforms them into positive change agents who are transilient – leaping above structural social conditions – rather than just coping with existing limitations. 