INFORMATION Minister Lai Mohammed has described the opposition as unserious and very disdainful of the truth for not acknowledging the achievement of the President Muhammadu Buhari Administration. Besides, the minister accused the opposition  of deliberately and perpetually blind to the administration’s monumental achievements. He spoke yesterday in Abuja while inaugurating the Nigeria Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) governing council. The minister noted that the opposition has made the practice of government perception managers very difficult with the speed at which it spew out fake news. He said: “It is a tough time to be a public relations practitioner. I should know. At the Annual Conference and General Meeting of the NIPR in Ilorin in April 2017, I did say that for the government perception manager, whether he or she is the Minister of Information, Commissioner for Information, spokespersons for the President or governor or for any government agency, it is an almost impossible task these days. “Today, that observation is more valid than when I first made it in 2017 – especially for the government perception managers. This is because we have an opposition that is unserious, very disdainful of the truth, lacks ideas and believes that being in opposition means crying wolf where there is none and spewing out fake information at the speed of light!” He queried: “Where is the seriousness in an opposition party throwing out a spurious figure of N10 trillion as the amount of money that has been looted under the present administration? What is Nigeria’s annual national budget? “How do you react to an opposition that is deliberately perpetually blind to the monumental achievements of this administration?” He, however, noted that the present administration has recorded a number of unprecedented achievements. “While naysayers say they have not seen all these achievements, Nigerians who are benefitting directly from them have testified to the reality of the successes, ” he said. Identifying the social media as another wedge to professionalism in the practice of public relations in the country, the minister urged practitioners not to be tired of projecting the image of their establishments. “I said the challenges faced daily by the perception managers have been made tougher by the Social Media, that the challenges have defied everything the practitioner may have been taught about perception management, public relations and all, and that the government spokesperson, in order to succeed, must be a Cicero, a Socrates, an Albert Einstein and a Machiavelli all rolled into one. “Public relations practitioners, whether working for government or not, must never be tired of projecting the image of their establishments, even when some people decide to play the blind or the spoiler. They must never be discouraged or allow themselves to be disenchanted. Yes, it is a tough job, but if they don’t do it, no one else will.”  