WORKERS of the Revenue Allocation Mobilisation and Fiscal Commission (RMAFC) yesterday in Abuja staged a protest to draw attention to the absence of a board, which affects the performance of the agency. The protesters, made up of different associations of the agency, appealed to the Federal Government to immediately constitute a board for the agency to enable it carry out its statutory responsibilities. Some of the placards carried by the protesters said the absence of the board affected the smooth-running of the agency and its ability to monitor accruals into the Federation Account. Chairman, Senior Staff Association of the agency, Mr. Martins Adeoye, said instead of 37 commissioners representing the states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), the agency had only seven. He also said the core functions of the agency were being threatened. His words: “As we speak, some other bodies are making efforts to make sure that what ought to be our responsibility is given to consultants and that should not be so as it is an encroachment into our responsibilities. “One of our core functions is to carry out oversight functions of the revenue collecting agencies of Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Nigerian Customs Service (NCS), Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and Ministry of Finance. “We are supposed to collect data from them to ensure that what accrues into the Federation Account is the actual amount, but with poor funding and the few commissioners on ground, how do we do that? “We have been receiving letters since the beginning of the year asking us to wake up to our responsibilities.” According to him, state commissioners of finance who attend Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC) meeting on monthly basis have also asked the organisation to wake up to its responsibilities. Adeoye said the absence of a substantive chairman and secretary was also affecting the commission, hence he appealed that the board should be constituted. As at the time of this report, Mr. Ibrahim Mohammed, Head, Public Relations Unit, did not have any comment on the issue, but assured that a statement would be released on the management’s position later in the day.