• Council Physicians inaugurates Natural Medicine graduates It was no small crowd at the at the main hall of the Nigeria Institute of International Affairs (NIIA), Kofo Abayomi, Victoria Island, Lagos when this year’s set of Green Centre Academy’s International Diploma students were inuagurated as graduates of Natural Medicine. The hall was filled to capacity. The event was in collaboration with the school’s foreign partner, Kaatsu International University, Sri Lanka. They were also inducted into the Nigerian Council of Physicians and Natural Medicine (NCPNM). Chairperson of the event Prof Adebukola Adefule Oshitelu, while welcoming guests, called on policy makers, governments, and practitioners of Complementary Alternative Medicine (CAM) and Traditional Medicine (TM) to seek unity and professionalism. Adefule-Ositelu, a professor of Ophthalmology, said CAM providers’ recognition, regulatory and legal mechanisms, equitable distribution of benefits and information, and adequate allocation of resources for its development were issues that must be resolved if integrative medicine care that conforms to the World Health Organisation (WHO) agenda is to be realised. She said WHO established specific objectives that address policy, safety, efficacy, quality, access, and rational use of CAM therapies. She explained that challenges to meeting these objectives are many, yet they must be addressed, considering the growing economic and potential public health impact of CAM/TM. She said policy objectives identified by the WHO are designed to promote integration of (certain) CAM/TM approaches into the national health care system. “The WHO objectives of determining the safety and efficacy and advancing the mechanistic understanding of CAM/TM therapeutics through pertinent, pragmatic research pose significant challenges. There has been a major increase in CAM research over the past 10 to 15 years. “Yet unilateral research protocols i.e, those that do not involve collaborations between main stream and CAM/TM scientists/practitioners generally tend to be poorly developed, lacking either an adequate study design or a well-developed address of specific constructs of the CAM approach studied,”she said. Prof Adefule-Ositelu urged the graduates not to give up in their chosen profession, but take it seriously. “The knowledge gained during the course of your study should come in handy in tackling some of the health challenges the country is facing. Please, graduands work together, and be united in purpose in order to ensure that natural medicine and complimentary alternative medicine takes its proper place in the Nigerian health space,” she stated. Dr Timothy Salihu, who represented the Director-General, Nigeria Natural Medicine Development agency (NNMDA), Pharmacist Samuel Etatuvie, encouraged the graduands to abide by the ethics of the profession, especially considering the fact that they are dealing with human beings. “There is a lot of wrong doings going on, out there. Don’t hide some of this information you have gathered. Also, try and make sure that you train people and share some of these secrets with them so that more work will be done. The forests of yesteryears are no longer there, especially given the rate of deforestation in Nigeria, which has been put at 3.5. The forests are going and all the extractive industries, including traditional medicine are affected. The need for domestication and cultivation of some of these species we use in traditional medicine is more important than ever before, so that they will be available for use in traditional medicine,” he added. Director of Programmes, Green Centre Academy, Dr Darlington Okafor, said it was just like a dream  and the institution is proud of what “we have achieved today”. Dr Okafor said: “What we are presenting to you today is not just our personal effort but the combined effort of both the Nigerian Council of Physicians and Natural Medicine (NCPNM) and the academy. They’ve given us a lot of support. I’m overwhelmed with what I am seeing and I know this is just the beginning; this is just a platform to launch higher. We are for tops.” The ceremony also witnessed a presentation by the graduates, who came up with different health supplements, to back up their years of research. Some of their inventions  include fertility medication as well as brain function enhancers. Following that, they were formally inducted into the NCPNM in a brief ceremony that was rendered in both English and French languages. There were representatives from Ghana, Benin, Niger, Cameroon, and Togo. Other dignitaries at the occasion are: Prof Magnus Atilade, Prof Bodunrin Oluwa, Prof Titi Oduye, Prof Bade Adewale, Prof Idowu Ogunkoya, Prof Gilbert Ezengige, Prof Cyril Omisande, Prof Ndubisi Nwakakwa, Prof Dike Celestine and Dr Adedamola Bank-Kadejo. West African University of Natural Medicine was also inaugurated. The Vision, according to Atilade, is to transport and reposition West Africa to enviable height by unnearthing, redirecting and revealing to desirous, studious and brilliant minds the world over, those immesurable and diverse natural medicinal repositories and skills from West Africa sub region; simultaneously, also offering timely solutions to world’s curable and supposedly incurable diseases and ailments utilising natures ways and gifts. Prof  Atilade said the Mission is to enagge in training, retraining and impartation of time-honoured, disease intervention modalities and researches of African  origin with the aim of achieving economic prosperity, health, peace and social well being for the entire human race at large and West Africans in particular.