Solar powered street lights influenced by some lawmakers in the National Assembly as part of their constituency projects may soon be removed from the streets of Benin City by the Edo State Government. Posters of the lawmakers are placed on the solar powered street lights erected. It was gathered that the State Government has already approved street lights to be erected along some of the street the lawmakers have placed their street lights as constituency project. Government sources said the posters of the lawmakers placed on the street lights on roads under construction by the state government made the people believed that the road projects were part of the constituency projects. Governor Godwin Obaseki gave the indication when he ordered the removal  of substandard and unauthorized road furniture including similar projects, on roads and other projects across the state. The Governor who gave the order after the state’s weekly Executive Council meeting said it was not right to erect substandard electricity poles that are either abandoned mid-way or lack sustainable maintenance plan and pose safety risk. Obaseki noted that the decision became necessary in order to streamline project execution across the state and eliminate the chaotic situation currently being experienced. He stated that the growing trend of executing projects without recourse to the agencies of government that give approvals and licences for such projects, in line with laid down rules was worrisome and must stop. According to him, “The state is littered with substandard projects that disrupt the infrastructure master plan and violate laid down rules for such projects. “The chaotic and indiscriminate execution of substandard and unapproved projects, which are not known to state government agencies and other tiers of government, is unacceptable. This ugly trend must stop,” the governor said. “We have a template for the wide array of developmental projects which are being implemented in every ward in the state and anyone who is executing any project in any part of the state should seek approval from the relevant government agencies. “The right thing to do is to run your projects through officials of government saddled with the task to give approvals for such projects and secure the necessary approvals “Currently, consultation has reached advanced stage to have a dedicated electricity line that will feed government hospitals, the state secretariat complex and other government offices, to ensure regular power supply in those offices. You cannot disrupt such a plan with a project that the approving agencies are not aware of, and have not approved.” The lawmakers could not be reached for comments.