S-based non-profit organisation, laExpose’ Production Inc., is seeking nominations for the 2018 edition of Extraordinary People Awards (EPA).
According to the management of the organisation, EPA seeks to empower under-appreciated individuals who have made crucial impact in their societies.
Coming up in September at Atlanta Georgia, organisers say that the award is open to categories of applicants irrespective of age or background, field of study or life applications.
President and founder of EPA, Dr. LaVerne Adekunle, said the idea was mainly conceived from the need to increase the understanding and appreciation for gifted and talented personalities without platform, raise the awareness of the orphanages in Africa as well as build an international audience for the recipients.
“The award is about honoring everyday unsung people who are doing great things in their little corners to impact the world; people who are not so opportune to be called celebrity, yet they are the real celebrity; the real hero. It is simply about celebrating unsung heroes and heroines in different walks of life. We want to provide our community with a unique event of the highest quality that celebrates authors, leaders, ministries, music and those whom go unnoticed,” she said.
Adekunle also stressed that the platform would particularly redress the negative perception about Nigerians in the United States.
She said: “The award will go a long way to improve Nigeria’s Image abroad and most especially, in the United States where most Nigerians are perceived as fraud and “No Good”. This will further prove that Africans, most especially Nigerians are great people with a lot to offer and a bundle of blessings to the world.” She reiterated that candidates would be shortlisted based on performance and contribution to humanity, “not just selection by sheer luck from a box or jar. So if you are putting in your application, put in your best performances. Remember a man is lucky when he is prepared at the time of his opportunity.”