•Omoworare pledges economic growth, human capacity development The Osun State Finance Commissioner, Bola Oyebamiji, yesterday joined other 28 aspirants vying for the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship ticket. Also, the senator representing Osun East Senatorial District on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the National Assembly, Babajide Omoworare, has joined the governorship race in Osun State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) fixed September 22 for the governorship poll in the state. Elders in Ikire and Apomu in Osun West Senatorial District, who procured intention form for Oyebamiji, said it was the turn of the district to produce the next governor of the state. Chief Falana Muritala, the Aare of Ikire, who led other elders to the party’s secretariat in Osogbo, the state capital, described Oyebamiji as a man of integrity. Muritala said the residents were vigorously rooting for him, with determination to support him to victory. He added: “We never informed him before taking this step, just as in 1999, when Chief Bisi Akande never had the intention of contesting but his community pushed for him and gave him the needed support. “We would only implore the people of Osun to support Oyebamiji. He is the only one who perfectly fits into the shoe that would be left behind by the incumbent governor. “He is a technocrat and an honest man. For the whole community to have done this for him, it means he is loved by all.” Omoworare visited the party’s secretariat yesterday in Osogbo, the state capital, with thousands of his supporters where he declared his intention to run for the governorship seat. The senator reeled out his programmes and policies to take the state to the next level. He said: “We must appreciate the infrastructural foundation laid by the outgoing administration. We must improve on it and maximise same to grow the economy. “Small and medium scale enterprises, cottage industries, technological hubs, farm settlements and a host of other initiatives to create employment, wealth and economic prosperity for the people will be given priority.”  