Technical University (Tech U) in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the Texas Technical University (TTU) in the United States of America (U.S.A). TTU is among the top three per cent universities in the world. With the MoU, the two institutions will start exchange programmes among students, lecturers, researchers and other categories of workers for internationalisation of their degree and post-graduate programmes. Tech U may also become the hub for TTU’s “Study Abroad” programme in Nigeria and other West African countries. The exchange programme is expected to begin in the 2019/2020 academic session with TTU students coming for their six-week internship in factories and institutions in Ibadan and Lagos, as may be facilitated by the Tech U. Tagged: “Collaborative Agreement for Study Abroad and Research” between students and workers of the two institutions, the partnership will enable Tech U students to complete their degree programmes at TTU and proceed to post-graduate studies, if they desire. TTU has an expansive campus spread across the major parts of Lubbock, a serene city in Texas, United States of America. The partnership will also afford students and staff Tech U to participate in short and post-graduate programmes in which TTU has special capacity and competence. Researchers in both institutions will also collaborate in areas of common interest to internationalise their works. Signing the agreement at his office on Tuesday evening, TTU’s President (Vice Chancellor equivalent) Lawrence Schovance said the university was elated to expand scholarly activities to Nigeria through the partnership with Tech U. Schovance, who is an engineering professor, noted that the partnership was another step forward in TTU’s goal of widening its international operations to ensure that its students and faculty enjoy international enrichment in their studies and research. The varsity president said the partnership would bring great opportunities to students and faculty of the two institutions. He added that Nigeria had become a priority for TTU in its efforts at achieving global connections for studying, teaching and research. Tech U’s Vice Chancellor Prof. Ayobami Salami said a major goal of the university is to produce graduates who will be key players within the national space and in the larger global economy. For it to happen, Salami said, internationalisation is key, hence the huge satisfaction with the TTU partnership. He said the university was happy to have the partnership from its first year of operation, adding that it showed the level of seriousness and determination of the management and promoters of Tech U to the ideals of sound education that will enable their graduates make meaningful contributions to the progress of the society. 