…Seeks information from public  The National Human Rights Commission has concluded plans for the probe of allegation of torture against men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) in South South and South Eastern parts of the country. NHRC’s Executive Secretary, Anthony Ojukwu made this public on Tuesday while speaking at an event put in place by his agency, the Federal Ministry of Justice and the Human Rights Agenda Network (HRAN). Ojukwu said the planned probe was informed by increasingly complaints of torture against officials of SARS in those parts of the country. He said probe which will take the form of public hearing on SARS in the South South and South East geo-political zones, is “due to the endemic nature of Torture in the operations of SARS in those areas. “It is hoped that members of the public and the police authorities will assist the commission and cooperate to curb the practice of torture by SARS and other security agencies and hence reduce the incidence of torture in our polity. “In this regard, the commission wishes to commend the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces for signing into law the Anti~Torture Act of 2017. “The Commission also commends the Office of the Honourable Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) for putting together the draft guidelines for the implementation of the new legislation. “This is a clear statement on the part of the Federal Government of Nigeria to outlaw torture in our polity. It is therefore recommended to law enforcement agencies to take a cue from this message of the Federal Government on this day and stop all further acts of torture. “l also call on all Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) to participate robustly in the discussions around adopting the guidelines for the implementation of the Anti-Torture Act 2017. “The commission uses this opportunity to call attention to it earlier directive on respect for human rights, while carrying out law enforcement duties as torture cannot be justified under any circumstance,” he said. The Attorney General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami (SAN) assured that the Federal Government was committed to curbing torture in the country. Represented by the Solicitor General of the Federation (SGF), Dayo Apata, the AGF said his office has, in line with its powers under the Anti-Torture Act, has drafted the rules and regulation for the effective implementation of the Act. The AGF added: “This rules and regulations have been drafted in such a manner as to give a simple appreciation of the Act. Key provisions have been repeated and clarified. “These should be no doubt about the commitment of the administration in ensuring that acts of torture are identified and penalised wherever and whenever they occur,” the AGF said. The Chairman, National Committee Against Torture (NCAT), Samson Ameh (SAN) urged all security agencies to shun acts of torture and abide by the provisions of the Anti-Torture Act.