Yams make up over 600 varieties of tubers. Known botanically as Dioscorea, it originated from Africa and Asia. They are  also found in the Caribbean and Latin America. However, 95 percent of these species are grown in Africa. Yam provides around 110 calories per 100 grammes of the product. It is high in vitamins C and B6, potassium, manganese, and dietary fibre, but low in saturated fat and sodium. A product high in potassium and low in sodium, it is likely to produce a good potassium-sodium balance in the body, and so protects it against osteoporosis and heart disease. It helps to boost oestrogen, which is why it is a good immune and energy booster as well as a fertility enhancer. One advantage of yam is that it has a good shelf life. You can store it for about six months, some up to eight months. While many people are worried about the menace of contamination and pollution of food through preservatives, no such fears are entertained with yams. In fact, yam is one of the very few food items you can buy in the market without such fear. At a conference last year, a ‘nutrition expert’addressing a large crowd of medical personnel listed  the dangers of yam. He told them that yam is the major cause of diabetes and as such, should be avoided by those with the disease. In other words, if you have diabetes, then you don’t eat yam, and your favourite pounded yam. The ‘expert’ advised his listeners to replace yam with grains, such as wheat, millet and semolina. The truth, however, is that yam is healthier than these grains, and people with diabetes need not avoid yam, if they follow the correct instruction its cooking. Think about it, how is it that food that has served our forefathers very well for centuries and is a part of our culture suddenly become dangerous and toxic? And how come the only alternatives being recommended are food from other cultures that have to be imported? Surely, there is a foul play somewhere. If you travel across Africa, from Nigeria to Ghana to Togo, new yam festivals are part of the yearly traditional feasts. In Nigeria, new year festivals are celebrated in many towns and villages across the county. In fact, when it comes to food and nutrition science, the world turns to Africa to learn the science of food combination and proper cooking. Unfortunately, Africans are busy spending their hard-earned money on foreign foods that end up damaging their health. They abandon their palm oil for imported groundnut and vegetable oils; they replace their garri (cassava) with wheat, and their morning boiled yam with bread. Yam has a lower glycaemic index, about 54 percent of glucose per 150-gram serving, much lower than the potato, rice and even millet. The glycaemia index (GI) is a numerical system of measuring how much of a rise in circulating blood sugar a carbohydrate triggers–the higher the number, the greater the blood sugar response. A low GI food will cause a small increase while a high GI food will trigger a dramatic spike. The glycaemia index rates carbohydrates on a scale from 0 to 100, according to their impact on blood sugar levels. This measure doesn’t take into account a carbohydrate’s digestible content. Foods with a high glycaemia index increase blood glucose more than foods with a lower glycaemia index. The speed at which a carbohydrate is broken down into glucose determines whether it’s “fast” or “slow.” Fast carbohydrates break down quickly and have a glycaemia index of above 70 and a glycaemia load of above 20. Studies by experts have yielded conflicting results, some demonstrating that these African foods could cause diabetes and obesity while some prove the opposite, namely, that these African foods protect against diabetes. In one study published in the December 2006 issue of ‘Fundamentals of Clinical Pharmacology’, none of the 1,381 subjects had diabetes,  though yam and cassava accounted for a full 84 per cent of their caloric intake. A second study, published in the October 1992 issue of “Diabetes Care,” noted that Tanzanians who ate yam and cassava regularly had a lower incidence of diabetes than those who rarely ate it. My observation is that the matter may be more easily resolved if more attention is paid not only to the food in its raw state but to the actual finished products and how it is consumed. For over 10 years, I have been recommending that people with diabetes eat yam. The problem is not eating yam; it is the way you cook your yam and how you eat it. Always cook your yam with the peels. Never peel your yam before cooking. For those old enough to remember, you will recall that this was how our fathers and mothers used to cook their yam and even plantain. They never peel the skin until after cooking. If you peel yam before cooking, then the yam is likely to raise your sugar level because of its high carbohydrate and starch content. But if you cook your yam with the peels, and peel it after cooking, what you have is already a balanced diet. Yam peels are the most nutrient-rich part of yam.  Do you think it is an accident that goats prefer to eat the peels than the yam? Try it at home.  Keep yam peels on one side and yam on the other side; the goat will always go for the peels. They know that the peels are richer in micronutrients. As I have said on many occasions, the most important tool you need when it comes to good nutrition and healthy diet is not money; it is knowledge. In fact, it is so often happens that the richer people get, the poorer their diet. Knowledge is power.