Kroos’ late strike has given Germany all three points. The Sweden players drop to their knees, they thought they’d done enough to get a deserved point. However, it’s Germany celebrating as they get their campaign back on track in Sochi!  SWEDEN TEAM NEWS Team to face Germany: Olsen, Lustig, Granqvist, Lindelof, Augustinsson, Claesson, Larsson, Ekdal, Forsberg, Berg, Toivonen. Subs: Olsson, Guidetti, Johnsson, Svensson, Helander, Hiljemark, Krafth, Jansson, Rohden, Durmaz, Thelin, Nordfeldt. GERMANY CHANGES The big news is that Ozil and Khedira have been left out of the Germany starting line-up along with Pattenhardt and the injured Hummels. In come Reus, Rudy, Hector and Rudiger. Team to face Sweden: Neuer, Kimmich, Rudiger, Boateng, Hector, Kroos, Rudy, Reus, Draxler, Muller, Werner. Subs: Plattenhardt, Ginter, Hummels, Khedira, Ozil, Trapp, Goretzka, Sule, Brandt, Gundogan, Ter Stegen, Gomez. Germany are unbeaten in their last 11 games against Sweden (W6 D5), with the Scandinavians’ last win coming 40 years ago in April 1978 (3-1). Sweden have been hit with a stomach bug ahead of the game in Sochi, with Pontus Jansson, Filip Helander and Marcus Rohden staying behind at the training base although they are expected to travel to the game on Saturday morning. Victor Lindelof – who missed the game against South Korea through illness – could return, although Isaac Kiese Thelin is a doubt with an ankle problem. Germany are expected to without Mats Hummels after sustaining a neck injury, with Antonio Rudiger likely to take his place should Hummels’ health not improve. Low also said forward Mario Gomez was likely to start but did not clarify if he would join Timo Werner in attack or if he would operate as a lone striker. It’s almost time for the third instalment of World Cup action this Saturday as the countdown begins for Germany’s clash with Sweden at the Fisht Olympic Stadium. It’s a big night for Germany, who will be looking for their first win of the 2018 World Cup in their second Group F game. On the other hand, Sweden, who were 1-0 winners against South Korea in their first game, could make the last 16 with a victory over the reigning champions. We’ll be bringing you all the build-up to kick-off, including the all-important team news. Stay tuned! 