A cursory description of the late Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (MKO) Abiola is that of a rich business man and political icon who redefined the political history of Nigeria, after winning the annulled June 12, 1993  Presidential Election on the platform of the then Social Democratic Party (SDP). On the side of passion, MKO, as he is fondly called was a pillar of support for sports, to the extent of bankrolling football clubs like Abiola Babes and Champion Football Club. However, being a man of different parts, the late MKO, apart from his philanthropic gestures in support of talents and entertainment entrepreneurs, was a cultural aficionado, singer and instrumentalist who showed traits of the performing arts at an early stage in life. At 15, MKO reportedly formed a music band, singing Agidigbo music with his peers. This period of struggle for survival in his life time predates the popular story of having tasted boiled egg for the first time in his in-law’s, a narrative used to describe his then state of poverty. Stories have it that as a singer, he was described in derogatory term as the ‘son of Salawu who goes about singing Agidibo music at events in return for food’. One of his remarkable earnings at such shows was 48 wraps of Amala with stew, vegetable soup, and one naira and five kobo (ten and half shillings). Reports say his family would eagerly wait for his return to partake in the meal. As his show increased in popularity, his monetary charges rose to two naira, twenty kobo (two guineas). And as leader of the group, he took half of the proceeds. With time, it was no longer surprising that at a young age, MKO named his music band ‘Agidigbo’, in reference to a unique Yoruba musical instrument. Agidigbo is a large traditional thumb piano/box used by the Yoruba people. So unique is the instrument that a deep proverb is weaved around it: it says ‘Bi owe, bi owe, ni a nlu ilu agidigbo, ologbon ni I jo o, omoran ni I mo o’ (the Agidigbo talking drum is sounded in proverbs, only the wise can dance to it, only the experienced can understand it). One would therefore understand that throughout his adult life, MKO’s wisdom was unequal, just as his love for culture, and his application of proverbs in communication.