A step into the premises of Adebola Baptist Nursery & Primary school, Surulere Lagos casts a mixed feeling of emotion. While the cheer of children seated in classrooms offer a feeling of hope, the sordid sight of infrastructural deficit within the school environment presents a distraught mental picture of the quality of education available to children in government owned public schools. While the cream and brown paintings of some of the classroom blocks have lost their shine, the roof covering some of the blocks have caved in. The entire topmost floor of a particular classroom block has been left to the exposure of harsh elements as a result of a blown off roof. While the Lagos state government gears up effort in providing quality education in the state; majority of learning facilities in public schools lie in a state of despair. Also, the fact that many of the school environments are not befitting for future leaders clearly demonstrates the need for citizens to also join hands in pushing for quality education. A social movement for quality education This realization of education as the only veritable tool for socio-economic development  prompted Bond Club, a social club of professionals who had their childhood in Surulere to donate exercise books to selected primary public schools. No fewer than 3000 exercise books were donated to six public primaries within Surulere local government.   The exercise books distribution which started in the early hours of Thursday 7th of June saw members of the club interacting with pupils and head teachers of the primary public schools visited which are Surulere Baptist, Adebola Baptist, Estate Baptist and Akin Jacobs memorial Baptist primary schools.  Other primary schools which benefited from the scheme include Akinsemoyin and Randle Nursery and Primary schools, Surulere Speaking on the gesture of the club in addressing needs in the education sector of the state, Mrs Helen Ononogbu, the Head Teacher of Randle Primary School, commended the club members, praising them for squeezing out money to donate books to vulnerable children, despite the hardship in the economy. “Giving our pupils writing materials is a way of encouraging them to perform. Some of their parents are poor while some of the pupils work as house helps and as such, are unable to buy writing materials even though education is free,” Ononogbu added. Agnes Okubanjo, Head teacher of Akinsemoyin Nur/Pry school who received the books on behalf of her pupils, relived sad experiences of how some parents have no money to buy writing materials for their wards, leaving them to just stare at the black boards when lessons are ongoing. “Parents would be very happy for the books given to their wards. It will make learning and teaching more impactful”, she submitted while handing copies to the pupils as they pose for a group photograph. Speaking on the motivation for the book distribution, Mr Gbolahan Dickson, the immediate past president of Bond Club said the group decided to embark on an educational endowment initiative in order to ameliorate the plight of children in the community where they had their childhood. “We are friends who have known each other for 30 years and we all grew up in Surulere. We wanted to give back to the society and we realized that a lot of schools don’t have amenities.  We thought it’s best to start with education because one cannot go wrong by investing in education,” Dickson said. While the book distribution was on going, a mid-aged man donning a simple native dress was  busy observing the environment. Mr Ademola Oriola, a founding member of Bond club observed that pre-primary sections of all schools visited lack play instruments needed in a nursery. “In a particular school, a classroom was converted into the headmistress’s office since most of the classes are not conducive for learning. As a young club, we believe in giving back to the society. Hopefully, we would be able to step into rebuilding some of the infrastructural deficit in these schools,” he said while responding to questions of future intervention projects of the club. According to UNICEF, children from the poorest households are four times more likely to be out of school than those of the richest households. In Lagos state where education is free, getting learning materials is still beyond the reach of many parents owing to the high poverty rates in the country.  As the United Nations continue to canvass for increase in literary rate for boys and girl as a major target of the SDGs on education; there is no gainsaying the fact that grassroots social movement such as the Bond of Surulere have cogent roles to play. 