The Akwa Ibom state government is currently taking care of over 800 orphans and vulnerable children in 5 homes belong to it, the state commissioner for women affairs and social welfare, Dr. (Mrs.) Glory Edit has said. Edet, who made the disclosure on Wednesday in Uyo at an event to commemorate the 2018 International Day of the African Child, also disclosed that the state government is supporting women to take care of their children through the provision of loans and grants. “The state government through the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Welfare is caring for over eight hundred orphans and vulnerable children in the five government homes. “It is also giving loans and grants to our women to help them take care of their children”. She explained that the essence of the event was to remember the protestation of the South African apartheid educational system in 1976, which culminated in the death of several children. The commissioner also emphasized that the day provided an opportunity for the African continent to reflect on the agony and sufferings of the children with a view to consolidating efforts towards addressing the challenges. She pointed out that the Child Right’s Law that was domesticated in 2008 is to principally protect children from anything that may militate against their safety, survival and right to maximize their God given potentials. Edet commended the state governor, Mr. Emmanuel Udom for sustaining the free and compulsory basic education in public schools and for putting in place policies and programmes that impact on the lives of children in the state in different dimensions. While commending Mr. Emmanuel for providing free health care services to children below five years old, she also showered encomiums on the Governor’s wife, Mrs. Martha Udom Emmanuel for her unrelenting efforts in caring and providing for children in the state. In her address, the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Welfare, Mrs. Margaret Edem thanked the children who attended the event and charged them to be involved in the fight against child abuse by reporting cases of abuse, stressing that their involvement will go a long way in reducing the scourge. The theme of this year’s International Day of the African Child is ‘Leave no child behind for Africa’s development,.