•Takes ‘To Build a Nation Tour’ to Kano Former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) deputy Governor and Young Progressives Party (YPP) presidential candidate, Kingsley Moghalu, has promised massive investment in entrepreneurship using his planned N1 trillion Venture Capital Fund to be accessed by entrepreneurs. He disclosed this during his To Build ANation Tour in Kano where he was received by residents of the city who trooped out in large numbers to welcome him. The YPP Presidential candidate was also welcomed by the Emir of Kano, HRH Muhammadu Sanusi II, in his palace. Representing the spirited drive among Nigerian voters to change the status quo, the former CBN deputy governor was escorted by a large number of members of the Kingsley Moghalu Support Organisation (KIMSO) and To Build A Nation (TBAN) in Kano State. Speaking during his visit, Moghalu promised massive investment in innovation through the Venture Capital Fund, an economic policy that he emphasized would not be determined or controlled by ethnicity, religion or status. “It is time for a new generation of leaders that are interested in creating a better future for Nigerians. Every young Nigerian can contribute to the development of our great country, but there needs to be opportunity and access to education, skills, and better security to improve their lives.” The presidential candidate also promised to bring back industries through strategic support for the manufacturing sector in order to create jobs, diversify the economy and promote investment. In his response, the Emir of Kano welcomed Moghalu and his delegation and recalled the presidential aspirant’s contributions to the successes achieved by the CBN during his tenure as governor. “Kingsley and the other three deputy governors made important contributions to the bank’s success during my term as governor. In my view, any of those four deputy governors is qualified to hold any leadership position in Nigeria today. There is no question that whatever happens, Kingsley’s participation in Nigerian politics as an aspirant to the highest office of the land has already steered the narrative in the right direction,” said the Emir. Speaking with participants during the closing ceremony of 1,000 Women Skills Training conducted under the Kingsley Moghalu Women Initiative in partnership with the Isaac Moghalu Foundation, the candidate emphasized that upon becoming President, his administration would combat poverty by providing access to finance and education for women and girls in the country. Moghalu also paid courtesy visits to the families of the late Ambassador Yusuf Maitama Sule (Dan Masanin Kano) and the late Sheikh Isiyaku Rabiu at their residences. 