Celebrations marking the 62nd anniversary of the Nigerian Navy have kicked off in earnest. The Nation gathered that the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ibok Ete Ibas would host top military and para-military institutions, members of the Diplomatic Corps, and top political leaders in the country during the celebration. The celebration would be marked in the five Commands of the Navy located in the Southwest, Southsouth and Southeast part of the country. Briefing Journalists on the activities lined up for the celebration at the Navy Headquarters, Abuja, the Chief of the Naval Staff, Vice Admiral Ete-Ibas, reviewed the policy thrust of the Navy in the past one year especially as it relates to maritime domain awareness, fleet recapitalisation as well as exercises and operations. He said the Navy has within the last one year acquired a total of 179 assorted boats as a way of recapitalising its fleet to respond to increasing security challenges in the nation’s maritime domain while about 42 ships engaged in illegal activities in the maritime domain were impounded. Admiral Ete-Ibas said six of the 179 boats are OCEA Fast Patrol Boats acquired recently from France and would soon be inaugurated into the Naval Fleet. “These boats have gone a long way in bolstering NN capacity to police and carry out survey of Nigeria’s maritime environment”, he added. He noted that 173 of the assorted boats include Epenal Boats, Rigid Hull Inflatable Boats, and Hydrographic Survey Boats. Represented by the Chief of Transformation, Naval Headquarters, Rear Admiral Begroy E. Ibe-Enwo, the Naval Boss stated that the theme of this year’s Naval Week: “Enhancing an Integrated Maritime Strategy For Security in the Gulf of Guinea” was deliberately chosen given the focus of the Navy on various operations that would ensure effective security of the nation’s maritime domain. He said the 2018 Naval Week Celebrations would be carried out in the 5 Commands between  May 23rd to June 1st, while the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon Yakubu Dogora would be the Special Guest at a Special Programme to commemorate this year’s edition at the Naval Dockyard in Lagos. According to him, about seven countries including United States of America, China, Portugal, Ghana, Cameroun, and Togo would also participate in a military exercise to mark the event, while the Nigerian Navy Military School, Ikot Ntuen in Akwa Ibom State would be commissioned on May 23, 2018. Admiral Ibas said other activities lined up for the programme include a Jummat Prayer, an Interdenominational Church Service, a Medical Rhapsody and the opening of some Naval Ships to visitors. He said, “The Nigerian Navy has been unrelenting in its operations to protect the nation’s maritime environment against all forms of threats to the country’s interests. In this regard, the NN routinely carries out surveillance and patrol of the maritime area with available surveillance systems, ships and helicopters. “Such policing operations are specifically aimed at checking crude oil theft, illegal bunkering, piracy/sea robbery and illegal fishing among others. “Operation Tsare Teku and River Sweep are ongoing operations to address illegalities in the Blue and Brown waters respectively.  I am delighted to inform you that in spite of daunting challenges, the NN is encouraged by the success it has recorded so far. “Available records show that in the last one year, the NN has sustained aggressive patrol within the nation’s maritime environment covering over 22,000 hours. “In the process at least 42 vessels have been arrested for involvement in various illegalities in Nigeria’s maritime domain and undergoing various stages of investigations and prosecutions. Furthermore, the NN personnel are involved in various Internal Security operations in the coastal states of the Federation and some other states including Borno, Yobe, Adamawa and Plateau states amongst others. “I am also to emphasise that the Nigerian Navy is aware of the current state of sooth over Port-Harcourt and environs. “Currently, action is being taking to address this concern which is inclusive of stakeholders’ engagement and the establishment of a dedicated task force to address the matter. Very shortly the issue will be effectively dealt with, to bring lasting solution.” 