•49 make First Class The Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi, will be honoured with honorary doctorate degree at the 23rd convocation of Ekiti State University (EKSU). The Vice Chancellor, Prof. Sam Oye Bandele, announced this yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital, when he addressed reporters on activities marking this year’s convocation. Bandele said the Ooni, who will bag Doctor of Public Administration, would be honoured for his contribution to education, human development and philanthropic gestures since ascending the throne in 2016. Also to be conferred with honorary doctorates are: the Odoba of Ado-Ekiti, Chief Alex Olu Ajayi (Doctor of Public Administration), Mr. Abiodun Olusegun Adedapo (Doctor of Finance), Dr. Olasehinde Olatunji (Doctor of Public Administration), Mr. Israel Ovirih (Doctor of Finance) and Dr. Falil Ayo Abina (Doctor of Economics). Bandele said Ajayi, a former Registrar of University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University), would be honoured for donating his building for the take-off of EKSU in 1982. The VC added that Adedapo, the Executive Chairman of Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC), Olatunji, Ovirih and Abina would be honoured for their support for the university and contribution to humanity. He noted that of the 9,796 graduates who will get first degrees at the convocation, 49 of them have First Class Honours. Bandele said they will be decorated at the conferment of higher degrees, postgraduate diplomas and award of prizes on June 23. A total 1,789, the vice chancellor said, will get Second Class Upper; 5,189 will get Second Class Lower; 2,704 with Third Class and 65 with Pass. According to him, they will get their scrolls on June 22. A summary of postgraduate degree graduating students shows that 79 will get PhD, 217 will get Masters and 88 postgraduate diplomas. Bandele added that the convocation lecture, titled: Can Dry Bones Rise Again? A Peep Into the Revitalisation Story of the Nigerian University System, will be delivered by a former Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Peter Okebukola. Bandele said the university had made giant strides in learning and research, sports, literary, drama and other fields.