 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has distributed non-sensitive electoral materials across the sixteen local government areas ahead of the July 14 governorship election. The Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC), Prof. AbdulGaniy Raji, disclosed this to reporters at a security meeting with party candidates held at the state police command headquarters in Ado-Ekiti. The meeting was attended by all heads of security agencies in the state including the Police, Department of State Services (DSS), Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) and Nigeria Prisons Service (NPS). He explained that the sensitive materials will be distributed to the council areas twenty four hours before the election is held. The electoral chief explained that INEC would be fair and transparent to all political parties adding that the votes of the electorate will count at the poll. Raji said: “We are satisfied with the meeting and we have cordial relations with the political parties. They have all agreed to remain calm before, during and after the election and we are counting on their words. We on our part, we promised to remain with our core values, to be transparent and be fair to all. “We are fully prepared for the election. All non-sensitive materials have all been distributed to the local government areas and the sensitive materials will only come a day before election. “I have been around the local government areas in the state and we have asked for the cooperation to ensure peace reign during the election. We have equally given them our words to ensure that people’s vote count. With the structures will have put in place, the votes must count.” Candidates standing for the election have pledged to maintain peace before, during and after the July 14 poll “in the interest of the state” All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, said the security agencies assured of them adequate security of lives and property of the citizens. Represented by Director of Mobilization of his campaign, Mr. Femi Bamisile, Fayemi, while lamenting recent killings in the state, noted that the candidates have all agreed with the security agencies on ways to ensure peaceful poll in the state. He said: “We had an interactive session with the security agencies, we all basically agreed to what the security apparatus had told us and I want to tell you this is not the first election we will be having in Ekiti state. “It is a process that needs to be done. All political parties told them (security agencies) what our problem is and what we have been able to envisaged on, killings that has been happening within the state. “We discussed and we assured them that we are going to have hitch-free in the state without intimidation from anybody. What bothers the mind is that why are the killings happening in this period of election.” People’s Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, stressed that the interactive session has availed candidates to agree on how to prevent violence in the course of the campaigns and on election day. The Deputy Governor urged the people of the state to summon the courage on the day of election to exercise their civic rights, adding that federal would not work in the state. Olusola said: “We just concluded an interactive session with the security agencies and all of us the candidates have agreed on certain issues as it relate with how to prevent violence and other things. They have assured us and we believe with what transpired today, all stakeholders are prepared for free, fair and transparent poll come July 14. “The people should be bold enough to go out and perform their civic right. Nobody will harass anybody because the security agencies have assured us of non-partisanship. No federal might will work here, electorates should go out cast their votes and leave the rest.” Also the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bello Ahmed assured that all security agencies are ready for the poll, noting that flashpoints in the state had been analyzed. Ahmed said: “The essence of the discussion is to analyze the current political situations in the state. We all know current situation of the state ahead of the July 14 poll. “At the moments, all the candidates have been told our own side and we want to assure them that the remaining period of the campaigns and voting day, all must be well. “We briefed them on our security arrangement and urge the need to play by the rules and everybody must be allowed to exercise their franchise. So far, so good, we are ready to conduct this election even if it is tomorrow.”