Chika Oparah is an up and coming actress who has been nursing the dream of being at the top of producers’ list since childhood. Presently pushing her dream, she has acted a couple of roles in different movies including Men in Bondage, African Tradition, Madam Export, Poverty Palava, Huzzle, Woa Men, Dorobucci Love and D Don; presently showing on Africa Magic, playing alongside some A-list actors. In this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, the actress, who is in her 30s, speaks on her challenges, quarrel with fellow actress, Amanda Ebiye, among other issues. What attracted you to acting? From my childhood, I have  always wanted to be seen on TV because I grew up watching ‘Kiddies Vision 101’ and ‘Tales by Moonlight’. Then, there was this man from my mum’s place who was an actor. He still acts though. Whenever he comes to my mum’s shop to say hi, I would tell him I wanted to act and his response to me then would be; ‘You will but you have to finish school first.’ I wasn’t comfortable with his response and I told myself I would find my own way because it has always been my passion. I did find my own way but it was after secondary school. What then would you say has been your greatest accomplishment? Presently, I would say nothing because I haven’t got there.  I mean, I’m yet to get to that point where I can sit back and know that producers will always pencil down my name as top on their list whenever a female actor is needed. For now, I am still pushing. But ask me this same question next year, trust me you would get a positive reply. Have you progressed in your acting career as you have expected? For where? (Laughs). I still have a long way to go. I want to be known all over the world so help me God. Lupita Nyong’o is one of the African ladies that are known all over the world.  I want to be that popular. How do you communicate with a snobbish A-list actor? ! I have worked with the likes of Imeh Bishop (Okon) late Prince James Uche, John Okafor (Mr Ibu) Tuvi James, Ruth Kadiri, and a host of others. I have also been on the same set with Oge Okoye, Annie Idibia, John Pop, Pete Edochie, and others. I can’t mention all but these ones I have worked with are nice and down to earth and they help carry upcoming actors along. If I happen to be on set with the ones with attitude, I won’t approach them. I will only do my job and mind my business. Of all the roles you have played in the past, which is your favorite? For now I would say, ‘Dorobucci Love’.  I played the role of Mr Ibu’s girlfriend but I wasn’t a loyal girlfriend. I was only with him because of the little money I got from him. Meanwhile I had a more handsome guy whom I was really dealing with. It is my favourite for now because the role was challenging, considering the fact that, that isn’t my kind of person (smile). Who is your favorite actor and why? Genevieve Nnaji is my favourite and that is because she is one raw talent that fits into any character like it’s nothing. Another actor whose personality I love is Lupita Nyongo’o. Her journey is very inspiring. What are you working on at the moment? For now I have no jobs at hand. I lost two jobs last month because my phone was bad and was off for two weeks and four days. I later found out that while it was switched off, a producer in Asaba and one in Lagos tried reaching me but couldn’t get across. But hopefully next month I should be on set. Define your acting style? I can’t have a style when I have no idea of the roles that would be given to me in different sets. So, I do not have a style. I fit into any character and act it like it’s me. When you suffer setback, how does it emotionally affect you and your work? Once I am on set, I put all my personal problems behind me. I don’t allow it affect my work. I remember three years ago, I was on a set with Amanda Ebiye. We were playing best friends but we weren’t getting along on set; we would quarrel and abuse one another but once we are on camera we play our roles perfectly and that for me is being professional. Tell me about giving back to the society in your own little way? I have a team that we work together; lending a hand to the less-privileged and helping up and coming artistes to achieve their dreams. I believe that we climb by helping one another. You can’t be big with a small heart. So how is your relationship with Ebiye now? We haven’t met each other after the set but I don’t like her because to me, she is full of herself. That was the impression she gave me. If called again to play alongside Ebiye, would you turn down the role? Of course, I wouldn’t. Our differences have nothing to do with our jobs. We would put that aside and get into the characters we are asked to play. Have you experienced sexual assault on set or for a role? I don’t think I have experienced such. But it is believed that young actors face sexual harassment to get roles? Well, I can’t speak for others but can speak for myself. I haven’t been harassed by any producer or director. Why haven’t you considered quitting since you  have not made hit limelight? No way.  I not  quitting what I have a passion for. I knew it wasn’t going to be easy but I told myself I right from the very beginning that I won’t quit until I achieve my goal. Are there plans to settle down soon and would you go for someone in the same line? I will settle down if the right man proposes to me but I am not bothered about that for now. On marrying someone in the same field, if we click I would. Aren’t you scared of being criticized about being single? Criticized? I am not off-age so why would anyone criticize me? Marriage is not what one rushes into. One needs to pray about it and leave the rest for God. I will get married when the right time comes. In your opinion, should Nigerian actors be engaged in pornographic movies? No, no, no. It’s not in our culture and shouldn’t be allowed. Not engaging in pornographic movie doesn’t mean we aren’t professionals. It’s just not in our culture to do such movies or be seen acting in such roles.