AS pan Nigerian concert train, the Real Deal Experience makes its next stop in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, the organisers have announced that popular Igbo Highlife music group, the Obiligbo Brothers will headline the show. Scheduled for June 10, 2018 at the Xmas Carnival Ground, Elekahia Road, Port Harcourt, this is the second time in a row that the artistes will be treating fans to an exciting concert. Sponsored by Legend Extra Stout, the Port Harcourt show follows the singer’s critically acclaimed performance in Onitsha during the May edition of The Real Deal Experience. Organisers say the Obiligbo Brothers who are fast becoming fans’ favorites in the entire South-East and South-South, are returning by popular demand. Speaking ahead of the show, the two brothers who have enjoyed massive success with the release of their latest studio album “UDO GA DI”, said: “First we want to thank Legend Extra Stout for creating the Real Deal Experience show. For us, every opportunity to perform in front of our fans is a big deal and the feeling that comes with doing it on Real Deal Experience stage is even more exciting. We are glad to be performing two times in a row after our last show in Onitsha. We can’t wait to step on stage and bring the best of highlife music to the Port Harcourt audience.” Portfolio Manager – Mainstream Lager & Stout Brands NBPlc., Mr. Emmanuel Agu while commenting on the upcoming Port Harcourt event said: “In our usual tradition of giving the best to Nigerians, we are glad to bring the thrills, fun and excitement of Legend Real Deal Experience to Port Harcourt. Besides giving the residents of the city an unforgettable experience with music and entertainment, we will also be interacting directly with our customers in the beautiful city.” The Legend Real Deal Experience show which involves music, comedy, role play, brand education, eulogy, games, prizes and lots more, will see former BBNaija 2018 housemate and lover of the brand Ifu Ennada co-host the event alongside popular comedian De Don. The Real Deal Experience show also features the ‘taste, tell and win’ competition which is a blind taste test wherein consumers identify Legend Extra Stout as the Real Stout and winners get to win exciting prizes. Over the years, the show has had some of Nigeria’s biggest stars such as Timaya, 9ice, Kcee, Oritsefemi, and others entertain fans across different cities including Lagos, Ibadan, Onitsha, Umuahia, Abuja, Port Harcourt, Abakaliki, and Owerri.