Gov. David Umahi on Thursday suspended the state Commissioner for Solid Minerals Development, Chief Francis Orji, indefinitely for gross misconduct. Sen. Emmanuel Onwe, the state Commissioner for Information and State Orientation, disclosed this to newsmen during a joint press briefing with other state Executive Council (EXCO) members. Onwe said that Orji committed acts embarrassing to the state government. Orji was formerly in charge of water resources before being moved to the Ministry of Border, Peace and Conflict Resolution and subsequently re-deployed to the Ministry of Solid Minerals. According to him, the Deputy Principal Secretary, Chief Emmanuel Obasi, will take charge as the acting commissioner for 30 days. Umahi had previously suspended indefinitely the former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Chief Augustine Nwankwegu, and the Commissioner for Agriculture, Chief Moses Nome. The suspensions later resulted in the sack of both officials. Onwe further told newsmen that Mr David Nweke, an accountant with the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) had been recommended for special commendation by the EXCO. “Nweke displayed an act of integrity and honesty by returning N20 million to the state government coffers which was excess payment made by the board. “He detected the anomaly, being the accounting officer whom the funds passed through and returned it to government coffers. “The chairman of EXCO, who is the state governor, approved that Nweke should be promoted at least by one grade level with immediate effect and given special commendation. “The governor also approved that Nweke should be given an official vehicle in appreciation of his act of integrity and honesty,” he said. Meanwhile, Dr Chamberlain Nwele, the Head of Service, said that the state government would offset the total cost of burying the late Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Chief Fidelis Mbam. “The EXCO has approved a state burial for Mbam for his performance in the position and other positions he held before his demise.” “He was an astute politician, technocrat, bureaucrat,” Nwele said. The burial ceremonies commenced on Wednesday with a service of songs while the lying in state ceremony was held on Thursday at the State Cabinet Office. The burial will hold on Friday NAN