SENATORS resolved yesterday to request the electoral agency that conducted the 1993 presidential election believed to have been won by the late Chief Moshood Abiola to declare the results. The military government of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida halted the tally of the results and the announcement of the winner after states had released the results. Gen. Babangida, for no just reason, annulled the results and declared the election invalid. The resolution of the Senate followed President Muhammadu Buhari’s declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day and the posthumous award of GCFR to Chief MKO Abiola. Senator Lanre Tejuoso (Ogun Central) drew the attention of the Senate to the recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day by President Buhari. He prayed the upper chamber to acknowledge the feat achieved by President Buhari in his recognition of June 12 as Democracy Day. He said the time was ripe for reconciliation in the country as was demonstrated by President Buhari in his recognition of Abiola and Babagana Kingibe for their roles in the June 12 election. Senate President Bukola Saraki agreed that reconciliation was long overdue in Abiola’s matter.  . Saraki hoped that honouring  Abiola would go a long way to heal the wounds inflicted by the annulment of the June 12,1993 election. Senator Biodun Olujimi (Ekiti South) raised another motion – that the debate of  the proclamation  of  June 12 as Democracy Day should be thrown open for others to contribute. She praised Buhari’s courage  recognising  the June 12 election and added that the result of the election should be announced and Chief Abiola and Kingibe declared President and Vice President. Olujimi said only the result’s announcement would make Buhari’s gesture not be taken as a Greek gift. She said that after the announcement of the result of the June 12 election, reparation should be paid to the family members of Chief Abiola and to Kingibe. Senate Leader  Ahmed Lawan said on June 12, 1993, Nigerians voted for a candidate of their choice without ethnic colouration. Lawan said it was obvious that President Buhari uplifted Nigerians’ spirits by recognising June 12 as Democracy Day. He prayed the Senate to be supportive of the President’s declaration while encouraging Nigerians to always vote for candidates on their merits. He said that Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) senators might want to make a caricature of what the President did. Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, who also commended President Buhari for the recognition of June 12, quoted Section 135 of the Constitution to insist that May 29 of every year must remain the date of inauguration of elected officers. Ekweremadu said since President Buhari had elected to redress injustices in the country, he should go the whole hog to address injustices wherever they exist. Ekweremadu supported that the electoral agency should be prevailed upon to release the results “so that Chief Abiola will be known as president and Kingibe vice president of Nigeria”. Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe said the Executive should quickly bring to the National Assembly the Act dealing with posthumous awards for amendment to accommodate Buhari’s announcement. Abaribe (Abia South) proposed that December 31, 1983 be declared democracy destruction day “because this is the same day this same President staged a coup to remove elected government of President Shehu Shagari”. Senator Jibrin Barau (Kano North) raised a point of order to the effect that Abaribe’s motion should be discountenanced because it introduced matters not related to the subject under discussion. Saraki sustained the point of order. Senator Dino Melaye (Kogi West) said that although Abiola deserved the honour , the rule of law should always be followed. Melaye said a dead man should not be considered a citizen of the country. Saraki ruled that the good intention in the recognition of June 12 should be taken. He noted that though there might be imperfections, the good intention should be taken. The Senate subsequently adopted that the result of the June 12, 1993 should be announced and resolved that: .Abiola’s and Kingibe ‘s entitlements should be paid; and that .May 29 remains the day of inauguration of elected officers.