President Muhammadu Buhari may have a rival at the All Progressives Congress (APC) presidential primary. An engineer and management expert, Dr. Sylvester Kenechukwu Ogbonnia, has thrown his hat into the ring. He said he is not intimidated by the power of incumbency. “I have what it takes to make Nigeria the toast of the free world. I know the problems and how to solve them,” he told reporters in Lagos, where he unfolded his ambition. Ogbonnia has identified the lack of political will and inability of leaders to implement laudable policies as the bane of development. Besides, he noted that indiscipline has persisted because there is no consequence for bad behaviour. “Any system where anything goes, goes nowhere,” he said. The Enugu State-born  aspirant has degrees in civil engineering, sociology and public administration. He holds a doctorate degree in Applied Management and Decision Sciences from Walden University. He has worked with the Nigeria Electricity Power Authority (NEPA) and the United Bank for Africa (UBA). Ogbonnia is the Chairman of First Texas Energy Corporation, United States. The message on his lip is that help is on the way. He lauded President Buhari for what he has done so far. But, he said he would perform better as a credible alternative, if giving the opportunity. Ogbonnia declared that Nigeria is yearning for a great leadership far more than those behind the change mantra can achieve. “Every extraordinary circumstance requires extraordinary action. Every extraordinary action calls for an extraordinary leader. I make hold to say I am that leader. I have the unique will, passion and the capacity, home and abroad, to unleash the abundant potential of Nigeria to greatness,” he said. But, is Ogbonnia not swimming against the tide of zoning? He is conscious of its endless manipulation to score some points. Lamenting the dark side of zoning, he said: “They will cling on region and religion to divide us so that they can continue to loot our country for selfish interests. But, I have a bad news for them. “The Nigerian masses, particularly the youths, have become wiser. They have come to realise that we do not talk about region or religion when they think of three square meals. They do not think of region or religion when they lose their loved ones, when they encounter bad roads, epileptic power of fuel supply, poor health facilities, school fees, high unemployment. What these masses want is the solution; a better country for all.” In Ogbonnia’s view, leadership is the base. The bad leadership is responsible for poor medical facilities, bad roads, armed robbery and kidnapping. In the midst of the rot, he noted that few privileged leaders appear insensitive to the plight of the poor majority. Quoting former American President John Kennedy, he said: “If a free society cannot help the many who are poor, it cannot save the few who are rich.” The aspirant said he will implement socio-economic problems that will liberate the poor. He promised an efficient healthcare delivery, saying that his administration will implement existing policies to make health care efficient and affordable for all. “We will start by equipping eight existing hospitals to international standards within six months of being in office. This will also curb the current wave of medical tourism,” he added. Ogbonnia said his education policy will ensure that teachers are well paid so that they can focus on teaching and research, instead of handouts and petty trading to supplement their income. If the power crisis is resolved, the aspirant said the country will heave a sigh of relief. He said his government will usher in a power revolution through decentralized energy policy that will involve state and federal government and the private sector. “No state or zone can hold the nation hostage because of perceived monopoly of the source of power,” he stressed. Ogbonnia promised to tackle youth unemployment through diversification of the economy and sustained local and foreign investment. However, he stressed that “it is wishful thinking to expect good results in any of the above without first being able to produce adequate power supply in the country.” Reflecting on the agitation for restructuring, the APC chieftain said the first step is the scrapping of the bi-cameral legislature. He said the Senate should be abolished to reduce the cost of governance. “Besides serving as an added conduit to siphon money for selfish interests, there is nothing the Senate can do that the House of Representatives, a more representative body, cannot do,” he added. To reduce farmers/herdsmen clashes, Ogbonnia said he will build ranches similar to the patter where traders will rent market stalls and pay taxes. Noting that the killings are barbaric, he said he sid he will disarm the herdsmen so that they will not pose any threat. Ogbonnia agreed with President Buhari that corruption is the greatest problem. “Nigeria is a place of negative freedom, where people are free to be corrupt. They give three year jail term to a person who stole a goat. There is endless adjournment for people who stole billions,” he said, adding: “Nigeria is not more corrupt than the USA. The difference is that there are serious and immediate consequences for bad behaviour in the American history.” To properly wage war against graft, he said Nigeria will require a Patriot Act similar to the one that is operating in the United States. Ogbonnia said democracy is on crutches, stressing that operators lack democratic credentials. He said the doctrine of democracy was hanging as a member of the opposition became the Deputy Senate President in a national Assembly where the ruling APC has the majority. The mistake, he said, should not be repeated in the future. The aspirant chided former President Olusegun Obasanjo for mocking his antecedent as an exponent of one-party system. He wondered why the former leader is pushing the third force to fight the ruling party, having failed tom lay a good example while in power. “In 1989, Obasanjo faulted multi-party system. He canvassed a one party system. In 2003, he mocked behind new parties, saying that the proliferation of parties will be to his advantage as he was seeking a second term. He said the PDP will defeat the smaller and weaker parties. Why is he now going about with a third force?” he queried.