A group in Cross River State has endorsed the governorship aspiration of Mr John Upan Odey jnr in next year’s election. The group, known as Cross River Good Governance League, made up of politicians and stakeholders across three senatorial districts of the state, rising from a meeting in Calabar, said after a proper assessment of all governorship aspirants, they agreed that Odey stands out as one with the qualities to take over from the incumbent, Professor Ben Ayade. Addressing reporters at the end of the meeting Chairman of the group, Comrade Edward Effiom, said that the delegates at the meeting deliberated on all the aspirants, their qualities and came to the conclusion that Odey represents the future leader the state needs. “The meeting we just finished has been very revealing and rewarding because about 500 delegates including youths, women leaders, opinion leaders, politicians, students, and representatives of various political parties, came together under one roof to chart a way forward for Crossriverians, because 2019 is fast approaching. “At the meeting, it was unanimously  resolved that John Upan Odey, should be given all the necessary support to succeed Ayade in 2019, and as  delegates from across the state, we agree and  endorsed Upan Odey jnr  to  become the next governor of the state. “By our assessment, he cuts a true picture of the future of Cross River State, being a young man, and a professional banker with so many parts, and years of experience. He is an author, banker, micro-biologist, banker, entrepreneur, philanthropist and politician. “Upan Odey has what it takes. He has the development attributes of former Governors Donald Duke and Liyel Imoke, put together, and will surely lead the state to greater heights. “You know he is from the northern senatorial district, and he is most suitable to complete the second term of four years for the zone, and when you  look at his curriculum vitae,  our  people will be convinced he is the young man we should support/vote  in 2019,” Effiom said. Born in December, 1977, Odey is from Obudu local government area of Cross River State.