Nigerian Information Technology power house, 21st Century Technologies has entered into strategic partnership with Schneider Electric to launch the first Tier IV data centres in Nigeria and in Africa. A Tier  IV data centre is reputed to be fault-resistant and prepares for unplanned activity while maintaining operations with a facility that guarantees success. 21st Century Technologies is bringing an innovation that experiences just 26.3 minutes of downtime yearly, a giant improvement over Tiers 1, 2 and 3  data centres that experiences 28.8, 22  and 1.6 hours down time yearly. The deal consummated at a business luncheon that had: Technology and Business efficiency as theme. It was hosted by the Franco-Nigerian Chamber of Commerce and Industry at the Lagos Continental Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. 21st Century Technologies Chief Executive Officer, Wale Ajisebutu said the company resolved to build five  Tier IV data centres  in parts of Lagos State to ensure that each business district has access to a data centre to further drive commercial operations by lowering cost. According to him, the centres, which are to be sited in Apapa, Maryland, Ikeja, Surulere and Lekki would be fully operational before the end of the year to serve various sectors of the economy, including small and medium enterprises (SMEs). Ajisebutu said the data centres are not  enough compared  to  technology evolution for big data and advanced solutions, adding that the firm is partnering a world-class company to build a world-class infrastructure. “Our aim at 21st Century is to revolutionalise ICT practice in Nigeria and this is why we are bringing this innovation for the benefit of every one at a cheaper rate. Our facilities boast of latest sophisticated equipment, applications, security infrastructure et.c at a convenient price. Customers are at liberty to pay for service as they consume and also make payment in local currency,” he said. He stressed the need for the country and indeed business entities to tighten security as cybercrime would continue to threaten businesses. 21st century Technologies Director, Sales and Marketing, Assan Cham said the more digitalised the economy,  the more important it is to secure the  cyberspace. “During the past years, 21st Century