 To opine that boxing legend Floyd Mayweather is enjoying the fruit of his labour to the fullest is to put it mildly. It is a well reported fact that Mayweather has a lot of money and he enjoys making a point of this on a regular basis. The boxing legend, who is reported by Celebrity Net Worth to be worth around $560million (£418m), cashed in on his last professional fight against MMA star Conor McGregor back in August last year reportedly taking home over £70m. He has since – as he was before coming out of retirement – been living the high life and has provided yet more evidence that his wealth is almost limitless on his Instagram story. The 41-year-old posted two videos on his social media account. The first was a boastful display of his material wealth, which showed stacks upon stacks of money sprawled across a bed – with O.T. Genasis’ Everybody Mad track playing in the background. There is no way of possibly calculating how much was on display, but the only thing that can be confirmed is that it’s a lot, and only a mere fraction of the wealth at Mayweather’s disposal. The second instalment comes inside luxury retail outlet store, where Mayweather enjoys a private shop. With a nickname like ‘Money’, it is no surprise that Mayweather takes great pride in his wealth and after a historic career of 50 professional fights without tasting defeat, many would argue he has more than earned his disposable income. ‘See, there’s something you (have) got to realise,’ he says. ‘I shop when nobody else is at the store, except for my crew.’I shop when I want to, special hours. Come with me.’ Mayweather walks into the deserted department store to make his point. He heads into a dressing room where he dumps more cash onto the floor. He snaps his fingers and laughs. Life is good for the now retired boxing legend.  It is not only the money that is worthy of celebration for the Money man, only recently he took to the social media to celebrate his son  who graduated from High school adding ‘I’m so proud of my son for doing something that I didn’t do’ – Floyd …             