|The Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) community has been thrown into mourning, following the death of a 100-Level student of Arabic Language, Muhammad Jamiu Abdulrasheed. The student died last Monday at Usmanu Danfodiyo University Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), where he was on admission for cancer treatment. Jamiu’s death came a few weeks after the death of another 100-Level Law student. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the deceased, who was an indigene of Kwara State, was initially admitted in the school clinic before he was transferred to the Teaching Hospital last Thursday. He was joined in the hospital by his mother, who travelled from Ilorin to Sokoto. Dean of Students’ Affairs (DSA), Prof Aminu Mode, said the school made effort to keep the student alive, but said God’s wishes for the late Jamiu prevailed. He said: “His death came to us a rude shock. The university tried all its best to give him best care and all the medical expenses were borne by the school. Sadly, all our efforts and doctors’ efforts to keep him alive went down. God has wished that he would not survive it.” The DSA stressed that the university would ensure safe return of his mother back home, adding: “We will make sure that our staff escort his mother back home.” Funeral prayer was said for the late Jamiu on Tuesday at UDUTH before the body was buried at the university burial ground on the main campus. His classmate, Mustapha Zulkarnaini, expressed shock over the incident, describing the deceased as a “very responsible person”. Mustapha said: “The death of Jamiu is a shock to me. He was gentle and wouldn’t fight anyone. He was also brilliant, because he had the Arabic background before his admission. Sometimes, even if I didn’t come for lectures, he would be the one to call me.” His close friend, Abdul-Hameed Sheikh described him as “a humble person” and prayed for the repose of his soul. He said: “Jamiu was a responsible member of the class. His death is a loss to the entire class, our department and the university at large.”