•Large crowd attends burial PIONEER Chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (lCPC) and first Wakilin Ilorin Justice Mustapha Akanbi is dead. The former Appeal Court president passed on in the early hours of yesterday at the age of 85. The son of the late octogenarian, Prof. Mohammad Akanbi, confirmed his father’s death. He said his father died in a private hospital in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, after a brief illness. The body of the late jurist was interred at his Ilorin GRA home around 2.30pm yesterday. Chief Imam of Ilorin Sheikh Mohammed Bashir led the prayer that preceded internment. A large crowd attended the burial rites that did not last more than 10 minutes. The Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed led the pack of dignitaries that attended the burial. Other dignitaries include a retired Appeal Court President Justice Ayo Salami; pioneer Grand Khadi of Kwara State Justice AbdulKadir Orire; Kwara State’s Chief Judge Justice Sulyman Kawu; Mallam Yusuf Ali (SAN); Adelodun Salman (SAN); Kehinde Elena (SAN); Saka Isau (SAN) and the state’s Grand Khadi Justice Ola AbdulKadir. Others are former grand Khadis Imam Oba Fulani, AbdilMutalib Ambali and Solihu Mohammed; All Progressives Congress (APC) National Publicity Secretary Bolaji Abdullahi; Joint Admission and Matriculation Board’s (JAMB) Registrar Prof. Is-haq Oloyede; Vice Chancellors, University of Ilorin (Prof. Sulymam AbdulKareem), Kwara State University, Malete (Prof. AbdulRasheed Na’ Allah) and Al- Hikmah University (Prof. Ibrahim Taofik). Also in attendance were former Kwara Chief Judge Justice Raliat Elelu-Habeeb; Rector, Kwara State Polytechnic, Ilorin Mas’ud Elelu; former Minister of Transport Bio Ibrahim; former Kwara House of Assembly Speaker Babatunde Mohammed, members of the state executive council and prominent Islamic scholars from far and near. In a brief prayer after the burial, the Chief Imam of Ilorin prayed Allah to receive Justice Akanbi as His true servant. He expressed delight that the late jurist led a virtuous and righteous life, urging Nigerian leaders across board to emulate his simple lifestyle and exemplary conduct “through which he impacted positively on the lives of numerous people”. Ahmed, Emir, Speaker, others grieve  Governor Ahmed, in his condolence message, described Akanbi’s death as shocking. Ahmed, in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, said the state and Nigeria have lost a rare gem, philanthropist and revivalist. “Justice Akanbi’s years in the bench as an incorruptible judge, his stint at ICPC, struggle for good governance and involvement in community services would remain indelible in the history of Nigeria,” the governor said. The governor explained that the late Akanbi’s philanthropist gesture and investment in education would be greatly missed by all. Ahmed prayed Allah to grant the judge Aljanat fridaus and give the family, the Ilorin Emirate, Kwara State and Nigeria as a whole the fortitude to bear the loss. Emir of Ilorin and Chairman of Kwara State Traditional Council Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari expressed sadness over the late jurist’s death. In his condolence message signed by the National Secretary of Shehu Alimi Foundation for Peace and Development, Mallam Abdulazeez Arowona, the emir described the late Akanbi as an incorruptible judicial officer, who served the nation without blemish. He noted that the late jurist was instrumental to the mentorship of many legal practitioners both in the bar and on the bench through his unique and sterling qualities of equity, fairness and justice to all. According to him, “We have lost a rare gem in the Ilorin Emirate and nation at large. The history of judicial system in Nigeria would not be complete without adequate reference to the tremendous contributions of the late Wakili of Ilorin. We were together in the judiciary at different point in time up to the Court of Appeal. Kwara State House of Assembly Speaker Dr. Ali Ahmad described the late justice as one of the best judges ever produced by the judiciary. A statement issued by the Speaker’s Special Assistant on Media, Shuaib Abdulkadir said the late jurist was an icon of Nigeria’s judiciary. He stressed that his demise was a colossal loss to the nation. The Speaker noted that the pioneer ICPC chairman was acknowledged for his deep knowledge of law, disciplined personality and as an incorruptible jurist. Also, Abdullahi said the passage of Justice Akanbi was a painful and irreplaceable loss to the Ilorin Emirate, Kwara State and Nigeria as a whole. He described the late Akanbi as a man of peace, integrity and honour who, as a lawyer and judge, contributed greatly to the development of Nigeria’s legal system. In his own message, a chieftain of the APC, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, expressed shock over the demise of Akanbi. He described Akanbi as a father to all, a truly incorruptible judge, anti-corruption czar and great philanthropist. Baraje said during his lifetime, the late jurist served Allah wholeheartedly, the country diligently and made positive impacts on the society, which made him a role model to many people in Nigeria. Appeal Court President Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa said the Akanbi’s death has left the nation and judiciary with a vacuum that may be difficult to fill. Justice Bulkachuwa, in a condolence letter, described the late sage as a pious and fearless incorruptible jurist. General Secretary of Textile Workers Union and Vice President of Industriall Global Union Comrade Issa Aremu has mourned the former President of Court of Appeal. He described him as a selfless, hard and smart working, incorruptible and generous statesman. In a statement from Saudi Arabia, where he went for Lesser Hajj, Aremu said the late Akanbi lived an impactful live and he would be sorely missed in Nigeria and Africa.