As part of measures to ensure a hitch-free convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), the police said it has deployed 5,000 personnel from various units and two helicopters to the venue of the convention. The police also said that six Armoured Personnel Carriers (APC) had been deployed to the venue of the convention billed to hold at the Eagle Square in Abuja today. The police also said it would divert traffic from the venue from 10 pm on yesterday till the end of the convention. The foregoing were contained in a statement issued by Force Spokesman, Ag. DCP Jimoh Moshood in Abuja yesterday. Moshood said that only one aide would be allowed entry to the venue with their principal. The statement reads: “The Inspector-General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris has directed the implementation of a robust security arrangement to ensure a secured and hitch-free convention. “A total 5,000 police personnel comprising the Police Mobile Force (PMF), the Counter Terrorism Unit (CTU), Special Protection Unit (SPU), the Explosive Ordinance Department (EOD), the Police Mounted Troop, The Dog Section (K9), the Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation Department (FCIID), the Police Air-wing and the Force Armament Unit have been deployed under the supervision of the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operations, to ensure adequate security for all the accredited participants at the convention. “Security coverage have been provided also at all the accreditation centres. “Two Police helicopters, Six Armoured Personnel Carrier (APC) are already deployed for the security of the convention.” The police also said personnel of other security and safety agencies would also be deployed to complement the police in ensuring adequate security and hitch-free convention. The Force also stated that only accredited delegates and accredited party officials bearing the APC identification tags will be allowed into the venue. The police also said that personnel of all security and safety agencies deployed for the security of the convention must also wear the certified identification tag conspicuously at the venue. “The Nigeria Police Force hereby warns all unauthorised individuals and groups who have no business with the convention to steer clear of the venue. “The full weight of the law will be applied on any person or group of persons who try to disrupt the orderliness and conduct of the convention,” the statement said. Moshood also said the personnel deployed are under strict instruction to be civil, polite but strict and firm in the discharge of their duties during the convention. On the diversion of traffic, he said: “There will be diversion of traffic from all the routes to the Eagle Square from Ahmadu Bello Way, Shehu Shagari Way and other roads leading to the venue of the convention. “Road users and other members of the public are advised to use alternative routes. The diversion of traffic will take effect from 2200hrs of 22nd of June, 2018 till the end of the convention.” He also charged members of the public with complaint or observation on security issue to call the following numbers: “08032003913, 08061581938, and 07057337653”.