Secretary-General of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Mr. Anthony N. Z Sani, has opposed restructuring options put forward by Ohanaeze Ndigbo, especially six-year single term for president and governors, six vice presidents, and creation of an additional state in the Southeast. In this interview with Abdulgafar Alabelewe, Sani says structure is not Nigeria’s problem. Excerpts WHAT is your take on recent proposal for single tenure? I do not subscribe to single tenure for president and governors let alone to multiple vice presidents, precisely because apart from being divisive, such provision has no provision for incentives, motivation and reward for hard work, since both the performing and feckless leaders are grouped the same. And we all know that any management practice that is devoid of incentives and motivation for good performance is unserviceable. What is more, single tenure is undemocratic because it tends to limit the choice of best candidate to a particular region or zone, thereby promoting cleavages of the nation along regional or zonal lines and make people to believe that unless their own is in government, they cannot have access to national resources. This mindset is unhelpful and should not be promoted. I cannot support multiple vice presidents which is uncalled for. We should try and make the most of our diversity given by God by working hard to overcome what divides the people. Ohanaeze also recently called for redrafting of the current constitution of the country, saying it is a military document. Is the constitution really Nigeria’s problem? I have never believed the constitution is the problem of Nigeria but our attitudes and the way we do things. No matter how good the law, the usefulness to society has to do with judgement of the operators. I do not think our problems have to do with the constitution but with our attitudes and the way we do things. Now that you said structure is not Nigeria’s problem, would you then welcome the idea of scrapping the local government, as proposed in some quarters, considering that local government is the closest to the people? Those hankering for abolition of local government are those who believe everything which does not go their own way is unserviceable. This kind of mindset is unhelpful. I say this because there are criteria for creation of local governments: population, land and even cultural affinity. We cannot abolish local government system simply because a group feels short changed. I therefore see nothing wrong with the local government system. What we need do is to improve the management practices and democracy at that level by abolishing the Joint Account and state electoral commissions both of which are used by state governments against management of local government for performance. Aside their agitation for resource control, the Igbos are also asking for creation of one more state in the Southeast, do you think these requests are legitimate? I find it morally preposterous for Southeast to ask for additional state purely on equality as if there are no standard criteria used for creation of states. There are standard and acceptable criteria applied in creation of states. You would recall it was Dr. Alex Ekwueme who espoused and brought about the six geopolitical zones by giving the Southeast five states and Northwest seven states while the other four zones of Northcentral, Northeast, South-south and Southwest got six states each. For him to turn around and cry foul that Southeast has been short-changed is hard to understand. I say this because the Igbo are acting his script. The argument that an additional state be created in Southeast on equality cannot hold water because the former Eastern Region had nine states, the former Western Nigeria had six states and the former Mid-Western region has two states. Were equality a sole criteria for creation of states, Mid-Western region would also enjoy nine states to make it equal with the former Eastern region. And finally, I wish to appeal to the Southeast to note that injustice is not only when equals are treated unequally but also it is injustice when unequals are treated equally. Land mass and population of Northwest are not the same with those of Southeast. Are you in support of adoption of the 2014 National Conference report, as solicited by Ohanaeze? While I agree that some of the recommendations of the 2014 could be useful, it is undemocratic and morally wrong to adopt the reports and use it to undertake far-reaching reforms of the polity, especially when regard is paid to the fact that the conference was of unelected delegates. As regards the call for resource control, I do not see the wisdom because natural resources of land and mineral resources are commonwealth that hold the nation together. I therefore prefer natural resources be left on the exclusive list. What in your own opinion is the way out of these mutual suspicions and mistrust among the various groups that make up Nigeria? My opinion is that multi-party democracy be allowed to take its course. You would note that the good things of life are never natural order of things but are attained through ceaseless hard work by both leaders and the led. Has the North taken a position on restructuring which the Coalition of Northern Youths has criticised? I am not aware. This is because the Northern States Governors Forum, as elected leaders of the North, has constituted a committee to collate the views of stakeholders for purpose of an informed position which most northerners share. However, the Northern States Governors Forum is yet to make the positions shared by most northerners on restructuring public.