A coalition of students in Nasarawa State has endorsed the governorship aspiration of Nasarawa State Deputy Governor, Mr Silas Agara. Members of the coalition held a rally to pledge their support to the Deputy Governor. Ahmed Zaunwa, who led the coalition that comprises students from all the state-owned tertiary institutions, said the decision to support Agara was because of his experience in governance and open-door policy. Besides, Ahmed said the Deputy Governor possessed all qualities the residents wanted in the person that will succeed Governor Tanko Al-Makura. The student added that Agara’s youthfulness and pragmatic approach to issues endeared him to the youth, noting that he is the right choice that would protect students’ interests. Ahmed said: “We feel that he is the right person to solidify the current developmental strides we are currently enjoying under Governor Umaru Al-Makura administration.” Ahmed, who is also the General Secretary of National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) in Zone C, hailed the decision of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign Not-Too-Young-Run bill into law, adding the development would give young people political opportunities. Thaddeus Maiyanga, secretary of the coalition, said the recently signed Not-Too-Young-Run law would help young politicians, such as Agara, to succeed in their ambition to lead. He described the Deputy Governor as “young, energetic politician”. Receiving the students, Yusuf Omaki, Director General of Silas Agara Campaign Organisation, said the Deputy Governor was pleased with the students’ appreciation of his intention to lead the state. Omaki urged the students to be peaceful in promoting the candidature of the Deputy Governor. He also advised them to be committed to their education. He said: “I want to assure you that my principal will certainly be briefed about your gesture. We take interest of the youth of the state as priority. We will continue to engage the youth in matters that borders on state and national development. “Just like you all have made your decision known about the Not-Too-Young-To-Run bill to be passed into law, I want to assure you that we are also thrilled with the development. This shows Nigerian will enjoy more democratic dividends under this administration.”