This year’s World Milk Day (WMD) has been explored by Dano milk to set a new record on longest pouring relay, thereby setting a new Guinness World Record. The previous record on ‘Longest pouring relay’ was set by a bottling company with 500 people. Dano’s new record is with 750 people in celebration of world milk day. According to the organisers, the event was held in solidarity with nutrition stakeholders all over the world, and dairy brand, Dano milk, has deepened conversations on the imperatives of milk consumption and healthy living in Nigeria. World Milk Day is to highlight the important contributions of the dairy sector to sustainability, economic development, livelihoods and nutrition. Undergraduates of tertiary institutions across Lagos, school children, mothers, representatives and officials of the Lagos State Ministries of Health and Education converged on Muri Okunola Park, Victoria Island, to key into the celebration as Dano Milk broke the Guinness World Records title for the longest drink pouring relay with milk. The event showcased regular milk intake by the young and old. Conversations were hinged on#RaiseAGlass and #NourishNaija. Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr. Idiat Adebule lauded Dano for its sustained advocacy on healthy living. “I am delighted by the continued advocacy of TG Arla Dairy Nigeria, celebration and successful hosting of the past two editions of the World Milk Day in Lagos. World Milk Day has become a symbolic day for many countries to celebrate and come together to focus attention on milk and celebrate the importance of the dairy sector to sustainability, economic development, livelihoods and nutrition,’’ she said. The Deputy Governor urged Dano to sustain the advocacy drive just as she enjoined people to tap into the goodness of milk, “As we Raise a Glass to milk, we connect with others in Lagos and the country, and invite them to join in the celebration and in the goodness milk represents.” Wife of Lagos State governor, Mrs. Bolanle Ambode described the World Milk Day as pivotal to bringing out the best in children, youths and adults. “The Lagos State Government is passionate about giving the best in children, youths in schools and institutions across the state. Contributions by other stakeholders are equally important to building the mental capabilities of children, youths and adults and helping them to soar in their pursuits. The World Milk Day is pivotal to this drive as contributions from stakeholders will position milk as an important component of mental and physical development. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris said more efforts should be invested to improve the poor nutritional indicators of children in Lagos State and other parts of the country. “The theme of this World Milk Celebration, “Raise a Glass, Nourish Naija,” couldn’t have come at a better time than now as statistics have shown that the stunting rate among children in Lagos is 11.4 per cent, it is 10.8 per cent in other parts of Nigeria. “The underweight rate is 14.5 per cent for Lagos State and 31.5 per cent in other parts of Nigeria. Thus, the health benefits of milk and milk products cannot be over emphasised. Promotion for milk and milk products for the young and old would go a long way to improve healthy nutritional status in Nigeria. As such there would be overall improvements to our nutritional status indicators.” Responding to contributions, TG Arla Dairy Nigeria Managing Director,, Mads Burmester assured that the brand would boost its commitment to offering nutritious products to Nigerian households. He commended stakeholders, noting that the brand’s position to promote healthy living and lifestyles among Nigerians, will not be downplayed. “As a dairy advocate, we can’t afford to downplay the importance of the World Milk Day. This influenced our decision to bring stakeholders together in seeking solutions to malnutrition and upholding the importance of healthy living. We have propelled this by putting Nigeria on the global scene as a country that is passionate about health and nutrition,” he said.   