About N1.6 trillion pension fund, representing 20 per cent of the total N7.94trillion  available for investment in infrastructure and instruments has remained untapped, The Nation has learnt. It was gathered that out of the N1.6 trillion earmarked for investment, less than 5 per cent is being utilised, amounting to over N1 billion. The fund has remained underutilised owing to lack of bankable infrastructure projects and instrument in the country. PenCom Acting Director-General, Mrs. Aisha Dahiru-Umar, who spoke at the Chartered Insurance Institute of Nigeria (CIIN) 2018 June Edition Breakfast Seminar in Lagos, said there are few qualified infrastructure projects and instruments making allocated funds are to be under-utilised. Mrs. Dahiru-Umar, who was represented at the event by PenCom’s Head, Contribution & Bond Redemption Department, Olulana Loyinmi, noted that pension fund is available for development of infrastructure, stressing that the fund remains a veritable tool to enhance economic development. Speaking on investment philosophy and economic development, she pointed out that economic development is sustained growth and increase in social well-being through increasing the productivity and efficiency of the economy. She noted that the underlying principles of investment of pension funds is to maintain safety and generate fair returns to ensure that retirees receive their retirement benefits as and when due. The Pension Reform Act (PRA) 2014 and investment regulations, she said, targeted critical areas towards economic growth and development, adding that the impact of pension fund on economic development is huge. She said: “Pension fund has improved the savings culture of workers and constituted a pool for investment. Total pension asset valued at N7.94 trillion as at March 2018 currently available as pool of potential capital for economic development. Relative importance depicted by proportion of pension assets to Nigeria’s gross domestic product (GDP) is estimated at 6.54 per cent as at March 2018. The fund had provided capital that further deepened the financial markets “The fund has been an active player in the activation of the domestic bond market through steering committee, holds sizeable percentage of fixed income securities, mostly government bonds and it has increased depth of bond markets with 47 per cent of Federal Government Bond stock of N7,564.94 billion held by Pension funds at 31/12/16 – DMO “Other impact of pension fund include: housing and mortgage development; facilitating affordable housing; PRA 2014 makes provision for a portion of pension fund in RSA to fund equity contribution for a residential mortgage; promotion of Nigeria Mortgage Refinancing Company; indirect investment in housing/real estate through ABS/MBS, REITs and infrastructure financing. “It also include making pension fund available for development infrastructure as a veritable step to enhance economic development. At least, 20 per cent of pension portfolio is available for infrastructure financing.” According to her, the key challenges in the investment of the fund are limited investment outlets in number of quoted equities that meet investment criteria. “There are few qualified infrastructure projects and instruments such that allocated funds are underutilised. Over 20 per cent available while under 5 per cent is utilised. Low liquidity, inadequate credit risk rating, crowding effect, among others, have hampered the growth of local corporate bonds while pension funds concentrated in government securities,” she said. She canvassed the creation of more investment outlets – infrastructure bond/funds with appropriate credit enhancements. CIIN President, Funmi Babington-Ashaye, said annuity and pension funds constitute a major source of institutional investments in Nigeria. She added that such funds, which are long term in nature, can be channeled for development of much needed infrastructure in Nigeria and such infrastructure include transportation, communication, water and electricity.