With the ravages of 2012 flooding fresh in mind, there is a sense of relief in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) as the federal government launches erosion and flood control measures. OLUGBENGA ADANIKIN reports It may have happened six years ago, but the 2012 flood across the country is alive and well in memory. It took many unawares, washing away homesteads and farmlands. It claimed lives, forced people from their homes, leaving hunger and sorrow in its trail. Will there be an end to flooding? The answer is no and this is due to increasing climate change impacts and continuous rising sea level. These are testimonies that affirm that climate change is real and can only be mitigated through adaptation and resilient measures. No wonder residents of the Federal Capital Territory largely hit by flooding, gully erosion among environmental challenges could not hold their enthusiasm during the commissioning of erosion control projects funded by the Ecological Fund Office under the office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation. The intervention was at three project sites which cost over N1 billion fully paid for by the Presidency. The projects located in Bwari Area Council and Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) costs N650 million, N280 million and N110 million respectively. The Vice Chancellor, Veritas University, Prof. Michael Kwanashie was full of appreciation over the Bwari project. He pondered over magnanimity of the government to have interceded in their situation despite being a private university. For over four years of the school 10-year existence, creating an access road had been an herculean task due to the huge gully erosion. Prior to the intervention, the Varsity community could not access other sections of the institution due to the huge gully erosion. hostel and other building construction was at a halt. The VC, who pleaded for more of similar intervention corroborated that for years, the school struggled to erect bigger structures yet persistently hit by severe flood and gully erosion. “The University community and our host community will forever be grateful for this intervention. We are happy that the Federal Government considered us despite being a private university, we are able to benefit from government support.” Kwanashie was the representative of Conference of Catholic Bishop at the event. He said the intervention made so much impact on the institute’s 220 hectares of land. Kwanashie, who is also the VC of Veritas University, expressed satisfactions by the students, management and rural farmers residing in the locality. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha while handing over N750 million erosion control project to Veritas University described the intervention as part of commitments of the present administration to delivering on its various campaign promises. He said the country has witnessed tremendous improvement in all spheres compared to the past. “The project which is one of the three ecological intervention projects approved by the Federal Executive Council in 2015 was awarded by the Ecological Fund Office Tenders Board on 31st August, 2015. “The project is expected to check erosion and flooding menace in the institution.” Mustapha added, saying, “The enormous challenges faced by the Veritas University Community as a result of bad roads and gully erosion over the years cannot be overemphasised. The federal government’s intervention has therefore brought a huge relief to the suffering in the university.” The SGF reminded the people of President Muhammadu Buhari’s promise that no part of the country will suffer any neglect owing to its geopolitical location or political consideration. Describing the project as sincerity of the present administration towards promoting justice, equity and fair play to each geopolitical zone in the country irrespective of the political lining, he advised the community to avoid indiscriminate dropping of refuse into the drainage channels. The enormous challenges faced by Veritas university community as a result of bad roads and gully erosion over the years cannot be overemphasized. The federal government intervention has therefore brought a huge relief to the suffering in the university.” He noted. At Jikwoyi and Suberu communities in AMAC, residents applauded the federal government for similar interventions describing it as timely and relevant to their survival. The SGF commended the contractor Gaffar Worldwide Resources Limited for executing a good job before the delivery date. In his remarks, the Project Manager, Michael Chibuzo explained that both projects were delivered in two months despite its six months contractual delivery deadline. He lauded the federal government for its confidence on local contractors stressing that such gesture will further create jobs and boost the economy. The Permanent Secretary, EFO, Mrs. Habiba Lawal advised the communities to jealously guard the projects. “The commissioning and handing over of this laudable project to the befitting institution will no doubt make them take over the ownership of the project to ensure maintenance and sustainability. “The resources which the federal government had committed must not be allowed to waste,” she stated. Beyond Abuja, similar project was carried out at Ifedayo/Boluwaduro/Ila in Osun and 14 other locations. Former Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi at the commissioning reiterated Federal Government’s commitment that no project will suffer setbacks owing to its geopolitical location or political consideration. The intervention project is also expected to boost social economic wellbeing and development of the people in the erosion prone areas. “I have no doubts in my mind that the successful completion would enhance holistic control of soil erosion and flood menace in the communities. This would at the same time reduce dangers to lives and properties associated with erosion and persistent flooding that has been experienced in recent times.” 