Ex-Edo governor takes oath as APC chairman Tinubu to Buhari: ignore Obasanjo All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole promised yesterday to unite party members. In a speech after he was sworn in by Attorney General and Minister of Justice Abubakar Malami, the former Edo State Governor, said: “ We have the  capacity to face the challenges and the instruments required do not need to be rocket science, but basic commitment to the provisions of our constitution, commitment to internal democracy, mutual respect for each and every one of us— purge ourselves of any arrogance— and a commitment to honesty; listen, discuss, persuade and find a common ground so that in the end, we can have a win-win solution in any state we have challenges and even on issues affecting various arms of government elected on the platform of our party.” Oshiomhole added: “We are ready and tomorrow (today), we will resume work because there is no time to waste. That is why we promptly swore in members of the National Working Committee. “By 8.00am tomorrow, I am ready to take my seat and I know that my brother’s handing over notes are ready.” He praised his predecessor Chief John Odigie-Oyegun for making history as the first chairman of a ruling party to spend a full term in office. He said:  It is important that you realize that you made history because the other party, in 17 years had 14 national chairmen which gives an average of about 1.3 years per tenure for a national chairman. “So, since 1999, no chairman of a ruling party has accomplished what my elder brother has accomplished.” To President Buhari, the APC chairman said he “has taught us valuable lessons.” He gave the lessons as including perseverance “that those who seek to contribute to the affairs of their nation in a democracy must appreciate that this process is a not a 100-metre dash.” He alluded to Buhari trying unsuccessfully three times to become President without giving up hope unti he got it the fourth time, adding “Only people with capacity, energy and tenacity can go as far as you have gone” He commended the founding fathers of the APC, including Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Chief Bisi Akande, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal and Senate President Bukola Saraki. He promised fairness for party members. Giving his vision for the party he said: We have the will and we are committed to do what we have to do to have political party that in the near future can be compared to the ANC and serve as a strong pillar, not only to the federal government, but to all the governments elected on the platform and ensure that when elected, the party is not reduced to a mere election platform, but remain a platform to engage, interrogate and interface with all those elected on our party platform. “ On his personal capacity, the former labour leader said: “I believe that with my own background, things will be resolved amicably because I am used to managing divergences and this is just another task. It will be done to the satisfaction of our President, governors, senators, representatives, House of Assembly members and all the rank and file members of our party. “We will devote all our time to it because that is the oath of office that we have just swore to and we will administer the party on the basis of our constitution.” Truly, in a party such as ours, there can be no losers because whoever wins will serve all of us and as clearly stated in our oath of office and oath of allegiance, we have all committed ourselves to doing justice to all manner of persons and above all, to work for the benefit of each and every party member. If we give positive effect to these commitments, those who contested and members will benefit from the leadership that has just been elected.” THE NWC members 