Chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hajia. Salamatu Baiwa Umar-Eluma, has unfolded plans for the involvement of women in the party’s decision making, if voted as the Women Leader. She promised to fight for the inclusion of women in the political process by making the party leadership to implement the decision on the reservation of 30 percent of elective and appointive positions for women. Umar-Eluma, who has picked the form for the position of women leader at the APC National Secretariat, said her tenure will be the most remarkable in the history of the party. The Kogi State-born politician  has been endorsed by women in the state. She spoke with reporters in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), said women’s loyalty to the ruling party will be highly rewarded under his tenure. Umar-Eluma said: “We have had women leaders in the past. They have done their best for the party thus far. But, we have decided that the office should be more influential to harness good development to our nation and women. “Kogi APC has agreed to involve women in politics, even more than the percentage expected nationally. That is why we have come to the conclusion where influential people should be at the national for a good voice where it matters.” Hailing women in Kogi for supporting her ambition, she added: “This is the first time where one is contesting for a position that concerns one political party, the APC; that other party members are fully in support. I have never in my life witnessed such a big support from Nigerians and Kogites. Even, PDP APDA and SDP women have shown me love and they are ready to work with me in a bid to advance the cause of women and national development.” The aspirant thanked Governor Yahaya Bello, his deputy, Elder Achuba, the Chief of Staff, Chief Edward Onoja and other party leaders for endorsing him for the position. She said: “This dream will be a reality. For it to me a reality, you must support me to the end. I will never disappoint women, if I am elected as women leader.”