The Chief of the Air Staff, (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, on Thursday said the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) would provide all necessary logistic support for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to enable it achieve success during the 2019 general elections. Air Marshal Abubakar said the Air Force has put adequate arrangements in place as done in 2015 to facilitate transportation of INEC sensitive materials to some designated locations across the country. The Air Chief who made the remarks while addressing Field Commanders and other Senior Officers during the 2nd Quarter Conference of the CAS at the Air Force Headquarters, Abuja, however warned officers and men of the Air Force to steer clear of partisan politics as the nation commenced preparations for the elections. He said the Officers and men of the force should remain focus in their constitutional responsibilities, stressing that as politics is in the air they should not be distracted either by political activities or social media comments. The Air Chief further noted that the aim of the conference is to review the progress attained in the NAF since the last Conference, adding that the meeting would afford the opportunity for the officers to critically appraise the performance of the Service in the past few months. Said Air Marshal Abubakar: “This Conference equally provides an avenue to listen and get feedback from various field commanders while also keeping them abreast of the policy direction of the Headquarters NAF. “I have held a similar Conference with the Air Warrant Officers and very Senior Non-Commissioned Officers of the NAF the previous day and the aim of the meeting is largely being to get a feedback from the personnel, as part of the bottom to top approach of the current leadership. “Let me remind the senior officers that the 2019 general elections were fast approaching and therefore caution that you should not allow yourselves to be dragged into partisan politics. “Even though you have the right to vote, exercise this right and do not be distracted from your constitutional duty of ensuring the protection of the nation’s territorial integrity and remain focused on any duty constitutionally assigned to you by the NAF.” Air Marshal Abubakar assured that the NAF would continue to operate in line with its constitutional mandate, promising that officers and men of the service would work towards ensuring that the sovereignty of Nigeria is not undermined by any group of individuals. The CAS said further: “Let me at this juncture assure that the Nigerian Air Force is willing to avail INEC its transport aircraft for the expeditious distribution of electoral materials during the forthcoming 2019 general elections as it had done in the past, should INEC require such services”. Air Marshal Abubakar advised the senior officers to take advantage of the lectures to be delivered at the conference by resource persons, noting that the conference was meant to fine tune their skills and update their knowledge on modern warfare.