…Says Fayemi will give them succour Former Minister of State for Works, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, has berated Governor Ayo Fayose for alleged lack of vision and inflicting hardship and poverty on the people of Ekiti State. Adeyeye said Ekiti people are poorer under Fayose because the governor abandoned human capital development programmes of his immediate predecessor in office who is now the All Progressives Congress (APC) flag bearer, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. Speaking on a special interview programme on Voice 89.9 FM, Ado-Ekiti, Adeyeye urged the electorate to reject Fayose’s anointed candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola. Adeyeye urged the electorate in Ekiti State to vote Fayemi, whom he said has a genuine vision to make life better for the people and develop the Fountain of Knowledge. He said a vote for Olusola is a vote for continuation of poverty, hardship, misery, hunger, lack of focus and placing Ekiti in Fayose’s grip after he might have left office. Adeyeye, who defected to the APC on May 29, accused Fayose of playing games with the state treasury and lack of accountability. The former minister said Fayose has failed to declare the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) despite various forms of taxes imposed on the people of the state. Those reeling under tax burden, according to Adeyeye include owners of small, medium and large scale businesses, artisans, civil servants, tertiary institution workers and pupils in nursery, primary and secondary schools. According to Ise-Ekiti born politician, Fayose’s alleged draconian laws have driven investors away while many businesses are folding up on daily basis. He criticized alleged plots by the Fayose administration to poison the minds of Ekiti people against the APC governorship candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. Adeyeye assured teachers and civil servants of job security and better welfare packing saying Fayemi has no plan to sack them as being alleged by Fayose and Olusola. According to him, it was hypocritical for Fayose who claims to be a friend of workers and teachers to be owing them several arrears of salaries with a good number of them dying because of lack of money to take care of themselves. He said: “Fayose is a liar and a noise maker, Fayemi will never sack any civil servants in Ekiti, teacher, local government worker, he will even employ more workers into the civil service. “Fayose, who called himself a friend of workers, presently owes workers between six and nine months’ salary. “Fayemi paid workers regularly and he did not owe any workers salary during his first term. Fayose is a liar, he always lied against Fayemi.” Adeyeye disclosed that an APC government, when elected, have plans to revive the income generating business ventures allegedly abandoned by Fayose which he said would provide more jobs. Attesting to the competence of Fayemi to turn around the fortunes of Ekiti if elected, Adeyeye said his (Fayemi’s) second tenure would usher in peace, prosperity and banishing poverty from the state. Reacting through his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Idowu Adelusi, Fayose said he was not surprised by Adeyeye’s outburst describing him as a spent force and a man still frustrated by his loss at the PDP primary to Olusola. Fayose boasted that Adeyeye and Fayemi will meet their waterloo at the July 14 governorship election describing the two APC men as “birds of the same father who cannot win election anywhere.” “The duo are birds of same feather, flocking together. They never won any credible election in their lives. So, they cannot appreciate credible election. “Has Fayemi ever won any election in Ekiti State? No. Even the primary election of the then Action Congress that preceded the 2007 general elections was manipulated to favour him. “By joining the APC, Adeyeye has taken a wrong step he would regret later. Adeyeye too has no history of winning election. “In 1999, as Alliance for Democracy (AD) candidate, he lost to PDP’s Gbenga Aluko. It was only Adeyeye that lost his senatorial election to a People’s Democratic Party candidate in the South West. In the primary of the Action Congress in 2006, he lost and in protest he defected to
the PDP. “His profile has only been boosted with political appointments rather than election. “He was appointed the Chairman of Ekiti SUBEB under a PDP- led government. By God’s grace, I was instrumental to his appointment as a minister under President Goodluck Jonathan. “I later appointed him the Chairman of the Governing Council of Ekiti State University. I also got him the position of the National Publicity Secretary of our party, now he is claiming to be what he is not.”