Chief Marc Wabara is a former chief executive officer of the defunct Hallmark Bank and a member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State. In this interview with SUNNY NWANKWO, the senatorial aspirant from Ohambele Ndoki in Ukwa East Local Government Area talks about his aspiration, the progress of the APC in Abia and President Muhammadu Buhari’s achievements so far, among other things. You have aspired twice to govern Abia. What informed this aspiration? I spent over three decades in the private sector – I worked in Hallmark Bank – and contributing my quota to the development of the state, through creation of employment opportunities for Nigerians, as well as through granting of facilities to numerous businessmen who by the special grace of God are doing well are today. Towards the end of my career as a banker, I decided to continue to serve my people. I saw quite a number of untapped resources and opportunities being wasted in Abia State. Primarily, when you look at the factors of production, the human capital is the most important aspect of all factors of production. Today, we have in Abia young vibrant entrepreneurs who are yearning for government to provide the enabling environment for them to express themselves and exhibit their talents and by so doing to contribute to the growth and development of the state. Even in the developed countries, the small and medium scaled enterprise is the engine of growth and we have them in Abia South. Aba has a private sector environment, but the intervention of government is required to provide the enabling environment for the sector to thrive. So, these were some of the things that I saw that motivated me to want to serve my people. Abia has the capacity to stop relying on oil and going to Abuja for federal allocations. We have the capacity to generate employment for our populace through private sector drive, just like Lagos State where I coincidentally grew up. Abia should be able to generate close to N10bn minimum monthly, if its internally generated revenue (IGR) is well harnessed. Why do you want to go to Senate, after aspiring to be governor twice? I aspired to govern Abia in 2006 and 2014. At the end of the day, I also look at the fact that you may have the best economic model, you may have the best desire to be able to harness those resources. I also think that equally important is the issue of rule of law and good governance. They are very fundamental and also work hand-in-hand. In a democracy, there are three arms of government; the Executive, Judiciary and Legislature work together to have vibrant economy. No one from my estimation is less important than the other. So, if I have decided to run for the senate, it doesn’t make it less important. I believe that we need an environment whereby people must respect the laws of the land. I believe that if I have the opportunity of representing my people in the senate, I will also contribute to making relevant laws that proposes several bills that would encourage development. Why don’t you give it another try now that the governorship has been zoned to the Ngwa axis? In APC, we have taken a position that our Ngwa brothers should have the first shot in 2019, to continue with the arrangements that we have in place. In this regard, an Abia South person of Ngwa extraction should have the first shot. But, unlike what existed in the PDP in 2015, when our Ngwa brother took the governorship and senatorial positions. For this reason, I felt that it was not fair and that there was no justice in it. So, if you have two major ethnic groups, then one should produce the governor, while the other is given the senatorial slot. But you rejected this senatorial position when it was offered to you in the past and relinquished it to your brother… I supported by elder brother because, at that time, I was fully engaged as a private sector person and didn’t have the interest then to run for any elective office. I wasn’t interested in any elective office as at that time. In addition, my brother (Adolphus) since 1991 was already in politics. If you may remember he has already served as a local government chairman. He has served in the House of Representatives. So, when the opportunity to go to the senate comes, since I was still in the private sector, I supported my brother. You and brother belong to different parties. Will he support your ambition to run for Senate, considering his support for Governor Ikpeazu in 2014 PDP primary when you were also an aspirant? I would expect that regardless of our party affiliations that he would support me the way I supported him. But, again, we are all human beings; it is only God that knows the mind of every other human being. But, I think that it would be proper for you to address that question to him. So that he will be the one to answer. What are your chances of defeating the incumbent Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe who has been there for 12 years? I believe that even before I decided to venture into elective position, my role in the private sector and opportunity I had rising up to the Chief Executive, I think that I contributed in my own way to the lives of several Abians and Nigerians. I did a lot of positive things like job creation, giving a lot of businesses access to credit and I believe that a lot of them would remember that. The goodwill is there, the contacts are there, the experience about managing human beings and resources are there. If I did it successfully in the private sector, I believe that I will be able to do it in government environment. How would you rate the progress the APC in Abia State so far and at the Federal level? The party has made tremendous progress. People should not forget that the APC is an amalgamation of several parties. The party we have today at the national was able to defeat the ruling party in 2015, partly because the new PDP joined the APC. In the last election in the state, we performed poorly, but in the last three years, a lot of people have come into APC, including my humble self. We have been able to bring in our experience across all the senatorial districts. I can say boldly that the party is strong today and what we have going for us is that, depending on where you belong, the current performance of the PDP in Abia State is very poor. The likes of former Governor of the state, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, Senator Nkechi Nwaogu, my humble self, former Deputy Gov. of the state Comrade Chris Akomas, Nyerere Chinenye Anyim, Senator Bob Nwanunu, Prince B.B Apugo, Uche Ogah and others numerous to mention are not pushovers in Abia politics. At the federal, the government has excelled as well, particularly in the area of integrity and managing of resources. The fight against corruption has been taken to almost the highest level that has never been seen in Nigeria by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. So, it is no longer business as usual. New policies have been made and existing policies have been fully implemented by the Buhari-led government. What level of support have you been able to get from stakeholders in Ukwa Federal Constituency and the entire Abia South? The support has been massive, even beyond my expectation. But we are still consulting with the bookmakers in the constituency and the Abia South Senatorial District.       What distinguishes you from other aspirants for the seat? My records are there for everyone to see and, like I said, I am ready to do more. How did you get your constituency to adopt you as the sole APC candidate for Abia South? It is not by accident that my people from the Ukwa Federal Constituency have endorsed me. The recent endorsement is the third time and it shows that they have confidence and trust in me. The only thing that I am guarantying them is that I am going there to work for their progress and wellbeing. I am assuring them that when I become a senator, I will be committed to making laws that will enhance and facilitate good governance. They will always rely on my trust and commitment to serve them. I am assuring them that I will serve with the fear of God and will never disappoint them. 