Nigeria’s ecosystem offers-plenty of opportunities for young start-ups to flourish. However, many die because they cannot raise funds. To help startups, Rising Tide Africa, an empowerment outfit, organised a deal-making session to guide startups on the right way to attract investors. DANIEL ESSIET reports. The Lagos entrepreneurial ecosystem ranks as number one in the country. This is because it has the largest concentration of the richest Venture Capitalists (VCs), angel investors and angel groups. Also, there are many start-up accelerators and incubators in niche markets – FinTech, HealthTech and  AgTech.    Many startups in the state have become successful. The last thing to worry about when starting a tech business is the availability of investment sources. Despite this, many start-ups cannot make persuasive pitches to attract investors. This has given business empowerment groups concern. One group that has risen to the task of preparing start-ups to pitch  for funds is Rising Tide Africa (RTA). The  group, which largely comprises women business angels, held a deal-making session in Lagos for start-ups seeking funding.  However, only a fraction of companies that applied for the event after screening got selected. The event opened with a keynote address by co-founder, Dr Ndidi Nnoli-Edozien, who said RTA believes it will bring about positive change by investing in exciting start-ups. She  added that the group promotes sustainable economic development. Co founder Yemi Keri said RTA Nigeria chapter exists in the deal-making landscape for start-ups to connect with the right investors. According to her, the forum is organised with the goal of creating new ways for start-ups, scale-ups and high-growth businesses to access finance. RTA Nigeria Secretary-General Ms. Ivana Osagie said the group seeks investment opportunities that have the potential to yield strong financial returns and significant social impact. Osagie, who is also Notore Seeds Chief Executive Officer, noted that the group has a number of investors to raise the quality of investor-startup interaction. She said six startups and scale-ups were selected to make presentations during the event. They included Fibre.ng, KleosAfrica, WhyBlueSky, DokiLink, Smoodypod Group International Corporation and Beyond Credit. The forum offered an excellent opportunity for networking with high net worth individuals, co-investment fund managers, bank executives, stock exchange executives and VCs. An ex-Morgan Stanley investment bank analyst and entrepreneur, Obinna Okwodu, launched Fibre.ng.  a real estate booking start-up in Lagos, which gives tenants the option to pay monthly. Fibre.ng, opens renting in Lagos up to many, who until now, have not  been able to place 24 months’ rent on the table. Speaking about fibre.ng, Fibre Lifestyle Technologies Limited, Chief Executive, said the   real estate booking platform ameliorate the hassle and challenges faced when renting apartments in Lagos. However, in exchange for the convenience, tenants have to pay an amount on top of the monthly rent, which pushes their monthly rental expenses slightly over the market-related rental for properties. This convenience fee goes to Fibre.ng for its service. He said: “We work with landlords to make it possible for professionals in Lagos to live in the city and pay monthly, as opposed to having to pay two years rent upfront plus service charge, agency fees, legal fees, caution deposit, among others, just to find a place to live.” Currently, the platform only covers premium residential areas of Lagos, but Okwodu plans to expand to the rest of the state. He said the homes are sourced according to demand. After users make requests on the website, Fibre goes looking for apartments that best match their given criteria. Tenants then get locked into one-year contract and they have to pay 25per cent  of the annual fee upfront – that’s basically three month’s rent – to get the keys; they then spread what’s left of the rent over the next 11 months. KleosAfrica Lead Consultant, Glory Enyinnaya, stated that it is an online platform that connects business owners in need of strategic consulting, financial modeling and managerial accounting expertise with business school students and freelance consultants with cogent consulting experience. According to her, KleosAfrica allows MBA students and graduates worldwide to take on side projects that help businesses. While they will be paid for their services, the major value for them is the opportunity to contribute to the development of the African continent. Founder WhyBlueSky, Agata Wilam said her organisation built the platform with curiosity-kindling lessons, which boost students’ motivation to learn. Her words: “We help teachers without expert knowledge to deliver lessons on science, health, entrepreneurship or art. Lessons are designed with academics and researchers,  experts and entrepreneurs, using tailor-made experiments, role-playing games and others.” According to her, the platform engages more than 7000 teachers and has reached more than 70.000 kids. Wilam has worked with children and education her entire life and she is passionate to be part of the future of education. Co-founder and CEO, Beyond Credit, Jude Njugo said the social enterprise is a technology driven financial services company that provides insurance backed loans, business support and savings services to low scale businesses. He said their approach include supporting entrepreneurs with financial education training, Insurance backed loans, apart from providing a platform for savings and support groups. Chief Executive, DokiLink, Niyi Osamiluyi said the online professional network of doctor was created in a bid to reduce medical Tourism by connecting with professional doctors to patients. Osamiluyi, a medical doctor, said the electronic platform already has more than 11,000 verified Nigerian doctors, who have been sharing medical cases, getting second opinions from colleagues and accessing medical news and information. This leads to a greater awareness among doctors of the treatment options available locally. Chief Executive, Smoodypod Group International Corporation and British-trained architect and industrialist, Prince Tricare, said the organisation needs funding to tackle food waste. He introduced Smoody fruit juice into Nigerian market. At his factory tucked in a rather quiet street in Opebi, Ikeja, Lagos, Tricare has since been rolling out premium Smoody drinks made from a blend of mango, banana, orange and ginger, which he initially sold in bottles at equally premium price to high-end hotels and restaurants. He revealed that the product was well received, with the market assured. But his business sense dictated to him that it should be made available for mass consumption to be enjoyed by all. He pointed out that another major opportunity exists with local manufacturing. “The cost of fruit is really cheap here, however, we need close to three tons of fruits for a week’s production for now,” he said. The attendees pitched investors in a short fast pitch session in the hope of finding investment capital. The business angels’ offered fresh ideas, real-world strategies, and practical hands on tools for start-ups to launch new ideas and grow existing ventures to the next level. Aside presentations by start-ups, the event offered important insights into the start-up ecosystem. The programme was learning space for entrepreneurs to increase their understanding of the investment strategies of angel investors, due-diligence check-lists of investors, and ways to access co-investment funds.