A Lagos lawmaker, Mrs Mojisola Meranda, on Monday appealed to Nigerian women to participate actively in the 2019 electoral process rather than sit back and watch. Meranda, one of the four female lawmakers in the Lagos State House of Assembly, told our reporters in Lagos that women should be involved in the electoral process. The lawmaker, representing Apapa Constituency I, said that women should develop interest in the electoral process and government to protect their interests in governance. “We should not sit down and fold our hands resting on 35 or 40 per cent affirmative action for women representation in government. This will not come easily. “Let us also play our roles. We shouldn’t rely on any per cent to be given to women. Let us come out and support ourselves. “Women should not sit back and think someone will bring it to them. We must be active politically and aspire for political offices. “All I want is that female folks should be ready to take the bull by the horn in 2019. “Let them come out as nobody will go to their houses to draw them,” she said. On fears of most women about politics, the lawmaker said that there was no profession without its hazards, She noted women should contribute their quota to nation building. Meranda, who is the Chairman, House Ad hoc Committee on Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviations, said that courage, determination and discipline would help them prevail in the face of all challenges. “Nothing comes easy. Nigerian women must give it a trial and give it a push in 2019. “I am pushing for more women representation in government, more female colleagues here (Lagos Assembly) and outside here,” the lawmaker said. According to her, I have been encouraging many women to be more active and pick interest in the decision-making processes in the state. Gender balance in government has been a major subject of interest as the 2019 general elections approach. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has also embarked on several advocacies and sensitizations on inclusive governance that would involve women participation. NAN