The recent acquisition of 70 per cent equity in an American firm by Nigeria’s Ibeto Cement Company has been described as a remarkable feat. This is not only because it represents the first transaction to be executed on a reverse merger basis, but for its import on the local and African economy, reports, MUYIWA LUCAS. Ibeto Cement Company Managing Director, Cletus Ibeto, by nature, is a self-effacing man. But owing to the new vista of business empire he has to oversee, he may have to shout himself to the roof top. And he has every reason to. The firm, recently acquired 70 per cent majority equity in Century Petroleum Corporation, a US publicly traded petroleum exploration and production company. This acquisition has made the Nigerian firm the controlling partner in the merger, thus throwing up Ibeto as the Chairman, Board of Directors of the new merger. For stakeholders in the industry, the pattern of the merger- a reverse merger option, is unique. This is because reverse mergers are not very popular approaches. Wikipedia describes such mergers as “the acquisition of a public company by a private company so that the private company can bypass the lengthy and complex process of going public. The transaction typically requires re-organisation of capitalisation of the acquiring company”. Speaking on the development, an obviously delighted Ibeto said: “This is in line with our collective dream to place Nigeria in its rightful place in the comity of nations. It is strong testament to the abounding potentials in today’s global village and economy.” He lauded stakeholders in the historic merger, saying it will improve the level of actualisation of the huge cement business opportunities around Africa. The merger of Ibeto Cement and Century Petroleum bestrode two key sectors of the economy: cement and petroleum.  While it is popular knowledge that the latter remains at the core of our national economy, cement is also a key indicator of any economy. Stakeholders are convinced that housing sufficiency or its lack, therefore, is directly proportional to its level of economic development, especially in relation to cement. A report by Morgan Stanley, a US multi-national financial services firm states that: “Cement consumption per capita tends to rise initially with rising gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, but then falls as countries mature economically.” It is worthy of note that Nigeria’s construction industry/sector is only 3.2 per cent of the GDP. This may be related to a World Bank statistics, which has it that 60 per cent of Nigeria’s estimated population of over 180 million is caught in the trap of homelessness. In the continent’s cement industry, African nations are currently at the low end of cement consumption relative to other emerging economies. With growing populations, it is predicted that cement consumption in Sub-Saharan Africa will grow by an average of between seven and 10 per cent year- on- year over the next two decades. Yet, Nigeria and Senegal are the only two countries in West African sub region that are blessed with limestone deposits in commercial quantities. This makes the cement industry a major development contributor not only in local housing needs, but as a major foreign exchange earner. Ibeto praised Federal Government’s initiative, noting that government’s national Backward Integration Policy (BIP) on cement and the call to increase its local production spurred Ibeto’s  acquisition of Nigeria Cement Company Limited (Nigercem), located in Nkalagu, Ebonyi State. He said the strategic acquisition of Nigercem was aimed at expediting Ibeto Cement’s local production  by resuscitating the Nigercem plant and developing the project as a brand new dry process plant. The company is also developing another 6,000 Metric Tons Per Day (TPD) Cement plant at Cross River and Abia states. Ibeto also has an ultra-modern bagging plant in Port Harcourt, where it began operations in 2005, with a flat-storage capacity of 50,000 metric tons and a production capacity of 1,500,000 metric tons per annum, which translates to a production capacity of 4,000+ metric tons per day. It has two (2) production lines, each with a capacity of 2, 700 of 50kg bags per hour or designed total production capacity of 5, 400 of 50kg bags per hour. An integral part of this plant facility is a modern purpose-built jetty (Ibeto jetty), which can accomodate ships of 190+ metres long with sophisticated and state-of-the-art ship unloaders, mounted at the waterfront on the jetty to facilitate discharge of bulk cement from offshore/foreign mother vessels.