Rep. Taofeek Adaranijo, a member of the House of Representatives, representing Agege Federal Constituency, Lagos State, on Monday presented two blocks of three classrooms to primary schools in the constituency. Adaranijo, a former Chairman of Orile-Agege Local Council Development Area, said during the inauguration, that the classrooms were part of his 2016 and 2017 constituency projects for the development of education. The News men report that the lawmaker inaugurated a block of three classrooms at Moses Orimolade Primary Schools, Orile Agege, which he named after Oba Hakeem Agbedeyi, the Alaige of Orile-Agege. He also inaugurated another block of three classrooms at Anwar-ul-Islam Primary School, Dopemu, Agege, which he named after Oba Kamila Isiba, the Olu of Agege Kingdom. Adaranijo also gave school furniture, boards, electric fans, among others, to the schools. He said that the projects were part of his promises during the 2015 electioneering campaign; to make laws and motions for the benefits of Nigerians. The lawmaker said that he was committed to representing his constituents and bringing problem-solving and people-oriented programmes and projects to the constituency. According to him, my commitment to education necessitates the construction of the classrooms as part of the means of giving back to public schools. “These projects serve as complement to the huge investments of Lagos State Government in the education sector. “Projects such as these will afford our children the opportunity to continue learning in conducive classrooms for proper assimilation of studies. “It will also reduce the number of pupils in classrooms for better and efficient performance,’’ Adaranijo said. The Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, commended the lawmaker for his contributions to the education sector. “I want to congratulate our representative. I commend your effort and achievements so far. “It shows that you are not fighting for your purse and selfish interest. “The essence of legislature is not about law making alone; it is just part of it. The major task is representation, representing people’s interest in parliament. “We all must play prominent role to develop our education and our children. “It is only when we educate our children that we can have a rest of mind. All of us must contribute to the growth of education. Education first in everything we do,” he said. Obasa noted that teaching indigenous language was key to development, adding that stakeholders should encourage teaching of the language. He urged other council chairmen to prioritise education in their programmes and policies. Dr Ganiyu Sopeyin, the Executive Chairman, State Universal Basic Education Board, who appreciated the lawmaker for the gesture, said that government alone could not bear the burden of education. Sopeyin said that the projects were testimonies of the passion of Adaranijo in repositioning the education sector. He urged the beneficiaries to ensure judicious use of the classrooms for effective teaching and learning. In his remarks, Mr Olaekan Majiyagbe, the Education Secretary in Agege Local Government, said that the projects would impact positively on the schools and the community. NAN