Parents and family of the two teenage girls who were allegedly raped by five suspects have raised the alarm over the whereabouts of the girls, two days to the adjournment date of their case in court. Five suspects – Bode Akinsiku, Olabanji Femi, Abiodun Ayodele, Fadairo Wahab, and Adedayo Adebayo – were said to have lured the two teenagers into the house of one of the suspects on Kogbona Street in Ondo town where they were raped. The suspects, after allegedly having the carnal knowledge of the victims, stripped them naked, tortured, videotaped them and posted the video on the social media. The police arrested the five suspects and arraigned them before a Chief Magistrates’ Court in the town where they were remanded in prison custody. One of the mothers of the girls, Mrs. Veronica Glory, said the whereabouts of her daughter had been shrouded in secrecy since the beginning of the case. The distraught mother expressed the belief that her daughter was in police custody. She said: “The whereabouts of my daughter are sketchy and unknown to me. I would have raised the alarm since all these days, but my belief was that my daughter and her friend were save. “It was not until yesterday when information came to me in the market that my daughter and her friend had allegedly been taken to unknown destination by the family of one of the suspects, apparently to frustrate proceedings in the matter. Mrs. Glory urged individuals, religious organisations, human rights activists as well as the police to wade into the matter and locate the whereabouts of her daughter to prevent the family of the suspects from frustrating the case. Also, the mother of the second teenage girl, Mrs Margaret Idowu, said the whereabouts of her own daughter were unknown. She said since the video was shown to her, she had been in distress. According to her, apart from being an abuse of human rights, the video will also affect the future of the victims. Mrs Idowu said: “I have not seen my daughter since the beginning of the matter. I was told that the police took them to Akure for safety reasons. But information reached us yesterday (Monday) afternoon that my daughter and the other girl had been taken to an unknown destination by the family of the suspects.” She urged the police to ensure that the girls are presented in court on the adjourned date on the matter. She urged the police to ensure that the matter is not swept under the carpet. Mrs. Glory threatened to organise women to protest against the whereabouts of the two teenage girls, if they are not presented in court on next adjournment date. Also, an Ondo rights activist, Otunba Muyideen Olamoyegun, said the disappearance of the two teenagers was a deliberate action to frustrate the case in court. He threatened to sue the police, if the victims are not produced in the court. The activist threatened to hire lawyers to prosecute the police on the matter.