Some stakeholders in the Southsouth have deplored the decision of the National Assembly to slash appropriations for various projects in the zone by the federal government. Leaders of  Thought  from the axis  said in Warri that the legislature was wrong in taking actions aimed at denying the geo-political zone its fair share of projects allocation. Chairman OML 30 Community Development Board, an organisation manning the affairs of some 111 oil producing communities in Delta State, Mr. Morris Idiovwa, expressed disappointment at the conduct of the federal  lawmakers while the convener of the Southsouth Reawakening Group (SSRG), Mr. Joseph Amabakederemo, lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for being bold to let Nigerians know who their ‘enemies’ are. He said the action of the members of the National Assembly in cutting budget proposals for critical development projects, only to increase their own home pay was a manifestation of selfishness over national interest and charged President Buhari to quickly proceed to send a supplementary appropriation bill to the National Assembly to address the injustice done by the lawmakers. “If the alarm raised by the president is real then we should all come out to condemn the National Assembly for being reckless and anti-people,” he said. “To say the least, I personally consider it appalling, wicked and shameful. How can the National Assembly that has representatives and senators from across the country, including Niger Delta, be part of a plot to under-fund key projects in the region? It is wicked and selfish. “If anything would be reviewed downwards in this country’s budget, especially at this critical time when we all are hoping that we restructure indeed, then it should have been salaries and allowances of politicians, but these people went on to reduce budgets for structural development projects and increased their own take home pay, how more insensitive can they be? Since they will not stop padding the budget for the sake of feathering their own nests, then the president should also continue to expose their evil plans against Nigeria. “Nigerians will wait for them at the polls in 2019. I will advise the president to immediately prepare a supplementary budget to cover a review for those projects which funding were downsized by the National Assembly, Nigeria can’t wait to get on the right track”, he said. Also, reacting to the development, the convener of the SSRG, Ambakederemo, said that senators from the areas negatively affected by the budget cut-down have a case to answer with their constituents. 