Trauma Care International Foundation (TCIF), a non-profit organisation, has planned to raise fresh 10,000 blood donors across the country. This is to help bridge the shortage of 500,000 units of blood supply. The country blood demand is 1.8 million units of blood yearly. Announcing the initiative at a briefing, TCIF Chairperson, Dr. Deola Philips, said the focus was on improving the  state of  trauma care and emergency response  services through health education   and community-based programmes. Philips, represented  by  a  Senior Executive  Officer of the  foundation, Dr.  Olajumoke   Akinsanya, stressed that it is only the available blood  in hospitals that can save lives, hence the need for voluntary donations by all. According to her, “to play our part in saving more lives, the Trauma Care International  Foundation will be organising voluntary blood donation drives in multiple locations around Nigeria.” The initiative, which is planned for 10 cities across the country, she said, is in collaboration with National Blood Transfusion Service (NBTS), which is expected to make its 17 centres across the country available for the exercise, which commences on June 30. She  said: “We are using this platform to advocate an increase in the number of voluntary (unpaid) blood donors because this category of donors are those that stay in good health and have committed themselves to be a part of saving lives through  regular voluntary blood donation.” Quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO), she said over 234 million major operations were performed worldwide yearly. She, therefore, urged that people should not wait until emergencies to donate blood occur. “Many Nigerians need to be aware that blood donation saves lives, both for the donor and the receiver. Nigeria needs at least 1.8 million units of blood in the blood bank, but the country is far behind. “To play our part in saving lives, we are organising a voluntary blood donation drive in multiple locations around Nigeria on June 30 from 10a.m to 6p.m. The locations are NBTS  offices  in  Abuja, Port  Harcourt,  Enugu, Lagos,  Oyo,  Maiduguri, Benin, Owerri and Kaduna. “We are also advocating for the institution of a regulatory body that will not only support and promote voluntary blood donation, but be able to enforce and even prosecute those, who have made blood and its product a commodity beyond the reach of those in need for commercial gains,” she added. NBTS Monitoring  and  Evaluation Director, Mrs Olusola Idowu, called for rigorous campaign for voluntary blood donation.  Mrs Idowu, who represented  NBTS National Co-ordinator, said the number of voluntary blood donors in the country has drastically declined. She said NBTS has 17 centres across Nigeria, but the highest unit of blood collected by the centres was in 2015. “The highest units of blood ever collected in NBTS was 66,799 in 2015. Since then there has been a drop. In 2016, 51, 331 units were collected and in 2017, 31,896 was collected. “This is a far cry from the 1.8 million units needed for emergencies and medical interventions every year in the country. “We need a regulated agency to monitor these centres and we hope when the government signs the bill on NBTS, such mechanism will be put in place. Most of the private blood donation centres have been the ones encouraging  donating blood for remuneration as they have turned it into a commercial venture. This ought not to be so,” she said. Also, Alliance Hospital Medical Director, Dr. Otabor  Christopher,  said the   importance of blood and blood products cannot be  over-emphasised  in  medical treatments, especially during surgery. “You cannot perform any operation without blood,” Dr. Otabor, a surgeon, said, adding: “The number of voluntary donors in the country is hopelessly low. We do not need to wait until an emergency to give blood because such blood cannot be immediately used. “The donated blood has to be screened and make sure it is safe. This takes considerable time so as not to infect the receiver with diseases. We need to set up a new set of voluntary donors, who will be ready to donate blood regularly. This will go a long way in saving lives.” 