The Passport of Malliam Ilia’, the classic novel of late Nigerian literary legend, Cyprian Ekwensi, will soon be made into an animated feature film by Magic Carpet Studios. Executive producer and CEO of the Studios, Mr Ferdinand Adimefe told News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday, in Abuja that they had acquired full rights of the book from HEBN PLC Publishers. Magic Carpet Studios, one of Nigeria’s most prominent animation studios, received wide acclaim in May for winning the ‘Innovative category’ at the first UN Sustainable Development Goals Action Awards in Germany. Speaking on the importance of developing the novel into an animation film, Adimefe said, “The Passport of Mallam Ilia is one of the most widely read young adult novels of the late 90s. “The animated movie project aims to connect the younger generation with the older one. “It will provide an exciting twist to an already familiar story while exposing the younger generation to the remarkable work of the late iconic writer. “The Plot of the novel which explores colonial Northern Nigeria, and tells a story of love, loss and revenge, provides the right element for an amazing movie,” he said. Published in 1960, twelve years after it was written, ‘The Passport of Mallam Ilia’ remains one of the few twentieth century books that still appeals to young readers. It is a story of Mallam Ilia who spent a greater part of his life seeking revenge for wrong done to him by one Usman. Though he was able to avenge the wrong done to him, it came at a very high price. This novel explores themes of trust, betrayal and revenge. Ekwensi wrote hundreds of short stories, radio and television scripts, and several dozen novels, including children’s books. ‘People of the City’, published in 1954, was his first book to garner international attention. His novel ‘Drummer Boy’ (1960) is still praised as one of the most powerful descriptions of a poor street artist. In 1968, he received the Dag Hammarskjöld International Prize in Literature and in 2001, he was made an MFR; in 2006, he became a fellow of the Nigerian Academy of Letters.