The Nation can report that it was more than the thrills and frills of live football match on Friday at the Super Eagles Dome at Surulere in Lagos State. The hundreds of the Nigeria national team fans dazzled to the live performances from the trio of M.I, Small Doctor and DJ BIG N at the 360 exquisite dome set by Nigerian Breweries brand, Star Lager for the match. It was really after the three time African champion recorded their first victory at the ongoing FIFA World Cup in Russia. The Eagles victory against Iceland got light up to a full blown rave party after Ahmed Musa-the matchwinner- scored his second goal minutes after the hitting the back of the net for the first goal…  It was more than the rhythmic titillating  echoes of issa Gooallll!!!! Issa Gooaal!!!, Issa Gooaalll!!!, Issa Goalll!!! The fans stood up from their couch to celebrate the goals, the spontaneously raised their bottles of beers, embraced the one another exchanged infecting smiles, the all dome turned to an open air of jubilation for the World Cup Eagles. Recall that the Leicester city striker – Musa, who emerged as the Man-of-the Match, scored in the 49th and 75th minutes of the game to set the victory song for Nigeria. The party could not stop into the night at the dome, in Surulere after the Ahmed Musa’s brace. The Super Eagles Dome boasts of cutting-edge features such as high-tech and multimedia technology that gives a 360-degree experience, a tunnel showcasing the glorious history of Super Eagles on LED, a VIP lounge, and a mini studio. It was all a wave of entertainment into the night as the musical performances from the Nigerian artiste kept the evening out with an exciting after-party. As high-point the Eagles fans also got to win branded items such as generators, freezers and television sets and so much more. The Super Eagles Dome is also expected to be the scene of exciting football and anticipation from Nigeria fans when the team takes on  the Argentine national team in a make or mar final group game on Tuesday June 26th.  