A member representing Ibadan North II, state constituency in the Oyo State House of Assembly, Mr. Olusegun Olaleye, on Thursday said he has decided to dump the All Progressives Congress (APC). Olaleye who attended the days plenary in the same Ankara worn by the members of the opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP) who had stormed the Assembly complex to show solidarity with the newly elected representative from Ibarapa East state constituency, Mr. Debo Ogundoyin Speaking when asked on why he wore the PDP customised outfit, the lawmaker who did not deny his show of association with the opposition party, said he had “become a political disciple of former governor Rashidi Ladoja and aligned with whatever political party Ladoja was a member of currently and afterwards.” Olaleye said he observed a political cum ideological departure in happenings in the APC, hence his decision to leave the party. He said, “Life is about dynamism and before I was under the political tutelage of Late Lam Adesina. Few weeks ago, I decided to take another historic, spiritual and political decision to be under the tutelage of a political leader in the state, former governor Rashidi Ladoja. I am under him presently and wherever you find him politically, there you will find me. “I have decamped to Ladoja’s house in Bodija. For now, I, Honourable Olusegun Olaleye, am no longer with the All Progressives Congress (APC). I am now under the tutelage of Senator Rashidi Ladoja and wherever he is, tomorrow, you will find me there. The issue has to do with political, ideological departure from what it used to be,” The Thursday plenary also saw Ogundoyin formally admitted as member of the Assembly, where he spoke of his agenda to collaborate with other legislators to see to the good of the state. After administering the oath of allegiance to Ogundoyin, Speaker of the Assembly, Mr Olagunju Ojo urged Ogundoyin to work closely with other members towards ensuring a better Ibarapa East constituency and Oyo state, at large.