A famous Bayelsa State-born writer, Michael Afenfia, has been on a voyage. He has been moving to different cities and Ivory Towers for a book tour encapsulated in a programmer he tagged the 18 Questions. The Ijaw writer recently anchored his boat at the shores of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife. In his briefcase was also the ‘Mechanics of Yenagoa’, short stories he crafted on Yenagoa, the capital city of Bayelsa. Afenfia’s tour was also designed to discover budding talents and encourage them to eke out a living from writing. Therefore, literary-conscious students of the ancient university trooped out to tap from the writer’s wealth of experience. The afternoon was charged. The atmosphere was saturated with poetic renditions, engaging discussions on writing, creativity, the arts and its roles in redefining the country. Poems were read and spoken words were performed by the students, who were excited that Afenfia was in the school. In fact, the event held fond memories which the attendees would likely not forget in a hurry. Afenfia, an award-winning writer has three novels to his credit – ‘Don’t Die on Wednesday’, ‘When the Moon Caught Fire’ and ‘A Street Called Lonely’. But he publishes the ‘Mechanics of Yenagoa’ as a series every fortnight on his blog. He encouraged the budding writers in attendance and those that followed him online to brace up and utilise their capabilities to drive positive advancement in the society. He said: “Writers play a major role in influencing life and society for the realisation of a brighter and more rewarding future. As key stakeholders, influencing thoughts and mindsets in the journey towards the attainment of a prosperous nation, they should be celebrated just like pop stars and footballers. “As a writer, let your writing speak about something. You have a voice, people look up to you and your writing. Write not only for writing or for art’s sake. “The challenge however is that many writers are not unaware of the enormous capabilities and responsibilities they have to society. This contributes to their tendency to take their writing with levity.” Speaking about “The Mechanics of Yenagoa”, Afenfia said: “The idea for it was borne out of the need to put my city on the map. It was not birthed by any thunder, lightning or big voice command from the sky. “In a way that is engaging and interesting manner, I try to tell the Bayelsa story using Ebinimi, a graduate mechanic. With the mention of Bayelsa names, places and so on, people who didn’t know much about the state can begin to identify with it. “Writers do this for the more advanced societies of the world, and even though some of us have not visited, we know them by the stories that have been told about and around them.” He said the series on his blog would eventually become a novel. According to him it was quite interesting to write a novel, develop plot, characters, setting and more with many people consistently following. “Once published, I can’t undo anything after each episode.’The Mechanics of Yenagoa’ has been at the centre of my literary tour which has taken me from Yenagoa, Bayelsa, to Lagos, Port Harcourt, Abuja, and now Ile-Ife Osun State”, he said.