Twenty two-year-old Ethiopian model, Misker Kassahun, won the Miss Africa Beauty Queen pageant in Lagos recently. In this interview with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN, the beauty queen who is currently studying Medicine at St. Paul’s Hopital Millennium College spoke on her journey to winning the prize, what she likes about Nigerian men, among other issues. Excerpts… HOW did you get to know about this pageantry since you don’t live in Nigeria? I have Nigerian friends and I heard it through them. Is this your first time in Nigeria? No, I had been here before for a pageant that took place last year. Being a beauty queen is one of my dreams and I have been modelling before now and have been to three international pageants and this is the first that I have won. So how did you feel when you were announced winner? I felt really nice. Did you have any feeling that you were going to win? I knew I had a good chance but I was not sure. Before coming for the pageant I was very confident but when I came I saw all the girls looking gorgeous and experienced so I was scared a bit. All Africans are really pretty. What has changed about you since you emerged Miss Africa Beauty Queen? A lot of people want to learn about my hobbies and people expect me to do charity and do good to the community. Are there expectations from your family over there since you emerged? Not really, actually my parents want me to focus more on my studies so they are not really involved in my pageantry and modelling career.  So, I can’t pretty say. What challenges have you encountered? As an Ethiopian, the problem is that our fashion industry is not very developed.  We don’t have a system for beauty queens. So, for me the hardship I face is getting sponsors, and getting recognised as a beauty queen in my own country. Yeah,  there are lots of challenges. Besides, my school is very stressful and I am trying to do both. So how do you juggle being a beauty queen and student at the same time? I always try to use my time properly. Besides that, my school is very supportive in everything I do because they want to promote women that have both beauty and brains. My school supports me a lot and I always set my priorities straight. Of course, you been to a number of beauty pageants; what differentiates this from the rest? What I like about this pageant is the fact that it wants to have women empowered and become role models to others and the way they treat you is very respectful. They also give you the platform to do what you’ve always imagined yourself doing, like engaging in community works. Were you not scared that they might not deliver their promises? No, from the day I met them when I arrived Nigeria, I saw the way they were working and I saw their system. So I had no doubt. I really liked the whole organization from the first time I came. What projects will you be working on as a beauty queen? I have lots of projects in mind, one of them is to work on mental health issues which is really neglected  in Africa. I will like to do media campaigns, people need to know that there is a problem because mental health is just like another kind of illness although I already launched my project in my country a week ago and I also hope to do that in other African countries. I also want to work on women empowerment. I feel like women need to be given more opportunities, need to be more exposed and celebrated more. How do you plan to take this project to other African countries? I want to work with other queens for example we have people from Ghana, Gambia,and  Zambia. What I plan to do is share the ideas with them so they can take it to their countries and work on it because I am a student I can’t really be in those countries. Have you been getting some kind of special treatment in your school since you emerged Miss Africa beauty queen? I can’t say special but they are always asking me about the pageantry lifestyle and they are always fascinated about what I do besides school like photo-shoots and stuffs. How is your partner coping with your new status? I am actually single because I have a very busy schedule, there is school, there is modelling, so I don’t really have time. Why mental health and why do you intend to drive it? The reason I chose mental health is because I have always been fascinated about human mind. Since I was a child, I have been always reading about how the mind works. So, growing up, I discovered we lack a lot in that area especially in my country. I see people with depression, people are committing suicide, people not being treated like humans. So, I think what I saw made me to work on mental illness. There are things I plan to do and one of the activities is to print pocket size magazines of the common mental illness in my country like major depressive disorder, bipolar disorder, autism, hyper activities, mental illnesses and others. So, I will like to take these common diseases in a very simple way and just distribute to everyone especially to universities and high schools so that at least these people can go and share with their parents. People don’t even consider depression as an illness. So, I want people to know the signs and symptoms of at least the common diseases. I am trying to do a documentary showing how people live with mental challenges and how psychiatrists handle it and how we can spot mental illness. One thing about mental illness is that you can’t really know you have it until someone sees you and notices the sign. I also plan to hold panel discussion, public lectures so that everyone can attend and hear about it and I also plan to do a media campaign. October is actually mental illness month and I am hoping that by the time I finish my project  I can show my it using the media. I will like to have rehabilitation centers in my country where people can come and get free treatment and recover from mental illnesses. I also want to become a successful business woman because I want to show women that you can be beautiful and at the same time be an entrepreneur. Why would a beautiful queen like you be single? Like I said, I have a busy schedule that’s why. Are you saying you are too busy for men? Sometimes and I am also a bit picky sometimes like I have a list of what I want my man to be so if I don’t find that I don’t just go into a relationship. But sometimes we don’t end up where we want to be especially when it comes to relationships; don’t you think that my affect you if you keep being picky? Yea you have a point, true, but as I said, if I had the time I would have done as you said but… …or probably there are no handsome guys in Ethiopia? No, no, no. We have handsome guys in Ethiopia. Have Nigerian guys walked up to you since you came and what do you like about them? I like the fact that they are outspoken. They appreciate what you have, maybe for your looks or if it’s for your brains, they appreciate you and I like that. So would you pick a Nigerian guy over an Ethiopian guy? I can’t really say because I haven’t spent a lot of time with a Nigerian guy. So, I can’t really compare them. What’s your favourite Nigerian delicacy? I like Jollof. Have you tasted Ghanaian Jollof? No. You must have listened to some Nigerian music. Who are your favourite Nigerian artistes? I love Nigerian music. I like Tiwa Savage a lot, Kiss Daniel, and Davido. You must have learnt some Nigerian Languages… No, I haven’t. I actually have had hard time understanding the pidgin language.