Proper execution of a field  development plan (FDP) can boost oil production, the Society of Petroleum Engineers (SPE), Lagos Section, has said. In a communiqué after its technical symposium entitled: “Expediting FDP Approval: Key actions to ensure efficiency and value-added processes’’, the body noted the importance of FDP and the need for speedy approvals by relevant government agencies. In the communiqué signed by the SPE Lagos Section Chairman, Mr. Temitope Oshuntuyi, which was made available to The Nation, the petroleum engineers, however, noted that not every field is economic to develop and a wrong plan attracts a huge price. An FDP is essential for optimal and economic production of a field. The engineers said there was an increased need for FDP approvals as oil price was rising and companies were not willingness to develop their fields. Some of the reasons for delays in getting approvals or rejection of FDPs include inadequacy of plans in addressing the project’s pressing issues, lack of continuity in the quality of FDP plans received by the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). Others are partners working in isolation, lack of understanding of fiscal regimes, gas utilisation, project execution, contracting strategy and project economics as observed by the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS), an arm of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) to the FDP approval process. Early engagement of stakeholders  for discussions to promote openness and clarity of purpose contributed to the success of FDPs that were approved on time, the body observed. Insecurity and too many bureaucracies increase field development costs even as technological advancements, such as surveillance with downhole gauges, multi-phase flow meters, digitisation, and artificial intelligence were slowly being adopted by DPR, which sought to ensure that these technologies had been tested. The SPE said: “Technology is key to lower development cost and remain competitive. Early appraisals and information acquisition help speed up the FDP approval process, as experienced by an Independent operator. “Field Development Plan and its approval could be a rigorous process depending on the Asset size.  DPR affirmed that contrary to speculations in some quarters, staffing was not a constraint to the timely approval of FDPs. “Therefore, early engagements with both NAPIMs and DPR and getting an alignment on their expectations are critical to speedy and efficient FDP approval process. Cluster development and Asset risk sharing should be considered to enhance maximum technical and commercial recovery. Operators should consider sharing facilities, while developing FDPs, especially new operators with single concessions.’’ It continued: “All companies must consider monetisation of gas in their FDPs as no new project will be sanctioned without it. Even if the gas monetisation plans cannot be immediately achieved, it must be included in the FDP to demonstrate good will. “All stakeholders should ensure the continuity of resource persons that handle the FDP process across all concerned disciplines for transfer of learnings from one FDP to another. “Regulators should standardise the FDP approval processes for both new and brown field developments, with a distinction in the requirements for either.’’ SPE said there was the need for scalable regulation, urging operators to adopt upfront collaboration with stakeholders and regulators. It said: “Consideration should be given to streamline the approval process, eliminating multiplicities and too many processes; therefore, regulators need to integrate their workflow in a seamless manner. “DPR should champion a collaborative learning process. There should be an audit trail between when an FDP is submitted and when it is approved so that bottlenecks can be identified. “New technologies and processes that can be adopted by DPR and NAPIMS include easily visible and auditable database like NIPEX, Multi-Phase Flow Meters (MFPM), commingling of small pools and use of downhole gauges. “DPR and NAPIMS should consider adopting technology such as commercially available interactive centers where FDP teams assigned to various assets can converge virtually to scrutinise the FDPs.”