Maj.-Gen Muhammad Muhammad, the General Officer Commanding (GOC), 1 Division, Nigerian Army, has assured troops serving in Operation Zaman Lafiya Dole in the Northeast that their sacrifices will not be in vain. Also, the Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has tasked officers and men engaged in the fight against insurgency and banditry to ensure strict professionalism in their dealings. Muhammad gave the assurance yesterday when he visited some wounded soldiers and officers of the operation at 44 Reference Hospital, Kaduna. He said in Operation Zaman Dole ward, where the 106 wounded personnel were receiving treatment: “We are here because of this Sallah (Eid-el-fitr) period. “A lot of us are out there enjoying the Sallah, unknown to us there are some of our colleagues, who are not able to. “The only way to make them feel that they belong to the society is to be with them and share with them so that we give them that sense of belonging and comfort them. “Because some of them don’t have limbs, others are with so many challenges; it is by this we comfort them. “If we don’t also address them this period of time, it means we have abandoned them. We assure them that their sacrifices are not in vain that is why we are here.’’ Muhammad assured the personnel that in the next visit, the army would do all within its resources to alleviate their sufferings. “Those of them that are in need of immediate evacuation, we will also make concrete steps to make it known to the army authority that this particular patient needs particular attention. “You could see from the degree of their ailments, some of them need to be prioritised and based on availability of funds, they will be channelled to the respective medical facilities for medical care,” he said According to the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN), during the visit, the GOC donated 10 cartoons of noodles, 10 cartons of sardine, 20 cartons of biscuits, sugar, beverages, among others to the patients. Air Marshal Abubakar while while playing host to members of the Air Component of “Operation Lafiya Dole” at Eid El-Fitr lunch at the Yola Air Force Base expressed satisfaction with the troop. Represented by the Commander of the Air Task Force of Operation Lafiya Dole, AVM Idi Lubo, the air chief said he was satisfied with the commitment shown by the Force in the fight against insurgency and urged officers to sustain the tempo. He said the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) remained committed to supporting ground troops in ensuring total elimination of the insurgents and bandits. He extended the goodwill message of the President and Commander in Chief to the troops and assured them of sustained support in areas of equipment and welfare to continue to deliver in containing security challenges. The commander of the Yola NAF Base, Air Commodore Anthony Ndace, lauded the CAS for the lunch, which he described as part of gesture to motivate officers and men. He listed the recent launch of accommodation quarters and other projects in the base by the CAS and assured him of personnel loyalty and commitment toward discharging their duties. He noted that “This shows commitment of the CAS to motivate personnel. We, the commanders are learning on your exemplary leadership. “I want to pledge our loyalty to the President and Commander in Chief, and to assure you of our total commitment to the discharge of our assigned tasks.”  