The United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) is supporting the Cross River State government to tackle the branding children as witches. UNICEF Nigeria, Enugu Field Office Child Protection Specialist Mrs Nkiru Maduechesi spoke at a two-day workshop on the amendment of the state’s 2009 Child Rights Law in Calabar. The workshop was organised by the Cross River Ministry of Women Affairs and the Enugu State Ministry of Gender Affairs and Sustainable Development with support byUNICEF. Maduechesi said child witchcraft branding is a manifestation of a weak system, which is not just about law. She said the workshop, whose participants were stakeholders and experts on child protection and child rights from Lagos, Imo, Enugu and Cross River States, was to brainstorm in fine-tuning the 2009 law to be more responsive to the contemporary realities. She said: “The essence of the workshop is to make it to be in tune with the present happenings, like issues of child witchcraft branding is not in the law, we need to have that addressed. We also have issues of birth registration. Even though it is in the law, there is no penalty for parents who neglect to register their children. There are issues of right to health. So the stakeholders are rethinking this law in such a way that it makes real impact in the lives of children. There are a whole lot of issues. “UNICEF is supporting the state because the child witchcraft branding is a manifestation of a weak system and the system is not just about law. It starts from the home, it starts from parents having the right parental skills and information about child development. Because sometimes when children are in their teen years, some people expect you to behave like adults, but they are not. So part of those behaviours, when parents don’t have the right parental skill, they attribute it to witchcraft branding which is not the case, but because they lack the information and the skill. “So, UNICEF is supporting the state to set up and effective child protection system that would address both the formal and informal sectors. Informal in the sense that we have rolled out our community actions to educate parents on this issues so that they would understand better and then also to make the social welfare to be more responsive in identifying these issues, but most importantly this year, we are looking at profiling these children on the streets because majority of them are on the streets as a result of branding them as witches and wizards. “We want to support these children to reintegrate them because that is where the abuse will always start from. Being on the streets they don’t have guidance. There is no one correcting them or being in charge of their basic necessities. So they are vulnerable to being in conflict with the law, in problems with the police and of course, the criminals out there in society. So, UNICEF is working with NGOs and women affairs to start supporting this programme the state through the child protection system strengthening. “The law is a great milestone, because it has codified the rights of children. It is no longer an assumption. It is no longer left to chance. What we need more is the political will and of course the leadership of the various sectors to enforce the standard in the law to serve as deterrent, but most importantly to prevent this abuses because the law has stated grounds and standards that if fully implemented, would have less of child rights violation in the state. But we still have more work to do. We have covered to a great extent, milestones in reaching to the desired goals.” Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Sustainable Development and Social Welfare, Cross River State, Mr Takon Asu Takon, said the amendment of the law was necessary as life is dynamic. Takon, a lawyer, said: “We have experienced changes which were not contemplated in the law. So there is need once in while to look at the law and see if there are new developments that can be inserted and probably issues that are no longer relevant could be extracted from.” Director of Public Prosecution in the state, Gregory Okim, also said: “there are certain provisions in the law that inhibits the effective take off of the family court. So we are trying to see how we can address such challenges, because the law is aimed at protecting the child.” In February, the Basic Rights Counsel Initiative (BRCI) in Calabar  released horrific images of three children who were tortured for witchcraft in Cross River State. Grace, 3, Lillian, 5, and Juliet, 13, narrowly escaped death after their accusers tried to extract confessions from them. Their grandmother said to be suffering froma terminal disease was said to have accused the kids of being behind her illness. In another instance, Emmanuel David Akpan was arrested for allegedly inflicting grievous injuries on his three kids. Akpan and his wife, the stepmother to the kids, were arrested by the police from the Federal Housing Police Station, Calabar for allegedly bathing the three little girls, Imaobong, 7, Nyenime, 5, and Joy, 3, with hot water, after binding their hands and legs with   electric cables. Akpan said: “These children always attacked me in my dreams, they want to kill me”. But Mrs Lilian Ekanem of Women, Youth and Children Uplifting Foundation said UNICEF, and the Child Rights Act said: “The action of some parents and family members is evil and such should be condemned. How can you tag an innocent child God has blessed you with as a witch?”