The Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso I, and the Otun Olubadan, Oba Lekan Balogun, yesterday quarrelled over the foremost monarch’s directive that no masquerade should dance in the home of any high chief, now beaded crown-wearing obas. It was learnt that though the Olubadan expressed satisfaction with the compliance of his directive banning masquerade dance in the family compound of his estranged high chiefs until further notice, he was said to have accused Oba Balogun of violating the order. The foremost monarch in Ibadan said he had no regret issuing the royal directive. Oba Balogun had described the monarch’s directive as misuse of power. He also threatened to have a masquerade dance in his compound, contrary to Olubadan’s directive. In a statement yesterday in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, by his Personal Assistant/Director of Media and Public Affairs, Mr Adeola Oloko, the Olubadan described Oba Balogun’s claim that he (Oba Balogun) hosted a masquerade show in his compound as empty and deceitful. The foremost oba said the Egungun Festival purportedly staged at a location in Alli Iwo (Oba Balogun’s compound) was not authentic. He urged the residents to beware of falsehood. According to him, when some masqueraders paid homage to him at his palace last Monday, there were photographs that could be verified in the papers and the names of those at the outing were there. Oba Adetunji said: “Where are their photographs? What are the names of the masqueraders? “Even Atipako, the leading masquerade, who was reported to have honoured High Chief Lekan Balogun, was not there as the Atipako family of Kobomoje in Ibadan had issued a disclaimer. “Part of the text, dated June 21, addressed to the Olubadan and signed by Tajudeen Oladimeji and Kazim Atipako, the Abe’ja and Eleru Atipako, reads: ‘We, the undersigned and entire members of Atipako family, did not in any way disobey the directive of the Olubadan. We did not attend a masquerade dance nor performed any ritual for the Otun Olubadan, as reported in some quarters. One woman, Rashidat, who is claiming to be one of us, is not a member of our family and was not sent to anybody. Therefore, as a woman, she is not permitted to perform any ritual.'” Expressing appreciation to the masqueraders for carrying out the royal directive to the letter, the Olubadan said the make-belief being created was a price for rebellion. The eminent monarch said the people of Ibadan had spoken.