His recent move to strengthen cultural ties and peaceful coexistence amongst the regions and ethnic groups is admirable. Apart from constantly preaching peace, unity, tolerance and understanding, HRH (Dr) Appolus Chu, Egbere Emere Okori of Eleme Kingdom, Rivers State, has visited various palaces, a gesture he advises other traditional rulers to emulate. Relieving that one of the yardsticks for national unity is the cross integration of culture and social affiliation amongst different kingdoms irrespective of traditional variance and divergence, HRH Appolus Chu is of the opinion that cultural integration is a catalyst for national unity. His presence at the just concluded 2018 Nzem Berom, a cultural festival of the Berom nation in Plateau State where hundreds of people thronged the Jos stadium, venue of the most consistent and promising festival in Nigeria. There, HRH Appolus Chu was received by His Royal Majesty, the Gbong Gwon, Jos, Da Jacob Buba. Describing Jos as a home for tourists, HRH Chu said, “I appreciate the Gbong Gwom Jos, of His Majesty, Dr Jacob Gyang Buba for guarding the culture and tradition of his people jealously. By promoting his culture in this manner, he is also affording his people the opportunity to come together in love and unity and this is a crystal for national unity.” The Major features of the festival included a royal procession and deployment of well kitted Berom traditional warriors, a colourful parade of traditional dance groups as well as the exhibition of the Berom cuisine artefacts, mineral resources and raw materials. In continuation of his peace campaign that traditional rulers should be their brother’s keeper, synergise and network so as promote cultural tolerance, integration and cohesion, HRH Chu also paid a visit to the Emir of Misua, Bauchi State, HRH Alhaji Ahmed Suleiman to commiserate with the people of the town and the Emir of Misua on the 22 students of Government Secondary School, Misau, in Bauchi State and their driver who died in an auto crash along Bauchi-Kano early this year while travelling to Kano for an excursion. Although very rare and uncommon in the Nigerian traditional institution, for kings to regularly visit one another, mostly, considering the distance, for example, the distance between the Northern Nigeria and South-South, it is always very difficult for kings from one end to regularly visit kings on the other end. But for a noble man of rare personality, distances know no barrier in HRH Appolus Chu’s philosophy of building synergy and oneness aimed at the developing the nation, Nigeria. Accosted by royal horsemen, all positioned with the reputable sense of royalty, clothed with respect, the people of Misau, joyfully welcomed, HRH (Dr.) Applous Chu to their emirate and to the palace of the Emir of Misua, Bauchi State. Addressing the people of Misua, HRH Chu said, “This visit is long overdue. When the incident where the Misua people lost their children happened, I was so devastated. You know what children stand for, they are our future and when one now loses them, there are apparently some setbacks in the family and community they came from.  I pray that as many that had lost their children during that very sad incident, God will fill the vacuums they have left in their lives and that of the communities.” In his response, HRH Ahmed Suleiman thanked Chu for his visit, adding that it is the tradition of the Misua people that when visitors come, they are given traditional gifts as a token of appreciation of their visit. To this end, HRH Chu was presented with some royal gifts which included a well decorated white horse on which HRH Appolus Chu took a ride. Nzem Berom was instituted in 1981 as a unifying cultural festival of the Berom people in plateau state, north central Nigeria and indeed, the Berom people are irresistible with unique cultural endowment and love for their tongue, which has sustained the survival of the festival. Under the watch of His Royal Majesty, the Gbong Gwon, Jos, Da Jacob Buba, the over 1.6 million people of Berom nation have kept faith with the ambitious project of sustaining their unity, growing their young population and showcasing the gift of nature through strategically showcasing the rich Berom geographical landmass as an agricultural tourism destination.