National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, on Wednesday inaugurated a new state working committee (SWC) for the party in Cross River State. The party in the state had been in crisis since two parallel congresses produced two different executive councils in May this year. The SWC was yesterday inaugurated after being elected in a state congress conducted by a five-man congress committee led by Mr Henry Idah Agbom and monitored by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The members of the SWC, which has Dr Mathew Achigbe as chairman, Sir John Ochalla as Vice Chairman and Bishop Victor Ebong as Secretary emerged through voice votes by the delegates at the congress. Oshiomhole, who was represented by the National Vice Chairman, South-South, Ntufam Hillard Eta, said it was the wisdom of the National Working Committee to dissolve all the state executive councils and elect a new one to move the party forward in the state. The congress committee chairman, Agbom, said the party needs a united front in the state to take over government in the state in 2019. He expressed confidence that with the inauguration, the party would win the governorship election in the state in 2019. The newly inaugurated chairman, Dr Achigbe, expressed gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari, and Comrade Oshiomhole for remaining committed to the rule of law. He promised to work hard to ensure victory in the elections next year. Achigbe also expressed commitment to re-electing president Buhari next year. He called for the support of all members of the party to guarantee success. Also speaking the Senator representing the Central Senatorial District of the State, Mr John Owan-Enoh, said with the executive council inaugurated, the party would get stronger. Among delegates at the congress yesterday were former governor, Dr Clement Ebri; former Tourism and Culture Minister, High Chief Edem Duke; former Senator of the Southern Senatorial District, Prince Bassey Otu among others.