Mercedes Benz Brazilian Daimler (MB do Brazil) is set to deliver 200 buses to Lagos by month end. The buses, says the government, are part of the first batch of 800 needed to flagoff the new bus operation. A test run of the initiative may begin by the fourth quarter of the year, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE When they arrive by monthend in Lagos, Mercedez do Brasil’s 200’s large capacity buses will make history as the biggest order ever by any state government to strengthen its public transport fleet. The order, a top official confirmed in a statement, will assist in solving transportation problem in the megacity. “MB do Brasil is very pleased about the large order to the most populous country in Africa,” Roberto Leoncini, the company’s Vice President Sales & Marketing, said. He described Lagos and indeed Nigeria as the export strength of the Brazilian Daimler subsidiary. Leoncini confirmed that the buses, meant for urban passenger transport, which was the company’s biggest order in the last 10 years, would be delivered to the Coscharis Group, its Nigerian outlet. This has given more verve to the state’s readiness to jump-start its land transport reform dream, which had almost gone comatose since Governor Akinwunmi Ambode unveiled an ambitious move to take a N100 billion bond to midwife a bus reform initiative early last year. The initiative hopes to replace the rickety yellow buses with new, modern, Eco3 ones, which among other benefits, are to be more passenger-friendly, safer, readily available and affordable, and above all the flagship of public sector driven transportation initiative. The governor said the bond would  address the three basic components of the initiative: provision of support terminals infrastructure, 10 of which, planned for the first phase, are in various stages of completion; and acquisition of 5,000 large-to-medium capacity air-conditioned buses, which would be injected over a three years (with 800 to be acquired in the first phase to kick-start the project). The third leg is the training of professional drivers and the acquisition of Intelligent Transport System (ITS), for a seamless operation of its rolling stock and travel convenience of commuters. He disclosed that the buses would start operation last February and at the inauguration of the Ikeja Bus Terminal a month later, applauded President Muhammadu Buhari for  approving import waivers for the state to bring in the buses proposed to run the new scheme. Available data from the Ministry of Transportation shows the rickety yellow buses account for about three million out of the seven million vehicles on the state’s roads. With its 23 million population, where 12 million people depend on rickety private commercial buses and about six million move from one point to the other on foot, providing acceptable, affordable and comfortable means of transportation for the common man has remained a major headache for successive governments. Ambode said he would inject 5,000 buses to replace the 14-passenger rickety contraption buses that dot its landscape. The bus reform initiative is a three-year rolling plan (2017 to 2019) during which the government intends to bring in new buses, made up of maxi-buses, which will take 70 people (30 percent), while medium buses, which will contain 30, will make up the balance (about 3,600 units). Many Lagosians have lauded the plan, noting that it would revolutionise intra-city travel experience.They said the new buses would reduce the tension, stress and worries and, ultimately, reduce the volume of vehicles on the roads. One of such is Mr Patrick Adenusi, a safety, logistics and transport expert, who described the move as “another maverick touch by the governor”. Adenusi, who said the danfos (buses) constituted hazards, commended the governor for bringing buses designed especially for passenger services instead of the re-modified cargo re-fabricated contraptions being used by operators. Beginning Transportation was largely private-sector driven, with large fleet operators, such as the late Sir Louis Odimegwu Ojukwu, dominating the space with his Ojukwu Transport Limited (OTL). The intervention of organised operators in transportation services saw the introduction of more ‘modern’ large-capacity buses that gave birth to molue, which survived many of the state governments until the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu administration several initiatives pushed them into the fringes. One of the early government’s intervention was in the ‘80s, when due to the cancellation of the World Bank-assisted light rail metroline project in 1986, the government diverted the World Bank assistance into vehicular mass transit and injected 300 large-capacity buses managed by the defunct Lagos State Transport Corporation (LSTC), the special purpose vehicle (SPV) established to drive its public sector transportation. Though the LSTC failed, from its ashes came Lagos State Bus Assets Limited (LAGBUS), and a much- stronger and adequately-backed Lagos Area Metropolitan Transportation Authority (LAMATA) that spear-headed the state’s strategic transportation masterplan (STMP) since the turn of the millennium. New mix That was why the governor said he would be rolling out a N100 billion bond to finance its numerous initiatives aimed at making the movement of people and goods painless. Of this, the government will provide N30 billion capital to elicit interest, while investors are to make up the balance. Ambode, by concentrating on deepening the roads, seemed to have convinced himself to go by the most plausible alternative that can bring quick returns. He said: “We decided that no matter the solution that we want to give the traffic management, we must also now provide a comfortable means of moving people, and encourage the middle class and majority of our people to drop their cars at home. That is the idea with this bus initiative, which is to prepare Lagos to be a global competitor.” Before Ambode, getting the upper and middle classes of the society to drop their cars and use other alternatives, have been at the heart of a strategic transportation planning over the past two decades. From the era when bicycles made way for vehicles and the roads became less pedestrian-friendly, successive administrations have been trying to introduce initiatives aimed at restraining vehicular density in a state whose total landmass is 999.6 km2. Some of the initiatives include the construction of roads with improved Intelligent Traffic Control Systems (ITS), roads with appropriate pedestrian walkways and bicycle lanes have been experimented with. The idea is to ensure that more people drop their cars for public transportation, use bicycles or walk to their destinations. All these are, in addition to the giant strides being recorded with the incursion of LAMATA in the transportation architecture of the state, have had salutary effect and helped the state manage congestion on its roads. Unmindful that the new policy would redirect the government’s focus to the roads, Adenusi said the yellow buses were a shame to the state’s megacity status. Arguing that the buses were not built for services to which they had been deployed by operators, Adenusi said many had been killed and others injured. Ambode’s promise Ambode said it might not be too long for Lagos to blaze a trail in public transportation where the people are given a new deal in vehicular transportation. With two of the 10 terminals ready and others in various stages of completion, it may not be too long before Lagosians begin to enjoy a new dividend of comfortable, more organised public transportation that would meet the state’s status as the star of the black race and one of the big economies on the continent.