Vice Chancellor, Lagos State University (LASU), Prof Lanre Adigun Fagbohun, has assured that the Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu Spirit of Africa Award scheduled for next month would not be compromised. Fagbohun is also optimistic that the initiative being organised by the university to recognise Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, a former governor of Lagos State, and contribute to the renaissance of the African continent, would attract support individuals and corporate bodies, thereby reducing the financial burden on the institution. Fagbohun said: “When people say they don’t have money to run certain programmes that means they do not have programmes that sell. If you have, definitely, there will be sponsors. “In LASU, we have always emphasised on leadership, and leadership gaps that has been the bane in Africa. Nonetheless, we are proud that there are still Africans who have contributed positively to leadership across various spheres, and who could serve as an inspiration to others. When such people are encouraged through awards, it will ginger corporate bodies and individuals with like minds to want to partner with us through corporate sponsorship. “As regards standard, I can also tell you that we would pick men and women of integrity as members of the panel. I just told you that the team is currently headed by Walter Carrington. So, can someone simply walk up to a person like him that he wants to buy the award? A corporate body, such as Ford Foundation, has been doing this for years. Why they are still in business is because they do not compromise on quality. I can assure you we shall ensure that only deserving Africans get the award.” Tinubu, who has accepted the offer, has also promised to donate a complex to the institution’s Faculty of Arts for which he has already disbursed N1.4 billion. Fagbohun said the event would be a yearly platform to honour three ‘unsung heroes’ in Africa who have excelled in leadership across governance, industry, peace and conflict resolution, among others. Also, next Wednesday, the university will host a former United Kingdom (UK) parliamentarian Baronness Lynda Chalker in a programme tagged : ‘An afternoon with Baronness Lynda Chalker’. Chalker is an international consultant and Chair of African Matters Limited, a consulting firm that specialises in African Matters. Fagbohun expressed confidence that Chalker’s talk will further engender collaboration between the university community and professionals on coming up with initiatives that will reposition Nigeria, nay Africa economically and politically. On August 28, 2018, the university’s second distinguished lecture will be delivered by an alumna, Mrs Dan-Faparusi Ogugua who studied Law but also trained as a pilot.