The Department of Petroleum Resource (DPR) has prescribed penalties for International Oil Companies (IOCs) that default payment of annual fees for oil exploitation and exploration in the country. Assistant Coordinator, National Data Repository (NDR), Mr. Bashir Ndabawa, made this known on Wednesday live on the DPR half hour on network of Radio Nigeria Programme that The Nation monitored. With the NDR in existence since 2007, the issue of DPR not having the data of oil production in the country has become history,  he said, denying allegations that the department has no capacity of ascertaining the volume of Nigeria’s oil production. He said that the DPR recently reviewed its NDR regulation, which is now pending the Minister of Petroleum Resources approval for implementation. He added that that plans are underway to automate the NDR for companies to access and submit their data online. His words:  “We have just recently review the NDR regulation. So, in fact, we have included in the new regulation the penalty. If you don’t pay on time you are paying a penalty apart from the annual fee you are going to pay. It is about being sent to the minister. So when the minister approves it, it is just left to implement it. We intend to make NDR fully automated where companies can submit their data online.” Ndabawa noted that the challenges that the DPR experiences included companies failures to submit their data to it. According to him, the law mandates the oil firms to submit their data to the DPR, while some of the companies refuse to comply, some do not comply as when due. The DOR, he said, is planning to expand the scope of its National Data Repository in order to serve other sectors of the economy. Upon the expansion of the scope, the NDR will provide an online service to the general public, on the payment of a subscription fee. Ndabawa noted that “We have challenges of data submission by companies. By law all the data generated by oil companies belong to the federal government of Nigeria. And by law these companies are supposed and required to submit these data to DPR. “There are some companies that don’t  submit  data as when due.  So, we are using this channel to urge the companies to please submit these data as when due. And the last challenge is the annual fee payment. “This business model of NDR is self-funding. It is funded by the industry. Companies are supposed to pay their annual fees based on their exploitation and of oil exploration. But some of these companies are not paying as at when due. So this is the main challenge we are having.” Asked how NDR contributes to Nigeria economy, he said that the country depends mostly on petroleum industry for its foreign earnings. Oil and gas business, according to him, “is driven by data.” He added that the data is used for a lot of discoveries of new oil, stressing that the more oil we discover the more foreign exchange Nigeria earns. There is a new saying in the industry that data is the new oil.” The DPR, he said, generates revenue from data sale and annual subscriptions from oil companies used for the sustenance of operations. He said that apart from the initial establishment fund, NDR does not get any funding from government.