Former Deputy National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chief Olabode George spoke to reporters in Lagos on a wide range of issues, including the trend of defections in recent times and why all Nigerians must join hands to tackle insecurity across the country. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE was there. How do you see the spate of killings in the Middle Belt and northern Nigeria generally? As an elder statesman, I have spoken on the matter. In the community where I was brought up, when things are not going well, the elders speak. They should be able to find solution to the challenges. I have lived a great deal of my life and I thank God that I am in my mid 70s. I have never seen things happening this way before. I made suggestions at that time on how such things should be handled; this is not the time for partisan politics. This is a serious national security matter and I suggested that the President and those in government should call for a meeting of stakeholders to find solution to the problem. They should keep behind them personal ambition, interests and rise up for the corporate interests of our nation. We should have religious leaders, traditional rulers and prominent leaders to look into the matter. We still have past presidents, prominent leaders, who are still alive and can look at the matter dispassionately. Right now, as we are heading towards another election, my suggestion is that we should talk and proffer solutions. This is not the time to say I am in government, you are in the opposition. The PDP recently signed a Memorandum of Understanding with 38 other political parties. What will it gain from the coalition? This nation must survive, I don’t want to be partisan now, I want to be factual. We want to have a government that will harness the resources of the country and can manage the resources of the country for the betterment of our people. So, if you look back even from 1960, have you ever heard of political parties with different ideologies? The parties’ ideologies are simply to the right, left, centre right and centre left. But, that is not our problem in Africa. Do you know where our problems lay? It is the provision of basic necessities like  education, housing, employment for graduates and those who are not graduates. We must be able to create investment for sustainable economic activities, good agriculture etc. Today, we are number zero with all the abundant resources. Then, what is wrong? Whatever you need for your survival is here in Nigeria. Remove that toga of greed, selfishness and look at your land and tap into the resources. As you move from one area to another, you will see that God has endowed us enormously. By the year 2040, the Iyinbo people will no longer produce petrol vehicles, the petrol you depend on will no longer be relevant. This is the time we should start preparing for the rainy days. The technology will be based on electric powered machines. We do not even have enough electricity to run our homes. So, talking about the coalition, ideologically, there are no differences. I remember when we were having a national convention, issues that we would have sat down together to address, we allowed it to get out of our hand. And some of our brothers and sisters headed out.  I said it at the time that the coalition some PDP members went into with the APC was one of strange bed fellows. What has it turned out to be now? They see themselves as Conference for Progressive Change (CPC), Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) and All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) with this, how can the centre hold? And because there are no ideological differences, people can easily move from one platform to another. Many APC lawmakers and governors have returned to the PDP. What does it portends for the party in 2019? Do you remember the prodigal son in the Bible? He told his father to give him his own part of the money that he wanted to go. The father asked him to wait, but he insisted his father gave him his share. He gave him the share and he headed out, socialising everywhere and mismanaging the money. When he could no longer sustain himself, he went out there to fend for himself and got the worst job. He worked as a steward serving the pigs and even eating what should ordinarily go for the pigs. One day he looked at his condition and decided to return to his father in submissive condition and was accepted back. This is a lesson for the party and what do you call experience? It is something that you acquire over a period of time; it is not taught in the classroom. That is to say, what an old man can see when sitting down, the young man cannot see it, even when he climbs the roof top. That is what I have been saying and whatever it is, we must look back to watch where we have been coming from. I am so happy that these people have decided to come to the fold. And because we are not on the same ideological page, you jump from conservative position and you now say you are liberalist. They will say this man is a 4-1-9; not believing what you say, because it is not so easy to jump from conservatism to liberalism. God Almighty will direct us as long as we are fair and just. We should convince Nigerians that this unnecessary imposition, illegality and disregard for the constitution is something that should not be. You have to get your Permanent Voters Card (PVC) and once you get your ballot paper, you ask yourself, am I better off today now? If you are better, vote the APC and if you are not better, vote the alternative. Every four years we renew the mandate and that is the time you decide whether to vote for another party or not. What is the state of Lagos PDP and what can you say about the killing of Apapa Local Government PDP chairman? What happened in Lagos was as a result of inordinate ambition and lack of respect for the constitution of the party. Why I won’t like to go into details is because the matter is already with the police. Remember when Ali Modu-Sheriff was head of the party, and then Makarfi went all the way to the Supreme Court on the question of who is in charge. I remember the very day after the judgment, Makarfi in his own wisdom decided that there is no victor, no vanquish. We pledged then that we will start managing the party affairs with justice, fairness and equity. We should not personalise things for our own gain. We decided to run the party on the 35 / 65 basis to accommodate the Modu-Sherriff faction and the Makarfi faction. We agreed that it should extend that principle to Lagos; so that Lagos would not be left in the lurch. I later travelled for about three months; by the time I came back there was cacophony of arguments on what were agreed on. The matter was referred to Abuja which we agreed on 35/65 sharing formula.  And how can the minority 35 have more members than the 65 majority in the Lagos executive? We spoke about it and the Salvador fellow reviewed it, because he needed to create his own empire. He was advised to meet the elders of the party to resolve the matter. He started manipulating the list. He headed out to each local government, trying to inaugurate the list he generated. People started calling and I asked what was going on. In fact, he wanted to hold a rally and the national body told him that your leader is not back and could not happen. The national body asked him to stop that the National Vice Chairman Southwest and the National Organising Secretary would be visiting to resolve the crisis. He headed out; he was going from one council to the other. But, each time he reached any council, the 65 majority would disagree with him. Now, he went to Eti Osa. In fact, on that day, they had been to Ikorodu; that was the day the young man from Apapa was attacked and killed. I won’t comment on the matter than this. In the wisdom of the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, he said those people who voluntarily reported the matter to him are now found culpable in the murder case. These are people they left home together they are now the principal suspects. How can that kind of police officer be fair in case like that in a place known as the Centre of Excellence? That is what happened the previous evening and by 8 O’clock in the morning he had railroaded them to a Magistrate Court. They are now in detention until the August 27. If that is the attitude displayed by a senior police officer, it is unfortunate.  You have not even started investigation on the matter, but have arraigned them. We have to have the fear of God in mind in anything we do. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo recently visited you. What is the relationship now? Yes, he had made me angry; they accused me and put me before the court and honestly, it was not a joke. But, looking back, I am not angry anymore, because the experience I acquired in the process can never be acquired elsewhere. The lesson that I learnt there, there is no university that can provide that. And the quantum of the power of God cannot be manifested elsewhere. So, I am not aggrieved, because Baba is my Baba. To err is human and to forgive is divine; all these are parts of human frailties. But, when you know that God make the way for you to overcome these challenges you should keep thanking Him. Baba and I are firstly, espirit de corp.