Health workers under the umbrella of the National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives, (NANNM) in Ondo State are excited over the upgrade of the School of Nursing and Midwifery in the state. They praised the State government for its decision to elevate the School into degree awarding institution in line with global standard. The State Executive Council(SEC) led by Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu  had during the week after its meeting approved  the absorption of the Nursing School by the University of Medical Science, Ondo (UNIMED) into a degree awarding institution. The State Chairman of the NANNM, Abel Opeyemi-Oloniyo said the decision of the government would boost the working capacity of nurses and midwives in the state. Oloniyo explained that the state government would become first state in Nigeria to carry out upgrading of its School of Nursing. Besides, he described as timely a proposed law aimed at upgrading the School of Health Technology in Akure to a College of Health Technology in line with global standard. He said, “The upgrading of our school of Nursing is a welcome development, we were carried along from day one that government plans to ensure higher status for the school. Schools of Nursing across Nigeria have been given few years, to upgrade their status, we are happy Ondo state is taking a lead in this area, we are going to be the first state in the country to do this”. On the recent security breach by patients of the state Psychiatric Hospital, Akure, the NANNM Chairman reiterated his call on the state government to improve security of health workers and patients for adequate service delivery. The state Commissioner for health, Dr. Wahab Adegbenro said the state government was working hard to improve welfare of nurses and other medical workers especially in the areas of capacity building and security at hospitals. Head of Service(HoS) in the state,Toyin Akinkuotu charged nurses to be more proactive in implementing various state government’s policies in the health sector particularly the introduction of free health care service for pregnant women and children below five year old.