ADamawa State Governor Jibrilla Bindow yesterday insisted that he has no reasons to defect from the All Progressives Congress to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He said reports on his alleged defection were malicious and baseless. The governor said that since President Muhammadu Buhari has done tremendously well, there was no basis for him to leave APC for another party. He said he remains steadfast in the bid for President Buhari’s re-election come 2019 and fully committed to the APC ideals. The governor spoke in a statement through his Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Macaulay Hunohashi. The statement reads: “Over the last three years, we have shown commitment to the yearnings of the good people of Adamawa State to improve their standard of living through progressive implementations of agriculture, health, education, peace and security, water supply, youth and women empowerment programmes as well as infrastructural development. “And what is especially pleasing for me is that the people of the state recognise and appreciate our efforts to make Adamawa a better place for them and therefore they have supported this administration in every way possible. “At the national level, President Buhari has done tremendously well for this country in security, economy, fight against corruption, employment, health, education and infrastructural development. “Like I have said many times in the past, President Buhari is the best thing to happen to this country. He means well for Nigeria. He is passionate about this country. He is trying to get a great future for Nigerians So what reasons do I have to defect?” He said  false defection plan reports were  planted by some politicians in order  to malign him and cause mischief. “These reports are plotted by some politicians who desperately want him to join the opposition. They should dump the opposition parties and join me in APC as they are so fixated to be in the same party with me. “They are always welcome to join me in the APC”. On his part, the Adamawa State APC Organising Secretary, Ahmed Lawal, described Bindow  as the most loyal member of the party in the state. He added: “It  is worthy of note that he is the first Senator to join the APC from the PDP over four years ago. “Bindow has done so much to move the party forward and he has made Adamawa State a better place for all. Therefore, he has the confidence of every party member as well as the good people of the state. “His transparency and accountability to the people of Adamawa state on how financial and material resources were expended as well as the distribution of projects across the states is almost perfect. No Governor has done so much for Adamawa like Bindow has in three years. “Come 2019, the party and the people will ensure that this true democrat returns as governor of the state with a landslide victory.”