Africans have been urged to live in peace and ensure a conflict free continent. The call was made at the 2018 African Leaders of Peace Summit held in Johannesburg, South Africa on August 10, in celebration of the 100th anniversary of the births of former South African President Nelson Mandela and the human rights activist Albertina Sisulu. The summit was co-hosted by the African Leaders of Peace Summit Organising Committee, Heavenly Culture, World Peace, Restoration of Light (HWPL), the International Women’s Peace Group (IWPG), and the International Peace Youth Group (IPYG). It recalled the roles of the leaders for peace and security in Africa and suggested a plan for the implementation of the AU’s “Agenda 2063 The former president of Mozambique, the Speaker of the National Assembly of Madagascar, the Queen Mother of the Royal Bafokeng Nation, the royal prince of eSwatini, Deputy Speakers, Former Vice Presidents among others participated in the summit. The organizers explained that the purpose of this Summit was to awaken the leaders to their roles and achieve a peaceful Africa, in the midst of the recent political strife in Zimbabwe and the employment discrimination based upon level of education or sex found in African society. Former President of Mozambique, Joaquim Alberto said cessation of war is not possible without the cessation of individual and familial conflicts. He said children need to receive peace education and learn the culture of peace. In his contribution, Mozambique President of National Assembly, Veronica Nataniel Macamo said peace can be achieved through the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War (DPCW) and hoped that all nations will be able to attain peace not only for our future generations but in our current generation as well. Chairman Man Hee Lee of HWPL, the international NGO that co-hosted the summit, followed urged Africans to take action for peace. He also spoke about how he had confirmed the universal desire for peace through the 29 trips around the world, saying, “There will be no greater thing we could leave as a legacy to our future generations than to end war on this planet and create peace.”  His Royal Highness Prince Hlangusempi & Minister of Economics and Planning participated in the event as a special emissary of the King of eSwatini. He signed a “National Solidarity Statement for the Promotion of the DPCW” as a national support for peace building at a global framework. Also signed by the President of Seychelles, the statement represents official support for the DPCW through the signature of the in-office head of state. The DPCW is a legal document drafted by HWPL and proclaimed on 14 March 2016, purposing to create a legally binding instrument for cessation of war and peace. It is composed of 10 articles and 38 clauses, and offers such holistic principles as peaceful conflict resolution, promotion of friendly relations between states, freedom of religion, and the spreading of a culture of peace, for the advancement of peace in the nations and civil society. On the 15th, groups of youth and women will talk about the ethnic or regional conflicts that have been continuing until recently and discuss the legalization of peace necessary for harmony and reconciliation among nations. The host organization, HWPL, is proposing the Declaration of Peace and Cessation of War(DPCW) as a resolution for establishing a legally binding law for peace that can fundamentally prevent war and conflict. On the 16th, there will be a forum for interfaith dialogue to promote a network among Christian denominations to be one under the meaning of the scripture and the 2018 Addis Ababa Summit to strengthen a cooperative partnership for regional stability and peace by reaffirming the importance of the implementation of an international/internal law for peace. HWPL is a UN ECOSOC-affiliated NGO whose prime peace initiatives are to establish the international law for peace, interfaith harmony among religions and peace education. IPYG as a partner organization of HWPL endorses the Peace Letter Campaign to advocate youth participation in peacebuilding by collecting letters of support for peace to national leaders.