Indigenes and residents of Abia State have hailed the acting President and vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo for relieving the former Director of State Security, (DSS) Lawal Daura of his position. Some respondents who spoke to our reporter over the sack of Daura maintained that even the blind would commend Osinbajo for doing what is right and for saving the country from the shame the action of Daura would have caused Nigeria in the eyes of its citizens and the international community. They however blamed the presidency for keeping a man they claimed has been bringing bad reputation to the image of the present administration under President Buhari They also demanded for the removal of some of the service chiefs who have failed to nip insecurity and all forms of restiveness in the bud. Speaking to our reporter, chairman Civil Liberties Organizations (CLO), Aba unit, Prof. Charles Chinekezi  in his words said “Daura deserves to be sacked. Daura bit more than he could chew. He has gone ultra viral and he has gone haywire and I don’t understand how a security chief could stay in his house and gave authorization to seal off the National Assembly. That was the height of official irresponsibility. He doesn’t understand the doctoring of separation of powers as to regards to the presidency, the legislature and the judiciary. “That tells you the kind of human beings who surround the Executive arm of government. Incidentally, it was good that the vice president has the initiative to send him packing before the president comes back. The vice president is acting on behalf of the President. There is no vacuum in power; Osinbajo has the power as the acting President to control the excesses of any officer appointed by the Presidency. “Daura deserved to be fired and any other officer appointed by the President who behaved like Daura should also receive the boot. We have to correct the way things are done in this country. We shouldn’t allow this country to drift into a banana republic. “This is simply passing a message to appointed officers that they cannot at any point go haywire and act beyond the scope of their authority like what Daura just did. Daura was simply irresponsible and he must be fired for us to explain and make it clear to every Nigerian that Nigeria isn’t up for grab by any adventurer like Daura and his cohorts. “We are not sorry for him and we are ready to take him anywhere. The momentum of sacking people like Daura should be sustained. If other reckless officers like Daura are able to get clearly the message that the Presidency has just sent out; that they can equally receive the boot, it will put them under check and that is what we need to do at any point in time. “I commend the courage of the vice president and for his being on top of his official responsibility of sending Daura out of the Presidency and the seat immediately. Let Buhari come back and let’s discuss it.” A civil servant who simply gave his name as Lucky said that the vice president has for the first time impressed him and has shown his respect for the independence of the legislature. Lucky said that though he hasn’t been a fan of the APC, but that the vice president through his action has shown his leadership competence and the commitment of the ruling party not to muzzle opposition as it were being speculated by some PDP apologists; that the presidency were behind the invasion of the national assembly by masked armed DSS personnel.