The LaLiga Santander is set to experience new innovations with the introduction of Video Assistant Referee (VAR) and the goal line technology from the 2018/2019 football season. According to Javier Del Rio, the Country Chairman, La Liga Nigeria, the VAR, which recorded huge success during the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia will be only be consulted in four instances; when a goal is scored, and it is debated, it will determine if a penalty should be given or not. The machine will further determine if an action deserves a red card or not, and it will be used in identifying a player. Del Rio, speaking on Thursday at the West Town Hotel, Lagos, revealed that there will be audio quality improvements and 3D graphics, with more stadiums having sky cameras and the Intel True View system, in the coverage of matches in the Spanish top league. The country chairman, speaking about the achievements of the league, affirmed that the Spanish La Liga is the best football league in the World. According to him, “The La Liga is more than the World Cup or UEFA Champions League final. “Real Madrid, Atletico Madrid, FC Barcelona and Sevilla are the top four teams according to the latest rankings released by UEFA. The Spanish La Liga is watched in 182 countries in the world, and 60 million followers on social media. “It is also on record that eleven players were in action in the 2018 FIFA World Cup final between France and Croatia. “The LaLiga Santander can simply be described as entertainment, sports excellence, innovations and passion. The league showcases its gastronomy, culture, leisure and Music. Del Rio noted that the La Liga is not only about the El Classico, there are other big matches like Real Madrid vs Atletico Madrid, Levante UD vs Valencia and Real Betis  vs Sevilla. He further revealed that “out of the twenty coaches in the La Liga, fifteen of them are Spanish, and the remaining five are Argentine, and once played in the La Liga” Media and Communications co-coordinator, La Liga Nigeria, Ayodeji Adegbenro, revealed that the Spanish league is set to open an office in Lagos, for it to be more operational. He also made it known that there will be trainings for football administrators on 30th and 31st October, 2018 for football administrators. The league will partner with the Lagos Business School. SD Huesca will be making their debut bin the season, alongside, Rayo Vallecano and Real Valladolid haven gained promotion from the 2017/2018 Segunda Division. The league will welcome new players like Nigerian striker Moses Simon, who joins Levante UD from KAA Gent.  Arturo Vidal, who left FC Bayern Munich to join FC Barcelona, Thiabuis Courtois who joins Real Madrid from Chelsea, after winning the golden glove in the 2018 FIFA World Cup as the best goalkeeper of the tournament,