The main auditorium of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), was filled to the brim as Gobir tribesmen gathered to celebrate their culture, values and norms. The five-day cultural conference tagged: Gobir Kingdom: The past present and the future, was hosted by the Faculty of Arts and Islamic Studies. The event was organised with the objectives to unite the people of Gobir Kingdom, home and abroad, by reflection of historical pasts to determine and proffer solutions to their collective challenges. Chairman of the occasion, Senator Abdullahi Gobir, hailed the participants for turning out for the event. He appreciated the faculty for hosting the conference, saying the event brought honour to the ancient kingdom. He said: “While I am welcoming you all to this historical conference, it is believed  that the aspirations of average Gobir man are to see education being brought close to him, to see job opportunities being brought closer to him and so on. Gobir cherishes honesty and hard work.” Republic of  Niger President, Mahammado Yossouf, represented by Minister of Foreign Affairs, hailed the school for providing the platform for the conference. He promised that  his government would not relent in maintaining good relationships with Nigeria government. Speakers at the conference included Prof Djibbbo Hammani, from Abdul Moumouni University in Niamey, Niger Republic, Prof Hakeem Danmole of Al-Hikmah University in Ilorin, Kwara State, and Prof Addou Muhamman, Vice-Chancellor of University of Tahoua in Niger Republic. Others were: Prof Illa Maikasuwa, former Niger’s Minister of Education, and Prof Aliyu Muhammad Bunza, Dean, Faculty of Education and Humanities, Federal University, Gusau, Zamfara State. The conference featured exhibition of cultural totems and materials of the Gobir Kingdom. Books and pamphlets detailing historical events and mythology of Gobir Kingdom were sold at the event. Personalities at the conference included the Sultan of Sokoto, Dr Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, represented by Sar’kin Dundaye, Sultan of Tsibiri in Niger Republic, Alhaji Abdul Bala Marafa, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, his Kebbi State and Zamfara State counterparts, Alhaji Atiku Bagudu, and Alhaji Abdul-Aziz Yari, among others. UDUS Vice-Chancellor, Prof Abdullahi Zuru, in his vote of thanks, said the school was honoured to have hosted the event.