Members of the National Union of Electricity Employees (NUEE) yesterday barricaded Ikeja Electric’s (IE) offices across Lagos, including the Alausa headquarters. The picketing, which stated before 8am and continued till about 5pm, was due to the retrenchment of  about 40 workers by the electricity distribution company (DisCo). IE, it was gathered,  recently conducted job performance appraisal. Some workers were promoted; those considered to have underperformed, were relieved. Angered by the sack, the union mobilised members and prevented customers and workers from accessing the company’s offices. It was gathered that it took the intervention of security agencies for IE workers to be allowed into the premises. Reacting to the picketing, IE said it had to shut down nine feeders serving about 3,000 customers within Ikeja for safety concerns. It described the protest as “self-serving,” noting that about 300 workers were promoted last week across all cadre. The company said over 500 workers were recruited in one year, adding that the recent separation of staff was due to varying actions not in furtherance of the company’s objectives. IE Corporate Communications Head Felix Ofulue said: “When NUEE chooses to cripple socio-economic activities of over a million households, for issues that can be resolved through dialogue, one then wonders if the motives are as selfless as they claim. “How do you plunge a country’s commercial nerve centre into darkness because of a few of your members, who have been separated from the business for cogent reasons? It is really appalling. It’s an abuse of privilege to picket our offices. “Imagine that our employees in Alausa Injection Sub-Station were chased out by the union and they had to shut down nine feeders that supply power to Ikeja and its environs on safety grounds. This has resulted to an immediate blackout for at least 3,000 customers.” Ofulue apologised to customers for the disruption of service, assuring that the company would continue to partner stakeholders for improved service delivery.