•Party laments ‘brutish end to a blossoming life and career’ •Ekiti govt tasks security agencies on arrest, prosecution of killers •Warns APC against ‘desperation’ Ekiti State was thrown into mourning yesterday following the assassination of a high ranking member of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state, Mr. Bunmi Ojo, late Friday. Ojo was shot at   close range by yet to be identified gunmen at a football viewing centre in Adeyinka Adebayo area of  the State capital, Ado Ekiti, at about 10pm. He was said to be with some of his political allies at the time of the attack. Ojo was, until his death, a board member of the Federal Character Commission (FCC). He had previously served as personal assistant to a former governor of the state, Segun Oni. He was in his early 50s. The body of the deceased has since been deposited at the morgue of the Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital, Ado Ekiti. Reacting to the development yesterday, the Ekiti State government charged the police and other security agencies to fish out the  killers and  rid the state of criminals . The government, in  a statement by the Special Assistant to the State Governor on Public Communications and New Media, Lere Olayinka, also advised the people to warn APC members against what it called  unbridled political ambitions and acts of desperation, saying such tendencies  would only generate an  atmosphere of killings such as  Ojo’s murder. It blamed the killing on devilish people who    it said can go to any length to settle scores with their fellow men. It claimed that the peace enjoyed in the State since Governor Ayodele Fayose assumed office on October 16, 2014 has been shattered since May this year when the APC held its governorship election primaries. It said: “the State was peaceful until May 5, 2018 when members of the APC openly disrupted the party’s primary election, with gunshots. This was after Olalekan Taiwo, aide of one of the APC governorship aspirant, Dr Oluwole Oluleye had been shot on May 4. “The violence at the APC primaries was followed up by the shootings at the party secretariat during a reception organized for Dr. Kayode Fayemi, which left Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele and six others injured as well as invasion of the State with thugs during the July 14 governorship election.” The state government condoled with the family, friends and political associates of the deceased and prayed that God in His infinite mercies might comfort and uphold his wife and children. It offered to provide the security agencies with all necessary assistance to facilitate a thorough investigation of the murder and arrest of the perpetrators. The state governor-elect, Dr. Kayode Fayemi also lamented Ojo’s killing. Fayemi, in a statement through his spokesman, Wole Olujobi, commiserated with the bereaved family and expressed shock and sadness over the murder. He described the development as a sad commentary that shattered the relative peace the state had enjoyed after the July 14 governorship poll. The governor-elect charged security agencies to live up to their responsibility to get to the root of the killing and bring perpetrators to justice.   “This is a sad development that should not be allowed to go away without getting to the root of this killing. But then the public must give security agencies chance to do their job to get to the root of this sad development. “Also, security agencies are enjoined to swing into action to apprehend the perpetrators of this heinous crime to check the activities of criminals in Ekiti State,” Fayemi said. In a separate statement, the state chapter of the APC   described Ojo’s killing as a “brutish end to a blossoming life and career.” “Those who knew Bunmi (Ojo) cannot but liked him. He was an easy-going and upright politician who cultivated friendship in both high and low places, which endeared him to many people,” the party’s publicity secretary, Chief Taiwo Olatunbosun said. He added: “we will not rest until the assailants are fished out. This is a test of efficiency for the police and other security operatives. “Let it be known that the present state government is not free from all the insecurities pervading our state and will be held responsible as the mastermind. We deserve an explanation as to why Bunmi Ojo should be killed without provoking anyone.” 