Mimi Onalaja is a TV host, actress , writer and fashionista. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she takes you into her world, talks about her dreams, challenges, memorable moments and more. WHAT or who inspired you to go into acting and be a TV host? Existing in the world of media and entertainment was a dream I always nursed from my early years. Then I would see myself on TV screens, walking red carpets and accepting awards, all in my head. At the time though, I had no idea how all that would play out realistically and dismissed them as just dreams. It took working on a job I didn’t love and found little fulfilment in for over a year for me to realise I could turn those dreams into reality. An application to the New York Film Academy and a resignation letter later, I was on my way! What are the other things that occupy your time? When I am not on TV, I am hosting live events. It’s an aspect of my job that I particularly love as almost nothing beats the thrill of interacting and engaging with so many people in real time. Outside of work, I love to travel. It thrills me to get away from the city for a while and experience new locations, new views, new food and new cultures. The beach locations have a special place in my heart but I am so open to going anywhere, from my hometown in Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, to the Maldives! What were you doing before this and what was the experience like? Before I began my journey into TV/entertainment, I worked as a HR consultant at one of the big four accounting/consulting firms. It was my dream role at the time and I was beyond excited when I got the job and maintained that emotion for the first two months on it. After that, I  realised  that I wasn’t as happy and fulfilled there as I was so sure I would be, and maybe it wasn’t the right path for me after all. It still was a great experience for me; I worked with some amazing people, picked up some professional skills that only the corporate environment provides so well and generally had an eventful 16 months there that I would not trade if given the chance. Let’s talk about some memorable moments in your life and career Memorable moments; there have been so many! I started out as a production manager on the Nemsia Studios Show “Before 30” and that whole experience was memorable. I got to interact first hand with a full film crew and it helped that it was a group of young, fresh and vibrant people that absolutely knew what results they wanted and how to get there. Meeting with Mo Abudu was also another memorable moment for me. The way she opened up her doors, granted me audience and then gave me my first opportunity on TV even with zero experience still stuns me till date. The feeling I got whenever I received a new work opportunity, nothing beats that! Another major moment for me was signing with my managers, the Temple Management Company. I felt like I had found my tribe and it’s been an amazing journey since then. What are some of the challenges encountered? One major challenge as a female TV host is the lack of opportunities. We all would love to keep working constantly, but that is not always the case as the opportunities are sometimes few and far between. When they do come, another challenge is getting the project managers to see your worth and pay accordingly. It’s all getting better though, and I’m thankful for that. How do you cope with them? Honestly, those challenges are blessings in disguise as they push you to create your own opportunities. What you now find is TV hosts pushing themselves and getting extremely creative. They set up their own projects and turn producers, directors and business owners along the way. I have recently begun that journey and it’s been such an amazing ride! I can’t wait to show you what I have been working on! Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? I am greatly inspired by other women, women doing amazing things at different levels and stages of their lives. Top of that list is my mom who embodies the meaning of motherhood plus career to me. She’s joined by my sister-girls who shock me every day with their awe-inspiring and age-defying moves and to round it off, amazons who have gone ahead and proved to me that there’s absolutely nothing I can’t do as a TV Girl as long as I set my mind to it! Let’s compare when you started doing this and now, what has changed? In what ways has this changed your lifestyle? A lot has definitely changed since I started. I watch myself on TV today, look back at some of the earlier episodes and smile; my delivery is different, I am more relaxed and generally look like I know what I am doing! In terms of lifestyle, not much has changed, to be honest. I only go to more events and have much busier weekends but it is a very welcome change as it’s the job I signed up for. What is your definition of style? My definition of style is visual self expression. Style is one of the first things you notice about a person, and it definitely gives you a glimpse into what kind of personality they have. My style is functional and comfortable, simple but still chic. I am not the most predictable with my choices as my mood dictates my look but I definitely favour colour, structure and vibrant prints. Now what does that say about me? (Laughs) What are some of the things that you treasure most in life? The things I treasure most in life are definitely my family and my friends. They are all genuinely amazing and supportive people who never take a break from being my cheerleaders. They are my support system and they play the role so well. I definitely do not take all of their love for granted. How do you relax? Three ways: The movies, food and travel. I go to the movies by myself, order all my favourites at the concession stand and have the time of my life. It’s almost therapeutic for me. Food is always a good option for me and is mostly what I need after a long and stressful day. Is it the wisest option though? That’s a question for another day! (Laughs). Travel is another great way for me to relax; just knowing that I am away from my regular routine and the hustle of the city is enough to make me feel great. What are some of the principles that you hold onto in life? I came across this quote in the book ‘The Seven Habits of Highly Effective Teens’ many years ago and it has guided me ever since. “Always be a first rate version of yourself instead of a second rate version of someone else.” It’s such a great principle to live by, particularly in my industry, and I hold on to it dearly. Let’s talk about the people you admire, role models, and why you like them. There are five women I greatly admire and all for completely different reasons. Oprah Winfrey, because she’s Oprah! Being able to build such a big and solid empire even when life didn’t exactly hand her sweets along the way is simply awe-inspiring. Ellen Degeneres is such an inspiration and is currently living a big part of my dream! A long standing and entertaining show on TV that makes people laugh and sometimes takes their struggles away, a dedicated crew that is only a testament to her character and her easy interviewing style are some of the reasons I admire her. The fact that she’s been able to achieve so much while clearly remaining the same lovable woman with so much heart that she was in the beginning shows me that I can achieve all my dreams without having to change who I am to do so. Mo Abudu is a powerhouse! Embarking on any business in Nigeria is hard enough, and to do that on such a large scale in the media industry and as a woman? Some would say impossible. However, Mo has done this and continues to break new boundaries every day. Watching her makes me thankful, knowing that she’s gone ahead and broken down doors that will only make my journey a lot easier. Her doggedness and determination are traits I greatly admire about her. Beyoncé! This woman is the epitome of hard work. She shows me that hard work and never getting too comfortable are key determinants of success. Just watch one of her live performances and you will see what I am on about. The last woman I am greatly inspired by today is Ashley Graham. In today’s social media world with an apparent definition of the perfect body and image, Ashley shows me beauty in seeming imperfection. I love her message of confidence and body positivity, something I also like to encourage. If you had to advise young people, what would you tell them? My advice to young people will be to deliberately get to know themselves truly, and on a deep level, and then make life decisions that only support who they are. A happy life is key towards walking in purpose and choice of career, friends, life-partners and such will greatly affect that.