World football governing body, FIFA, has suspended its plan to ban Nigeria. FiFA made its decision known in a statement issued and also posted on its website on Monday. The statement written in three paragraphs reads; “Following the decision of the Bureau of the FIFA Council of 13 August 2018 concerning the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), FIFA received confirmations that the legitimate leadership of the NFF under President Amaju Melvin Pinnick and General Secretary Mohammed Sanusi has been given back effective control of the NFF and its offices.” However, FIFA also confirmed that it would continue to closely monitor the situation in order to ensure that FIFA’s rules and regulations are fully adhered to. Earlier in the day, the Federal Government has announced its recognition of the Amaju Pinnick -led executive as the authentic leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation ( NFF ). Laolu Akande, Special Assistant to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo made the announcement on his official Twitter handle. The tweet which was sent at 11.38 a.m., few minutes before the 12 p.m. deadline given by FIFA for the resolution of the leadership tussle in the Nigerian football governing body, said the government had already informed FIFA of the decision. “The FG has already conveyed to FIFA its firm position recognizing Amaju Pinnick-led NFF as the current & only NFF Exco. “Govt will also continue to work with all relevant stakeholders involved to resolve dispute in a timely manner. FG is upholding NFF treaty obligations to FIFA,’’ Akande tweeted. The World football governing body FIFA had said it would go on to suspend Nigeria from football activities if they failed to comply with its instructions by Monday at noon (CET). The leadership tussle in the glasshouse may have now been brought to and hand with this development it is however yet unknown if the two principal actors Amaju Pinnick and Chris Giwa will respect the status and possibly have sheathed their swords for the course of football administration growth moving forward