Non-governmental  organisations (NGO),  churches and stakeholders  have urged government to encourage therapy on autism, down-syndrome and cerebral palsy by making policies that seek to provide for these individuals with special needs. The call came at the Special Needs conference held in Lagos. According to the convener of the conference Adelola Edema, “We are focusing on advocacy because if people don’t speak up, including people with special needs in our communities, stigmatisation and segregation will continue. Therefore, advocacy helps us to understand how to create a society that accommodates children, teenagers and adults with different disabilities.” Adelola said raising child with special needs takes its toll on families, hence there is the need for orientation on the roles of the church, how to engage people with special needs and how to be a voice for person with disabilities wherever they are. An expert, Chiduben Onyesoh, asked, especially the families of the people with special needs to support them. Chiduben, who specialises on reformatory and rehabilitatory counselling,  added that people should understand that learning needs were needed by these children and must be provided for them. To the Programme Manager Play Smart Concepts,  Isa Gabriel, “the parents of the special needs children need to be encouraged to speak out and the people need to know that autism, down-syndrome and cerebral palsy  are not contagious and these people with special needs must be fully integrated and regarded in the society.” A mother whose child is on the autism spectrum, Nneka Obiagwu, said she had become an advocate for children with special needs and autism in particular. She believes that to have a more inclusive world, there is need to create early autism awareness for kids, teach acceptance and foster empathy. Participants noted that delays and traumatic births cause autism. They advised expectant mothers  to register at primary health centres or tertiary hospitals when there is a delay or delivery is becoming painful.