HEALTH, like peace, has become the focus of international organisations. Once a year, at least a day  is set aside for mankind to think about a pressing health concern. June 13 was celebrated as the world’s Blood day. The following day, June 14, was ALBINISM Day. It was the day on which mankind was invited to think about albinos, to puncture myths about them which had no scientific basis, and to see them as normal human beings whose skin complexion is only different from that of other people. There is no normal human being who does not have respect for the human blood. For many, it is mysterious. I recall vividly my first blood donation at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) in 1983 when my wife registered at the anti-natal ward ahead of the birth of our first child a few months later. I was to donate one pint of blood. I couldn’t look at the bottle into which the blood was draining because it made me feel life was draining out of me. But I was glad to donate it for the love of my baby who was on the way. I must confess that, since then, I have made no other blood donation, irrespective of the advice that, for optimal male health, men should donate blood at least once a year, to prevent accumulation of iron in their bodies. Women need not worry about this because they lose blood through menstruation every month. As for albinos, I am filled with pity for them. They cannot see well during the day and at night. Besides the skin rumples easily through oxidation by the rays of the sun and when it comes to employment, some employers discriminate against them in the name of corporate image. When I met some of them and we get talking, I suggest dietary help which may help them to improve their vision and skin conditions. I am unaware if leaking urinary bladder has caught the world attention in a scale to focus attention on it at least once every year. For the men and women are troubled by it, it remains largely a personal problem. I have heard story of women who smell over urine and ruined dinner dates as a consequence. In the restaurant, they may feel pressed and head for the rest room. But before they arrive there and pull their underbriefs, urine pours forth in showers or torrents. Many women so troubled carry panty-liners in their bags or actually have one on. That one takes the bashing, and saves the brief and the dress and the woman from embarrassment. Beyond this, there are ways in which urinary bladder neck sphincter muscle can be strengthened, as though with a screw, to prevent leakages. I adopted some of this measures when I began to experience little leak. I don’t just put it down to the aging process. I knew I was being advised by the leaks that my nerves were either becoming weak throughout the body, as shown in the bladder nerves, or that some infections or stress were disposing me to urinary urgency, one of the features of urinary incontinence, another name for leaking urinary bladder. The blood June 13, World Blood Day, invited our attention, to not the mystery of the blood but to the need to donate blood from our own health, and to build the blood banks where clean blood can be kept for the use of blood-depleted accident victim and blood-requiring sick people. Ironically, a laboratory technology man was arrested in (Onabola Street, Shomolu, Lagos) a few days before the World Blood Day for running an illegal blood bank business which almost led to the death of a young man. He paid N2000 for every pint of blood donated. The young donor kept donating blood and collapsed after four pints had been drained off him. I wish to talk not about these things, but about what many people see as “the mystery of the blood”. Before the blood groups were established, many people died from transfusion with blood incompatible with theirs. The discovery of the blood groups stopped that. But that has not resolved the mystery of the blood. I do not know why Jehovah’sWitnesses do not take another person’s blood, even at the point of death. I am not a witness, but I too, would avoid it, if I can. My reason is that the spirit makes the blood for a special reason, and that, since no two human spirits or souls are identical in every material particular, the blood of one cannot, ultimately, be suitable for the other. I take my bearing from three beacons. If we exclude the factor of the soul or human spirit in blood formation, then human blood would not be distinctly different from animal blood. These parameters established, we may now seek to discover why the spirit would be involved in blood formation, and how “foreign” blood in one person’s body may obstruct that persons well being during earthly existence, unless he knows he is likely to be helped by a doctor knowing in these matters who helps him or her to recompose his or her blood to that consistency which agrees with his or her intrinsic spiritual nature. This will lead us to question such as what is spirit, what is soul? Briefly, spirit is a being from the spirit world. In that world, there are mature and immature spirits. They constitute the finest gradation of the spirit environment of the world; in which there are trees, mountains, rivers e.t.c made of spirit substance. It is like on earth where the human body is the finest gradation of earth material or dust, compared with dust trees and dust or Earth Rivers. As we sow ears of corn or mango seeds into the earth soil, to sprout, germinate, flower and fruit in fulfillment of the purpose of its creation, the immature spirits are likewise sown in worlds below the spirit world, someday to flower and to fruit. Between the spirit world and the earth, there are many world terrains. The immature spirit or spirit germ takes a covering in every world it passes through on its way to the earth. On the earth, it takes a covering in form of the human body in its mother’s womb. It would drop this covering as it returns home someday, casting each one away wherever it picked it form. The spirit together with all coverings but minus the earth covering, is the soul. The spirit is too fine to deal directly with the earth body, even though we see them working together. Thus, in dreams, when we shout, people in the room who hear our shout wake us up to ask us about what is going on. And when we wee in dreams, we may find our beds wet in the morning. Sometimes, we do not wet the bed, but we wake up to find our bladders so full that it needs to be emptied. The body has merely communicated with its owner and occupant to get up and relieve it of the mess. I was cooking in the kitchen one day, and went to the sitting-room for a nap. I found myself dreaming later that the food was burning. In that dream, I rushed to the kitchen, lifted the pot cover without caution, and burned my fingers. I woke up just about then, rushed to the kitchen exactly as I did in the dream, and burned my fingers. Recently, I announced on FACEBOOK how one of my classmates in high school (1964-1968) announced to me in my dream that he had passed on. When I made enquiries, I found it was indeed true! There is an astral body covering layer between the soul and the earth body. It is in this astral body that many people experience dreams. When they talk about spiritual attacks in dreams, it is most likely this body that was attacked, say in gunshots or the consumption of poisoned or charmed foods. And since the astral body impacts on the earth body, the manifestations come to pass sooner than later. The spirit glows through all these coverings. Even then, it cannot make full or meaningful contact with the earth body from the astral body except through the radiations of the blood, the finest that the earth body can produce. When we give the body the right materials to compose the blood, it is actually radiation of the spirit which do the composing and the driving of the blood around. Thus, when the right materials are not supplied through the diet, and the spirit is weak, the blood radiations will be weak. Age, illness and diet make important contributions to this scenario as well. In short, the blood radiation is the vehicle through which the soul, nay the spirit, expresses its volition on its tool, the physical body, and through which it receives impression from the outside world. The spirit of a pregnant woman attracts to her a soul most homogenous with her. The Yorubas of southwestern Nigeria understand this. They admonish pregnant women not to parade themselves carelessly in public and at even special hours. Only seldom does a “black sheep” get attracted into a family through this process. When such happens, it is still within the lawfulness of the law of Attraction of Homogeneous Species or of Karmaic Linkages. Someone with “black sheep” radiation, if we may call it that, may have been around the pregnant woman long enough to make this happen, or other karmaic threads may be at play. Whatever it is, the spirit impresses its volition on the blood radiation which brings it to the back brain, the spiritually-receptive part of the brain. Any pictorial impression we experience, or, better still, anything which occurs to us in picture form is the volition or message of the spirit to the body. After the back brain has formed the volition of the spirit into a picture or pictures, these pictures are again taken by the blood radiation to the frontal brain. This part of the brain interprets these pictorial images and instructs their expression in thought, the spoken word, or other actions. When we rise from a dream, it is the impressions of the spirit in picture forms we remember, and only afterwards does the frontal brain convert them into thought and other activities. Similarly, impressions we encounter in daily activities are taken by the blood radiation from the frontal brain to the back brain and, from there again by blood radiation, to the solar plexus and the spirit. Anything which impedes this communication process between spirit and body makes the spirit to not experience earth-life as robustly as it should, and may, indeed, constitute a waste of its time on earth, however long it may live here. These impediments may include disease of the brain, poor blood composition and poor blood quality arising from poor nutrition and other factors. If the blood radiations fall so low, this may encourage disembodied souls, that is souls not in physical bodies who are either earth-bound or loitering after physical exit from the earth, to plug into such weak radiations and, through it, to take possession of the brain partially or wholly, temporarily or permanently. We encounter such scenarios in “possession”, when a person is declared insane, and in autism, when communication between the spirit and the physical body is impared one way or the other. The same goes for dyslexia, imbecility e.t.c. we are granted the hope in our generation that these challenges arising from poor composition and poor blood are reversible. The hope lies in the conception that “there are no sick souls or spirits” and that the healing formula lies neither in “injections” nor “drugs” but “in the right kinds of foods and drinks.” Principal among these foods and drinks are whole grains, mineralising and vitaminising fruits and vegetables, blood cleansing and blood building foods and herbs, liver and kidney cleansing and protecting foods, Chlorophyll-dense food e.t.c. this column mentions them all the time. From Barley Grass, spirulina, wheat grass and lemon grass to spirulina Kale Corriander cilantro, chlorella, Graviola, pomegranate fruit and seed to Nimosa Pudica e.t.c as I said earlier, I do not know why Jehovah’s Witnesses refuse blood transfusion. It may very well be from the viewpoint that transfused blood and “resident” blood will form “amalgam” blood, which on account of their not being homogeneous, may be unable to provide the spirit with that reliable bridge on which to express its volition or desire on the body, thus minimizing the viability or success of its earth-life. With this knowledge, many lessons of earth-life stare us in the face. Among them are: There is no doubt that mankind is still a long, long way aware of getting to the bottom of the mystery of the blood. It is the “river of life”. We all recall in the shedding of blood. Even capital punishment is becoming old-fashioned. Since I came to the recognitions that the spirit makes the blood, I have never ceased to wonder what kind of spirit I must be who chose to make AS genotype, or which type of spirit would make SS and AA or AC genotypes, or which would chose to inhabit an albino earth body, and if it is possible to reverse these conditions, if the spirit changes its inner state, its volition or nature. We live in stupendous times. Knowing people know why sex change is possible, for example. And we know, from revealed knowledge on the face of the earth today, that the master-pieces of mankind are yet to come. Dr. Emerson may have merely peeped into the future of medicine decades ago when he prophesied, rightly, that “the doctor of tomorrow is the nutritionist of today”. Maybe we should now say the doctor of tomorrow is the spiritually knowing doctor of today who is imbued with the knowledge of the mystery of the blood, to cure seemingly intractable health disorders by merely altering radiations of the blood after recomposing the blood. As promised for that time, such would be a CALLED ONE.