House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara has a decision to make. Will he defect to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or remain in the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)? Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the implications of the options he may embrace for his political career. Yakubu Dogara, lawyer and House of Representatives Speaker, may be in a fix. A cloud of uncertainty appears to be hovering on the political career of the eminent politician from Bogoro Local Government Area of Bauchi State. He has a decision to make. Will the number four citizen defect from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), as being speculated? Will he embrace reconciliation and keep his APC membership card? Before last weekend’s senatorial by-election result, the Speaker was said to be in a dilemma. Judging by the results of the election in his native Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Constituency, is defection still a viable option? If he jumps ship like Senate President Bukola Saraki, who dumped the party penultimate week, what future awaits him? APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole has said that the party has confidence in him. But, does he have confidence in the platform? Will the chairman succeed in persuading him to jettison his defection plan? If he defects or does not defect, what future awaits him? Observers say the outcome of the by-election may be a pointer to 2019. It shows that APC is still in control of Bauchi. Apart from the candidates of the APC and the PDP, their parties and leaders were also on the popularity scale during the exercise. The election, in part, could be described as a referendum on President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Mohammed Abubakar and the APC. The poll, just like the ones that took place simultaneously in Cross River, Katsina and Kogi states, was a litmus test. The Bauchi exercise showed that voters were still emotionally attached to APC, despite the propaganda of defectors who have sought to dent the image of the party. APC candidate Lawan Gumau won the Bauchi South by-election with 119,489 votes. According to the Returning Officer, Prof. Ahmed Sarkin-Pagam, he defeated eight other candidates, including the flag bearer of the PDP, Ladan Salihu, who polled 50, 256. The margin is wide. Interestingly, former Governor Isa Yuguda, who ran on the platform of the Green Party of Nigeria (GPN), also lost his deposit. He got 33, 079 votes. If the votes of the PDP and GPN are combined, it will still be a far cry. The result is a worthy tribute to the memory of the late Senator Alo Wakili, who died on March 17. He was a chieftain of the APC. The result affirmed that Bauchi is an APC stronghold. But, Dogara is not a paper weight politician at home. The mark of departure is that the Bogoro/Dass/Tafawa Balewa Federal Constituency, which he represents in the Lower Chamber, has been polarised. The constituency is made up of Bogoro, Dass and Tafawa Balewa councils. In his native Bogoro council, the poll result reflected his leaning to the opposition. Since it is an open secret that the federal legislator and his supporters swung the pendulum to the direction of the PDP, the opposition party defeated the APC in the council. This is a confirmation that Dogara is the undisputed political leader of Bogoro. The PDP got 6,646, APC secured 3,992. However, the jubilation across the wards in Bogoro council was short-lived. Outside Bogoro, voters sang a different tune. At the end, it was evident that the Speaker had a potent, but a narrow base. Therefore, analysts suggested that Dogara would need APC just as the party needs him to win Bogoro in next year’s polls. Also, the two APC senators who have defected to the PDP – Isa Misau and Nazif Gamawa – could not spring any surprise. Their defection did not create a bandwagon effect during the by-election. In Dass council, APC got 7, 432 votes and PDP polled 4,028. In Tafawa Balewa, APC also defeated the PDP, garnering 14,309 votes to PDP’s 8,528. In other councils, APC maintained a peculiar pattern of electoral victory. The trend affirmed APC as the party to beat in Bauchi. It may also be the signpost to next year’s election. Indeed, the Bauchi poll was full of drama. As women cast their ballot, they also shouted the usual slogan of Sai Baba, echoing their nostalgic commitment to President Buhari and reiterating their determination to build on their fraternal goodwill, solidarity and loyalty to the president in February, next year’s election. It was an open endorsement of his second term bid. The scenario may mean that the president is still popular at the grassroots in many of the northern states. The poll result was also reminiscent of the 2015 governorship and presidential elections when voters endorsed the APC at the polls. In 2015, the APC won in 19 of the 20 local governments in Bauchi during the governorship poll. The councils are: Alkaleri, Bauchi, Dass, Tafawa Balewa, Kirfi, Misau, Darazo, Katagun, Itas-Gadau, Toro, Ganduwa and Dambam. Others are Giade, Ningi, Jama’re, Shira, Warji, and Zaki. Instructively, the ruling party lost in Bogoro council. Abubakar, the former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, garnered 654, 934 votes to emerge winner. His rival, Mohammed Jatau of the PDP, polled 282,650 votes. In fact, Abubakar defeated the PDP in Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area, where the former PDP national chairman, Alhaji Adamu Muazu, hails from. He also won in Zaki Council, Jatau’s birthplace. In the 2015 presidential election, President Buhari’s APC got 931, 598 votes. Former President Goodluck Jonathan of the PDP got 86,085 votes. If Dogara defects and teams up with Misau and Gamawa in the PDP, can they alter the trend and pull the rug off the feet of the president and governor in Bauchi? As an APC chieftain, Dogara is not perceived as a difficult politician who is aloof to compromise. Despite the circumstances surrounding his emergence as Speaker, he was conciliatory after the controversial election of House of Representatives principal officers. He beckoned to his rival, Femi Gbajabiamila from Surulere Constituency and the candidate of party leaders, urging him to vie for the position of Deputy Speaker. Unlike the Senate President Bukola Saraki, there is no deep-seated hostility between him and the APC national leadership. However, there is no love lost between Dogara and the Bauchi governor. They seem to have an axe to grind over local matters at the home front. Efforts to resolve the differences in the last three-and-a-half years have proved abortive. Dogara, a Christian from a predominantly Muslim state, has an ambition to occupy the driver’s seat at the Government House in Bauch. It is a legitimate aspiration. He may still be a candidate of the future, if he plays his card very well. Governor Abubakar is interested in a second term. This may jeopardise the Speaker’s governorship ambition on the platform of the APC. But, if he defects to the PDP, can he also get the ticket of the rival party? Two options are open to Dogara in the APC as the polity warms up for next year’s polls. If he does not defect, no chieftain will struggle for the House of Representatives ticket with him in his constituency. He may also vie for the Senate, although the primary will be a bone of contention between him and the new senator. If he decides to remain in the APC, R-APC or nPDP forces may brand him a traitor. If Dogara defects to the PDP and gets its governorship, senatorial or House of Representatives ticket, can he win at the poll?  Can he defeat Governor Abubakar in next year’s election?