The gale of defections has hit major political parties in Oyo State. This is affecting their 2019 permutations. No fewer than 32 aspirants are struggling for governorship tickets across the parties. Who succeeds Governor Abiola Ajimobi? Southwest Bureau Chief BISI OLADELE examines the challenges confronting the parties ahead of  next year’s election. Many voters are confused because of the gale of defections that has hit major political parties. The situation is much clustered in Oyo State where some leaders of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) have defected to the African Democratic Congress (ADC) to team up with former governor, Sen. Rashidi Ladoja. The former governor had last year defected from Accord party to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), his original party. But, he led his supporters again to the ADC last week, claiming dictatorship and lack of sincerity on the part of the PDP leadership. With him is Sen. Olufemi Lanlehin and Sharafadeen Alli. Also in the ADC are former chieftains of the APC, including Chief Michael Koleoso, Sen. Monsurat Sunmonu, Dr Yunus Akintunde, Deputy Speaker Abdulwasil Musa, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, many serving state and federal lawmakers and former local government chairmen. Their defection to the ADC has boosted the ranks and chances of the hitherto unknown party in the state, making it a party to reckon with in the next year’s general election. In the PDP, Seyi Makinde still holds the ace as he teams up with Sen. Ayo Adeseun, Chief Bisi Ilaka and Oloye Jumoke Akinjide, among others. In the APC, over 32 aspirants are itching to succeed Ajimobi. They include former governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, Joseph Tegbe, Ajiboye Omodewu, Adebayo Adelabu, Fatai Buhari, Adeniyi Akintola, Adesoji Akanbi and Azeez Adeduntan. The three top parties are working hard daily to put their best candidate forward for the election even as they patiently monitor one another in the in the build up to the election.  The parties ADC The ADC was unknown until aggrieved APC members defected to it. Since then, it has been gaining popularity through the activities of the new members. The strength of the party in Oyo State lies in the name of Ladoja and the number of serving federal and state lawmakers and other APC juggernauts. They are spread across the state. Some of its leaders are good mobilisers and have good record with the people in their various communities. But, the party’s weakness lies in its doubtful ability to match the APC and PDP in financial might, particularly in this era of voters monetisation and high cost of mobilising for elections. The ADC may also struggle to get sufficient number of supporters to upstage a ruling party, given the fact that the majority of voters are not just massively divided between APC and ADC. The PDP remains a major player in the race. Also, some followers of Ladoja have refused to follow him to the ADC. While some stayed back in Accord, others stayed back in the PDP because of their own interest and other considerations. Consequently, Ladoja’s political strength may not be absolutely the same as it was in the 2011 and 2015 elections. As Ilaka succinctly put it on a radio interview recently, many new voters who just attained voting age in the last 10 years are not likely to vote for Ladoja, having left governance for more than 10 years. Many of them, he said, are unaware of his performance in office as governor between 2003 and 2007. Not only that, as the APC reconciliation machinery advances, some aggrieved members may still be wooed back into the fold, thereby depleting the ranks of the ADC.  APC The APC still remains the party to beat in next year’s election in Oyo State. Though critics have listed a number of flaws of the current administration, its achievements are unrivaled since the return of civilian regime in 1999. From security to infrastructural development, elevation of the governance system and decency in political practice, Ajimobi has earned himself the credential of the author of the modern Oyo State. Besides, the APC is in charge of the Federal Government and many states in Nigeria. Its victory in Ekiti State in the July election, which sealed its fortune as the only party in governance in the entire Southwest, will also serve as motivation for many voters to prefer it in the 2019 elections. This factor will also draw many financial supporters to its cause. After the image of the PDP was battered by its profligacy toga, which culminated in its electoral rout in 2015 and the many revelations of financial crimes committed by its leading lights all over Nigeria, the APC is still seen as a saner party by many voters. Oyo and Oke-Ogun zones are more likely to prefer the APC. The same may play out in Ogbomoso, if Alao-Akala remains in the party. Not only that, the APC is considered the most popular and best organized party in the state, because it has been the ruling party in the last seven years. While the ADC is still trying to organise itself, having drawn together people from different political backgrounds, the PDP is still reeling from the loss of Ladoja. It has gone back to the drawing board to see how it can attract more crowd pullers within the limited time to the election. Whether or not it can succeed on that is questionable.  PDP The PDP is far from regaining its strength in Oyo State since it was defeated in the 2011 elections. Its leading figures have since left for other parties. They include Ladoja, Alao-Akala, Teslim Folarin and Taofeek Arapaja. Without the influence of the former leaders, it may be difficult for the party to win governorship election in the state. Though its leader, Makinde, is targeting youths in his campaign, the task of mobilizing voters of all ages may be a huge challenge for the PDP  to accomplish. Makinde’s ambition to pick the governorship ticket allegedly forced Ladoja out of the party. That loss is huge for the PDP. The succession battle will not be a child’s play, even for the APC, owning to the confusion cause by the defection of politicians. Besides, the number of aspirants presents another Herculean task, if the experience of Osun State is taken seriously. Coming up with an acceptable and popular candidate is the hard nut the APC must crack, if it intends to produce Ajimobi’s successor.