Over 10, 000 tricycle operators loyal to the Kwankwasiyya Group and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), yesterday in Kano destroyed and openly burnt their red caps and formally defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC). Receiving the defectors, the Chairman of APC in Kano, Prince Abdullahi Abbas, described the event, which took place at Sani Abacha Stadium, as historic and an indication that the Kwankwasiyya and the PDP are dead and buried in Kano. According to him, “we are happy to receive the tricycle riders who have realised that there is no hope where they were. “Today, they have come to join us and we have received them with open hands. In our great party, there is no discrimination. They will be accorded the same treatment just like any one of us.” Prince Abbas said: “With what is happening now, you will agree with me that in 2019, President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Abdullahi Abdullahi Umar Ganduje will have a landslide victory in Kano.” The Commissioner for Local Government Affairs, Alhaji Muktar Sule Garo, said about 6500 members of Kwankwasiyya tricycle operators and 3500 members of PDP tricycle operators defected to the APC. According to him, “thousands of Kwankwasiyya and PDP loyalists are gathered in this place to show their disaffection on the ideals and ideology of their leader, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso. “The defectors have come to join the struggle of restoring true democracy under the leadership of President Buhari at the centre and Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje here in Kano. “What you have seen here today is the beginning of the total annihilation of the Kwankwasiyya Group and the red-cap followers. “Already, plans have been concluded to receive more of these groups from market women, tea sellers, mechanics, baked beans sellers, soft drinks hawkers, vulcanisers and many other groups.” He added: “There is no doubt that Kano is ready to deliver over five million votes to President Buhari. The people are happy with the achievements of Governor Ganduje’s administration and they are ready to appreciate him at the polls.” Kano State Commissioner for Information, Youths and Culture, Malam Muhammad Garba, described the event as memorable, saying the state government was impressed by the development. According to him, “most of the defectors were members of the APC, who went on sabbatical, but today, they have realised that there is no road where they were. They are back and we welcome them with open hands. “You can also agree with me that Kwankwasiyya is dead in Kano. We are expecting more people to join the progressives. I must tell you that Kano will soon record yet another massive defection of the opposition into our great party, the APC.”  