Eleven Persons have died following an outbreak of suspected case of cholera,while over forty seven have been hospitalised in Bebeji local government  area of  Kano state. The Nation gathered three villages, namely Hayin Madaci, Kuki and Falli Sarki were said to have been affected in Bebeji  local government area of Kano. A Youth Leader in the area  Ubale Dawud Abubakar  said the villages have being battling the suspected cholera outbreak for over a week now. He said  they have reported case to the authorities, but awaiting response. Musa Abdullahi, the father of six children, said the eleventh  person that died as a result of the disease was  buried on Sunday evening , He said about 47 persons are being treated at homes and some patent medicine stores around as the villages lack clinic or hospital. “Even member of the state assembly, Abubakar Galadima Kuki is from this area , we have tried to get in touch with him to know our situation but to no avail,” said Ubale Abubakar. Malama Habiba Muhammad , a mother of four lost her daughter , Fausiya aged three on Sunday after vomiting and stooling since Thursday afternoon . “ Incidentally my daughter started stooling and vomiting on Thursday afternoon after visiting our neighbour that two of their children are having similar disease. I tried administering some drugs I bought from a patent medicine store but the situation did not improve,”  Malama Habiba said. “My husband gave her some medication a neighbour gave us on Friday night though it seems as if she was responding to treatment only to become worse in the afternoon on Saturday and she died in the evening” “Although we ought to have taken her to the closest hospital in our village in Tiga town, but the clinic has been closed for sometime”. The village Head   Malam Tijjani Abdullahi Kuki who also confirmed the cholera  outbreak  on Sunday evening said he plans to inform the District Head  tomorrow Monday  on the situation of the residents. Efforts to speak with Bebeji Local Government Council Chairman Ali Namadi Bebeji   proved abortive as his mobile phone line was not going through. When contacted, the state Commissioner of Health Dr lbrahim Getso told The Nation on phone Sunday night that a team of medical personnel have been drafted to the affected areas to ascertain the situation and details of their findings would be made Known.