The Nigeria Elements Progressive Party (NEPP) has said its merger with a faction of the Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) has better positioned it to implement its manifesto of hope, peace, quality education and health care. It spoke in Akure, Ondo State capital, following the defection of over 20 state chairmen of ACPN to the NEPP ahead of 2019 polls. Chairman of NEPP’s Board of Trustees, Chief Adetuwo Ogunjumelo, who received the defectors, declared that the party is poised to take over leadership in the country. Ogunjumelo said: “We are bringing change, a different kind of change, not like the change mantra of the All Progressives Congress (APC), a new change. The acronym NEPP also captures our concept of change whereby N stands for nationhood, meaning one entity with all Nigerians living together in a secure environment. E represents Education for all Nigerians, because without good education there’ll be nothing for our children and grandchildren. The two Ps represent peace and prosperity.’’ Ogunjumelo, an accountant, who was honoured as Ondo State Man of the Year, explained that the party is not satisfied with the security and economic state of the country. He said: “NEPP’s message to Nigerians is that we are coming to change this situation. When there is no peace, there can be no development, no good education, no good healthcare and no roads; but when there’s peace, things will improve. So, one of our priorities as a party is to create conditions for lasting peace and prosperity in Nigeria.’’ A former ACPN chieftain, Chief Belawu Ayoade Adebola, who for the defectors, said they left following unresolved issues with ACPN National Chairman Alhaji Ganiu Galadima He said: “We dumped the party en masse to NEPP because of a variety of reasons. Since 2015, we never had a National Executive Committee meeting. Sometime last year, I called all the state chairmen so we could find a way forward, but I was berated and accused of attempting to remove the party chairman, etc. The matter was reported to our leader in Oyo State, Chief Mrs Oluremi Ojengbede. The woman told him to call us to a round table and find a solution to the problem, but he never did anything.’’ NEPP Ondo State Chairman Chief Adeyemi Isaiah and National Secretary Adelokun Tosho Babatunde assured the defectors of fair treatment and urged them to unite with other members to boost the party’s chances in 2019. The congress featured the presentation of flags to state party chairmen.  Picture: Ogunjumelo, (centre) with other members of the party.