The Warri South Local Council in collaboration with Warri Economic Summit Group (WESG) organised the “1st Warri Economic Summit”- a bold move by its denizens to reposition the oil city as a major maritime hub in Nigeria and West Africa sub region, and thus revive its socio-economic fortunes. The two day summit which held in Warri had as its theme “Warri Arising”. The event attracted major stakeholders from the oil and gas/maritime industry, traditional institutions, community leaders and representatives of ethnic groups, youths and the State government. Also in attendance were ex-Governor of Delta State Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan and his successor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, HRH Ikenwoli 11, Olu of Warri Kingdom. Chairman, WESG Steering Committee, and co-host, E.O Jakpa said the summit seeks to “rebrand and reposition Warri as the central hub for industrial and innovative growth in Nigeria and beyond.” According to him, the summit is to “re-profile and rebrand Warri as a city that has emerged from the decades of agitation and ethnic crises much stronger and certainly more united, a vibrant upwardly mobile metropolis, open for business under new management.” Jakpa said the city boasts the longest commercial historical link with Europe of all cities on the coast of West Africa, adding that Warri’s credentials as a major trading hub is the actual reason the city has managed to proper despite the exodus of a considerable chunk of its oil industrial base. The summit, according to Jakpa, is a market place of ideas where potential investors can interact and seek linkages with investors, regulators and other stakeholders. Delta Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa who declared the summit open, urged partnership between all the key stakeholders for Warri to regain its lost glory, stressing that for meaningful development the youths must be involved because they are the leaders of tomorrow. He said the crises witnessed in the last decades in Warri has receded into history and given way to a stronger, united and peaceful society, adding that “this summit is therefore important towards finding ways of making Warri regain its prime position as a business and maritime hub, both in Nigeria and in West Africa. Those opportunities that made Warri an economic nerve centre are still there Warri began trading with Europe over five hundred years ago”. He lamented the tendency to ascribe negative attributes to Warri and charged Deltans to speak positively about themselves and their city. According to Okowa, “Many times we give a bad name to Warri, there is no city in the world that is totally peaceful and crises free. Unfortunately, we tend to make our cities and ourselves look worse than we are.” He said Warri is the most peaceful city in the country where return on investments is high. Uduaghan said except the culture of violence and extortion by youths and some elders cease, the lofty plans by the Federal Government to dredge the Warri Ports would be fruitless. Former NIMASA Director-General Temisan Omatsheye, in a paper “Making Warri Port the Preferred Port of Call in West Africa”, wondered how the city could cope with the high volume of goods when the channels have been dredged. He urged concerted efforts to collaborate and develop the infrastructure in Warri and neighbouring local council areas to maximise the benefits accruable from the imminent dredging of the Escravos channels. He said, “If goods starts coming to Warri today, are we ready to receive the volume of business? To the youths, we must move ahead from the issue of ethnicity and begin to develop ourselves as a State.” Warri cannot do it a Co-host and Chairman, Warri South Local Council, Michael Tidi, is optimistic that Warri will get its act together and maximise its potentials for the greater good of Delta State. 