Abia youths under the aegis of Good Governance Initiative (GGI) have endorsed the member representing Abia Central Senatorial district at the senate, Senator Theodore Orji for a second term because of the way he has been taking care of the youths in the state. The youths who were overwhelmed over the on common gesture of the Abia Central senator said that since he entered the senate that they have never had it so good as they have been witnessing several good things that have been coming their way from him. They said that what the senator has been doing goes beyond his senatorial district as he has moved motions, sponsored bills that will affect people that are outside his constituency such as moving and sponsoring the bill that will turn ABIAPOLY into federal government polytechnic which is outside his senatorial area. Speaking with newsmen in Umahia, the president of GGI, Comrade Maureen Kelechi Onwukwe said that their group is a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) which has the aim of promoting good governance in Abia state and beyond. Onwukwe said that since he (Orji) has not forgotten the youths, old people and the vulnerable in the society that he deserves their support to go back to the senate so that they will continue to enjoy dividends of democracy from him, while the entire state will also enjoy. She listed some of the achievements of the former governor to include scholarship scheme which over 180 indigent but brilliant youths from the zone including a blind student has benefitted from. The GGI president said, “There are skill acquisitions across all levels of the society, renovation of schools under his area of representation, provision of boreholes with overhead tanks, electricity transformers, tricycles, vehicles among others which have gone a long way to alleviate poverty in the society”. “Senator Orji has sponsored over 10 people oriented bills which are at various stages of being passed into law and also several motions even as first time senator of the country which is unprecedented”. “This is a man who has seen it all, a man who has been and is still the voice of the masses, articulate distinguished gentleman, a man who always show vibrancy, consistency in discharging his legislative functions since he entered the senate chambers”. “This man in question has delivered the dividends of democracy to the good people of Abia central senatorial district and beyond, these and many more have made us the youths of the state to lend our support to enable him to return to the senate”. In his contribution, a former Umuahia North council chairman, Bar Suleman Ukandu thanked the youths of the state for bringing out the good works of the senator which has been visible in the senatorial district and beyond even as some of the projects are ongoing. Ukandu said that the senator has taken it upon himself in not only making laws but also providing dividends of democracy for his constituents, “Though the legislative arm of government is mainly to make laws, but Senator Orji has gone ahead to increase human development to enable his people to be self-dependent”. Reacting a former Chief Press Secretary (CPS) under former governor Orji, Ugochukwu Emezue said that Senator Orji as a governor left indelible marks in the political spheres of the state such as ensuring that the seat of governor touches all corners of the state. Emezue said that equity is one of the greatest legacies his former boss has bequeathed to the people of the state which will stand the test of time, stressing that the wonderful move by Orji has given the state peace and stability which generations on born will always appreciate. He explained that those who are fighting Orji are not doing it because he has not done well, “They are fighting him because he did not allow the old politicians to take power rather allowed equity to take place, if what he did is a sin then we are all sinners”. The former CPS revealed that the Orji has made it clear that he wants to return to the senate after four years that he wants to retire and become and an elder statesman where he intend to serve the people better.