Arguments are dicey things; you just never can tell how they will end: in a shake of hands, a shake of fists, a bloody nose, a hospital stay or a coffin. Moreover, arguments often involve the deployment of all kinds of logic: reason, muscle display or just plain old might. Reason is when you pit knowledge against knowledge. For example, I might go: ‘this housekeeping money is just enough for my hair this month’, and you may go, ‘that’s fine; it would be a change of diet for all of us in the house.’ It is only reasonable. Muscle display is when you get drunk and throw a bottle at someone. Better still, it is when Schwarzenegger throws his enemy over the wall and moves on as if it’s all in a day’s work. Might, as we understand it, is when someone decides to abandon the fine power of superior argument and pull out the superior logic of force. It is also called forcing your way, a tactic that is often used by the intellectually not so superior force, such as a government. In Ibadan, recently, the superior logic of the bull dozer marked the end of an argument between the government of Oyo State, and Mr. Yinka Ayefele, the well-known gospel musician. The argument was said to have been over the musician’s N800m Music House, the location of which the government said violated the city’s urban plans and consequently demolished part of it. Obviously, no one told Mr. Ayefele that arguments could end in demolitions. Normally, demolitions bring an interesting mix of reactions. When a child demolishes his first plate of amala, there is general clapping. Even when a sick or hospitalised person demolishes a plate of amala, oh joy! When a building is old, crumbling and threatening the lives of those around it, everyone heaves a sigh of relief to see it come down via the action of a bulldozer. People are so relieved they are almost kissing the big, lumpy machine. However, when I demolish my own plate of amala, as I frequently do, everyone just goes, ‘umm, mama!’ There is also a general prayer that the farmers should never go on strike, for my sake. Let’s get back to our story. Please note that I am not here to adjudicate but let’s hear both sides. According to stories emanating from the government’s side, Mr. Ayefele’s building violated the laid down plans for the area, obstructed the view of his neighbours who could not see the road for the houses, and caused some traffic problems of a general kind. Besides, the building was originally approved for a suite of offices rather than for a radio station, Fresh FM, they said. Besides, the government claimed to have given lots of notices before it finally moved to do the demolishing. On his part, the aggrieved man is said to have believed that the whole thing is politically motivated, given that he claims to have government-approved papers to back up the structure. People also seem to believe that the radio station is being haunted thus because it is critical of the government. On my part, I find it surprising that any Nigerian government, federal, state of local, could move so adroitly and fast. And this is why I am commenting on this issue. Honestly, I find it fascinating that any of our governments can be so efficient. It is interesting that they can take a decision and mobilise to execute it so promptly. To start with, the action took place at 5.30 a.m.! Reader, it is nigh impossible to get the government to do anything that is in your interest at 12 noon, during working hours, let alone so early in the morning! So, I am wondering what could have motivated this cock-crow-at-dawn, boy scout kind of action. Worse, the demolition action is said to have taken place on a Sunday! Holy of holies, that is not even a work day! How were the workers enticed to leave their beds at that unholy hour on that holy day to carry out, if they must, something that should be done on a work day and during official work hours? Seriously, on a good day, you normally can hardly get a government to do something that is in your interest for love or money during legitimate work hours. Yet, here we are, hearing that a government readily mobilised itself to work against somebody’s interest at a very odd hour on a most unlikely day. What then are we to think? First, I am to think that the government has been deceiving us all along. The impression that the whole world has right now is that government cannot work in Africa. I think they think it has something to do with our backwardness. Little do they know that it has a lot rather to do with the backwardness of the operators of government who all appear to have been specially selected, since independence, from the back of the classroom. It is now obvious that government can work smartly if they do not lack political will, are literate and have an enemy in their sight. Any government that can order a 5.30 a.m. Sunday demolition can work if it wants to work, especially on perceived foes. The tragedy of our time is also that our human apparatuses of governance do not understand the rubrics of their position neither are they able to even slightly apprehend the basic letters of their functions. That is what else I am taking from this. Even if it is a given that the structure housing the radio station has violated a law, surely there are avenues for eliminating state errors in cases like this one. Don’t get me wrong. I believe in the rule of law. I even advocate the observance of the rule and spirit of the law in its entirety. In that alone we have our safety net and sanity as a society. If indeed Mr. Ayefele went over and beyond his boundaries when building (as many people do), then he should take responsibility. All we ask is that laws should not be selectively enforced. For instance, there are so many petrol stations that should be demolished in practically all of our cities because they are inappropriately placed. Yet, because they have not stepped on the toes of anyone in government, they are let alone. Obviously, in this jungle governance, you need to keep your feet close to yourself. I also learnt what most of us already know but refused to tell me, that two wrongs do not make a right. According to the reports, Mr. Ayefele was said to have sent his wife to the governor, and she was begging him from ’11 p.m. to 4.30 a.m.’ not to demolish the structure ‘on her knees’??!! (Now, I have a whole lot of problems with that – if true – but this is not the forum for raising my objections. I think I’ll do that when I take Mr. Ayefele to court for wife misuse or maybe even abuse, I don’t know; I’m still thinking). Naturally, this argument has not been stilled. Both sides are, however, claiming right of reason, but only one side had both the muscle display and the might. How did you guess it was Mr. Ayefele? You, clever you! Anyway, in the court of the land, who gets this argument remains to be seen. In the people’s court however, Mr. Ayefele wins hands down on the superior logic of emotion, fellow feeling and same boat syndrome. As his name teaches us though, Mr. Ayefele, if he is right, can take solace in the fact that most government functionaries find, sooner than later, that indeed, aye fele.