• Agency warns Kebbi, Niger, Kwara, Kogi, Anambra, Delta, Bayelsa 
• Houses submerged, 8000 birds swept away in Edo These are not the best of times for those living flood-prone areas as the rains pound communities. The option is to relocate to safer havens for fear of the fury of floods as water levels in dams rise, reports OSAGIE OTABOR. MANY Nigerians have been rendered homeless as rains continue to pound communities for hours in some states. At the receiving end of the heavy downpour are residents of Edo, Kogi, Kebbi and Kaduna states, who have lost homes, farmlands and means of livelihood to ravaging floods. The Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NIHSA) moved yesterday to avert further disaster. It warned those living by the banks of River Niger and its floodplains to immediately relocate over possible flooding. The agency gave the warning in Abuja in a statement signed by its Director of Engineering Hydrology Clement Nze. NIHSA’s warning came on a day President Muhammadu Buhari sympathised with the government and people of Kebbi State on the flood that ravaged 11 local government areas of the Northwest state. Nze, who named the states likely to be flooded to include: Kebbi, Niger, Kwara, Kogi, Anambra, Delta and Bayelsa, said the Middle Niger portion of the Niger basin (Niger Republic) experienced high flows last week with the flood advancing into the Lower Niger (Nigeria). He noted that both Kainji and Jebba Dams were already spilling water downstream with the level of water in Lokoja downstream of the confluence standing at 8.69m. “This value has exceeded the corresponding value of 8.57 metre that occurred on August 29, 2012,” NIHSA’s spokesman said. In a related development, the agency said the flooding that occurred in Kaduna on August 23 and August 24 had started arriving Shiroro Dam built on River Kaduna. He warned: “In the event that Shiroro Dam equally starts spilling water, it will portend more danger downstream.” In May, the agency released the 2018 Annual Flood Outlook (AFO) for the 36 states of the country, projecting  that Sokoto, Niger, Benue, Anambra, Ogun-Osun, Cross River and Yobe states would have high risks of flooding. It also listed that Lagos, Bayelsa, Rivers, Delta and Ondo as states that might experience coastal flooding. The agency attributed its outlook to a likely rise in the sea level and tidal surge, which would impact fishing and coastal transportation. The outlook, which is a yearly projection by the agency, further indicated that flash and urban flood were expected to occur in Port Harcourt, Sokoto, Lagos, Ibadan, Kaduna, Yola, Abuja and Maiduguri. Awka, Abakaliki, Birnin-Kebbi, Kano, Yenogoa, Abeokuta, Ado-Ekiti, Lokoja, Lafia, Makurdi, Calabar, Jos, Owerri, Osogbo, Ilorin and Nsukka, Gombe, Suleja, Karu, Nyanya, Abaji, Onitsha, Sapele, Hadejia and other major cities with poor drainage completed the list. Presenting the outlook, Water Resources Minister Suleiman Adamu explained that going by the 2018 AFO, water levels on the River Niger and Benue among other major river systems, would rise and remain high during the rainy season. He said the water level in some dams was rising and the storage capacity reducing. Adamu warned that the development would cause a lot of the water to be spilled through the waterways. Also, on July 15, the Nigeria Meteorological Agency (NIMET), had warned that many parts of the country were likely to experience flooding due to a shift in rainfall pattern caused by climate change. NIMET Director-General Sani Mashi who gave the warning said that distortions had occurred in the pattern of rainfall leading to variation in the amount of rain expected in the country. Prof. Mashi explained that in line with NIMET’s 2018 Seasonal Rainfall Prediction (SRP), so much water would be made available on the surface between the last week of July and end of August. He said: “Once it rains, the ground cannot comfortably contain and absorb the water making it to run-off and resulting in so much water on the surface. “Unless adequate provision is made to accommodate the amount of water that is running on the surface, definitely the likelihood of flood is going to be very high, especially in the areas that are adjoining the riverine locations,’’ he warned.  Houses submerged, 8000 birds killed in Edo  In Edo State, a four-hour downpour swept away and killed over 8000 birds at a poultry at Igiede Street, off Erediauwa Street in Ikpoba-Okha Local Government Area. The poultry owner sold the dead birds for N500 to residents who protested the submerging of over 50 houses on eight streets affected by the flood. Four elderly persons who almost got drown inside their rooms were rescued and taken to a nearby hospital. The protesting Erediauwa residents blocked the road and turned motorists back. Erediauwa Street is a link road between Upper Sokponba and Sapele Road. The road has been in bad shape until the recent construction of the road, which the people blame for their woes. The heavy rain which started at about 6:30am yesterday, lasted for our four hours. A retired soldier, Sergeant Solomon Erhabor, who wept profusely, said the house he lost to the flood was his only benefit from the Nigerian Army. Attributing the flooding to the on-going construction of the road and silted drains, Sergeant Erhabor said the contractor ought to channel the water to a nearby moat, but decided not to do so to avoid payment of compensation. Another victim, Mrs. Margaret Imade, said casualties would have been recorded if the rain had fallen ovenight. Mrs. Imade said she was preparing the morning meal when flood water entered their house. “The government should come to our aid. We have been living in our house for over 40 years and flood has not entered before. We were lucky that we ran out.” Mrs. Elisabeth Imadonmwonyi called on National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) to send relief materials to them at their make-shift homes. Other parts of the state affected by the flood included the Federal High Court and premises of the state headquarters of Independent National Electoral Commission both located at Ikpoba-Hill as well as parts of the Government Reservation Area (GRA). The Commissioner for Infrastructure, Abraham Amielomen, spoke of plans by the state government to dispatch a team to ascertain the level of damage.  Kebbi Govt spends N33m to clear drains, waterways  The General Manager, Kebbi Urban Development Authority (KUDA) said the state had spent N33 million on the evacuation of drains and clearing of waterways. Shekare told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Birnin Kebbi that the exercise was part of efforts to prevent flooding. He said the authority had engaged over 200 unemployed youths to assist in the evacuation and desilting of drains in major towns and communities. The general manager said: “Governor Atiku Bagudu approved N33 million for the exercise and we engaged the services of unemployed youths in Zuru, Argungu, Birnin Kebbi and Yauri areas to assist in the evacuation and clearing. “The exercise has so far yielded positive results as we have not witnessed flood in those areas apart from Argungu Local Government Area. ’’ He warned residents against building on drainage alignment and waterways, restating the illegality of such practices. “We will not hesitate to deal decisively with defaulters as we have been sensitising them on the dangers of building structures on the drains,” Shekare said. He urged residents in the 21 local government areas to desilt their drains to avoid flooding during the rainy season. The KUDA boss said: “As part of the measures to avert the flooding, we usually experience in the 11 local government areas, we urge residents to complement the state government’s efforts by evacuating the drains around their premises.’’ Following the governor’s directive to be prompt in responding to distress calls, the State Emergency Management Agency (KESEMA) immediately swung into action, assessing the havoc wreaked by the flood in 11 councils. The Acting Executive Director, Abbas Kamba, said the assessment was to determine the level of support required by those affected. He said that the flood-ravaged communities are in Argungu, Birnin Kebbi, Suru, Bunza, Aleiro, Kalgo, Jega, Bagudu,Gwandu, Dandi and Shanga local government areas. Kamba disclosed that 12 villages were affected by the flood in Shanga Local Government Area alone where many homes and farmlands were destroyed. The emergency manger said: “The villages include Raha, Yola, Tsamiya, Dugu, Dugu Tsohuwa, Saminaka, Tudunwada, Faila, among others.” Kamba said the agency’s assessment would cover the number of households and farmlands affected. According to him, the flood was caused in some areas by blocked waterways, saying: “We will collaborate with the National Orientation Agency to sensitise the public on the dangers of erecting illegal structures on waterways. “Some areas were affected by the flood because the waterways had been blocked by illegal structures, and water must surely find its way.”  Bello seeks federal help  In Niger State, Governor Abubakar Bello solicited help from the Federal Government to tackle incessant flooding in his dormain. Bello’s spokesman Jide Orintunsin, who spoke in Minna said floods had weakened roads in the state and led to the collapse of seven bridges on some critical and strategic roads. He said many villages had been submerged by flood while several others faced the threat of being submerged since the commencement of the rainy season. The governor said the financial implications of the flooding were beyond the capacity of the state and called for support from the Federal Government to deal with the situation. He said: “Natural disaster is beyond everybody, especially now with the effect of global warming and climate change, we are worst hit in Niger state. “The flooding we are experiencing at the early stage of rainy season is a big threat to communities in riverine areas of the state. “At the moment, we have seven bridges that are cut off in the state due to heavy rain and flooding. We have some villages submerged in water.’’ He said the downpour in the last few days had destroyed some strategic roads. “Aside from the debilitating effect of flooding that has rendered our roads weak, the volume of trailers and overweight articulated vehicles plying these roads have further worsened the roads,’’ he said. According to the governor, some of the roads were up to 30 years old and needed to be rebuilt, adding that this would require a lot of money that the state could not afford. He said: “We have been consulting with respective federal agencies. With the magnitude of what is happening now, we will write reminders with pictures and video clips of the devastation so that Federal Government can come to our aid.” The governor, however, urged those living in flood prone areas to be vigilant and proactive by ensuring that their lives were safe.  Kogi urges residents to vacate flood-prone areas  In Kogi State, the government urged residents of flood-prone communities to relocate to safer places to avoid loss of lives and property. A statement by Environment Commissioner Sanusi Yahaya in Lokoja reads: “The Kogi Ministry of the Environment & Natural Resources wishes to announce to members of the public, especially those in the nine flood-prone local government areas to relocate. “In view of the heavy rainfall recorded so far this year due to climate change, as well as the high volume of water from tributaries of Rivers Niger and Benue, which has led to steady rise in water level of the rivers, as confirmed by our monitoring team. “This development may likely cause flooding in some flood-prone local government areas, including Omala, Bassa, Kogi/Kotonkarfe, Lokoja, Ajaokuta, Ofu, Idah, Ibaji, and Igalamela/Odolu. “The ministry, therefore, strongly appeal and request the people living in these flood-prone local government areas, particularly those living close to river banks, to start moving to safer ground, to avoid loss of lives and property in the event of flood,” Yahaya said. He said that the state government had started preparing temporary shelters for flood victims in the event of emergencies. Yahaya assured the people that the protection of their lives and property would continue to be given utmost attention by the administration of Governor Yahaya Bello. President sympathises with flood victims President Muhammadu Buhari has sympathised with the government and people of Kebbi State on the flood disaster that ravaged 11 local government areas of the state. The Chief Press Secretary Abubakar Dakingari, who made the disclosure in Birnin Kebbi, said the President’s message was conveyed to the affected Koko, Koko/Besse Local Government Area by Governor Atiku Bagudu. In a statement, Dakingari quoted the governor saying that President Buhari was deeply sympathetic with the victims and prayed Allah to provide succor to all of them. The governor advised people in the flood prone areas to refrain from construction and building on waterways to prevent future occurrence. “The government will embark on clearing and evacuation of rubbish from drainages to ensure free flow of water,’’ Bagudu said. The National Emergency Management Agency has commenced the distribution of relief materials to victims of flood in some parts of Kaduna State. According to NEMA’s Director-General Mustapha Maihaja, items, including blankets, corn, rice, mattresses, cement and detergent, were being distributed as the immediate needs of the victims. Maihaja said that beside the materials, the agency toured Ungwa Romi, Karatudu, Gonin Gora and Kigo Road new extension areas that were mostly affected by the flood. The director-general, who was represented by the agency’s Director of Search & Rescue, Air Commodore Akugbe Iyamu, said NEMA had been monitoring the rise in water level around the state. Maihaja.said: “As at Sunday, we were not too comfortable with the situation that necessitated the distribution of relief materials to the victims.” The Executive Secretary of the State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Ben Kure lauded the quick response of NEMA to the situation. Kure said the state government would put in adequate measures to reduce flooding in some parts of the state. He said: “We are also appealing to the people, especially those living by the water ways to begin to think of what next to do to check flooding. “Certain measures are also going to be enforced as regards the sitting of homes near the river or on water ways, because we are a government that cares about the people.”