Juliana Richards, known for her comfortable body shape wear pieces, Slim Girl, is the leader of a global brand that operates in the U.S., Europe, and Africa. In this interview with Omolara Akintoye, the CEO, author and accountant speaks about her life and her journey to building a business empire YOU are a woman of many parts, where do you draw your inspiration from? I consider myself a true hustler. I just love what I do, and I believe it is better to work hard while I am young so that I won’t have to rely on my children to financially support me when I am older. I am the founder and CEO of Slim Girl Shape wear, a major player with physical stores on three continents and a strong online retail presence. My leading clothing line is shape wear, undergarments that slim the waist and smooth and control one’s figure. I have also introduced a line of lingerie with the intention of leveraging our well- respected brand to gain market share in this thirty-two-billion-dollar global industry. Early life was interesting and I was born and raised in Nigeria. I moved to America as a teenager by myself to pursue my dream of becoming a lawyer. I actually started my company while in college studying accounting. In less than ten years, I turned Slim Girl Shape wear into what is considered one of the world’s most lucrative lines of women’s wear. We have been featured on The Real and The Wendy Williams Show and in publications such as Rolling Out, Examiner, Atlanta Black Star, OK! Magazine, Health Magazine, Vegan Life and Body Magazine. Looking down memory lane, I would say that it has been so fruitful and we have been able to create a subsidiary company, 1800Cinchers. Not only that, we have also become a celebrity endorsed brand hailed by some of the celebrities  including Khloe Kardashian, Nicole “Snooki” Polizzi, Lira Galore, Erica Dixon of Love & Hip Hop Atlanta, and Carmen Electra. In Nigeria, we have been working with celebrities like Ini Edo, Toke Makinwa, NINA, Uriel. Anto and Ceec What inspired you to write your new book ‘Building a Million Dollar side Hustle’, which you just launched? Everyone has been telling me for a long time that I need to write a book. I always looked at my life events and thought it would be good for a movie or book and so I eventually did. The book is basically everywhere. The book is informative and educative in nature. It traces how to build a business from scratch and I must say that the narrative approach is highly inspiring. It keeps the reader stuck to its pages, cover to cover. It is interesting and relatable narration of how I walked my way through the ladders to become a successful business woman while building a global brand. Having gone through a lot while growing and building my brand, the book teaches the readers an interesting way to build a side hustle and successfully transform it into a global conglomerate. In this book, I shared my best kept secret to success and personal tips given to me by millionaires all over the world. This book contains the good, the bad and the ugly about being a business owner. What are some of the fond memories you had while growing up? I have many fond memories of going places with my dad and how he used to always impart in us life lessons from his own upbringing. He just knew it was extremely important to raise intelligent humans and his own way of doing that was never to leave any story untold. He really wanted us to have a much different life from the one he had. Being that your dad was murdered in Nigeria and this prompted the decision to leave the country, why did you come back to Nigeria to do business? Maybe the spirit of my dad or just the feeling of never feeling accomplished until I am accomplished here. I am not sure but it was more of an emotional reason and I will never know why. But I am glad I did. I honestly don’t know how we survived but what I will tell you is that it wasn’t an easy road. I credit my mother for all her hard work and stubbornness when it came to her hustling mentality. She had many reasons to just relax and enjoy being catered for, but she insisted on having something of her own and that has helped us. Why did you venture into Slim Girl Shape wear and not any other brand? Slim Girl Shape wear is my brand. It comes naturally to me and I feel passionate about what makes me look good and sharing that with the world. While I was growing up, it was customary for me to see Nigerian women wrap their bellies with hot cloths to reduce belly fat after giving birth. Fast forward years later, when I was a college student at Georgia State studying accounting, and the seeds that were planted in my mind as a young girl started to blossom. It started with a shopping trip. I found that more form-fitting clothing required a little smoothing out of the mid-section, and out of my own personal experience, I was determined that there was a need for shape wear. But not just any shape wear, something that was more comfortable than a corset or a girdle. I discovered that I could be the one to start a business and turn my idea into a reality, especially since at the time I was positioned in a comfortable seat in my career. By the time I decided to start my own business, I had a very comfortable job at J.P Morgan Chase Mortgage. I knew it I was crazy to think of leaving this job and trying to ‘live,’ but I felt empty with no life. I told myself that ‘if there is any time you will take a risk, let it be now.’ That ‘ I’d rather be homeless then with no kids, than homeless with kids. So I took the chance and I have not looked back. Judging from your educational background, why are you not practicing accounting? The main reason why I was in school was to get a better paying job no matter what field I worked in. I just simply skipped that step. In essence, are you implying that passion is more important than a degree? There is a difference between having a degree and actually being educated. Being educated has nothing to do with having a degree on paper. It is not news that many degree holders are not making a living with what they have a degree in. Education, on the other hand, is very important. The most beneficial path to follow is to start off with passion, and then educate yourself on your passion. So, yes passion is more important than a degree but not more important than education because it should go hand in hand. What lessons has life taught you? Too many to count. What I have learnt well is my judgment of character. I am very good at it. Who has inspired you to succeed? My father and my mother. I remember when I was at a very critical time in my life, where I did not know what path to follow. I recalled a situation in my mother’s life and did what I thought she would have done at that time. And it worked for me. What kind of person are you? I am passionate, tough and fluid – I will leave it at that. Do you believe in mentoring? There is a funny pattern I notice in our society. People tend to follow formulas. Once they see someone or an organisation do something that works for them, they make it a text book method. I am not that way. So to answer your question, I do not follow any formula of having a mentor or mentoring someone. Google is your friend. Apart from your passion and learning, what other things take your time? My family; I love family time. I don’t do anything else outside of this. What accomplishments would you consider most significant in your life? Opening my business here in Nigeria was one of the toughest but I am truly grateful for it. How do you push through rough times? I take a nap and try again another day. Honestly, I have learned that I cannot control certain things. Have you ever been discriminated against? Of course, all the time in the U.S because I am black. In Nigeria, because I am a woman; a young-looking one at that. You are an accountant, entrepreneur, wife and a mother, how do you juggle all these roles? I honestly don’t know how, but I will say my husband is my backbone and my life line. There is not one decision I make without his input and direction not just because he is a man. No, I seek his input because he is the voice of reason; the way he thinks is refreshing and clear. Tell us more about your TV show and what you intend to achieve with it I had an amazing time meeting great people. I have put it on hold because I really want to follow my passion which is my business and also focus on raising my kids. Is there anything you are doing currently aside all these? None. I have had to cut back a lot. I am too busy to add anything to my plate. You are a Nigerian, based in U.S and now in the Nigerian market, how would you describe the Nigerian market? Quite challenging. But don’t anticipate to just go with the flow, because if you face the reality of it, you will not succeed here. Nigeria is not for the faint of heart. Would you say the Nigerian market is significantly different from the American market? Absolutely. I hate to talk down on Nigeria just because it’s the norm but Nigeria is really not easy. The U.S on the other hand has its challenges as well. What is your definition of style? Style, for me, is whatever makes me look good and confident. I like nicely done tradition clothes, but I also believe less is more. I don’t like big complicated clothes at all. Share with us your beauty secrets I have very sensitive skin so I don’t use anything that has fragrance in it. So fragrance-free soap, I use shea butter as my cream. That’s it. I love makeup just because I am a girlie girl. So you will see me with lots of highlights. How do you relax and unwind? I travel and spend quality time with my family. If you have to advise young people, what would you tell them? It is important to pay close attention to details. Also study people very well and learn from the best out there. Business owners should know that they don’t have to throw in the towel just because their business venture is not planning out as they had hoped. If you use my keys to success, then hanging in there during the rough times is key. You will not be Oprah from day one. You have to start small and read, read, read. There is a plethora of information out there. You just have to slow down and follow the steps others took and tailor it to what fits you.