The Grassroot Soccer Festival is one of FIFA’s programs that is designed to introduce as many boys and girls in the world of soccer. The one-day event focuses on both boys and girls between the ages of 6 and 13. As a way of integrating people, the festival involves as many children without discrimination of colour, ethnicity or religion. If you are into online sports betting in Nigeria, you would know that it is little developments like these that can make a big difference to the nation’s prospects later on. Targeting kids ensures that the next generation is better, and can compete successfully on the world stage. About the Soccer Festival It was a sigh of relief when the Grassroots Soccer Festival was held this past Saturday at the Winnipeg University. The festival saw over 80 kids who participated in the event. The children got a chance to showcase their relevant soccer skills in the event. There were trained coaches who helped out the kids develop their skills. The festival was organized jointly by the Manitoba Soccer Association(MSA) and the Spence Neighborhood Association. The MSA is a member of the governing body of the Canadian Soccer Association and has been holding Grassroots Soccer Festival around for the past years. However, this was the first time the festival was being held in Winnipeg. The aim was to bring soccer to young kids who live in the inner parts of the city. The kids were given a chance to experience the beauty of soccer, in an aim to kindle interest in the sport. What Did the Kids Love? The Saturday event had a wide range of different activities. The kids had the opportunity to use this event as a platform to showcase their abilities. Everyone had a chance to participate, and that is why the event split kids into different age and skills. MSA picked the most talented players for its higher level programs. The MSA has been preparing for the 2020 Manitoba games since 2017. They are using these festivals as a chance to identify players with the potential to play in the games. For the residents of Winnipeg, this was their first time to get involved in such a festival and be part of the Manitoba games. The Challenges and What Lies Ahead Although the festival was a success, there were challenges that were experienced by the organizers. The availability of finances was one of the major problems. For any event to run successfully, finances have to be readily available. But inadequate finances limited the number of kids that could get involved in the festival. Transportation was also another problem. But at the end of the day, the event was a success. MSA is positive that in the future more kids can get involved in the festival. Thus they will be involved in the MSA program. If soccer is to be a factor that integrates people together, then the Grassroots Soccer Festival is a driving force towards this goal.  