The list of candidates released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) suggests that the September 22 governorship election in Osun State will be tough. There are 48 political parties and 48 names on the list. But observers believe that only five of them are serious contenders. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI examines the factors that will dominate the contest and the antecedents of the leading contenders. ON paper, 48 candidates representing 48 political parties are contesting the September 22 governorship election in Osun State. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) cleared the 48 candidates to contest the election. Nevertheless, only about five of them are expected to be the major contenders. These are: Adegboyega Oyetola of the All Progressives Congress (APC); Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP); former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Mr. Fatai Akinbade of the African Democratic Congress (ADC); immediate past SSG, Mr. Moshood Adeoti of the Action Democratic Party (ADP); and Senator Iyiola Omisore of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Two main issues appear to dominate the election: zoning and continuity. Already, the agitation for zoning is causing ripples in the state, ahead of the contest. Political stakeholders from Osun West senatorial district, which has not produced a governor before, have been clamouring that a candidate from the zone should be given a chance to become the next governor, after Governor Rauf Aregbesola of the APC completes his tenure in November. The argument put forth by the proponents of Osun West for governor agitation is that the remaining two districts, namely Osun Central and Osun East, have had their fair share of the exalted office. Since the creation of Osun State in 1991, Osun West has only occupied the governorship seat for less than two years, when the first civilian governor, the late Isiaka Adeleke, occupied the position during the aborted Third Republic. But, the remaining two districts have been enjoying the seat interchangeably. Chief Bisi Akande, from Osun Central, served a four-year term between 1999 and 2003, while Prince Oyinlola, also from Osun Central, spent almost eight years in office before he was sacked by the tribunal. Governor Aregbesola, who replaced Oyinlola, is about to complete his eight-year tenure in November. Aregbesola is from Osun East district.  Oyetola Oyetola served in the Aregbesola administration from inception in the last seven and half years as the Chief of Staff. During this period, he is believed to have earned favour in the sight of the governor as one of the pillars behind the administration. Though Oyetola has on several occasions denied being endorsed by Aregbesola, sources say the governor sees him as someone who can build on the foundation the administration has laid. Oyetola has been active in politics in the past 20 years; since the return of current civilian dispensation. He is said to be one of the founding members of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 1998. When the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) was formed, he was also one of the party’s notable chieftains in Osun State. Though he has been active in Osun politics in the last 20 years, Oyetola has not contested for any election position over the years. But, the APC flag bearer is believed to be prepared for the task ahead. He is said to have amassed supporters and a strong followership in all the 332 wards in the state. He said: “I have toured every nook and cranny of this state, consulting the stakeholders. I don’t discuss campaign issues with the governor.” Oyetola turns 64 seven days after the governorship election. He was born on September 29, 1954, in Iragbiji, Boripe Local Government Area. He obtained a Bachelor of Science degree in insurance from the University of Lagos in 1978 and a Master’s in Business Administration (MBA) in 1990 from the same institution. He is an Associate of the Chartered Insurance Institute, London and Nigeria and a member of the Nigerian Institute of Management. After his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in Potiskum, Yobe State in 1980, Oyetola started his career as an insurance broker with Leadway Assurance Company as an Assistant Manager. In 1991, he founded his own company where he was the Managing Director until his appointment as chief of staff in 2011. Oyetola, who is from Osun Central, is banking on the vote for the continuity of the legacy of the Aregbesola administration for his aspiration.  Adeleke Adeleke is a serving senator; he replaced his late brother, Isiaka Adeleke, as the senator representing Osun West district in the Red Chamber last year. He defected from the APC to the PDP to realise his ambition to replace his late brother, when it became apparent that he would not get the ticket of the ruling party for the last by-election. His landslide victory in the by-election in which he defeated the candidate of the APC with wide margin was the major selling point that facilitated his emergence as the PDP flag bearer in next month’s governorship election. Before his emergence as the PDP flag bearer, Adeleke became famous for his dance steps at the slightest opportunity. He is popularly known as the dancing senator. Beyond this, not much is known about his personality. Interestingly, Ademola Adeleke is the father of two Nigerian musicians: B-Red and Shina Rambo. He is also an uncle to the popular musician, Davido. Adeleke’s love for music has become a public item, such that he has a unique dance style which his nephew – Davido – sang about in his debut single, Dami Duro. Senator Ademola Adeleke was born on May 13, 1960 in Enugu State. His mother was an Igbo woman, with a Christian background. Her name was Esther Nnena Adeleke and she hails from Enugu State. Not long after he was born, Adeleke’s parents moved to Lagos, where he attended the Methodist Primary School in Surulere, Lagos. Ademola Adeleke is the third senator in the family. The first one is the patriarch of the clan, Raji Ayoola Adeleke, who was a senator in the Second Republic. His late brother is the second senator in the family. Ademola Adeleke is the youngest of the Adeleke brothers that include Isiaka and Adedeji Adeleke. The patriarch of the family was the Balogun of Ede. He was an astute politician and one of the major political pillars of the defunct Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), where he worked alongside the legendary premier of Western Nigeria, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo. After his primary school in Lagos, Adeleke also attended Nawarudeen Primary School, Ikire, Osun State. He progressed to the Seventh Day Adventist Secondary School, Ede and later moved to Muslim Grammar School Ede, after which he left Nigeria for Alabama in the United States. Adeleke enrolled at Jacksonville State University in Alabama, USA, to study Criminology. He is reported to have worked at Quicksilver Courier Company and Origin International LLC in Atlanta, Georgia, USA. He also worked with Guinness Nigeria for six years before joining his brother’s conglomerate, Pacific Holdings Limited.  Omisore Two governorship candidates emerged in the SDP. The faction led by Ademola Ishola produced Munirudeen Atanda, as candidate; the Bayo Faforiji-led faction elected Iyiola Omisore as candidate. The development is an offshoot of the leadership crisis within the party occasioned by the defection of Omisore to the party from the PDP. But, Omisore appears to be the candidate recognised by INEC, going by the list of candidates released by the commission. Senator Omisore is from Osun East. He was the Deputy Governor during the era of Chief Bisi Akande as governor. He was the candidate of the PDP in the last governorship election  and was defeated by Governor Aregbesola in 2014. His desire to contest caused prolonged the crisis in the PDP in Osun State. When it became clear that he would not get the PDP ticket, his supporters set the PDP flag ablaze and defected to the SDP. But, Omisore’s chances of becoming governor appear to be very slim, because the SDP may not have the structure across the nooks and crannies of the state that he can use to actualise the bid. Many observers believe the contest is likely to be a two-horse race between the APC and the PDP.  Adeoti Until recently, Adeoti was the SSG under Governor Aregbesola. The ADP candidate, who is from Osun West, defected from the APC on the eve of the ruling party’s primary, when it became obvious that he had no chances of clinching the party’s ticket. He disagreed with the idea of direct primary in choosing the party’s flag bearer. Immediately after, he emerged as the candidate of the ADP. At the Congress held at the ADP secretariat at Biket area, Osogbo, several members of the ruling APC thronged the venue to witness the declaration of Adeoti as the party’s candidate. The ADP Electoral Committee Chairman, Mr. Dozie Ike, urged all members to support Adeoti to win the election. In his acceptance speech, the former SSG urged the party members to support him in winning the Sept. 22 governorship election. He said he was committed to executing the ADP ideals as contained in its manifesto to the letter. Adeoti, 63, hails from Iwo in Iwo Local Government Area of the Osun West Senatorial District. He was the pioneer Chairman of the defunct ACN in Osun. He is reputed to be a grassroots politician, who enjoys the support of majority of local politicians.  Akinbade Alhaji Akinbade hails from Osun West senatorial district. He is said to be a grassroots politician. His emergence as the governorship candidate of the ADC was facilitated by the voluntary withdrawal of Kazeem Adio, who had hitherto clinched the ticket. This move was predicated on the belief of the ADC National Chairman, Chief Ralph Nwosu, that Akinbade has the clout to win the September 22 governorship election on the ticket of the party. Nwosu is of the view that Akinbade is capable of rescuing the state from the proxy war of politicians based outside the state. He had served the state in different capacities. He has served the state PDP chairman. It was under his leadership that the PDP took over the state 2003. Subsequently, he emerged as the SSG under former Governor Olagunsoye Oyinlola. He had earlier served as the Commissioner for Works under the military era. While expressing optimism that with the pedigree and political clout of Akinbade and that the ADC stands a better chance of winning the election, Nwosu urged members of the party for necessary supports and collaboration, which he noted, were germane to the electoral fortune of the party.      Nwosu said: “Judging from the candidates being paraded by other parties in the coming election, we can readily beat our chest that we shall coast home to victory at the Osun governorship polls, because Akinbade, our candidate, stands a shoulder above all of them.” The ADC flag bearer resigned his membership of the PDP after he lost in the party’s primary to Adeleke and subsequently joined the ADC, to pursue his ambition.       The names of the parties and their candidates as presented by INEC are as follows: Deputy Governor – Azeez Kayode Jimoh Governor – Ogunmodede Adeloye Deputy Governor – Adepoju Timothy Adetunji Governor – Oludare Timothy Akinola Deputy Governor – Halimat Bunmi Ibrahim Governor – Genga Afeni Deputy Governor – Oni Esther Oluwatoyin Governor – Rufai Adebisi Mujidat Deputy Governor – Agboola Peter Oluremi Governor – James Olugbenga Akintola Deputy Governor – Abdulhakeem Oyeniyi Bello Governor – Fatai Akinade Akinbade Deputy Governor – Arowolo Oladele Governor – Adeoti Moshood Olalekan Deputy Governor – Durotoye Adeolu Akinbola Governor – Kehinde Olufemi Lawrence Deputy Governor – Lawal Oluseyi Afusat Governor – Adejola Adebayo Rufus Deputy Governor – Adebayo Adewale Olaolu Governor – Alarape Babatunde A. Deputy Governor – Adelu Ayoade David Governor – Adeleke Adesoji M.A Deputy Governor – Agbonmagbe Tosin Omowumi Governor – Adegboyega Isiaka Oyetola Deputy Governor – Benedict Olugboyega Alabi Governor – Oluwatoki Adetokunbo Adedayo A. Deputy Governor – Adefila Mary Olaitan (Nee Olaleke) Governor – Ekundayo Ademola Precious Deputy Governor – Ojo Olugbenga Samuel Governor – Olapade Olajide Victor Deputy Governor – Dunmade Adejoke Wuraola Governor –Ilori Titus Oluwafemi Deputy Governor – Alabi Temitayo Kadijat Governor – Mutiu Abiodun Ibrahim Deputy Governor – Fafioye Hammed Abiodun Governor – Aderemi Aree Deputy Governor – Onitayo Yemisi Mary Governor – Solomon Ayodeji Oni Deputy Governor – Issa Ademola Aderibigbe Governor – Babatunde Salako Joseph Deputy Governor – Onifade Saheed Alade Governor – Adetipe Adebodun Abiola Deputy Governor – Ajiboye Funke Governor – Rafiu Shehu Anifowose Deputy Governor – Oluwatoyin Adebayo Governor – Adedoyin Adegoke Joshua Oluwole Deputy Governor – Olawale Adesoye Adewumi Governor – Fabiyi Oluseyi Olubunmi Deputy Governor – Ibrahim Adekunle Akande Governor – Babatunde Olaniyi Loye Deputy Governor – Aderonke Adebayor Jabar Governor – Raphael A. Feranmi Deputy Governor – Ariyo Sunday Sina Governor – Lawal Ganiyu Akanfe Deputy Governor – Idowu Kayode Olusegun Governor – Kamarudeen Kalemi Abiodun Deputy Governor – Lawal Temitope Serifat Governor – Olaniyi Anthony Fadahunsi Deputy Governor – Abdulrasheed Afusat Olanike Governor – Jegede Hannah Taiwo Deputy Governor – Rebecca Adeleke Oladepo Governor – Adefare Segun Adegoke Deputy Governor – Adeyeye Nurudeen Adeyemi Governor – Adebayo Rasheedat Deputy Governor – Ajibola Fatimat Governor – Kolawole Rafiu Ojonla Deputy Governor – Oladapo Deborah Oluwatoyin Governor – Ademola Nirudeen Adeleke Deputy Governor – Albert A. Adeogun Governor – Adedokun Musbau Olalekan Deputy Governor – Ibrahim Bukola Governor – Ifeolu Kehinde Adewumi Deputy Governor – Sunday Makinde Babawale Governor – Akintunde Adesoji Deputy Governor – Akanmu Saheed Abiodun Governor –Badmus Tajudeen Adefola Deputy Governor – Olajire Gbolahan Governor – Adegboyega Aderemi Deputy Governor – Usman Omobolaji Taofeek Governor – Ayodele Mercy Tosin Deputy Governor – Adejumo Mukaila Governor – Iyiola Omisore Deputy Governor – Lawal Azeez Olayemi Governor – Ayoade Ezekiel Adegboyega Deputy Governor – Omolade Anike Adebayo Governor – Alfred Adegoke Deputy Governor – Lameed Gafar Governor – Adediji Olanrewaju Adewuyi Deputy Governor – Alabi Ola-Olu Adeniyi Governor – Odutade Olagunju Adesanya Deputy Governor – Karonwi Festus Olamilekan Governor – Adebayo Adeolu Elisha Deputy Governor – Aleem Atinuke Governor – Adetunji Olubunmi Omotayo Deputy Governor – Salawu Kareem Adeniyi 