Super Eagles head coach, Gernot Rohr, has reportedly confirmed that his assistant coach, Yusuf Salisu will not be part of the team set up against Seychelles. Salisu had his hands soiled in an alleged bribery scandal and this probably explains why the German tactician ruled the embattled Nigerian coach out of the Seychelles party next month in Victoria. This development, since the early hours of Friday, has elicited reactions among Nigerians with popular views saying that there is nothing wrong with the decision to drop the assistant coach for the sake of the country’s reputation. Others, however, wondered if the football governing house has by extension relived the CHAN Eagles Coach from his duty? See the reactions from Twitter below on the report titled’ BREAKING: Rohr confirms Salisu will not be part of the team set up against Seychelles.   Rohr who spoke with newsmen on Friday, however, explained: “we have to wait for the report from the Ethics committee, it is not in my position to answer weather he(Salisu) will be back or not.” He continued, “it is the duty of my employer of labour that will determine whether he will be in the team next match. Mine is to coach the team and not the administrative point of view.” Rohr had on Friday released a list of 24 players for the next month’s 2018 Africa Cup of Nations crucial qualifying clash against Seychelles in Victoria. Rohr, expectedly, dropped captain John Mikel Obi, who recently returned from an injury, Victor Moses and Elderson Echiejile on the list. The duo of Shehu Abdullahi and Tyronne Ebuehi who were part of the team to the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia also miss out due to injury. Chidozie Awaziem, Ola Aina, and Henry Onyekuru make a return to the team after missing out on the World Cup team. There was first time invitation for Kelechi Nwakali and the little-known duo of Semi Ajayi who plays for Rotherham United and SC Paderborn of Germany center-back Jamilu Collins. Four other players; Uche Agbo, Stephen Eze, Musa Mohammed and Blessing Eleke have been placed on Stand-by. The only home-based based player in the team, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, the coaches and the backroom staff will leave for Victoria on September 2nd for the game while the foreign-based are expected to start arriving camp in Victoria on September September 3rd.