The management of Obafemi Awolowo University ( OAU ), Ile-Ife, has announced the suspension of six students of the institution over alleged involvement in cultism. A statement issued on Wednesday in Osogbo by the university’s Registrar, Mrs Margaret Omosule, said the suspended students confirmed their membership of secret cults after police investigation. According to Omosule, the school management on July 2 received an information that two of the university’s students were forcefully initiated into cultism outside the university campus. She said after a thorough preliminary investigation, 12 students were apprehended and handed over to State Police Command to assist with further professional investigation. ” After the investigation of the suspected students by the Nigeria Police, the university on Aug. 20 received a detailed report of the police findings. ” In the report, it was confirmed that six students of the university had admitted their membership of proscribed groups, thus breaching their Matriculation Oath, Code of Conduct and other pertinent university regulations. ” Accordingly, and in accordance with the relevant statutes, the students have been suspended pending the outcome of investigations by the appropriate Students’ Disciplinary Committee,” Omosule said. According to the registrar, the names of the suspended students with their matriculation numbers are Onyekwusi Praise Chinemerem, ASE /2014/218; Ojo Abiodun Olamide, MCB /2012 /149 and Ude John, ASE /2015 /362. Others are Oladoye Tobi Olakunmi, EGL /2014/ 383; Ayeyi Damilola Ayomide, EGL /2016 /075 and Davis Jesulayomi Olakunle, EGL / 2014 /207. She assured the university community and all other stakeholders, most especially the students, that adequate measures had been put in place to secure lives and property. The registrar also pledged that management would put in place a peaceful environment for all residents of the university estate. ” It is the collective responsibility of all stakeholders to protect the university from persons with criminal intentions. ” Members of the university community are advised to be vigilant at all times and report any suspicious activities which could undermine the peaceful coexistence of members of the university community,’’ Omosule said.