•Lawyers hail Osinbajo The Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) has added its voice to the general condemnation of yesterday’s invasion of the National Assembly by security personnel. NBA, in a statement by its President, Abubakar Mahmoud (SAN), described the security personnel’s action as unconstitutional and constituting a grave threat to democracy. Part of the statement reads: “The Nigerian Bar Association condemns this brazen and blatant act of the security personnel and demands the immediate withdrawal of these personnel. “This action is unconstitutional and poses a threat to our democracy. We call on the Acting President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), to immediately call the security forces to order. “The Nigerian Bar Association condemns, in the strongest terms the attempt, by the government or any faction of the political class to drag the Nigerian security forces into their ongoing political bickering and manoeuvres, totally unrelated to their responsibilities of governance for which they were elected. “We call on the military, the Nigeria Police, Department of State Security and all other security agencies not to engage in any unconstitutional operations or allow themselves to be dragged into partisan political activities directly or indirectly. “We want to remind the heads of these security agencies that there is sufficient framework under domestic and international law to hold them accountable for illegal and unconstitutional operational use of security personnel. “The NBA will continue to monitor the current situation and will not hesitate to take further and more drastic action in defence of Nigerian democracy should this call remain unheeded.” But in another statement, the NBA praised Osinbajo for the “prompt and decisive action taken on the siege of the National Assembly”. The association said: “The action taken by the Acting President has reassured Nigerians that security personnel and Nigerian armed forces are under the authority of constitutionally elected Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces and would not be deployed for undemocratic purposes. “Whilst commending the Acting President for his courageous decision, the NBA will remain vigilant and will continue to monitor the current situation and urge our security agencies to remain faithful to their constitutional roles and responsibilities.” Osinbajo’s action renews hope in democracy, says senior lawyer  A Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Prof Ernest Ojukwu, said Osinbajo’s action renews hope in democracy. “The immediate and unequivocal condemnation of the illegal DSS-Police siege on the National Assembly and the decisive termination of the appointment of the DSS boss by His Excellency Acting President Osinbajo has renewed great hopes that our democracy shall survive,” he said Adegboruwa hails lawmakers for vigilance  Activist-lawyer Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa praised the lawmakers for their vigilance. “The Constitution in Sections 4, 5 and 6 established the three arms of government with separate powers and functions. “They are to act independently and autonomously, without any interference from one arm of government in the affairs of the other. “The DSS and the police are all part of the executive arm of government and it is totally unconstitutional for the DSS to have invaded the premises of the National Assembly in such commando fashion, as if we are under military rule. “I commend the action taken by the Acting President, in due consultations with the President, I believe,” he said.   