Sometime ago, I had the privilege to take a young man, no older than eighteen, to task on some of his country’s political policies which bordered on the treatment of a minority group in that country. As best, if not as testily, as he could, the young man defended the country with the excuse that the group refuses to budge from its old, tradition-soaked ways. I know many people who won’t budge from their tradition-soaked seats either, and no one dares ignore them such as our great grandpas and grandmas in politics. As I was saying, my interviewee had temporarily emigrated from his country just to meet and know someone in another country, that’s all. He was on a mission to satisfy his curiosity regarding the individual, his target. He met the person, stayed a while doing odd jobs for survival and then headed back home. He was on a pilgrimage to satisfy a longing in his soul. Now, no one can completely take care of all the longings on his/her soul, I grant, but sadly, it would appear that many Nigerians, particularly at the top, either do not have or have lost their souls. You know what they are, don’t you, souls I mean? They are those little things men and women carry around with them in the pockets of their shadows. You say shadows don’t have pockets?! I beg to differ. Anyway, let me tell you what happens when we lose our souls. Contrary to popular belief, we do not gain the whole world, we lose it. Secondly, you’re given a hefty bill when you sell your soul. I can give you so many examples of people who got the bill after losing their souls in exchange for the whole world. After a while, they realised they did not want the whole world, they just wanted their souls back. Nigerians are one big example. Nigerians constitute one classical group of the soulless. It’s only in Nigeria you can find someone who puts the nation’s billions of naira into his account like one crazy winner at a poker game, not to do anything in particular with it, but for the sheer pleasure of seeing it there. It’s only in Nigeria that old, tottering politicians would insist on staying in power to continue to wreak havoc on a hapless nation. It’s only in Nigeria that an ineffective government that is tall on excuses would insist on remaining in power so it can continue to make the people miserable. And it’s only in Nigeria that youths would be so beleaguered they have no youth to speak of. Nigeria is guilty of a lot of things, but the most heinous to me is still the fact that it has stolen the innocence of its youths. First, it forgets to draw up a programme of development for this group so that each one can find his/her solid identity as a Nigerian whichever part of the country he/she may come from. Next, the country’s adult population builds a large national nest of adults for youths to watch and copy, exhibiting the worst kinds of human behaviour anyone can possibly lay down for others to follow. These behaviour traits include lack of patriotism, murderous instincts, selfish soldiery, gingham-like patterns of recklessness and irresponsibility, unabashed selfishness, and other character traits for which names have not been invented. Then, the country steals the future of its own children. Imagine that. Because of the irresponsibility of this adult group, Nigerian youths now have anxiety syndromes over what may become of them in the country. How does it manifest? It manifests in the rabid dream of every Nigerian child to run to the United States of Heaven… sorry, America. Nigerian youths have no dreams regarding the country. They do not lie awake thinking of that age-old question: what can one do for one’s country? They cannot dream for the country because they have not been handed any tools to dream with: no good housing system, no credible transportation system, no affordable health system, no power generating system, and so many things. The average person is left struggling each day just to live. So, the youths do not dream for this country, they dream about leaving this country. This should make each of us look ourselves in the mirror and ask: how did I contribute to killing the ability of the Nigerian youth to dream? There is worse yet. Many youths there are who think that making money will solve the problem, and too many adults there are ready to teach them. The baffling thing is that many of them have no idea why they want to make money except that they have noticed that their papas and mamas worship at the foothill of money every day. They have seen too many adults in their environment listen to what the rich man says (that’s why they say money talks); consult the rich people in their lives (money is powerful); or obey what the rich man commands in the family (money knows all). Too many youths have seen that to bury any family member, people wait for the rich; chieftaincy titles go only to the rich; obaship succession chains change only for the rich; to take someone to the hospital, grown men wait for the rich in the family; and sometimes to eat, people go cap in hand to the rich. The youths have seen the fear in the eyes of their hapless parents and have found a solution: get rich quickly, even if it means participating in money-making rituals, armed robbery, kidnapping, or being apprenticed to a rich one by carrying and shooting his gun for him. Nigerian youths have been shown that it is no use having any youth if you do not have cash backing. So, they have taken to either running out of the country if they want to keep their souls or staying in the country and pursuing money into the hole (quick, cross yourself for those who lost their lives in the process) or by turning their family members into money. Somewhere in the east, a young man was said to have killed his mother as part of a money-making ritual, and somewhere in the west, a young man was said to have also killed his mother because he thought she was ‘behind’ the fact that he was not ‘progressing’ in life. Those who are not killing are either militants (north, south) or in one religious vanguard or the other. Oh yeah, they are also killing. Nigeria has turned her youths into ravenous wolves, hungry to consume all the money and blood they can find in their paths. In effect, the youths have lost the sanctity of what it means to be youths: the zest for knowledge, the beautiful experiences that define life in its purest form, or the search for the kind of associations that show the true meaning of existence. They have not been taught that real life does not lie in holding a gun or knife to a helpless person’s head, or in spraying walls or people with bullets, or in some mindless pursuit of bawdry. Nigeria must teach its youths that real life consists in the pursuit of happiness, love, beauty, innovations, progress and self-fulfilment in ways that are in complete harmony with nature. The country must teach its youths how to reach deep within themselves and bring out their talents to help the society. It is not too late. If it is never done, that is when it will be too late to restore the youth of its Youths. 