Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr Idiat Adebule, Chief Imam of Lagos Alhaji Sulaimon Abou Nollah, The Muslim Congress (TMC) Amir Dr Luqman AbdurRaheem and his The Companion counterpart, Alhaji Thabit Wale Sonaike, have called on Muslims to uphold the tenets of Eid celebrations. The tenets, they said in their sallah messages, include fulfilment of promise, obedience to Allah, show of mercy, compassion and care for their neighbours. The deputy governor urged Nigerians to show love and ensure peaceful co-existence in the neighbourhood. “We must always remember the lesson of this celebration which is fulfilling our promises and shun any act capable of disrupting public peace. While calling on youths to join hands with government in rebuilding a new nation, she urged them to engage in productive activities that can help to fast track the process of nation building and economic growth. The deputy governor explained that the all-inclusive governance embarked upon by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has helped to achieve rapid developments in the last three years in infrastructure, tourism, education, urban renewal development and many more, adding that the strategy has helped the administration to build on the legacies of the founding fathers to bring democracy dividends to the door step of the masses. The Chief of Lagos urged Nigerians to use the sallah ceremony to draw closer to God, to pray for the peace, unity and progress of the nation Nigerians, the cleric said, should learn and emulate Prophet Ibrahim in uprightness, steadfastness and righteousness. “He was a man who was steadfast to God in the midst of godlessness and persecutions. He was a man who did not lose hope in God when he didn’t have a child at old age. And when he was finally blessed with a child, his faith was tested when he dreamt that he needed to sacrifice his only child for God. Prophet Ibrahim did not fail the tests of Allah, and today He is the father of all religious people in the world. Allah’s test was not only for Prophet Ibrahim, it was also for his wife and the child to be sacrificed. How are we all coping with the trials of God in our lives? Have you abandoned your Creator for a quick solution to your life problems?” he asked. Alhaji Nollah enjoined Nigerians to not lose righteousness and join the popular sinful ways “because everyone else is doing so. Let us be steadfast to all that is good and know that the more righteous we are as leaders, government officials, as the governed, as employees, as employers, as wives, husband, children, among others.” Dr AbdurRaheem said he is thrilled by the sincerity with which Nigerian Muslims across ethnic lines complied with the directive of Sultan of Sokoto & President, Nigerian Supreme Council of Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar that the faithful should align with the lunar counting of Dhul Hijjah as announced by the Saudi Arabia authority. He said: “The 100 per cent compliance by NSCIA after consultations demonstrates our love for the leadership of this apex body. All Muslims in Nigeria must learn from this exemplary behaviour. “This period of celebration and merry-making is also an opportune time for us to show empathy to fellow Muslims and Non-Muslims through sharing and giving, by providing assistance in cash and in kind to those in serious need. Let us remain Muslims while celebrating. Let us avoid indecencies, immodest acts, consumption of alcoholic substances and sexual indiscipline. “More importantly, it is a time for Nigerian Muslims to reflect on the nation’s socio-economic woes, massive unemployment, rising incidence of poverty and insecurity of lives and properties. Let us support our esteemed President Muhammadu Buhari in his fight against corruption and bad governance. It is worrisome and unfortunate that while other countries have continued to enjoy monumental increase in their oil wealth, millions of Nigerians are wallowing in poverty, diseases and destitution because of absence of prudence, transparency and accountability in the manner government businesses are run by the nation’s politicians and technocrats. Let us know that all questionable and impure wealth earned by Muslims as politicians, businessmen, professionals and artisans would lead to perils in this world and the hereafter, because Allah is pure, He will accept nothing but what is pure. Let us imbibe the traits of contentment, discipline, faithfulness, hardwork, selflessness, integrity and patriotism bequeathed to us by the noble Prophet Muhammad.” The Companion Amir called on Nigerians who are yet to register to vote to take advantage of the extension of the voters registration exercise to register for their Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC). Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), he said, should also make the exercise a seamless process devoid of hardship for the citizens. Alhaji Sonaike said: “Disturbing cases of unclaimed PVC is also a source of concern. We call on INEC, political parties and other stake holders to collaborate and fashion out an acceptable device to encourage and make the collection of PVC hitch free. The process should be de-centralised as much as possible. No eligible voter should be disenfranchised on account of flawed process of PVC distribution and collection.” He called on the legislators to accelerate the process involved in passing the budget of INEC, saying “Everything lawful must be done to avoid throwing the country into an avoidable constitutional crisis and political lock-jam that may arise from the politicking currently going on in the national assembly on one hand and between the legislatures and the executives on the other hand on the quick passage of the INEC budget. We urge them not to treat the bill in the way the annual budget is treated. In the same vein, we call on the executive and the legislative arms of government not to abandon governance for politics and politicking because of the coming general elections. We hasten to remind our political leaders that they owe Nigeria an obligation to govern the country till the end of their tenure.   We expect for instance that the 2019 appropriation bill should be submitted to the national assembly before the end of September, 2018 and for the National Assembly to do the needful and conclude the legislative process before the of December 2018. Security of live and property should be paramount. Security agencies should be proactive and avoid actions that could endanger democracy.”