A youth group, Fresh & Young Brains Development Initiative (FBIN) has trained over 40 youths in modern farming practices, climate-resilient agriculture and agribusiness. The group, in partnership with the Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA) trained the beneficiaries during a boot camp in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja. According to the organisers, the capacity building was in line with the Youth Farm (YFarm) project mandate meant to integrate rural and vulnerable youths into sustainable agriculture. The boot camp held in two locations for four  days, two days in-house intensive training and two days practical sessions and farm demonstrations on organic waste to wealth. Speaking at the closing ceremony CEO/founder of Fresh & Young Brain Development Initiative (FIBN), Nkiruka Nnaemego, a lawyer, described the YFarm project as a brainchild and trademark of Fresh & Young Brains Development Initiative (FBIN) and Alexijan Consults. Nnaemego said YFarm adopts a comprehensive and integrated approach that directly engages youth and different stakeholders in Agriculture to promote multi-sectorial and inter-generational partnership. “Through the project’s ‘YFarm: My farm, My Swag Campaign’, Agriculture is being promoted as Fun Activity, Culture, Career and Business among rural and peri-urban youth across Africa”. In her words, ‘YFarm project has impacted many young lives and has given birth to various youth led small scales farms and agribusinesses including Alexijan Farms (Abuja and Imo) and NK Foods & Beverages- project pilot farm and agribusiness respectively’. The project which was centered to educate the participants in agribusiness and climate smart farm is to increase farmer’s income and contribute to community development. “The theme for the YFam project ‘Building a Climate Resilient Generation’ was carefully thought out to establish FYBDI and Alexijan Consults involvement in the realisation of the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs).” The YFam project, launched in April 2, 2014 as a National initiative received over 500 applications in Nigeria and other African countries but only 80 were selected, trained under YFarm: My farm, Swag campaign at Alexis Farm house in Abuja. In an interview with the Program Coordinator OSIWA, Joseph Amenaghawo said FIBN has the great role to play in youth devlopment. He also noted that OSIWA recognised that young people are becoming very interested in agric related work and also recognised the intersection between climate changes with the agriculture. “It was important to support YFarm project and most importantly to supports FIBN to continue it works in helping the youths to understanding the dynamics of farming and challenges of climate change,” Joseph said.