LAGOS State residents have been urged to know their Blood Pressure (Bp), urine analysis, weight, and sugar level to prevent diseases. Health Commissioner, Jide Idris  gave the advice during the Eko Health Mission held at Agbado Oke Odo, Lagos. The programme is mainly for  grassroots people to enjoy healthcare. Idris said: “The medical teams providing these services are proficient, professionals and are committed to ensuring that the mandates of the Lagos State government are fully realised. The health sectors are here to ensure that everyone, including the elderly, the young ones, pregnant women, people living with disabilities and other health conditions are going to be treated and attended to freely under this mission. ‘’The Lagos State Government under Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is working vigorously to ensure that all citizens have good healthcare services.’’ Idris also advised the people to support the health mission, urging them to be involved forthcoming health insurance scheme. “I will advise the public to cooperate with the government and subscribed to this scheme when the time comes and it’s going to be for the benefit of all,’’ he added. Agbado Oke-Odo Local Council Development Development Area (LCDA Chairman), Dr Augustine Adeoye Arogun, said the health of the people was paramount. “If we build road, school and all other things without taking care of the health of the people, it is like not doing anything. All treatment, drugs, eye glasses are given freely without collecting a dime. The free medical mission programme was designed not only to treat primary health conditions and screen for common diseases but also create a health consciousness and improve health promoting among the people.” He said: “We encourage everyone to take advantage of the different services that are being offered which include screening services for non-communicable diseases especially hypertension and diabetes, treatment of common ailments, family planning services, screening and treatment of common Eye diseases HIV counseling and testing as well as refractions and provision of glasses, dental care services and health education or health talks. “I appreciate the commissioner for Health Dr Jide Idris for bringing this mission to Agbado Oke-Odo. I also appreciate all the dignitaries, including the medical workers that are here to render health care for the people,” he stated. A beneficiary, Mrs Tella Omolabake, appreciated the government for the free  glasses she received. She said Ambode had done doing well, adding that he should not rest on his oars. Mrs Folake Adebesin said: “I was full of praises for the Lagos State Government; in fact, we hope this mission would continue for more days. I am just so elated for this programme.’’ A Director in the Health Ministry and Coordinator of Eko Health Mission Initiative Mrs Fashewe Dolapo said her team planned to reach all the local governments, adding so far more than 200,000 people have benefited from it. She however expressed worry that  hypertension and diabetes were on the increase. In the next few months, she added, the mission would cover  10 more LCDAs.