How can Nigeria be among leading comity of nations in surgery, especially cardiot-horacic? It is by streamlining the training programme for cardiothoracic surgery, West African College of Surgeons (WACS) President, Prof King-David Terna Yawe, has said. Yawe stated this at the inauguration of the N1.2billion secretariat of the college in Yaba, Lagos. Yawe said the establishment of two or three well-resourced standardised international centres for Nigeria, or other West African countries, would boost surgery training. He said that way, Nigeria would be a  boost to the West Africa sub-region, and WACS would be more than ready to offer technical advice, and support for its actualisation. He called on the Armed Forces to also set up a Post-Graduate Medical Programme. “In this regard, we commend the numerous strides of President Muhammadu Buhari in improving the health sector. We congratulate the government for signing into law the Residency training Programme Bill and the generous allocation made in the 2018 Appropriation Bill to address health needs of the country,” Yawe said. Yawe, who estimated the cost of building the secretariat at N1.2 billion, explained that it is a symbol of unity of West Africans, adding: “It is another example of Anglophone-Francophone integration, cooperation and the pride of West African Surgeons who levied members and raised N1.2 billion for the permanent secretariat without bank loans or support from the public sector.” Yawe recalled: “It was the dream and desire of the founding fathers and successive generations of college leadership to build a befitting office for our operations. In 2010, the first step was taken to raise funds for this project under the leadership of Emeritus Professor O. O. Mbonu. “In 2012, land was purchased during the tenure of Professor O. K.  Ogedengbe and foundation was laid in 2014 by Professor Herve Koffi Yangni-Angate Jnr. Yawe said when he assumed office last year, he chose middle and high-level surgical manpower development and extension of safe surgical services to the grassroots a priority. “In partnership with the Presidential Committee on the Northeast Initiative and Pro-Health International, we have been conducting outreaches in Yobe, Borno, Adamawa, Gombe and Bauchi States and in Kebbi State where tens of thousands were offered free surgical services. “We also carried out similar outreaches in Enugu and Abia states. Our Surgical Outreaches Committee has been performing credibly in many other nations and has been requested to assist Central African states in the same vein. “To ensure essential surgery is readily available, our Surgical, Anaesthesia and Obstetric Plan Committee is working to generate data and develop National Surgical plans for each nation in line with global trends as captured in World Health Assembly Agenda 68, SGDs and AU Agenda 2063. The college’s past president, Prof. Olajide Ajayi said: “It is another tutorial on unity in diversity, pragmatic decision-making processes, balanced judgments, strategic planning, personal sacrifices, courage and devotion to duty, institutional trusts and abiding faith in the divine guidance which permeated successive generations of our college leadership.” Dignitaries at the event include WACS Asstistant Secretary-General, Prof Philip Mshelbwala; Assistant Honorary Treasurer, Prof Grace Parkins; Honorary Treasurer, Prof Aderonke Baiyeroju; Vice-President, Prof Peter Donkor; President-elect, Prof Serigne Magueye Gueye; past president, Prof Olajide Ajayi; representative of Lagos State Governor, Dr Olufemi Onanuga; WACS president, Prof King David Terna Yawe; representative of President Muhammadu Buhari, Prof. Cecelia O. Daramola; WACS Chairman Board of Registered Trustees, Justice Olukayode Somolu, (rtd); WACS Secretary-General, Dr. J. Olutola Olatosi; WASC past president, Emeritus Prof Osato Giwa-Osagie; past president, Emeritus Prof. Mbonu; WACS past president, Prof Ogedengbe; past president, Prof Akinyinka Omigbodun and past President, Prof Herve Yangni-Angate. 