The Lagos State governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, has advised Nigerians to patronize goods made in the country to create more jobs and develop the economy. Speaking during the inauguration of the furniture factory, “The Home and You” built by Mrs. Feyisola Abiru, in Ikorodu, Ambode  said the factory would produce industrial made-in-Nigeria furniture that can compete globally for both corporate and home use within and outside the country.  He said it is only through this means that the local economy could be developed. Represented by Rotimi Ogunleye and Mrs. Olayinka Oladunayo, commissioners for Physical Planning and Commerce & Industry respectively, the governor commended Mrs Abiru for citing the factory at Ibeshe, a suburb of Ikorodu. “This is the first furniture company of its kind in the Ikorodu axis and a clear indication that the efforts of Lagos Sate government to provide security and infrastructure is beginning to yield positive fruits,” he said. Speaking at the event, Mrs. Abiru, identified, “passion and an undying crave for success had been the reason I was able to whether the storms in the early days of the 21 year old business.” She commended the Bank of Industry (BoI), in the realisation of the noble dream which today has become one of the major economic drivers in the state and Nigeria as a whole. “But for the support from BoI, we won’t be here today. They gave us the first facility in 2006 to get us running. We acquired world class machines from Italy, when we needed to improve on our quality and expand the capacity of the business, we approached them again for another facility which was granted in 2017,” she said. Also speaking,  the pioneer chairman of the company, Olusegun Osunkeye, described the ‘Home and You’ as a great edifice, noting that  the country would benefit from the establishment of the ultra-modern furniture factory as it would create employment and boost the local content policy of the government. “They will use local wood to produce first class furniture, so it will create employment and because it is profitable, government will get its taxes, and impact skills on the surrounding. So, it is a factory that will bring many benefits to its immediate surroundings, Lagos state and ultimately to the country at large,” he said. At the current rate of population growth, more than 500 million Africans are projected to live in cities by 2030. This growth as well as favourable government policies in some African countries is believed to  favour the furniture businessas this is anticipated to increase the demand for real estate; residential accommodation, office space, hotels and schools.