THE three tiers of government have been tasked to advocate on violence against children as well as promote the Child Rights Acts. These among others were the communiqué at the end of the 18th regular meeting of the National Council of Women Affairs and Social Development (NCWASD) presided over by the Minister for Women Affairs and Social Development, Senator Aisha Alhassan. The meeting ended last week in Lagos. According to Alhassan, all hands must be on deck to fight the menace because children deserve a life where they can thrive and reach their full potential. The Minister, who spoke on the theme “Peace, security, and social inclusion: Key building blocks for achieving economic growth and sustainable development”, pointed out it has obviously served as a torch light in the quest for creative ideas and strategic thinking to evolve a nation that we all can be proud of, from the perspectives of women and social development. The meeting, according to Lagos Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Dr. Lola Akande, is a work in progress since is a follow-up to the previous ones hosted by other states with remarkable outcomes. The results, she said, have helped in strengthening the institutional frameworks, administrative structures as well as political will at various levels of government towards better management of the affairs of women. The 5-day council meeting also advocated support for more women to participate in politics at all levels at the forth coming democratic electoral process; creation of gender desks in all MDAs at all levels and mainstream gender issues in budgeting. It also recommended establishment of National Counter Terrorism Strategy (NACTEST) Nodal Desk in the 36 States of the Federation and FCT, involvement of State Ministries of Women Affairs (SMWA) and State Ministries of Education (SMoE) as critical stakeholders in tracking the impact of the Home Grown School Feeding Programme in the promotion of the rights of the Child to Education, among others.