In 2009, the Federal Government (FG) and the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) signed an agreement aimed at revamping our universities after series of strikes. The agreement led to the setting up of the Prof. Mahmood Yakubu-led Committee on Needs Assessment of Nigerian Public Universities by the Federal Ministry of Education. The committee presented its report to the former Education Minister, Prof. Ruqayyatu Ahmed Rufa’i on November 1, 2012. As a result, the amount of N1.3 trillion was arrived at after identifying and quantifying the myriad of problems facing the university system in the country The crux of that agreement include the funding of the universities to provide infrastructure and facilitate teaching and learning, university autonomy and academic freedom, improved staff welfare and condition of service to attract the best hands and discourage brain-drain, and other matters.. The 2009 agreement and the N1.3tr arrived figure by the need assessment committee was meant to correct the unacceptable negative image of our public varsities. The environment was not conducive for research and learning, classrooms were overcrowded to an intolerable level. This is further compounded by dilapidated infrastructure, ill-motivated staff and students and, fundamentally, unqualified staff in an era where knowledge is one of the most sought after criteria for development globally. The needs report revealed back then that only about 43 per cent of Nigerian universities teaching staffs have doctorate degrees. A recent report says the figure now hovers between 30 and 35 per cent. Instead of 75 per cent of the academics being between senior lecturers and professors, only about 44 per cent are within the bracket. It was revealed that only seven universities have up to 60 per cent of their teaching staff with PhD qualification. While we shall deal with these issues in the weeks ahead, my intervention today is on carrying capacities of our varsities. In the last couple of years, there has been an explosion of candidates seeking admission into universities at home and abroad – especially public varsities. The reason for this is not farfetched as access to university education has become vital in Nigeria  as  a  result  of  an  increase  in  the  college-age population and an awareness of the role university education plays in the  development  of  the  individual  as  well  as  the nation. While this in itself should be a positive development, there is a snag. The physical infrastructure and the academic staff that would have made it possible to admit large numbers of students’ are in dire strait; in essence, most of our varsities lack carrying capacities. That, however, is one side of the story. On the flip side, private varsities have not been able to fill the quota allotted to them by the Joint Admissions and Matriculations Board (JAMB).  At a 2013 meeting with the Committee of Vice Chancellors (CVC) and Registrars of Private Universities, the former Registrar of JAMB, Prof. Dibu Ojerinde disclosed that the private universities admitted 19,254 candidates as against 67,009 allotted quota in 2013. According to him this does not speak well of this group of institutions in terms of ratio admissions to allocated quota. Reports from the National Universities Commission (NUC) revealed that only 400,000 out of the over 1.5 million that write the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) every year gain admission into Nigerian varsities. It does not take a prophet to discern why there is this lopsided development – public varsities stretched to their limits and private varsities unable to fill their quotas. It all boils down to resources. How many indigent parents have the resources to send their children to private varsities in Nigeria given the high fees charged? This is the singular reason there are enormous pressure on public varsities which tremendously affects their carrying capacities. Carrying capacity of institutions refers to the maximum number of students that an institution can sustain for quality education available based on human and material resources. However, over-enrollment is a common practice. Most institutions do not abide by their carrying capacity because of pressures for admission. This is often the reason why some students sit outside lecture halls and some on window sills in order to receive lectures. Without mincing words, our institutions are overcrowded, and this, no doubt seriously affects the type of education our undergraduates get. Let’s get down to some figures here. In the 2010/2011 academic session, cumulatively, we had 112 varsities and 1,493, 611 applicants. Out of this number, the carrying capacity was only 450,000 or 30.13 per cent of applicants. We should note the fact that most of the “rejected” applicants have the necessary entry qualifications to gain admission. For the 2011/12 session, we had a total of 117 varsities with 1, 503, 933 applicants. Carrying capacity rose marginally to 500, 000 translating to 33.25 per cent. For the 2012/13 session the figure stood at 128 varsities, 1, 735, 729 applicants with 520, 000 carrying capacity. While it is an established fact that most institutions exceed recommended quota; it is also evident that over 70% of candidates are denied admission yearly, even though as mentioned earlier, most are qualified. There is just not enough space to accommodate them. For this 2012/2013 academic session’s where 1.7million jostle for 520,000 admission spaces; over 1.2million were denied admission. In reality, this is discouraging to candidates and parents. While Governments (Federal and States) have made modest strides in creating more institutions, it is also very important to increase the capacity and equip already existing ones. The answer, to me, is not in so much as creating new institutions to score cheap political points, but having a clear cut road map on how to increase the capacities of existing institutions. While this is going on, we should never lose sight of the fact that infrastructure does not lecture students’; lecturers do. But in this area we are already facing enormous challenge as there is a dearth in qualified lecturers. As things stand today, most Nigerian undergraduates pass through the system without have the opportunity of being lectured by professors. Some don’t even have the opportunity even at masters’ level. My point is twofold: focusing on infrastructure should not take us from the bulls’ eye of setting and maintaining quality education since the world is now one ‘small’ village where there is a global standard. We either conform to this global standard or remain a mediocre nation. In one of its edition titled: “The world is going to university,” The Economist newspaper wrote: “In 2014, 19 of the 20 universities in the world that produced the most highly cited research papers were American.” This is where the world is going. Research has become an integral part of any serious university. This is why American varsities are riding the waves at the moment. But if we have to tell ourselves the hard truth, most of our varsities have lost touch with the real world. While we are exploring avenues at increasing carrying capacities of our varsities, we should never lose touch with the fact that it is quality that matters. The Economist pointed out that while America is making strides in the area of research and citations, on the educational side, the picture is less clear. “American graduates,” it wrote “score poorly in international numeracy and literacy rankings, and are slipping. In a recent study of academic achievement, 45% of American students made no gains in their first two years of university. Meanwhile, tuition fees have nearly doubled, in real terms, in 20 years.” The American lesson here is clear. But how do we go about increasing the carrying capacity of our varsities? We will need to pressurise the government to do more by being strategic and focused. The 2012 Needs assessment report is  a good place to start.. Most of our public varsities are still utilising the same classroom structures built years ago. For example, a classroom built in 1980 for 40 students now accommodates over 200! The same is also true of hostel accommodations’. Some varsities have tried to be creative by bringing in private developers but the dearth of spaces still persists. We can only get it right if we understand the importance of education in solving societal problems. With a paltry 7% allocation to education in the 2018 budget, I don’t believe the government does.