•Five held A mob yesterday attacked a police patrol team on College Road, Ifako Ijaiye, Ogba, Lagos, killing a Sergeant, Esiabor Collins. The mob was said to be irked by the death of a youth earlier in the day. The youth was allegedly assaulted by some policemen two weeks ago. He died in hospital yesterday. The mob pounced on the patrol team after protesting at the Area ‘G’ Command, Ogba. Collins with service number 260326 died in the ensuing melee. Police spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP), said five persons had been arrested over the incident. The suspects, he said, had been transferred to the Homicide section at the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Yaba, Lagos Mainland.  They may be charged with murder. According to him, preliminary investigation revealed that the mob, mainly youths had earlier in the morning  gone to Area ‘G’ Command, Ogba with the intention to overrun the police formation and commit arson but found it impregnable. Oti said: “However, the Area Commander in-charge, spoke to them, promising to cause an investigation into their grievances which bordered on the death of a youth who allegedly died today (yesterday) two weeks after an alleged encounter with some policemen. “At this juncture, it must be clearly stated that the police authorities in the state are unaware of any encounter with the deceased as no formal complaint was received to that effect. “The Commissioner of Police (CP) Imohimi Edgal notes that the penchant to take laws into own hands by some people who easily constitute themselves into a mob is becoming worrisome to say the least. “The Command wishes to state that the deceased officer and indeed the entire patrol team had the option of defending themselves with their firearms against the mob but chose to show restraint in face of provocation but unfortunately the rampaging mob never allowed them that option hence Sergeant Collins paid the supreme price. “CP Edgal notes that policemen in the state had on several occasions shown restraint in the face of provocative actions. He therefore warns that policemen may be forced to use their firearms to defend themselves, other people about being killed by a mob and in the protection of government assets. He urged parents to warn their children to refrain from such acts which according to him may lead to a breach of the peace and unnecessary bloodletting.”