The Ag. President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo will officially launch Smart Classrooms and Digital Education Initiative in Abuja on Tuesday The launch is geared towards the implementation of strategy that will help establish digital education institute and provision of smart learning classrooms across the country, The initiative according to the Federal Government will also serve as a model technology-based classroom. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Princess Adejoke Orelope-Adefulire, disclosed this on Monday in a statement by her media assistant, Desmond Utomwen. According to the Presidential Aide, the Smart Classrooms and Digital Education initiative, which will be implemented in partnership with a Chinese Digital Technology giant, NetDragon Websoft Holdings Limited is in line with the commitment of the government to continue to provide quality education to Nigerian children as stipulated in Goal 4 SDGs. She said the initiative is also designed to facilitate investment in the ICT industry by building IT incubators, digital studios and software outsourcing and taining hubs, towards the creation of new jobs in the area of technology and innovation. Orelope-Adefulire noted that in the pilot phase of the project, her office would collaborate with NetDragon to provide a smart classroom to Pilot Science Nursery/Primary School in the Federal Capital Territory. “The Initiative of Digital Education in Africa (IDEA) was initiated by the Nigerian government and NetDragon through the Public Private Partnership and direct Foreign Investment that will facilitate the setting up the National Education Resource Public Service Platform, National Education Community Network Platform, National Digital Talent Training Platform, and National Future Education Experience Centre.” Orelepe-Adefulire stated. The SSAP-SDGs added that with the initiative, the government aims to provide high-quality digital education resources and a new teaching and collaboration model for basic education in Nigeria, thereby promoting education equity and improving teaching quality. In terms of lifelong education, she said the Talent Training Platform will carry out lifelong skills training and intelligent management of talents in Nigeria to help Nigeria achieve talent upgrading and optimal allocation of social resources. “With the initiative, our aim is to use technology to drive the realisation of the SDGs 4, 8 and 9 regarding quality education, economic growth as well as industry & innovation, thereby creating jobs through the e-learning platforms, educational software and Apps as well as other innovations. “By 2030, we want to ensure all learners acquire knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development.” Orelope-Adefulire stated. It is also expected that as part of the former launch, an Agreement of Cooperation (AoC) will be signed between the Federal Government and NetDragon.