A non-governmental organisation (NGO), Children Palm City Foundation Inc., has launched a project, titled: “The Eradication of the street child and the influx,” to get children off the street and build a secured future for them. At the launch/inauguration of its board meeting yesterday in Ikeja, the Lagos State capital, the foundation’s Chairman Dr Adefunke Wellington said the project, which is backed by the United Nations (UN), seeks to remove every child from the street in Nigeria, build a city to educate, accommodate, employ and feed the children. She said: “The menaces caused by street children cannot be overemphasised, and the neglect on them poses a threat to the society. They end up getting involved in criminal activities, like war-mongering, sex trade, child slavery, terrorism and robbery. “Children are the future of every country; we must show them love and they will become better persons in the society tomorrow.” Dr Wellington added: “With this project, we will educate children from crèche to the university level. As they graduate, jobs will be waiting for them. We will also feed them. We will build a university, build factories to engage the street children. We will build this city across states in the country and an NGO that will probably only cater for children till secondary level can bring them to us for further education, instead of putting them back on the streets.” The foundation chief stressed that Nigeria is the pilot scheme for the project, adding that it will spread across Africa. She said: “The project is to help those children on the street, either as a result of war-ravaged countries, death of parents, epidemics, natural disasters, overpopulation or poverty. “There are NGOs everywhere, but what makes our own unique is that we are also centred on those children who will be the next to go to the street. These are the children who are in orphanage or in homes living with poor parents who are unable to give them befitting education or can no longer be controlled by their parents and already want to hit the street. “Most NGOs are focusing on the children that are already on the street and have trained some to be good leaders. But our focus is to prevent the next set of children who are ready to be on the street from going there. We will bring them into the city to train them to have a good future and to live in the way of God. “Our problem in the world and not only in Nigeria is that we do not train our children in the way of God. That is why they are on the street. When children are trained in the way of God, there will be peace in the land.”              