Life no easy,” average people will say, especially when they are affected by things happening around them. Analysing the economic situations of the country baffles someone like me to see people struggling to eke out living. Some are unable to struggle because of the reality of being physically challenged and can only manage with little effort. Every day, we see homeless children searching for sanctuary in the midst of nothing. Some are unable to feed for lack of food. It is an eyesore seeing women labouring hard without men to care for their wards. Although women should not be totally dependent on men. In Northern part of the country, for instance, women and children are found searching for work to do in order to get paid for masu aiki which is known as wanke-wanke in local parlance. People go to tertiary institutions as a result of limited resources available to them. Some having the mindset of “at least I am in school”; some ladies no longer do petty jobs to support themselves through school. Rather, they take to prostitution, which often distracts them from their academic pursuits. As time goes on, they become mature in the trade and their education becomes irrelevant or a burden; they struggle to compete for material things to meet up to the standard of slay queens. Boys are not left out. A number of them are involved in despicable crimes. In fact, the new trend in town is Yahoo Yahoo, a euphemism for Internet fraud. Some boys are used as thugs by politicians during elections or for selfish gains. Kidnapping and ritual for money have become another profession jobless youths embrace. We read about people killing their loved ones and innocent people for money rituals, forgetting that every man was brought out from dust and we all must face death someday. This is the message of Genesis 3:19 in the Holy Bible. At dawn, you arise to the songs and air of poverty and struggle; survival becomes the theme, while we have socialist around using resources they were blessed with for irrelevant causes, such as lavish party, buying latest cars for show-off and purchase things of worthless importance while their fellow patriots are on the street looking for food. It is quite clear that we cannot improve our economy when self-acclaimed visionary leaders go for mundane beauty. People should wake up from slumber and uphold humanitarian cause; if we all seat and wait, nothing will be achieved. Our number-one goal in life is not to acquire wealth. It is true that not everyone will be rich in this world we are in, but it is also true that a man’s greatest achievement in life is the ability to touch and impact lives by putting smiles on faces of people in need. Show them love and care. No human is too young to have effect on humanity; it all depends on what we believe. It begins in our neighbourhood and can be done by giving out food, money, clothes no matter the quantity. This can go a long way in the lives of people who are in desperate need to break free from the situation they find themselves. Children can share their toys, students giving out to other students, bosses getting involved in charity work, socialists empowering people through skills and building homes for homeless children. It is a gradual process. When these values are upheld, we can have great result. How we live is in our hands not our leaders; a better future for tomorrow is a task that must be embarked upon by everyone. Let us work for humanity.  