•Governor: he has made Borno proud •Israel made nine distinctions in SSCE Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima has given a N5 million university scholarship to Israel Galadima Zakari. Israel, who hails from Borno State, made the best result of 364 in the last Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) and nine distictions in his Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE). He finished from Faith Academy, Ota, Ogun State, and has been offered admission at Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State, to study Electronics Engineering. Israel was accompanied to the Government House in Maiduguri by his mother, Jummai. Shettima presented the scholarship letter to him and ordered the Commissioner for Higher Education, Usman Jaha, to raise a N5 million cheque as upfront payment for tuition, accommodation, books and maintenance. The governor said he approved the upfront payment to ensure Israel was not bothered with follow-up tuition at the State Scholarship Board since his tenure ends in 2019. He said: “Israel, as his mother said, was raised as an orphan. Her husband, a Major, died about 14 years ago, and she singlehandedly raised three children. Israel is the second of her children. “She works in Lagos as a banker; she has done her part by raising a child with excellence and that child has made Borno State very proud and it’s our turn to support him.” Jummai, who couldn’t hold her tears, said she attended University of Maiduguri. She said: “Your Excellency, I have been caring for three children since I lost my husband. I work in a bank in Lagos. Israel has a sister in the university. “With your kindness that is beyond our expectation, you have lifted a big burden off me. I didn’t expect something as huge as this and may God bless you. I pray that others will surpass what Israel has achieved. “Your Excellency, we all know what you are doing in Borno. The changes you are making are visible. I am sure that with what you are doing, the sky will be the limit of Borno children. God will forever bless you, sir.” 