Five politicians are in the House of Representatives race in Akoko-Edo Constituency, Edo State. Correspondent OSAGIE OTABOR writes on the struggle for the ticket in the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the strengths and weaknesses of contenders and other issues that will shape the contest. House of Representatives member Peter Akpatason has unfolded his re-election bid in Akoko-Edo Constituency. He is a two-term lawmaker. The dreams of Akpatason’s dream is, however, threatened by some powerful politicians who are also eyeing. Those interested in the seat are Speaker of the Edo State House of Assembly, Kabiru Adjoto, Mr. Johnson Afeghason, Chief Oladele Bankole-Balogun and Mr. Bayo Nicholas Ogedengbe. Chief Bankole-Balogun and Mr. Ogedengbe are members of of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) while Adjoto and Afeghason are of the APC. Akpatason, a former former National President of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), won election to the House of Representatives in 2011 when he defeated Col. Tunde Akogun (retd.)of the PDP. In  2015, he defeated Anselm Agbabi to secure the party’s ticket and managed to win at the general elections. His opponent at the poll was Chief Bankole-Balogun. The APC zoning arrangement in Akoko-Edo may affect his chances of winning at the party primary. The arrangement is that if the council chairman is from Akoko-Edo North, the House of Representatives slot should go to Akoko-Edo South. Before the last local government election, Akpatason was said to have stormed out of a meeting where zoning was discussed to pick the chairmanship candidate of the party. He reportedly told his supporters that he would not allow zoning to stop him from contesting at the polls. In a chat with our reporter, Akpatason said nobody can stop him from winning the primaries. He said: “Nobody can stop me. I have done very well. I have actually exceeded expectation in so many areas. For anybody to beat a candidate, you have to have a better record than that candidate. I don’t see anybody who has a better record whether in terms of community service or pedigree. This is not the time to talk about Akoko-Edo House of Rep seat now. It s too early and anybody that want to use press to do whatever propaganda might be getting it very wrong because the people in Akoko-Edo know who is working and who is not. It is the electorate that will decide who gets the ticket. “The people in Akoko-Edo will determines who get what. Those people who are talking about zoning are sending the wrong message. The only position zoned is the President and National Chairman of the Party. You cannot zone legislative position. Edo Deputy Governor is from Edo North and the Speaker is also from Edo North. Is that zoning? Why do they want to zone Akoko-Edo House of Representative seat on the pages of newspaper. In 2015 when I was campaigning for my second term election, candidates from both North and South contested against me. Legislation is like wine. The older the better. Does a constituency want a person that can attract quality project or just want to keep changing people for the sake of changing. He added: “My opponents should stop misinforming the public. The current Speaker is a third time lawmaker. He is a Speaker because he is a third timer. Now that he is Speaker, he has been able to attract a lot of project for his people. If it is the issue of zoning, he would not have been Speaker today. A constituency cannot get good things if it continue to change people based on unconstitutional arrangement.”  Kabiru Adjoto The major threat to Akpatason’s return to the House of Representatives is Speaker Adjoto. He is a third-time lawmaker in the House of Assembly. Adjoto won election to the Assembly in 2009 during a re-run election against incumbent Anselm Agbabi. In 2011, Adjoto had a running battle with the leadership of the party, but managed to secure the ticket through a judicial pronouncement. Since he was elected to the House, Adjoto has participated in the sacking of some Speakers. His third term ticket was a smooth one because he was one of the lawmakers that resisted attempts by the PDP to forcefully take over the leadership of the House. Had the PDP succeeded, former Governor Adams Oshiomhole would have been impeached. How he hope to defeat Akpatason at the primary is yet to be understood.  Bankole-Balogun He is a major financier of the PDP in Akoko-Edo. His attempts at the House of Representatives in 2015 when the PDP held sway was thwarted by the number of votes Speaker Adjoto secured from his Ikakumo Ward. Bankole-Balogun is not relenting. He has vowed to secure the ticket for next year’s general election. Speaking to our reporter, he said the people would look at his pedigree and qualifications to vote for him. Bankole-Balogun added: “I proved myself during the elections. I actually won the election but was manipulated out by mere 2000 votes. I have been a factor in the PDP and played my role in the community. I stand a great chance to win the PDP ticket. On zoning, he said, “We should begin to look at meritocracy rather than mediocracy. This zoning arrangement is not progressive. In the PDP, we don’t do zoning. We are looking at the person who has the tenacity to attract development. It does not matter where you come from. “In every election, you find out that the people learn more about politics. People will look as part of their own political development whether you are talking of infrastructure, people will look at pedigree, education and has a general outlook beyond their immediate environment in Akoko-Edo. that can bring development and change. They will look at individuals rather than political parties. They will vote for who can do the job.”