The Strategic Contacts, Ethics and Publications (STRACEP) unit of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN) has emphasised the need to restore morality in the country at the maiden Ethical Leadership and Entrepreneurship Lecture it held last Wednesday, with the theme: From soiled hand to oiled mouth. Sir Chikwe Udensi, a fellow Ethical Leadership, said there was need for tertiary institutions to show commitment to ethical leadership by integrating values and integrity as the framework and content of leadership and management matrix. He suggested that governments at all levels needed to partner universities in building a moral society that will promote unity and peace. In his keynote address, Prof Damian Opata, raised concern on what he called organic division among ethnic nationalities in the country, linking the problem to desperation of politicians, who, he said, set people against one another for political gain. He condemned the mentality of “getting rich at all cost”, saying such was not part of traditional values of African societies. He urged participants to emulate the values espoused by the nation’s founding fathers in order to correct problems plaguing the country. In his speech, Director of STRACEP, Dr Camsir Ani, paraphrased an expression credited to the late Prof Chinua Achebe, saying the major problem facing the country remained tribalism, religious division and nepotism, calling for true leadership. “There is ample of reasons to unite and agree on issue of good character and integrity,” he said, observing that no meaningful progress would be achieved in a nation built on corruption, injustice and nepotism. The Anamba State Governor, Chief Willy Obiano, was represented at the event. During an interactive session, students responded to speeches delivered at the event. One of them, English and Literary Studies student, Ogbu Obinana, called for paradigm shift in the leadership of the country, saying: “Our leaders go to religious centres to campaign when they run for public offices only to swear an oath of allegiance to idols worshippers when they get there. The reason for running for public offices should be centred on the wellbeing of the people and the society. We must restore the values of governance and stop the obnoxious practice of material acquisition.” 