An unusual security blanket was thrown around the National Assembly Complex in Abuja on Tuesday by men of the Department of State Security (DSS). The National Assembly staff, legislative aides and journalists who arrived the complex before 7:00 a.m. met stern-faced operatives of the DSS who disallowed entry into the premises. Shortly before 8:00 a.m. when The Nation visited the National Assembly Complex, about 20 policemen were at the outer gate, with only very few bearing their usual AK-47 rifles. However, at the second gate, the situation was entirely different as nine masked and gun-wielding DSS operatives dressed in black fatigues along with several other unarmed DSS personnel in suits and regular clothing firmly stopped people from going to the complex. The armed men who also had black face masks and hand gloves carried the standard IMI Tavor Tar-21 assault rifle produced by Israeli military industries. Three Ford Ranger SUVs without number plates were also packed in front of the gate ostensibly to disallow anyone from driving in. A young man who was making a video recording with his mobile phone stopped immediately he was threatened by one of the masked DSS personnel who pointed and warned: “If I catch that your phone now, I go march am.” Initially, everyone, including senators and members of the House of Representatives were barred from entering the complex but at about 8:00 a.m., 47-year old Hon. Boma Goodhead who is a sister to militant leader, Asari Dokubo defied the gun-toting security operatives and became the first lawmaker to enter the complex. After the entry of Goodhead, a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) member representing the Asalga/Akulga Federal Constituency in Rivers state, several senators and House of Representatives members such as Teejay Yusuf from Kogi State, Kingsley Chinda from Rivers State, Agbedi Frederick from Bayelsa State, Razaq Atunwa from Kwara State and Joseph Akinlaja from Ondo State came in. Senators who gained entry at 8:15 a.m. included Senators Ben Murray Bruce, Ubale Shittu, Isa Hamma Misau , Biodun Olujimi and Rafiu Ibtrahm . All of them walked in through the second gate with their Identification Cards (IDs) on their chests while their SUVs and other exotic cars were parked outside the gate unlike the usual practice where they drive straight to their respective chambers.       