Amid a cloudy sky above and a wave of excitements on ground,  Ijebu – Ode, the Ogun State royal town of the Awujale of Ijebuland, Oba Sikiru Adetona, turned aglow with celebrations for the better part of Thursday as the Ijebu sons and daughters celebrated their Ojude Oba annual cultural carnival in glamour and splendour. Over 35 age grades – Regberegbes – all dressed in colourful and distinguishing attires to showcase their rich cultural heritage, took turn to pay homage to Oba Adetona after series of rhythmic dance steps round the oval shaped arena of the festival arcade. The regberegbes were closely followed in this rite by the dozens of horse riders (Eleshins) and descendants of the town’s baloguns (Ijebu warlords) by noon during which the carnival peaked with an estimated15, 000 people participating even as Dane guns boomed intermittently. The Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, who was the Special guest of honour for this year Ojude Oba and whose arrival was greeted with applause, hailed Ojude Oba as a cultural festival that “fosters unity” among the Ijebus. Saraki, whose  entourage include Senators – Dino Melaye (Kogi State), Ben Bruce (Bayelsa State), Abiodun Olujimi (Ekiti State), Duro Faseyi (Ekiti State), Buruji Kashamu(Ogun State), Shaba Lafiaji(Kwara State), Sam Anyanwu(Imo State), Saraki’s  media aide, Alh. Olaniyonu Yusuph and more, urged  Nigerians to emulate the Ijebu people, who despite their diversity of faiths,  live and interact harmoniously with one another. The Senate president described the over 100 years old festival as a “noble culture” that has continued to serve as a veritable rallying point for all sons and daughters of Ijebu nation. He said whenever the issue of “resilience and dynamism of culture” is being discussed, Ojude – Oba readily comes to mind, adding that the festival has continued to grow from strength to strength because of the leadership quality of the Awujale of Ijebu land, Oba Adetona. He noted that it has also become obvious that only quality leadership could engender progress and development such as the type witnessed in Ijebuland. He lauded the Awujale whose unifying force, he said, is an  attestation to his good leadership, not only in Ijebu and Ogun state but also in the entire country. He described the equestrian touch of the horse riding by the family of horse riders and descendants of the baloguns which was a noticeable feature of the  Ojude Oba carnival as one that depicts the festival’s nobleness. According to him, Nigeria should draw strength from her diversity like the Ijebu people and not use her  diversity to create barrier or wedge to national unity and progress. He urged Nigerians, particularly leaders, to create programmes that would engenders unity and peaceful co – existence of people. “Ojude Oba fosters unity among all Ijebu people, and this is another way in which we as a nation could take a leaf from this festival. Unity is paramount; unity is key. When we are united, we achieve more. When we are united, we record monumental progress. “I urge us all, therefore, to pursue more activities that will unite our various peoples. Our diversity is our strength. We must, therefore, continue to initiate programmes that will bring us together and further highlight the fact that we are one and the same. “In over a century of Ojude Oba, Ijebu citizens have shown us that unity will always lead to progress, and that there is strength in unity. This is a shining example for us all. “When we talk about the resilience and dynamism of culture, Ojude Oba is a case in point. It is always wonderful to see this proud display of culture that you have consistently showcased for over a hundred years. I expect that memories of today will linger on in the minds of all who are here, or see the images. The visual feast of the Regberegbes (Age Grades) is already well known and iconic, as they present themselves before Kabiyesi in colourful uniform attires made with creativity and flair, and pray for his continued health and long life. Also famous is the equestrian parade by the Baloguns of the Ruling Houses, memorable for its display of a noble tradition. I must admit that this part of the festival holds a special appeal for me, due to its similarity to the Durbar in my part of the country, the latest of which we held in Ilorin just on Thursday. In the array of sartorial tradition of this festival, as evident in the impressive attires worn by the various groups, Ojude Oba promotes and reinforces the culture of the people. “Indeed, there is much assurance in the knowledge that these activities are in a continuum with the past; they show that we can always draw the best from that glorious past to shore us up for the challenges “While Ojude Oba provides a platform for the Ijebus to meet, interact and showcase their cultural heritage, we also know that the significance of the festival goes much deeper. Typically held on the third day after Eid el Kabir, this is a festival that unites the faiths. “Despite its origins in Islam, the festival does not exclude any religious groups. I would like to say, with some emphasis, that our dear country, Nigeria, would do well to draw important lessons from an event such as this. “We are one. Religion should not constitute a wedge or barrier between us. This is what illustrious Ijebu people demonstrate to us yearly with this festival. Muslims, Christians and others can be found among us here today, and I understand that this is how it has been since the very beginning. “This is salutary, and worthy of commendation to Nigeria and the world.  In addition, Ojude Oba affirms that Nigeria’s cultures are veritable sources of revenue, if well packaged. With the return of thousandsof people to their ancestral homes for this festival, and thousands more attending as visitors, the local economy will, without a doubt, get a boost. “This is tourism in action. Essentially, domestic tourism is being promoted here, and this is how it should be all over the country. It is therefore necessary for more parts of Nigeria to follow this worthy example, in order to showcase the beauty of our culture to the larger world,” Saraki said. In attendance at this year Ojude Oba include the Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Yetunde Onanuga, former governor Gbenga Daniel, Senator Gbenga Kaka, Oloori Omooba Subomi Balogun, Hon. Ladi Adebutu, Dr. Doyin Okupe, Speaker Suraju Adekunbi among others.