Former Clerk of the Lagos State House of Assembly Olusegun Abiru is a senatorial aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Lagos East District. He spoke with Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU on his ambition, his plans for the zone and other partisan issues. What is your perception of the Senate, which you are aspiring to in 2019? The Senate is very critical in our democratic dispensation. One cannot say that it is superior to the House of Representatives. But, in terms of responsibilities, the Senate plays very important roles. The functions of the President of Senate shows how important the Senate is. When we are talking about the development of democracy, law making is important. There are some things the Senate can do that the House of Representatives is not empowered to do. The Senate stands out in terms of its responsibilities. In the furtherance of democracy in Nigeria, the Senate has a lot of work to do. But, the Senate has been misconstrued by people who make disparaging comments about the Senate, in terms of service delivery. This is borne out of ignorance about the responsibilities of the legislature. The Senate is doing its utmost in ensuring that things are done properly; ensuring that the dividends of democracy get to the grassroots. But, because Nigerians are so much in a hurry, Nigerians are confusing the functions of the Senate to those of the executive. There is a stage of development and as time goes by, the people will have a correct perception about the functions of the parliament. During the military interregnum, the only arm of government that was affected was the parliament while other arms of government continued to mature and grow. So, it will take people some time to appreciate the essence of the legislature. The House of Representatives and the Senate must work together to ensure that our democracy thrives. I believe our democracy is growing. I appeal to Nigerians to exercise patience. I also think that the parliament itself is not doing enough in terms of enlightenment programmes so that people can decipher the functions of the Senate and those of the House of Representatives. People still have the misconceived notion that parliamentarians should be constructing roads. Our institutions are very important. Obama observed that Nigeria was building its democracy around people instead of around institutions. Our institutions-the police, our security agencies-must be respected and strengthened and they must perform their responsibilities as expected of them as stated in our constitution. Why do you want to go to the Senate? I have the competence, the pedigree and the requirements. I have served as the Clerk of the most dynamic House of Assembly, not only in Nigeria, but in Africa. The nitty gritty of the law making is not new to me. I was in charge of 40 members. During my tenure, there was no plot for the remova;l of speaker or any serious struggle. During my tenure, Lagos State House of Assembly won a lot of laurels, not only locally, but internationally. I believe with my experience, I can add value to the Senate and politics of Lagos East, the state and Nigeria. In terms of education, experience and exposure, I think I am most qualified to run for the Senate in Lagos East. What are the problems of your district, which you hope to articulate on the floor, if elected as a senator? Basically, when you look at the Lagos East District, you know that our preoccupation is agriculture. Unfortunately, agriculture has not been well tapped. This is an area that we should focus on. In my manifestos, I have lined up series of programmes to help the farmers to improve their economy. We have farmers that are committed. But, the returns on investment are not commensurate. We are going to look at the various options to help these farmers. We have to focus on youth development. These youths should be properly guided. They are the leaders of tomorrow. If they are not guided, then, the future is bleak. When you have a population that is over 60 per cent, you can’t joke with that segment of the population. Their major problem is unemployment. Nine of every 10 youths are unemployed. We are going to encourage them through skill acquisition programmes. We will want them to engage in ICT. ICT is the main thing now. It can fetch them money. Also, I am interested in the welfare of the politicians themselves. If you look at the ward members, some of them don’t have anything to show for their participation. It is sad when you see them asking for peanuts. I want to look at what I can do to assist them. I will collaborate with other representatives from the division on how we can improve their lot economically, socially and psychologically. They are closer to the grassroots. We must take care of their welfare. I have observed, with regret, that we have not consciously attended to the welfare of the members of the party, who are the lowest of the ladder. Security is very key. We are going to ensure that the baales have specific responsibilities in their domains. Some baales don’t have specific functions. We must let them know that the security of their domains is very key. Sanctions must be imposed on any baale who fails to discharge his responsibility. The obas, naturally, are the fathers of all. We want to look at the welfare of obas. They are closer to the grassroots. We must give them a sense of belonging as stakeholders. That is how the dividends of democracy can permeate down to the lowest ladder of the society. What have you done for your community and district, which makes you think that they will vote for you, if you emerge as the candidate? I am lucky. When I was in the service, there was never a place I worked without leaving a worthy legacy. In Ikorodu, in my community where I live, I have done for much. In terms of giving scholarship, if people do not commend me, I will commend myself. I have a foundation that has been on for seven years. In our own little way, we have been giving scholarship to indigent students. Apart from that, when I was the Executive Secretary of Ikorodu Local Government in 1988, my achievements while in office are still there; yet to be beaten up till today. Ikorodu people want me. That is why the traditional rulers are endorsing me for the Senate. By God’s grace, I will be the senator representing Lagos East District in the Senate in 2019. What is the assurance that you will be able to beat other aspirants at the primary? It is like a football game. I am there to win. I have the competence. I have the popularity. I am aware of the support I have in my base here. I have the confidence that I will win. Have you consulted the National Leader on your ambition? Yes, the Jagaban has a role to play. We are communicating with our revered national leader. I believe that, at the end of the day, whosoever wins the primary, all of us who would have contested for the post will support the person. It can be me. It can be any other person. I am a party man. I believe in the supremacy of the party. The choice of the party will be my choice. Like any human being, I will want to be elected; I will want to be chosen to represent Lagos East Senatorial District.