Over six hundred and fifty people have benefitted from the just concluded Skill Acquisition programme of The Redeemed Evangelical Mission, TREM (Vision House, Abuja). They learnt to make shoes, bags, hats, soap, cream, dresses. and were trained in various aspects of catering. The programme was part of the 6th edition of the annual Leading Edge Conference and participants were able to learn various skills to fortify them against the current economic situation in the country. The programme was not restricted to Christians only but was thrown open to adherents of all faith. The 2018 edition titled: “Fear not little flock” gave participants opportunity to benefit from different skills. The coordinator of the Leading Edge programme, Dr. Omare Bissong said the decision of the church to veer into skills acquisition this year stemmed from the new focus and philosophy of the Church to “teach people to catch fish rather than giving them fish.” According to her, the church needed to have a paradigm shift from temporary financial empowerment to a long lasting creative intervention. “What I know is that where the word of God is preached, lives are turned around. There is great news, blessings and miracles you can’t even quantify and spiritually they’re lifted up. “During the programme every year, we always had the business summit because of the terrain of Nigeria as of now and of the passion of our father, the Presiding Bishop and the Senior Pastor to empower people. “Because of people coming to ask for rent and all that, instead of giving them fish all the time, we teach them to fish. So, we’re trying to make people entrepreneurs and build up small scale businesses. God willing, the business will expand, but let them start from where they are. “That is why this year, we went into skill acquisition. Over the years, we’ve just been teaching reforms. But now, at least, in their communities, they can make a difference and put food on the table. And when they move up, they can train their children.” Speaking at the event, Cosmas Maduka, Chairman Coscharis who enumerated the essential ingredients for business success, spoke about his background and challenges he through early in life. According to him, he lost his father at an early age and started business with little capital and education. Ingredients needed to succeed in business, he said, are character, integrity and the consciousness to build a good reputation. “You don’t build reputation with what you’re going to do, but with what you have already done. Challenges should drive, not discourage us. Failure is to fall and refuse to get up.” He further stated that there is need for direction and dependence on the God factor and readiness to confront the mind battle for success in life. “Cultivating a healthy relationship with the financial institutions, good record keeping, team work. Confidence and self-worth and dependence on the Holy Spirit always are important for success in life and business,” Maduka said. The senior pastor, Rev. Max Gbinijie noted that the country is experiencing trying times with uncertainty being the order of the day. “The comfort of predictability has been overthrown with the suddenness of uncertainty and people found themselves thrust into perilous times. “To be seated means to be at rest, knowing fully well that God has finished the work through Jesus Christ, and has given us dominion mandate to soar above the vicissitudes of life.” Also, Bishop Ransome Bello, Presiding Bishop of Calvary Life Assembly, Kano, and Chairman of the Kano State Chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria, CAN noted that there would be “revelations, understanding and wisdom. This conference will give birth to many things.” He added that he sees many people with new crowns and numerous promotions. Another Speaker, Apostle Victor James, Author of the books “Jesus the game changer,” and “ The truth in the face of Jesus,” opined that Chrostianity in the absence of Jesus consciousness translates to frustration. ‘The resurrection of Jesus is God’s justification. He raised Jesus from the dead to guarantee that whatever we will be, will be.” The Presiding Bishop of TREM, Dr. Mike Okonkwo, noted that the activity of the devil is on the increase and it is only through knowledge that the church shall be delivered. “Indeed, the old way cannot suffice for this generation. There is always a ground rule for every dispensation. Grace is higher than law,” he said.