The Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi (FUAM) in Benue State has been shut indefinitely following a students’ protest. The protest was sparked by the death of a student in a road crash. AKPEM NGUTOR reports. THE Federal University of Agriculture, Makurdi (FUAM) in Benue State has been shut indefinitely following students’ demonstration. The protest followed the death of a student, Joseph Odeh, in a crash on the road leading to the school. Six other students were critically injured. The accident occurred on Wednesday, when one of the front tyres of a commercial bus conveying students to the school burst while on speed. The driver, CAMPUSLIFE gathered, lost control of the vehicle which somersaulted many times. The tumbling bus knocked off an oncoming motorcycle. The late Joseph and the six others, it was gathered, were rushed to the school clinic but the staff members allegedly demanded for their cards as a condition for their admission. It was gathered that those who rushed  them to the clinic pleaded for their treatment to no avail.  In the ensuing argument, Joseph allegedly died. The others, who were writhing in pain, were rushed to the Federal Medical Centre in Makurdi where they are still on admission. Angered by the circumstance of Joseph’s death, his colleagues went wild vandalising parked vehicles and other facilities at sight. The protesters vandalised the clinic whose their staff accuses of causing Joseph’s death. The bus that caused the accident was burnt. To forestall further violence, the  authorities  ordered an “indefinite mid-semester break” with immediate effect. On thursday the senate held an emergency meeting to review the crisis. The Senate sympathised with the family of the deceased and condemned the violence. The Senate set up a panel to investigate the students’allegation against the clinic staff and the circumstances that led to the protest. The panel is to evaluate the extent of the destruction. It is expected to submit an interim report to the Senate in two weeks and a final report within a month. The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) leadership commiserated with the students on Joseph’s death and condemned the violence that followed the accident. The NANS leadership was on the campus to assess the destruction. It met with the authorities on how to prevent future occurrence. The NANS leaders visited the injured at the Federal Medical Centre. They urged the students to keep the peace and pleaded with the school to address the transport challenge on campus. NANS demanded an improvement in health services provided by the school. The Students’ Union Government (SUG) leaders also visited the hospital. Its President, David Pine, and Speaker of the Students’ Supreme Council (SSC), Jerome Ikyon, led officials to the hospital. Also, the editorial crew of Campus Gist – a student newspaper – visited the victims. Students took to social media platforms to air their views on the violence. They condemned the medical services at the  clinic. They demanded for clinic’s reorganisation. They urged the Federal Government and the varsity to initiate a scheme to address their transportation challenges.The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof A.R. Kimbir, told the injured at the medical centre that the school would foot their bills. Family members of the injured expressed hope that they would recover quickly. Students of Benue State University (BSU), Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) and Kogi State University (KSU) sent goodwill messages to the injured. They also urged the school to address the transport problem in the campus. Joseph was buried on Friday in his Otukpo, Benue State hometown. The injured are Luther Iaangi, 200-Level Agricultural and Environmental Engineering; Onuiigya Magida, 200-Level Animal Production; Cecilia Okori, 200-Level Fisheries; Patience Idoko, 200-Level Animal Production, and Emmanuel Omeh, 300-Level Animal Nutrition.