The Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Olayiwola Adeyemi 111, has called on Nigerians to get up, put our acts together and take our destiny in our hands for the progress and development of the country. The monarch said while the ship of the country may be battered severally on the high seas, but with discipline, hard work, selflessness, patriotism, dedication and unalloyed support for President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, the ship will safely anchor and be renewed to the surprise of everyone in the world. Oba Adeyemi gave the admonition in his Idel Kabir message made available to the media on Tuesday. The paramount ruler stated that governments at all levels, political leaders and followers, and all of us, must have the courage and honesty to get to the root causes of our current state of insecurity, underpinned by criminality, and insurgency/terrorism. He enjoin Nigerians to imbibing the virtues of tolerance, understanding and good neighbourliness as the baseline of transforming the country, heal our relationships, and give us the polity of our dreams. According to him, this calls for rededication, not only to the Creator, but also to the cause of mankind, appreciate the gift of life and imbibe the virtues of tolerance, and contentment. Said he, ‘’ Common indices of the well-being of the society should include peace, the existence of rule of law, socio-economic progress and the safety and comfort of the citizenry. Unfortunately, until recently, these ideals have not been achieved in the country because of the tendency of those in positions of authority seeking their personal well-being first and sometimes try to do this at the expense of the down-trodden people. They place themselves in advantageous positions by subverting the commonly accepted rules of conduct and goal attainment’’. Alaafin went further, ‘’if every citizen sincerely love in our hearts, governance would work, electoral reforms would be easier to accomplish, funds would be judiciously utilized for the good of the larger number, leadership would love and cherish the led. That is the to all humanity, at this time’’. Love, he stressed, considers others first, prefers others above personal and selfish desires, and which seeks to emancipate, unshackle and liberate’’.