Mr Adedoyin Adesanya, the Chairman of Epe Local Government Council on Monday said it generated N4 million revenue from July 2017 to July 2018. He said that this was against the N1.7 million generated annually by his predecessor. Adesanya made this known in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria in Epe on Monday. “This is encouraging despite the harsh economic climate in the country. Also there are no many companies, factories and businesses in the community. “Traders and shop owners don’t take payment of taxes seriously in the community, but we have sensitised them on the importance of tax payment. “The tax will be used to improve infrastructure in their business areas and for community development. “I use this opportunity to appeal to investors to come to Epe community to invest,’’ the council boss who assumed office on July 25, 2017 said. He said that the amount generated was an improvement over revenues generated by previous administration and pledged to boost the revenue beyond the current figure. Adesanya also said that the revenue would be used to improve the welfare of the community members and empowerment programmes. “In spite of the economic situation of the country, the council can boost its revenue to 70 per cent as against 30 per cent generated by the past administration. “With this, we have carried out so many community projects and provide infrastructure aimed at making life easier for our people. “We have improve staff welfare package, purchased wheel chairs for the physically challenged, free eye glasses, building of ICT centre, construction of 36 classroom apartments for students of the LG Nursery and Primary school, among other projects,” he said. Adesanya also said that his administration would continue to provide more infrastructure and programmes that would improve the economy and accelerate growth and development. According to him, the council will continue to create opportunities for businesses of indigenes to thrive. “We are determined to improve the well-being of the people and ensure that all tax payers enjoy the dividend of their contributions to our Commonwealth,” he said. He, however, appealed to traders and business owners to pay their taxes to improve infrastructure Adesanya also advised fish traders in the community to cooperate with the council by paying taxes. “The fish market traders are not cooperating enough; they have refused to pay their taxes in the last four months. “They are demanding for upgrading of facilities, but refused to pay tax that will be used to uplift the facilities. “In spite of the token of N1, 200 they usually pay annually, they still don’t pay regularly. Such attitude is hindering development at the market arena,” the chairman said.