Dr Taiwo Salaam, Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation, speaks with ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE on the Bus Reform Initiative. He says a testrun of the initiative, which will revolutionise the state’s transportation architecture, will take off before the end of the year. Mercedes Benz would be deklivering 200 buses to Lagos by monthend. Can you shed light on this? The buses being expected are connected to his Excellency’s bus reform initiative, which is going to revolutionise transportation architecture in the country. Under the initiative, he intends to bring in 5000 buses. In the first phase, he would bring 800 buses; so the 200 buses that are being expected from Brazil this month end is part of the 800 that would be part of the first tranche. The buses would be coming into the state in tranches. A couple of months ago, the state took delivery of some buses, which are sitting at the Ikeja terminal. They are part of the first tranche and part of the 800, which the state is injecting into the system. How many buses do we have on ground? I do not have the details right now. But the plan is to take delivery of the 800 buses before the roll out in October. As you can imagine, they would be coming in tranches. The plan is to have the last batch before October. How many of the terminals are ready? We have two that are ready, which are the TBS and Ikeja. We have others that are in the final stage, for instance the one at Oyingbo is almost completed, the one at Yaba is also almost completed. You have others that are ongoing at Berger, NAHCO, Agege, and Oshodi. Oshodi is going to be completed before the end of the year and it is actually the flagship of the terminals in Lagos. It is in a very advanced stage and the plan is to have all thse infrastructure ready pending when the full operation would kick off. The terminals are the heart of the reform and you need to have all these in place before the buses roll out. When will the buses begin operation? We must ensure that we have all the critical elements ready before we start full operation. Without this critical operation in place, the roll out may get into avoidable hitches. We also must understand that there should be a pilot stage. You will appreciate that a project of this magnitude must have a pilot phase where you will have the opportunity to address all gray areas and a proper evaluation of the entire operation. The plan is to kick off with a pilot latest by quarter four of the year. By that time, we expect to have a critical chunk of the entire project in place in terms of having the number of buses needed for the first phase, with the drivers well-trained and we would have put in place an enabling technology to drive the whole process. In terms of timing, we are looking at quarter four. We would run the pilot phase, take our learnings, get the commuters buy in and begin the critical advocacy to promote the new phase.