The Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), international rights group, Amnesty International (AI), the International Press Centre (IPC) and Media Rights Agenda (MRA) yesterday demanded the immediate release of Premium Times reporter, Samuel Ogundipe. In separate petitions to the Acting President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo and Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr Ibrahim Idris, they demanded that Ogundipe’s personal bank account be unfrozen by the police. A political party, Socialist Party of Nigeria (SPN), also condemned detention and also demanded “the immediate and unconditional release of Premium Times journalist, Samuel Ogundipe and the Publisher of Weekly Source Magazine, Jones Abiri.” Premium Times Security Sector Reporter, Ogundipe, its Editor-In-chief, Mr Muskilu Mojeed and the Education Reporter, Ms. Azeezat Adedigba were arrested by the police anti-robbery squad on Tuesday. The arrest followed Ogundipe’s refusal to disclose the source of a story published on the online newspaper. The story contained a report by the IGP, to the Acting President on the siege on the National Assembly by the State Security Service. While Mojeed and Adedigba were released shortly afterwards, Ogundipe was still being held at press time yesterday. The NUJ’s August 15 letter signed by its National President, Mr Abdulwaheed Odusile, accused the IGP of hounding the press and urged the Acting President to call him to order. He said: “I write this petition on behalf of thousands of Nigerian journalists, against the Inspector-General of Police, Mr Ibrahim Idris, over his incessant attacks on journalists and violent violations of their human rights, culminating in Tuesday’s arrest of a Premium Times reporter, Mr Samuel Ogundipe. “The journalist is being held to disclose his source of information, a demand that is against the ethical precepts of our profession.” The NUJ recalled the abduction and detention of two journalists who are brothers, Daniel and Izuchukwu Elomba as well as the abduction of the National Assembly correspondent of Daily Trust, Abdulahi Krishi, by the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). It added: “It is obvious that the excesses of the IGP against the media is giving your government a bad image as an anti- press government, even when it’s obvious these infractions were carried out without The Presidency’s imprimatur. “We therefore implore Your Excellency to call the Inspector-General to order and stop his incessant attacks on the media.” Amnesty International tasked the police to “immediately and unconditionally release journalist Samuel Ogundipe, who has been in unlawful police detention since yesterday (Tuesday). “Reports that police detained Samuel Ogundipe with the intention of forcing him to reveal his sources are extremely disturbing and illustrate the level of harassment and intimidation that Nigerian journalists face. “The duty of journalists is not to please the authorities – it is to share information in the interest of the public, and forcing journalists to reveal their sources is illegal.” In its statement, the IPC said it was “particularly dismayed that the Police authorities want Mr. Ogundipe to disclose the source of information over a story published by the newspaper on a correspondence between the Inspector-General of Police and the Vice President. “This, to us, is a clear assault on press freedom and a clear threat to the safety of the detained journalist and his colleagues.” IPC reminded the Police that Section 16(C) of the Freedom of Information Act,  “confers on journalists the media ‘Journalism Confidentiality Privileges’ and as such” the police should desist from unconstitutional acts. Similarly, Media Rights Agenda (MRA) dismayed by the “increasing resort to tactics of intimidation and harassment” of media practitioners in breach of the Constitution and other laws. In a statement signed by its Programme Director, Mr. Ayode Longe, the MRA said it was “seriously concerned that such acts appear to be on the upswing as the 2019 elections draw nearer.” It added: “If you have any actionable case against Mr. Ogundipe or any other journalist, you should follow the due process of the Law; you should go to court and obtain a warrant if you have any evidence of criminal conduct by the journalist that necessitates his arrest and detention and the freezing of his bank account, rather than arresting and clamping him into detention in a manner reminiscent of the dictatorial practices that characterized the first coming of President Muhammadu Buhari as a military Head of State.” In its reaction, the Nigerian Institute of Journalism (NIJ), demanded Ogundipe’s immediate release. “We are also adding our voice to the immediate release of detained @PremiumTimesng Reporter, Samuel Ogundipe by the @PoliceNG now. It’s not a crime to be active in one’s line of duties,” the journalism training institute wrote on its Twitter page. 