The governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Osun State Sen. Iyiola Omisore has revealed that he would return mission schools to owners and employ skilled youths in the state if elected as governor in the September 22 election.  Omisore, in an interview with The Nation on Tuesday explained that his first priority will be to boost the morale of civil servants and teachers in the state having been demoralized by irregular payment of their salaries.  The SDP candidate, who is a former governor of the state between 1999 and 2002, said the demoralized workforce is the engine room of development in the state, hence requires an urgent and special focus by the incoming governor. If elected, he promised to pay salaries, pensions and gratuities promptly as the principal part of his human capital development agenda.  According to him, a survey has shown that most graduates and artisans in the state have been jobless in the last eight years because of alleged poor government policy. Omisore said he would open up employment for graduates, retrain artisans and employ them through government projects. “Aside graduates, our auto technicians, carpenters, welders etc that have been jobless in the last eight years will be retrained and offered jobs.” He said.  On mission schools, Omisore said he would return missions schools to original owners with a solid arrangement that will ensure that teachers in such schools do not lose their jobs. He said the arrangement will ensure that students are the major focus of the idea while existing teachers are well taken care of.  The former senator said having governed the state before as deputy governor and served as senator twice, representing one third of the state, he fully understands what the people are grappling with.  He posited that the state needs an experienced politician and leader like him who has been part and parcel for the system since the return of civilian rule in 1999.  His campaign train has visited Iwo, Ilesa and Ikirun.  Omisore recently joined the SDP and picked its governorship ticket. He was the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2014.