Immediate past Miss Nigeria, Chioma Obiadi, has advised young girls and women to flaunt their gender with dignity to protectprotect them against being used as sex objects.
Obiadi spoke with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Saturday in Lagos on her pet project,  “Green Girl”, which projected decency and dignity of the female gender.
She said that it was wrong for young girls and women to be seen as sex objects by the men folks in the society.
“I think it is completely wrong for women to be seen as sexual objects by the men folk in the society, it is totally degrading and terrible.
“Those men who see girls as sex objects are opportunists who capitalise on the weakness of female gender and use it for their selfish interests,” she said.
According to her, many girls fall victims out of desperation for wealth or positions which can be avoided through self-development and achievement.
The 24-year-old beauty queen reminded girls that their bodies were meant to be the temple of God which must not be defiled but accorded some respect.
Chioma, a Geography student of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra, frowned at the manner some girls threw themselves at men who capitalised on their weaknesses.
“It is really disheartening to see the way some of our girls flaunt themselves on men just to get one favour or the other from them.
“Those who go into such acts are not good representation of the female gender and as such I advise ladies to display serious mindedness.
“There is no situation you cannot overcome through self-achievement, no need to look for short cut with selling of your God made temple, we must stop it,”she said.
She noted that if ladies could carry themselves with dignity, no man would be able to abuse them or bastardised their womanhood.
“In all of these, I think women should say ‘no to nudity’ and then the men would have no choice than to follow suit in maintaining a sane relationship with women,” she said. On her pet project, Chioma said she had gone round schools where she spoke with young girls and boys on keeping themselves and their environment clean, decent and disciplined.