…HIV positive kids can do everything other children do! – Delta Govt  Nigeria’s HIV epidemic affects all population groups and geographic areas of the country. Consequently, February 2015, the Federal Government signed into law the HIV/AIDS anti-discrimination bill to protect the rights and dignity of people living with HIV. Thus, making it illegal to discriminate against people based on their HIV status. In this fourth edition of the diary-like five-part investigative series on HIV across seven states in Nigeria- Ogun, Lagos, Delta, Imo, Benue and the Federal Capital Territory Abuja, TOBORE OVUORIE, reveals many parents in Delta and Imo states respectively, are still ignorant about HIV. Thus, stigmatizing and discriminating against children living with the virus. These children are not only overlooked when populations disproportionately impacted by the epidemic are assessed, they are also denied their human rights to educational opportunities. THE STORY SO FAR The journey to Lagos state which birthed the first part of this series was an eyeopener for me garnished with a potpourri of extra findings and emotions. I will write about the extra findings in a followup publication to this series. Ogun state- the schools and parents, which unveiled the second part of this race left me with a mixture of goose pimples and pounding headache. My pen wasn’t missing but my muse abandoned me. While it was on holiday, I shuttled the hospital hunting for a cure to the pounding headache which caressed my head. “You are reacting to unpleasant experiences,” my doctor told me. Sadly, I couldn’t share the trauma with him. Only my editor has such pre-publication right. He gave me some medications. “These at least, will help you sleep and relax,” he told me with a so-you-don’t-wanna-tell-me-what-is-eating-you expression. A combination of my Lagos and Ogun state experiences have created a hollow, numbness, and pains in me. These experiences, like the Sahara desert’s heat, have sucked my words. Reason I can’t explain exactly how I feel. But I kind of got my groove back with Edo state. I laugh alone night-after-night, while playing back unused interview tapes. “My people no dey carry last!” I exclaim often; most time, about 2am. Parents’ responses reeked of discrimination and stigmatization, yet had this hilarious bend. I have many unused interviews from Edo, (Lagos and Ogun states as well), but I play them almost every night so I can laugh and be able to write.  The story’s journey so far, has re-birthed me. I have gotten used to being told and snubbed with varieties of no! It doesn’t mean anything to me anymore. I doubt if I would give a damn should someone from any of the places I have been to recognize me and tell whoever that my supposed kids and I are HIV positive. But to be honest, writing this fourth part of the series has been tedious for me. “I feel like my head is filled with air,” I remember telling Mr. Muyiwa Lucas, one of this paper’s line editors. We were just about leaving the newsroom Friday August 24th. It was 10:05pm, my wristwatch told me. “You need to sleep, eat and rest. It’s a sign of fatigue,” he had advised. “I will,” I promised. But added a caveat. “After the whole series have been delivered, I will pamper myself to a day’s sleep and rest before hitting the road for the next stage of the developing story.” “You’re too stubborn!” Mr. Lucas picked his bag and walked away. I keep talking to myself, asking, “if I were living with HIV, is this what I would be facing?” I am holding onto the light with my hands and using my legs to kick the darkness my Lagos, Ogun and Edo states experiences have ushered in. I don’t know which is better: the Lagos and Ogun state schools where I was outrightly told no without pretense and diplomacy or the Delta and Imo state schools where I was also told no, with so much smiles but well accompanied with caveats? DO NOT BRING YOUR HIV CHILD TO THE SCHOOL UNTIL THE HIV TREATMENT IS COMPLETED! Her voice was cool. And accent on point. I wished my friends who always mocked me that those of us from Warri can never speak good English no matter how well travelled, were there. I would have told them “Edulyn Schools is in Warri Delta state! Come and listen to correct English straight from Warri!” The discussion kicked off well with the school administrator telling me all teachers will be on ground first week of September. Learners, like my supposed daughter, would be welcomed second week of September, while the entry form is N3,000 only. Possibly, I should have allowed the conversation linger some more. Truth is, I never expected what followed. I had gone on to tell her my husband wanted me to confirm if our daughter’s health status wouldn’t be an issue. “The child is HIV positive,” I had calmly announced. There was silence. It seemed like eternity to me. Then, she hummed. And hummed. A double “Y-e-a-h” followed. Then, she continued with so much finality like she had earlier rehearsed for it. “For now, we may not have to admit her anymore. And thank you for informing us. I think the treatment has to take place. Has she started the treatment?” “Yes, she has started.” Again, like while in Lagos and Ogun states, something in me died. “When the treatment is completed, I think we may have to admit. But for now, I wouldn’t say we are going to admit.” I was confused. “HIV treatment completed? Is it ever completed?” I asked myself in a flash of seconds. “Because we don’t have the facilities to check it. We don’t,” she added. I became confused the more. “Facilities to check HIV in a school? What facilities?” I asked myself again. Make she kuku say dem nor want HIV pikin instead of all dis kakara talks, I was speaking to myself in Warri pidgin. She should simply say a child living with the virus is not wanted in their school, rather than dancing around a cycle, I said to myself. I tried to push further. “I will call subsequently when the session has begun, maybe you may want to have a review of her.” It didn’t work. She added a caveat. “But please, let the treatment be completed before you bring her to the school. We will appreciate it.” The excited me died.  This is supposed to be just a story. So, I don’t understand why I was so pained. Actually, I still am. So, much more later; before publication, I put a call through to Dr. John Osuyali, Executive Secretary, Delta State Agency for the Control of AIDS (Delta SACA) to confirm if schools need any or certain facilities before kids living with HIV can be admitted. He giggled. I heard it clearly. Then replied. “I am not aware of that.” I went further to briefly share my experience with him. And asked again if schools need certain facilities before students living with the virus can be admitted? “Not in Delta.” He answered.  HIV TREATMENT IS NEVER COMPLETED! As I write this report, I still don’t understand why the response from the Edulyn school’s administrator ruffled me. It sure did. Reason when I spoke with the Delta SACA helmsman, I reeled on “Please sir, I equally want to find out, in children, can HIV treatment be completed?” He didn’t giggle this time. In his usual very calm manner, he replied “We don’t treat HIV half way.” Oh. If the Edulyn school administrator actually knew HIV is never treated half way, then she was only garnishing the no she told me with some chocolates! I imagined again with my eyes fixed on the wall clock in my living room.  SORRY! OUR BOARDING FACILITIES NOT FOR HIV POSITIVE KIDS PEARLVILLE SCHOOL, OWERRI 22nd, August 2018, 7.25pm Dr. Nneka, a Business Developer with Pearlville School, Owerri, smiles often. And has so much warmth and positive vibes emanating from her. She phoned me night of the last day of Sallah. It was a working holiday for me. One of the downside of journalism. The online editor of the paper, Mr. Lekan Otunfodunrin was planning how the series would be published when Dr. Nneka’s call jumped in. I answered the call but placed it on speaker, while a colleague recorded. She told me how she had been trying to track my phone number all the while, the reason she was phoning that late. “Anything goes, provided I get my story,” I told myself smiling. When I made the admission inquiry (earlier), I had disclosed the supposed child’s status. And she had promised to phone me after speaking with the school’s doctor. Though later. But she did. “When I called the doctor, then, I had to call the management for a quick meeting and we were like there is no problem with that (admitting a child living with the virus). But when the doctor now called back, she said actually, there is no issue with that but only that the school is a boarding school. If we have a day school, because they are only four in a room, that wouldn’t have been a problem. The problem is not us. The problem is that it’s a boarding school. She (the school’s doctor) advises that the child attends a day school. For now, we are not running a day school yet. That is the issue now.” Honestly, I was confused. “Why can’t a child living with HIV be in the dormitory?” I have been asking myself. I still am.  HIV POSITIVE KIDS CAN DO EVERYTHING AND ATTEND BOARDING SCHOOLS! Indeed, I was worried after being told my supposed daughter should be a day-student, as she cannot be in the dormitory. I turned to Dr. Osuyali. “Children living with HIV, can they attend secondary schools with just boarding facilities. That is, can they be boarders in secondary school?” In his usual very calm manner, he answered “There is no discrimination in Delta state to the best of my knowledge. Please, let me know if there is anyone you have identified. And if they have, well, if you bring it to our notice, we will look it up.” “So, you are saying in essence that children can attend boarding schools even though they are living with HIV?” “Everything. They are totally covered to do everything other children do,” he said with 100 percent finality.  Mr. Steve Aborisade, Advocacy and Marketing Manager, AIDS Healthcare Foundation (AHF), was dismayed when I sought a second opinion from him if kids living with the virus are not supposed to be in boarding schools. “Why are we zeroing in on HIV? That is the question?” he began with much emotions. “There are so many other conditions that are there. Why HIV? So, why do people think children living with HIV cannot stay in a boarding house?” he continued. I could hear the thundering echo of wherever he was. And his voice kept rebirthing it. “There are acts of discrimination. There are acts of stigmatization fueled by ignorance anywhere, everyday. It happens. It’s happening,” he added. He said there are so many acts of discrimination even within families. According to Mr. Aborisade, there are families that send their kids (who test positive to HIV) out of the house. He also disclosed there are families that abandon their children. “Just because they don’t understand the issue. It is ignorance.” He said the discrimination is as a result of the fact that people lack knowledge about the issue. And blamed the media for the populace’s ignorance, saying the public depends on the media to define their reality.  Schools like Ray Jacob Boarding School, Mgbidi and Alvana Model School, Owerri, both in Imo state, didn’t stab any part of me. They are expecting my supposed daughter living with HIV when their new academic calendar begins September 10th. I saw and felt their sincerity of wanting her. Every other schools visited in Delta and Imo states respectively, buried a part of me. There are over 10 of them. For now, I wouldn’t list their names. I am hoping before I write the followup to this series, they would have honored their words to phone me like they promised. I have been phoning them since the initial contact. Some do take my calls telling me they will still get back to me. Others don’t. But when I use another phone number in calling, they all do take my calls but immediately tell me they will be in touch soon. *** Out of over five million persons in Delta state, 78,359 person, according to the state’s governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, are living with HIV. The National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) says the state has a prevalence rate of 0.7 percent. At the moment, 8,257 are eligible for treatment in the state, while 28,000 are currently accessing the life-saving Anti-Retroviral Drugs (ARV). NACA and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) in a 2017 Spectrum Estimates indicate no fewer than 2,634 kids between the ages of zero to 14 years are living with HIV in the state. Of these, 57.55 percent are covered by the Anti-Retroviral Therapy (ART) scheme. The NACA/UNAIDS survey further reveals no fewer than 30,900 persons from 15 years and above have the virus in them within the state. Of these, 69.22 percent are covered by the ART care. The survey also states no fewer than 1,220 persons in the state have freshly contracted the virus, while no fewer than 2, 772 mothers are in need of prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT) care. The Dr. Okowa, December 2017, had called for increased advocacy on HIV/AIDS to eradicate stigmatisation and discrimination in the country. “I enjoin all stakeholders to re-double their efforts at educating our people on the HIV/AIDS pandemic, as well as to take proactive steps at eradicating stigma and discrimination among the citizenry. “It is a known fact that many people are generally aware of HIV/AIDS, but correct knowledge on how to prevent the infection is rather limited, due mainly to unfounded myths and outright denial of the reality of HIV/AIDS,” he had said during last year’s World AIDS Day. Indeed, interviews with many parents and kids in secondary schools in the state confirmed Dr. Okowa’s assertions. “NO SCHOOL FOR OUR CHILDREN WHO TEST POSITIVE TO HIV!” Mr. Gentle is an automobile repairer at Jakpa, in Warri, Delta state. He said it is none of his business if his younger brother’s classmate is HIV positive because he or she may have contracted the virus after absconding from school to partake in “illegal sexual matters.” It doesn’t end there. Should his younger brother test positive to HIV, he says he wouldn’t give a damn. But he fears contracting the virus from him. However, he wouldn’t allow his sibling be friends with anyone who is HIV positive. But if it were his sibling living with the virus, he wouldn’t disclose it to the school for fear of discrimination. But he later changed his mind. He will inform the school about the brother’s HIV status only after he has been withdrawn from school. That way, according to him, the school can check other students if anyone has contracted the virus from him. Mr. Gentle believes withdrawing his brother from school is the only way to prevent spread of the virus in the school community. “People living with HIV do not live long,” he said. He doesn’t know there is a medication- antiretroviral, for HIV. Though he has been seeing it on TV, he doesn’t know it is real.  Many parents interviewed, not only in Delta state, feel ending a child’s education is the way to go in curbing the spread of HIV. Mary, a trader at the Sapele part of the state, joined other parents in saying she will withdraw her child from school should the classmate test positive to HIV. She fears her child will contract the virus because children play with anything, sharp objects inclusive. But if her own child were to test positive to the virus, while seeking admission, she wouldn’t disclose his status to the school authorities “because they will not admit him.” She talked about her brother too. If he were already in school when his status is discovered, she wouldn’t disclose it to the school authorities. She would rather withdraw him from school. She fears he will play with sharp objects, thus endangering the lives of others by spreading the virus.  “I will tell my child not to eat with his classmate who tests positive to HIV,” said Mr. Lucky, an automobile repairer in Ughelli, Delta state. I told him the virus cannot be contacted through eating together. And he asked me why. “It requires exchange of blood for transmission to occur,” I told him. He didn’t believe me. He went on to tell me the virus will spread if someone who is HIV positive uses his teeth in tearing a piece of meat for an HIV negative person to eat. He is not against his child playing with a kid living with the virus but wouldn’t allow them eat together. When I asked if he would inform the school authorities should his child test positive to the virus, he retorted “how will you say my child has HIV!?. My child cannot have HIV.” I calmed him down that that is why I had included ‘God forbid’ in the question. He let it slide. But Mr. Lucky believes HIV cannot be hidden as it is visible on anyone living with the virus. I told him it is never written on the forehead. He admits being aware of that fact but still insists “It cannot be hidden. It will still show. People will still know.”  TRANSMISSION OF HIV THROUGH TEETH-MEAT SHARING? IT DEPENDS… Mr. Lucky is not the only parent who has fears that kids without the virus could contract it from those with it while sharing chewed meat or that shared with the teeth (by the infected person). I contacted Dr. Angela Uwakem, Commissioner for health, Imo state. “You know how HIV is transmitted. First of all, there has to be some fluid exchange. So, it is not as simple as that. It depends on the fluid. If there is fluid in the mouth; saliva. That is why we talk about kissing. “So, it depends on what is the fluid content. If the membranes are intact; there is no blood exchange, there will be no problem. But if saliva becomes exchanged, there is a risk. So, it depends,” she explained while on a journey by road from Enugu to Imo state.  Mama Glory, as she is called by everyone, is a trader who often has many children flock around her shop where she sells different household items. Though she loves children and feels comfortable having them around, but it comes with a condition: they must never test positive to the virus. Should it turn out the other way, and such a child is classmate to hers, she will withdraw her own child from the school. Mama Glory is afraid her daughter may contract the virus because “HIV is a disease.” I listened to her bare her mind. She believes HIV can be cured. Asked if her daughter were HIV positive, would she inform the school while seeking admission? She said “I will first get her treated before taking her to school. I must be certain she is healed before I get her into a school.” She would do this in order to prevent the spread of the virus in the school community. Mama Glory is driven by the belief: Do unto others as you want it done unto you.  Mr. James, a business man, will also not inform the school should his child test positive to the virus. “No need of telling the school. How can I tell the school? I will do it (take care of her) on my own,” he said. He fears that telling the school will lead to either her expulsion or people rejecting her. I pushed our talks further by asking if he will allow his daughter marry a man who is HIV positive. He retorted “is HIV a good thing!?” He wouldn’t allow her because “there is nothing good in HIV.”  Pa. Raphael Obamwonyi, though elderly still works. He is a businessman and father of many children. He has them old and very young. He showed me his very young set of twin. And like other parents I had asked what they would do should their child’s classmate tests positive to the virus, he felt the classmate must be a girl. “I will tell him not to go close to the girl,” he said. Unlike many parents interviewed, he will not withdraw his son from the school. Should his son test positive to HIV, Pa Obamwonyi thinks not disclosing the status to the school authorities is a sin. “As an elder in the church, I don’t need to hide sickness since it is unfortunate that the child is sick, but for it not to spread, I will tell the teacher.” He said possibly the school authorities may have some useful advice for him. Then, I pressed the wrong button. I asked if he will support his son if his fiancee were living with the virus? Pa Obamwonyi went hysterical. “Haaaa…! Noor! Why are you talking like this?” He gesticulates with hands flying in the air. Though an elder in church, Pa Obamwonyi said he will first gift his son a thundering slap for daring to want to marry a lady who is HIV positive. He told me it is an impossible mission “You mean if a child tells the father he wants to commit suicide (via marrying someone with the virus), won’t you first kill that child yourself than he dying by himself? That is death!” he retorted. He doesn’t believe someone without the virus can be married to a person living with HIV and yet not get infected. “No father will tell such a child to carry on knowing fully well his child isn’t living with the virus…I will punch his mouth to remove his teeth so that the HIV positive lady won’t marry him anymore.” He was still hysterical. I turned the table around. And he maintained that if it were his son with the virus, he will allow only a woman living with HIV to marry him in such situation.  The NACA and UNAIDS spectrum estimates indicate 3.61 percent persons are living with HIV in Imo state. The state tops 17th position amongst the 36 states and Federal Capital Territory, in NACA’s HIV ratings. Imo state, according to the NACA/UNAIDS survey, is one of the high burden states supported by international partners. Notwithstanding this, no fewer than 115,303 persons from 15 years and above are living with the virus. Of these, 34.94 percent of them are under the ART coverage. The survey yet reveals 7,782 children between age zero to 14 years are HIV positive in the state with 45.58 percent of them under the ART coverage. Unfortunately, no fewer than 13,987 persons freshly contracted the virus in the state while 7,227 mothers are in need of prevention of mother to child transmission (PMTCT) services. March 2017, the state governor Mr. Rochas Okorocha had cried out over the spread of HIV across the state. He had blamed the state’s bubbling night life for the increase in the spread of the virus, saying there was no hotel that is not filled every weekends in the state. He had urged parents and guardians to caution their children and wards. “Night life has no doubt, improved in Owerri. We will continue to light the streets. We should however remember that the situation carries with it, a collateral danger like HIV and this is why we should be very careful,” he had said last year. Children of school age, unfortunately, are a part of these statistics in the state. However, like adults living with the virus who are discriminated against, they too are not spared. CAN’T SHARE CUTLERIES, UTENSILS, WITH HIV POSITIVE PERSONS! Mrs. Chibueze Chimobi told me she is a staff nurse while I warmed her up for the interview. Other parents interviewed before her, while listing their HIV prevention measures included not allowing their kids share cutleries with persons living with the virus. So, I asked her a question in that direction. “No. No, I will not because of the risk.” She went on to tell me there may be a mistake. “Being children, they do make mistakes. So, I will not allow my child to share anything with anybody to avoid mistake because fork is part of sharp objects and anything can happen.”  Mrs. Chimobi is not the only parent who has issues with their child sharing cutleries with a person living with the virus. Mrs. Mayah Ikechukwu, a fruits and vegetables seller also tilts in that direction. “No, I am not going to allow that because my child may have a sore in his or her mouth and if he shares cutlery with this particular HIV person, virus is bound to get into the sore and infect my own child,” she said. However, should her child test positive to the virus, she would inform the authorities of any school where she goes scouting for admission for him or her. Mrs. Ikechukwu opines that her honesty should pay. And if it doesn’t, there certainly will be a school which would recognize it and grant her child admission. Her disclosure is for the protection of other kids in school, she told me.  It isn’t just parents who have issues with an HIV negative person sharing personal items like cutleries with a person living with HIV. Tomiwa Sanya, a 17 year old student wouldn’t as well. I could feel and see sincerity written all over him that he wouldn’t stop being friends with a friend who tests positive to the virus. He has measures in place to protect himself. But like Mrs. Chimobi and Ikechukwu, he too will not share cutleries with anyone living with the virus. He however takes it further “…I will of course not use his utensils as well.” He admitted that notwithstanding the virus “only works inside the human system,” he wouldn’t be able to share clothes with a friend from the moment he is confirmed HIV positive. “At this point, no! no! no!. I don’t know, I feel like it’s just fear; for anything can happen… It’s just the fear of everything,” he told me, while I stood behind the camera, holding onto the handle of the tripod and staring at him  HIV DOES NOT SPREAD THROUGH SHARING OF CUTLERIES “Cutleries has to do with the spoon, the table knife, the fork. And no research has told us that using all these, you can contract or share HIV.” This is Mrs. Florence Oyakhilome-Edemode, Executive Director of the Edo State Agency for the Control of AIDS (Edo SACA). Reacting to parents not wanting their children share cutleries with kids living with the virus, the Edo SACA helms-woman said persons who test negative to HIV can only be at risk of contracting it when they share sharp objects. These, according to her, include needles, razor blades,and other sharp unsterilized objects. “In the first instance, a child is not going to be using table knife to cut fingernails that will endanger him or her to have blood contact through these cutleries. “Research has told us that except this sharp object is having direct contact with the infected person’s blood, that is the only way he can infect another person.”  “THESE PARENTS ARE BEING DRIVEN BY IGNORANCE!” Mr. Aborisade explained that these parents are being driven by ignorance. “What happens when a child plays? Do you get infected with sharing a plate? So, I don’t think we should be giving space to ignorance as projected by these parents, if there are any of them.” I wondered what he meant by ‘if there are any of them.’ I had sent him link to the first part of this story in which there are audios and videos of such parents. “I don’t think we should be giving it any attention because they are just speaking from ignorance.” He said “we simply need to educate them.” I went on to describe the meat-tearing/sharing fear of some parents. “I think we are speaking to ignorance. The scenario itself, I doubt if it is going to happen. How many people share meat? How many people use their teeth in cutting meat?” he asked. I wanted to tell him while I was a child, even now as an adult, while eating, I used and still use my teeth in dividing meat. And while feeding a little baby, I use my teeth in getting some chunk, chew a little to soften it and give to the child. And I see many mothers do it. But I could feel the passion in him and decided not to interrupt his flow. Mr. Aborisade said such parents are not to be given attention. “We have passed this stage. And that is the reality. We have passed this stage. Anyone who is not aware should come and be educated. We have passed this stage. “If they were saying this in the last 15 years, that’s okay. But now, we shouldn’t be saying this. And that is the fact. We shouldn’t be saying this. We need to make them understand the fact that the only solution here is for them to be educated.” He said there are so many other important things (about HIV) than giving space and voice to the ignorance of parents. “If they exist, we shouldn’t educate them because it is taking us to where we have left.” I was shocked, so asked “are you saying we shouldn’t educate them sir?” “This is not education. Do you understand what I am saying? This is not education. And there are serious issues. There are serious issues, more serious issues that we need to focus on. That is my position,” he answered.  WE STILL HAVE A LOT OF WORK TO DE-STIGMATIZE HIV! But Nigeria’s health minister, Prof. Isaac Adewole doesn’t travel same path with Mr. Aborisade. In an interview Saturday August 11th, he expressed concern over the findings in this investigation. He said “What you just told me, if confirmed, shows we still have a lot of work to do in order to de-stigmatize HIV. “My day will be a day when we will treat HIV just like how we treat hypertension and diabetes. With the treatment we currently have, HIV has become any of those chronic disease that cannot be cured but can be controlled.” He said the parents and school authorities’ discriminatory acts is a reflection of the amount of work yet to be done by the country. The health minister called on all Nigerians to join the movement in eradicating HIV stigmatization in the country. He said people’s discriminatory actions (those in this story and others) is as a result of stark ignorance about how HIV is transmitted. “It’s not just schools. It’s a situation in which all of us must be involved in education, improving awareness, eliminating ignorance and letting them know HIV is not even like TB where someone is coughing and you pick it. It’s not like pneumonia, it’s not like flu. “This is good work (referring to this story). And I will pass this message to the team that we have serious work to do. And I will also work with my education colleague (minister of education).”  Editor’s Note: The interview, audio-visual of the child- Master Tomiwa Sanya, in the story, are used with parental consent. This story was produced with support from Code For Africa and her Naija Data Ladies Fellowship Programme.