Bowen University, Iwo, Osun State, has inaugurated its newly established Institute of Preliminaries and Professional Development Studies in Akute, Ogun State. The two-acre facility acquired from Doland International Secondary Schools, Akute, cost the university N280 million. Vice-Chancellor of the university, Prof Mathews Ojo, who disclosed this at a brief inauguration last week, said the money was sourced internationally and from the  Nigerian Baptist Convention, the proprietor of the university, for a period of three years. Initially, he said the university did not believe the money could be raised because there was just no money, but the church bailed the school out with an initial deposit of N100 million. The balance was paid in instalments. The outgoing vice-chancellor, however, noted that the institute, which  would commence academic activities this August, would focus mainly students for the Joint University Preliminary Examination Board, JUPEB ‘A’ Levels; Cambridge ‘A’ Level; Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examinations, UTME; the West African Senior School Examinations, (WASSCE), as well as Accounting Technician Scheme, ATS, and language studies. On reason for the institute, Ojo said: “It is frustrating for students to be writing one exam all over again and that is why the university wants to use the institute to prepare students desiring tertiary education and professional courses very well ahead of sitting for various qualifying exams. He said while the institute would run two sessions-morning and afternoon- daily, there were qualified and experienced teachers on hands to give what he called quality services to students. In an exhortation at the event, Bowen’s Vice President, Dr Moses Adebayo, said the establishment of the institute was in tandem with the vision of the founding fathers of Baptist Convention, which he listed as teaching, preaching and giving. These three-point agenda, according to him, take a visionary leader in academic circle to pursue. He said Bowen University is known to produce total students who he described to be those excelling in academics, character, knowledge and skills and not about money making. “It is not enough to produce just any graduates but those who will be agents of positive change, who will impact the society meaningfully and who will carry out his or her activities in the fear of God and constituted authorities. That is what we are known for in Bowen,” he said.