The ongoing realignment of forces in Oyo State politics may cost the senators in the Red Chamber their seats. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the hurdles the three All Progressives Congress (APC) senators will face in their second term bid. The three senators representing Oyo State may not return to the upper legislative chamber in the next dispensation. The senators are: Senators Monsurat Sumonu, who represents Oyo Central; Soji Akanbi (Oyo South); and Fatai Buhari (Oyo North). The reasons are not farfetched; they may not get their party’s ticket to return to the National Assembly. Sensing danger ahead for her 2019 ambition, Sumonu has defected to the African Democratic Congress (ADC). But, the platform adopted by the former President Olusegun Obasanjo-led Coalition for Nigeria Movement may not be a good one for the former Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly, who was among the 14 APC senators who defected on the floor of the Senate recently. Prior to her defection, she had fallen out with Governor Abiola Ajimobi on party issues. In the build up to the state congress, she and other aggrieved chieftains of the party in state accused Ajimobi of unilaterally taking decisions on party matters without consultation with other stakeholders. The aggrieved members include the Communication Minister, Alhaji Adebayo Shittu, former Political Adviser to Governor Ajimobi, Mr Fatai Ibikunle and members of the House of Representatives under the aegis of “Oyo APC Unity Forum”. They have threatened to pull out of the APC, if the national leadership fails to checkmate the excesses of the governor. The group held a parallel congress, which was not recognised by the APC National Working Committee (NWC). The Forum fought against the recognition of Chief Akin Oke who emerged as Oyo APC Chairman from the congress held by the Ajimobi faction. Adebayo and other members of the forum were at the national secretariat, to protest the swearing-in of Oke, but were bundled out by security men. A reconciliation process initiated by Ajimobi was rebuffed by Sunmonu and other leaders of the Unity Forum. They have vowed not to be part of the reconciliation arrangement, saying the attempts being made to bring them back to the fold were ridiculous and laughable. The group said: “Governor Ajimobi is the problem of the APC in Oyo State. How can a problem be the solution? The crux of the crisis within the party is the anti-democratic conduct of the governor. Examples include his decision not to follow the constitution of the party in the election of party candidates for the local government election; his unilateral handpicking of party’s candidate in the Ibarapa East House of Assembly bye-election, which culminated in the disgraceful loss of the party and an attempt to impose members of his minority group SENACO (Senator Abiola Campaign Organisation) as executives of the party at the ward, local and state levels.” Defending her defection to the ADC, Sunmonu explained that “my defection to the ADC from the ruling APC was due to the crisis within Oyo State chapter of the APC. There had been little or no effort to reconcile differences among stakeholders in the state.” She added:  “My defection was as a result of issues within the APC Oyo State chapter. As we know, politics is local and despite the rhetoric, there has been little or no effort to reconcile differences by incorporating various stakeholders and interests.” But, an APC chieftain in Oyo State who spoke on condition of anonymity said Sunmonu was being economical with truth. He said immediately after the state congress, Governor Ajimobi, as the leader of the APC in Oyo State, set up a reconciliation committee so that members having grievances could express themselves for amicable solution. He said: “But members of Unity Forum decided not to be part of the reconciliation process, rather they resorted to name calling. They have made up their minds to leave, because at the time they were creating problems for us in the APC, they had been holding talks with the leaders of some opposition parties. I was pained by Sunmonu’s decision to defect, because to me it is political suicide. Whatever differences between her and Governor Ajimobi could have been resolved by the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III. After all it Governor Ajimobi that brought her into politics. Unfortunately, she has defected to a fringe party that is not popular in Oyo State. Can she ever win election on the ADC platform? I wish her best of luck.” On whether she still has chances of returning to the Senate, if she decides to retrace her steps back to the APC, the party leader said: “Our doors are always open. But, the truth is that she can no longer get the APC ticket for Oyo Central senatorial district.” A source close to the state executive of the APC said whoever would emerge as the party’s senatorial candidate would be decided by party members in the district. But, there were speculations that former Senate Leader, Senator Teslim Folarin, who defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to APC last year, may likely get the ticket. It was learnt that the ticket was one of the attraction that facilitated his defection. It is also being speculated that a member of the House of Representatives and son of Alaafin, Hon. Hakeem Adeyemi, is also eyeing the ticket. As for Senator Akanbi, the declaration by Governor Ajimobi that he would run for Senate in 2019 has put the bid of the lawmaker representing Oyo South on the line. The governor who hails from the same district has indicated his interest on the seat since February this year. Ajimobi, who was a senator between 2003 and 2007 on the platform of Action Congress (AC), said he was being encouraged to return to the Senate by the party stakeholders within and outside Oyo State. He said: “It is those outside the state that are encouraging me to run. I have been there before and we need experienced people to give us quality representation. We need people we can trust, not people who will betray Oyo State and Southwest’s interest for a messy pot of porridge. We know those who betrayed us for mere Senate committee position.” Senator Akanbi was named on the floor of the Senate by the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, as one of the APC senators that have defected. Akanbi later debunked the idea, saying he remains in the APC. Those rooting for Ajimobi’s return to the Senate say his experience as a former senator and a governor would enhance his performance in the upper chamber and thereby give the state quality representation. One of his aides said there was nothing wrong if the governor decides to go to Senate next year. Afterwards, his colleagues in Ogun, Senator Ibikunle Amosun and Governor Rauf Aregbesola of Osun State, have declared that they would be contesting for Senate next year. A party chieftain, Alhaji Lekan Olasunkanmi, said if Ajimobi gets the ticket, Akanbi will still remain in the APC. He said Akanbi is a close associate of Ajimobi and that on the eve of his purported defection Akanbi was with the governor at the state liaison office in Abuja. On whether it was true that there was an agreement between Ajimobi and Akanbi that the latter would spend only one term in the Senate to pave way for the governor’s ambition, Olasunkanmi said he was not aware of such agreement. However, Akanbi has said there is no better alternative to the ruling APC, an indication that he was not ready to leave the party. Responding to a question on whether he would be defecting to the Obasanjo-led CNM, Akanbi said he would remain in the ruling party until it was clear that the coalition was a better alternative. He added that the coalition has yet to produce a well-defined agenda. His words: “The coalition is immature. Baba has raised it, thinking that both the APC and the PDP have no ideological base again. But, I am a party person. We know that there are problems here and there, but we really want to see the picture of the alternative that the coalition will provide a better alternative for Nigeria.” The seat of the third senator is also threatened, because there are insinuations that former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala will also contest for the Oyo North senatorial seat in 2019 on the APC platform. Although Alao-Akala who defected from the Labour Party to the APC last year had declared that he would run for governorship, but he is being persuaded by the party leadership to settle for the senatorial seat. If Alao-Akala accepts the offer, the incumbent senator representing Oyo North, Senator Fatai Buhari, would vacate the seat. Alao-Akala and Buhari are both from Ogbomoso town. A source disclosed that Ajimobi has promised the former governor a senatorial ticket when he was negotiating the latter’s defection. The source disclosed that Ajimobi and major stakeholders are still prevailing on him to drop the governorship ambition and accept the Senate offer. Alao-Akala left office as governor after he lost his re-election bid to the incumbent governor and his last attempt in 2015 was not successful.