Since the return to civil rule in 1999, governorship elections in some states have persistently featured some personalities who have been unrelenting in their bid to govern their states. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI profiles some of these perennial candidates. Ogboru Perennial Delta State governorship candidate Chief Great Ogboru is warming up to challenge Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in next year’s general elections. But, his ambition has already divided the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) because the idea is against the existing zoning arrangement. Given that Delta politics was initially dominated by the Central Zone, there is a widespread acceptance of the need for power rotation among the three senatorial districts. James Ibori from Delta Central senatorial district took the first shot between 1999 and 2007. Emmanuel Uduaghan benefitted from the slot of Delta South from 2007 to 2015, to pave the way for the emergence of incumbent Governor Ifeanyi Okowa, whose first term would end next year. They were all elected on the PDP platform. As the race for the 2019 governorship race gradually gets underway, the odds are stacked in Okowa’s favour; no thanks to the zoning arrangement. But, APC stakeholders in Delta want to stop the governor’s re-election, by fielding a candidate from Delta North to effectively challenge the governor in his zone. This is based on the prevailing sentiment in Delta North and Delta South to allow the Anioma people to complete their eight-year slot before power shifts from the zone. But, Ogboru who is backed in his quest by Senator Ovie Omo-Agege would not entertain such prospects. Ogboru has been contesting for the Delta governorship since 2003; meaning that he ran in 2003, 2007, 2011 and 2015. He lost in all the contests to candidates of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The APC chieftain who contested the 2015 on the platform of the Labour Party (LP) had described the election as his final battle in the quest to “liberate the people of Delta State”. A persistent and unrelenting politician, Ogboru has been moving from one party to the other to actualize his ambition to govern the state. He contested in 2003 on the platform of the defunct Alliance for Democracy (AD); in 2007 and 2011 as a candidate of the Democratic Peoples Party (DPP) and in 2015 as the flag bearer of the LP. He lost in each of those attempts and challenged the results at the election petitions tribunal each time.  Isiaka Prince Gboyega Nasir Isiaka is another perennial governorship candidate that is also preparing to take another shot at it in Ogun State. Two months ago, he left the PDP, the platform on which he contested the last election for the African Democratic Party (ADC), in readiness for next year’s general elections. His action was conveyed in a letter dated May 24 and addressed to the leadership of the party. Isiaka, popularly known as GNI, first contested for the Ogun governorship seat in 2011. After failing to secure the ticket of the PDP in 2011, his principal backer, former Governor Gbenga Daniel, floated another platform, the Peoples Party of Nigeria (PPN), to actualize the ambition. Governor Ibikunle Amosun won the 2011 election with 51.90 per cent of valid votes, while the PDP flag bearer in the race came second, after securing 25.9 per cent of the votes. The PPN candidate was placed third, with 18.84 per cent votes. Isiaka came into the political arena in November 2003, when he was appointed Special Assistant on Investments to former Governor Daniel. Later, in April 2004, he became the pioneer Group Managing Director of Gateway Holdings Limited (GHL), the investment company of Ogun State. He was drafted into the race in 2011 by Daniel to actualize the former governor’s promise to hand-over to an indigene of Ogun West district, otherwise known as Yewa land, which is yet to govern the state since it was created. But, the Yewa agenda failed, as Amosun who is from Ogun Central defeated all the two major candidates from the region in the race. GNI and other aspirants from Ogun West are favoured by the zoning arrangement in next year’s contest; as Governor Amosun has pledged to a governor of Yewa extraction. Since he defected from the PDP to the ADC the governorship aspirant has been consulting with stakeholders in different local governments. With the support of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who has been rallying support for the ADC, Isiaka believes that he would get it right this time around. Speaking about his 2019 aspiration, he said: “Yes, I have contested twice and I am planning to do it again and the major reason is because, those factors that I considered back then are still there and God has still continued to give me the strength and the wherewithal to seek the office so that I could make life better for the people. If anything, the reasons for my contesting have probably even increased now, given the general situation that the state is in now.”  Marwa The Northeast state of Adamawa is going to be flashpoint for a number of serial governorship candidates who are already warming up to throw their hats into the ring. Indications are that former Lagos State Military Administrator, Brig. Buba Marwa, will soon join the race for Adamawa 2019 under the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). Marwa is a retired Brigadier general and former military administrator of Lagos and Borno States. His performance in office as military administrator is said to be lofty and therefore many believe that if given the party’s ticket to run, he would win the governorship election and ensure good governance. However, his experience in partisan politics has not been a pleasurable one. He first aspired for the presidency on the platform of the PDP in 2007. But, when he failed in that bid, he left the PDP in 2011 and joined the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and opted to contest for the governorship of his home state, Adamawa. He lost the 2011 election and was still in the CPC when it merged with other legacy parties that formed the APC in 2013. Nevertheless, after surveying the political atmosphere in Adamawa before the last general elections, he returned to the PDP once again and was granted waiver on August 29, 2014 to vie for the party’s governorship ticket. It might have been a different story for Marwa, if the former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Nuhu Ribadu, had not defected to the party from the APC. Thus, Marwa was denied the PDP ticket for the Adamawa 2015 race. This compelled the retired military officer to leave the party once again in June 2015. Determined to put the two failed governorship attempts behind him, he is believed to have joined the race for the Dougirei Government House, Yola, for next year’s election once again, as many groups are calling on him to come out to vie for the exulted position on the APC platform, to replace the current Governor Bindow Jibrilla. Some groups of youth and women groups for Marwa under the APC in Adamawa have urged former military Governor of Lagos, Buba Marwa, to aspire for 2019 gubernatorial race under APC. The groups, under the banner of “Adamawa Advocates for Marwa” in a recent meeting in Yola, said Marwa was the needed ready-made person that could unite the party and salvage the state from being taken over by the opposition. Members of the group who spoke said the APC-led state government under Governor Jibrilla has divided the party and was tottering, making it necessary to have someone like Marwa who has the track record to salvage the party and people of Adamawa.  Ribadu Recent developments in Adamawa strongly indicate the former EFCC chairmanis preparing to challenge Governor Jibrilla. Ribadu, who lost to Jibrilla in 2015 when the former contested under the platform of the PDP, has returned to the APC and joined forces with former Governor Murtala Nyako. Mustapha Atiku Ribadu, a member of Black Cap Revolution, a group that backed Ribadu’s governorship bid in 2015, said Jibrilla stands no chance against the former EFCC boss in 2019. He argued that failure by Governor Jibrilla to work with the APC executives and members who made him the party’s candidate, as well as his refusal to pay workers’ salaries or fulfill campaign promises, has made him “so unpopular that nobody wants him re-elected”. His words: “The governor has neglected those who worked for his victory, including the party executive and failed to pay workers’ salaries and other entitlements. So, voters have realised that he is not a reliable leader. Everybody is aggrieved and waiting for 2019 to oust him.” However, a loyalist of the governor and founder of Bring Bindow Back (BBB), Dahiru Hammandikko, dismissed Ribadu as no threat to Jibrilla, saying Jibrilla’s achievements have endeared him to the people. He said Ribadu did not make much impact in his presidential bid in 2011 and governorship in 2015, adding that 2019 would not be different.  Others Other serial contestants like former Deputy Governor Gbenga Kaka (Ogun State), former Deputy Governor Ahmed Ibeto (Niger State) and former Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala have joined the race to govern their states. The list also includes former Governor Rashidi Ladoja. But, it is not clear yet whether Ladoja is still going to run this time around. Kaka declared his intention recently at the Nigeria Union of Journalists, Ogun State Council secretariat at Oke Ilewo, Abeokuta. The former deputy to Chief Olusegun Osoba and former Senator (Ogun East) said he has the experience, integrity and commitment to take Ogun State to the next level.  His words: “I am your man; I have the experience, the integrity and commitment.” He said he would be contesting again in 2019 on the platform of the APC. His Niger State counterpart, Ibeto, was until recently Nigeria’s High Commissioner to South Africa. He recently defected from the APC back to the PDP to realize his ambition. Reports say Ibeto is currently undergoing the process of obtaining his PDP membership card from his ward in Magma Local Government Area. He was the Deputy Governor for eight years to former Governor Muazu Babangida Aliyu. In 2014, he defected from the PDP to the APC, after he lost the party’s primary.