THE Court of Appeal in Abuja has set aside the judgment by the Federal High Court, Abuja, which voided Section 25 in the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018, which sought to dictate the sequence of the next general elections. Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court, Abuja had, in a judgment on April 25, this year, upheld a suit by Accord Party, to the effect that the National Assembly attempted to usurp the exclusive power of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) by seeking to dictate the sequence of elections. But, in a judgment yesterday on an appeal by the National Assembly, a five-man panel of the Court of Appeal, led by the court’s President, Justice Zainab Bulkachuwa, set aside the April 25 judgment. Justice Bulkachuwa, in the lead judgment, said the Federal High Court was without jurisdiction to hear the suit in the first place, because it (the suit) was premature. The court said the provision of a Bill could not be challenged in court until it becomes an Act and the lower court ought not to have assumed jurisdiction and proceeded to void a Bill that was still undergoing the legislative process of becoming a law. It said the High Court should have thrown out the suit for being “frivolous, premature, inchoate and non-justiciable.” The appellate court was also of the view that the plaintiff at the lower court, Accord Party (AP), lacked the locus standi to institute the suit, because the disputed provision of the Bill did not affect its (AP’s) rights or obligations as a political party. The court said the “general interest”, which is available to the public did not confer on AP the rights to challenge the provision of the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018. It said the suit was a deliberate attempt “to padlock” the National Assembly and hinders it from carrying out its constitutional duties. The court agreed that Section 4(8) of the Constitution allows the Judiciary to review the exercise of legislative powers by the National Assembly and determine whether or not such powers were exercised constitutionally. It said such judicial review did not negate the principle of separation of powers enshrined in sections 4, 5 and 6 of the Constitution. The court noted that a Bill only becomes can Act of the National Assembly when it is signed by the President pursuant to Section 58 of the constitution. It further noted that the Constitution gave the President the right to withhold his signature to a Bill, which is then returned to the National Assembly for further legislative actions that could result in discarding the proposed law or an override of the President by a two-third majority vote by both chambers of the National Assembly. Justice Bulkachuwa, in the lead judgment, said: “A court of law has no jurisdiction to decide on a Bill still undergoing legislative process. Such decision becomes null and void since it is not yet a law or an Act of NASS.” She said where a court entertains a suit challenging the provision of a Bill, it would amount to such a court “unwittingly interfering with the doctrine of separation of powers. “The court cannot grant an injunction to restrain the legislature from performing its legislative duties. It should, however, be sounded clear that the court has the jurisdiction to strike down any law or Act of the NASS when found to be in contravention of any section of the constitution”. She noted that the suit by AP was “an action that was designed to obstruct the legislative powers of the National Assembly to make law”. Justice Bulkachuwa cautioned that a situation where suits are filed to challenge Bills that are still undergoing legislative process could disable the Legislature. She said AP failed to show how the proposed amended election sequence would affect its right as a political party and noted that INEC did not file a suit to challenge the purported infringement on or usurpation of its powers by the National Assembly. “The suit was an academic exercise that did not raise any live and genuine issue in controversy for determination. The suit is frivolous and clearly an abuse of court process. “I resolve the issue in favour of the appellant. The judgment of the Federal High Court delivered on April 25 is hereby nullified. “On the whole this appeal succeeds, it has merit. The judgement of the High Court is hereby set-aside.” The National Assembly has since deleted the disputed Section 25 from the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018, which it later submitted to the President.