The pan Yoruba socio cultural organization, Afenifere on Tuesday said President Muhammadu Buhari’s call for the placement of national interest above the rule of law was illogical. It noted that the claim was a proof of the President’s lack of respect for the rule of law since assumption of office. The group in a communique issued at the end of its monthly meeting held yesterday at the residence of its leader, Chief Reuben Fasoranti in Akure, the Ondo State capital said Buhari’s statement undermined his belief in democracy. The National Publicity Secretary of the group, Yinka Odumakin who read the communique said the All Progressives Congress (APC) and president Buhari have failed Nigerians, even as he declared that the president lacks the ability to deliver his campaign promises. Besides, he noted that the APC and President Buhari do not believe in restructuring which he said remains the only solution to the problems confronting the country. According to the communique “We maintain that restructuring remains the major issue in Nigeria and the meeting reviewed the comments made by the Vice President of Nigeria, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo at town hall meeting in USA. The Vice president was quoted as saying “the problem of our country is not the matter of restructuring and we must not allow ourselves to be drawn into the argument that our problems is drawn from geographical destructuring , it is about managing resources properly and providing for people properly. ” “The statement of the Vice president should be viewed against the background that in 2016 the APC as a party inserted restructuring into its manifestos and in 2017 when the argument about restructuring became so loud, they set up the El-rufai committee to go and provide their own idea of restructuring and up till now they have not told us their new definition only for them to be telling us that restructuring is not our problem. “That shows clearly that restructuring for the APC is an issue to play gallery with,  they don’t believe in it, they are not committed to it,  and for the Acting President to say the problem of Nigeria is managing resources, we want to ask them how much of it they have done in the last three years ? “How much of providing for the people have they done? How much of managing resources have they done with the monumental corruption? The Transparency International has said Corruption has worsen under this administration. “Apart from the question of lack of coordination and incompetence in this government, it is clear that there is structural issues that is making it difficult to deliver to the people. And in any case, the issue confronting us today is not all about good governance, we have bad governance and bad structures and this is why we are experiencing bad governance within a bad structures, but even if we have good governance,  there are issues in our polity that good governance alone cannot resolve. “There is no any amount of good governance that can alter the derivation formula, good governance cannot address resource control, there are issues of restructuring that are outside the scope of good governance which is an essential ingredient of restructuring. “This remains the only condition for any political party to earn the support of Nigerians and Nigerians should not allow  anybody to deceive them again by playing on their emotions and after the election they will give another definition to restructuring, we have had enough of political fraudsters. “The meeting observe the recent statement by the President at the NBA conference  to defend the concept on the rule of law in all established democracy should be subject to some nebulous national interest or security. “Afenifere says and must be clear to everybody that this present government has done everything possible in the last three years to show clearly that it observes the rule of law in a breach and we have had disobedience of court orders,  detention of citizens without trials, arbitrary arrests,  extra judicial killings, invasion of National Assembly, invasion of National Assembly by thugs and till date no action has been done in it. “And many other clear subversion of constitutional role which is a great knock to our constitutional  democracy has been witnessing in the last three years” The communique stressed.