A lawmaker representing Ondo North Senatorial District, Prof Ajayi Boroffice has said that adoption of direct primary is the only veritable means to elect party candidates in Ondo State and other All Progressives Congress (APC)- controlled states ahead of 2019 general elections. Boroffice in a statement through his Chief Press Secretary, (CPS) Kayode Fakuyi, maintained that the adoption of direct primary is a ‘settled matter’. According to him, the national leadership of APC, President Muhammadu Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other prominent leaders of the party have declared absolute support for it. Boroffice said”As the preparations for primary election rev up, it is necessary to reassure members of the APC in Ondo State that the National leadership of our party ably led by Comrade Adams Oshiomole has adopted direct primary as the only means of electing party candidates in the state. “The position of APC on direct primary is clear. It states that direct primary will hold in APC – governed states while indirect primary/delegate primary will hold in states where the state governments are not governed by APC. “It should also be noted that President Muhammadu Buhari, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and other prominent leaders of our party have thrown their weights behind the party on the adoption of direct primary. Therefore, the adoption of direct primary is a settled matter. It is unambiguous. It is uncontroversial. It is clear”. The statement pointed out that the report credited to the Vice Chairman of the APC (Southwest) Bankole Oluwajana that, “The method to be adopted will depend on what the leadership of the party in the state wants”, is untrue. “It should be understood that the National leadership of APC with the exclusive responsibility to conduct primary elections across all states in Nigeria has adopted the direct primary. “It is neither the business of the zonal structure nor duty of state structures of our party. All party members are aware the constitution of the APC did not empower state chapters to choose or decide method of selecting party flag bearers. “Furthermore, the resolution of the National leadership is not subject to discretional amendment or modification by the zonal or state structures of the party”. The statement stressed. Boroffice contended that the adoption of direct primary by the APC would deepen democracy and ensure popular participation, saying” the national leadership has empowered all party members in Ondo State with voting powers for the purpose of nominating flag bearers of the APC in the 2019 general elections”. The Chairman, Senate Committee on Science and Technology maintained that  “no individual or group can snatch or hijack such voting powers from members of APC in  the state”.