Following the resolution of the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to combat armed robbery, kidnappings, vandalism and other forms of crime in the nation’s capital, the administration has banned the activities of scavengers also known as ‘Baban Bola’ from the city centre. They have been directed to restrict their activities to the official dumpsites in the city only. Speaking to newsmen on the development, the Secretary, FCTA Social Development Secretariat, Ladi Hassan, said the action was necessitated by the outcry from various residents  that many valuables have been lost to scavengers in the territory. He noted that many public utilities have been targets for vandalism and robbery activities that carried the footprints of Baban Bola practitioners. In a statement issued by the Special Assistant (Media) to FCT Minister, Abubakar Sani, Hassan stated that under the guise of scavenging from refuse bins in the neighbourhoods across the city, the Baban Bolas have been involved in many criminal activities ranging from petty theft to armed robbery, vandalism of public utilities and other forms of criminality. To put an end to this, the Secretary said Baba Bolas are to operate only at the Gousa, Karshi, Bwari, Gwagwalada, Kwali, Abaji and Kuje approved dumpsites, as opposed to moving from one neighbourhood to another collecting waste objects across Abuja. He said, “In furtherance of the commitment of the Administration to protect and secure lives and property of all residents of the Territory and in accordance with section 35 sub-section 1(i) of the AEPB Act of 1997, which prohibits the collection and disposal of refuse without authorisation, the FCT Administration hereby bans scavengers a.k.a Baban Bola from collecting, disposing of refuse, trespassing on refuse bins or similar activities in any part of the Federal Capital City. “Their activities are henceforth restricted to government designated dump sites outside the city. As a result, reports reaching the Administration indicate that residents in many parts of the Capital City have lost many of their valuables to these scavengers.” Pursuant to the foregoing, the Secretary requested the security agencies to arrest and prosecute anyone found to be violating the directive and plying their trade outside the official dumpsites. It would be recalled that the FCTA had earlier given a May 2018 deadline to the group to seize their indiscriminate activities in the territory after it held a meeting with the leadership of the Abuja chapter of Baban Bola and craftsmanship last April.