The Minister of Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Mohammed Bello has commissioned a N263 million erosion control projects executed by the Ecological Fund Office (EFO), in Karishi, a suburb under Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC). Speaking at the commissioning in Abuja, he charged residents and host communities to take ownership of the projects and avoid indiscriminate dumping of refuse. The minister, who also commissioned a similar project in Abaji, Abaji Area Council, said that the projects were expected to check flooding and gully erosion menace in the communities. He added that the age long problem of gully erosion and flooding in that part of the country cannot be overemphasised. He said, “Having successfully completed this projects, the living standard of the people in the communities would be enhanced. This would at the same time reduce danger to lives and properties associated with erosion and persistent flooding that had been experienced here in recent times.” Earlier, the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Habiba Lawal, applauded the contractor for timely delivery of the projects. She said the timely completion was made possible through efforts of the project coordinator and consultant, who had worked tirelessly to ensure minimum loss of time with very close monitoring and prompt honouring of all contractual obligations. The PS stressed that the commissioning and the handing over of the projectionist to the benefitting community is expected to achieve the dual purpose of enabling the host community to take over and exercise ownership over the project, and to ensure its maintenance and sustainability. In his remarks, the Project Manager, Katlego Engineering Ltd, Shittu Chidawa, shared an overview of the project. He said it was based on the scope of the work, which include site clearing, artwork, backfilling and excavation, stressing that the road was in a very bad condition before the intervention of the EFO. He added that during the implementation of the project, a total of 800 people were engaged from the host community, within three to four months when the project was implemented. Chidawa urged the community to take ownership of the project and also desist from dumping refuse in the drainage.