Super Eagles and Arsenal forward, Alex Iwobi has featured in a brand new campaign rolled out by video entertainment company, MultiChoice Nigeria. The latest campaign featured the ace player exploring intrigue, passion, discovery & suspense that is available on the new DStv Compact bouquet.  Iwobi’s remarkable energy, passion on the pitch and versatility, embody what the Compact bouquet offers. The campaign uses Nigeria’s most loved sport and the talented wonder boy to tell a story about the importance of choices. According to the General Manager Sales and Marketing, MultiChoice, Martin Mabutho “It’s always about choices. As people, we make choices every single day, and the choices we make play a huge role in shaping who we become in future. Alex Iwobi is who he is today because of some of the brilliant choices he made in the past; taking up his uncle’s mantle by juggling a football, to signing with top football club, Arsenal FC. ‘’The power of fun & affordability defines Compact and with over 120 channels, our customers are spoilt for choice with front row live football action from the Premier League, Serie A, La Liga and perfectly picked local drama series, action movies and other lifestyle channels’’, he added. “Viewers will experience intrigue, passion, discovery & suspense #INPADISU by watching all the Premier League matches on the Compact package for N6,800 monthly”, said Mabutho. New subscribers are not left out in the football extravaganza as they can get our limited offer of HD Decoder, dish kit + one month DStv Compact subscription for only N11,900.’’ What’s more, Explora ambassador, Somkele swings into a journey of unlocking her passion. Speaking further, Mabutho said “we remain committed to offering our customers more value.  We recently wrapped up the DStv Open Window where subscribers were treated to extra Sports channels at NO EXTRA cost as well as the addition and broadcast of Italian competition, Serie A. We have no doubt that Iwobi’s story will resonate with our passion for the game and our customers’’, he said. The full-fledged campaign that includes TV, Out-of-home, digital, radio and press adverts has officially been launched to coincide with the 2018/19 Premier League season. With such amazing features such as DStv’s video on demand service, Catch Up, Compact subscribers with an active Explora and PVR subscription can key into the experience. DStv Now is also available to Compact customers with an active subscription. 