World leaders, water, development experts, among other stakeholders are converging on Stockholm, Sweden, to find new, nature-based solutions to meet escalating global water crisis. In a statement by Ms. Jens Berggren, Communications Director, Stockholm International Water Institute (SIWI) the event would be a wake-up call on the challenges that climate change, economic and population growth, and increasingly unpredictable weather and water patterns impose on global water security. The 2018 World Water Week will be held from Aug. 26 to 31, under the theme: `Water, Ecosystems and Human Development’, an issue of particular relevance given the past year’s many extreme weather events. Berggren stated that the event would be a wake-up call on the challenges that climate change, economic and population growth, and increasingly unpredictable weather and water patterns impose on global water security. “The UN expects that by 2025, 1.8 billion people will suffer from water scarcity, recent weather-related events also underline the critical role ecosystems play for human well-being and existence. “Nature-based solutions as effective tools for human development will also be a focus of this year’s theme,’’ she said. She added that no fewer than 3,300 participants from more than 130 countries will be attending the World Water Week, representing governments, private sector, multilateral organisations, civil society and academia. Speakers at the opening session  on Aug. 27 include Amina Mohammed, Deputy Secretary-General United Nations, and the 2018 Stockholm Water Prize Laureates Professors Mark van Loosdrecht and Bruce Rittmann. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that SIWI is an international water institute working to solve global water challenges by improving how water is used and managed. According to Berggren, group influences decision-makers, facilitates dialogue and builds knowledge in water issues, thereby contributing to a just, prosperous and sustainable future for all. NAN also reports that SIWI organises the world’s most important annual water and development meeting, World Water Week, and it awards the Stockholm Water Prize and Stockholm Junior Water Prize. The World Water Week brings together more than 3,500 participants from more than 130 countries representing governments, private sector, multilateral organizations, civil society and academia to shape joint solutions to global water challenges.