Leaders of the All Progressive Congress in Edo Central Senatorial district have condemned last week’s attack on the convoy of Governor Godwin Obaseki by some youths believed to have been hired. Edo Central Senatorial district which is home to Esan speaking people of Edo State is made up of five local government areas. Governor Obaseki was at Irrua, headquarters of Esan Central local government to meet with APC leaders to discuss issues surrounding the nomination of candidates when some youth stormed the venue with placards. The youth wore t-shirts inscribed with the Esan Youth Movement and chanted invective words demanding ‘no imposition of candidates. As Obaseki made to leave venue of the meeting, the youths pelted his convoy with sachet waters and stones. The Esan APC leaders told newsmen yesterday that those responsible for the attack were not members of the APC. Speaking to newsmen on Saturday, leader of the APC in Esan South East local government, Mr. Victor Eboigbe, described the attack as barbaric and uncivilised. Eboigbe said Esan leaders and youth do not support such action against a performing Governor like Obaseki. He stated that punitive actions would be taken against those behind the attack after investigations have been concluded. Eboigbe assured that Esan leaders were united ahead of the 2019 general elections adding that Governor Obaseki assured that no candidate would be imposed on the people. According to him, “I do not believe the people responsible for the attack are members of the APC. No APC youth will behave like that to our Governor. What they did was barbaric, uncivilised and we will get to the bottom of it. “I don’t care what they protest about. Esan leaders and youth do not support them. It is not correct that no leader tried to call the youth to order. I didn’t think that with the way they were going about it, if you listen to them, you will be giving them credibility. You will be encouraging them to do something like that. “I believe that the reason some of them join in the attack is because in the past, they did it and got that they wanted.” Another leader of the party and senatorial aspirant, Mr. Theophillus Okoh, said information available indicated that some of the youths arrested were from Delta state. “Those alleging that Esan Leaders masterminded the attack are just been mischievous. I know that investigation into the matter is going on and those behind it will be exposed.” 