The Director-General, Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr Dakuk Peterside, has said the agency’s floating dockyard will save the country N36 billion annually. He added that the agency has embarked on several initiatives that will make the Agency  the leading Maritime Administration in Africa, it was learnt yesterday. Peterside spoke with reporters in Lagos yesterday.  The NIMASA helmsman said he was determined to advance the nation’s global maritime  goals and promote its  rapid economic development. NIMASA, he said, would achieve a robust and business friendly maritime domain to make the country a hub of maritime activities in the West and Central Africa. Peterside said: “It is remarkable to note that the past. three years have been very eventful for the Nigerian Maritime  Administration and Safety Agency. “After appointment of the new Executive Management of the Agency, the team understood the critical need for overall reform in the Agency to break away from the old ways of doing things and conform to the mantra of the present administration of President Muhammodu Buhori (GCFR), which required a new and purposeful start for Nigeria in all sectors of our national economy. “Beginning with a quick Strategic: Implementation Plan (SIP), in alignment with the programme of the Federal Government, the NIMASA Executive Management has initiated series of management performance briefings and critical reform intervention  sessions, where the priority actions to put the  Agency on o path of sustainable growth to impact the maritime industry as well as promote and ensure overall development of the sector were taken. “ In order to remain focused on our mandates, the Agency in its entirety adopted a new VISION, MISSION and CORE VALUES, which is to serve as a compass towards realising our goals of making Nigerian maritime sector a hub in Africa. Some of the core values of NIMASA as identified by Peterside include commitment to make the agency the best in Africa, promoting accountability, professionalism, integrity ,teamwork, excellence , leadership qualities and discipline among the staff, operators and stakeholders working with the agency. To enforce compliance and promote maritime domain awareness, Peterside said, NIMASA, had in the test six months, captured a total of 1,685 tanker ships operating on the nation’s territorial waters through its Satellite Surveillance System. “Of these operations, 284 were carried out at the anchorage area through lightering. Effectively, through surveillance guided enforcement operations, the 284 tankers that were lightened at the anchorage were hindered from participating in Cobotoge Operations . “This hos Impacted positively on Cobotoge trode creating room for more local participation. This was not the case in , 2017 when we could not separate between anchorage .. operations and Cobotoge trade with high likelihood of 532 international vessels proceeding on Cobotoge trode otter lightering operations at the anchorage, he said. NIMASA, findings revealed, has been able to establish a satellite surveillance control and command center that has a coverage of up to 312 nautical miles from coast line (approximately 100 nautical miles off our EEZ). The system, it was learnt, can detect vessels with AIS transponders switched off as a synthetic aperture raider (SAR images which can be interrogated) immediately by near point of sight patrol / enforcement boots. “The Agency secured the reactivation of the maritime domain awareness capability. This has enabled effective enforcement of regulations. Our surveillance system enables us to ensure the preservation of Cabotoge trade for indigenous operators by “ identifying and differentiating Ship-To-Ship (STS) operations that take place at the secured anchorage and offshore locations from Cobotoge trade to avoid foreign domination in Cobotoge trade under the guise of STS,” Peterside said.