A 25-year old woman was allegedly shot dead by her boy friend, Chika Modili in Oranto village Ukpo in Dunukofia local government area of Anambra state. The deceased, Uchenna Onyeama, was said have been shot dead inside the room of the suspect’s friend, identified as Nonso Nwabueze. The cause of dastardly act could not be ascertained as at press time. Confirming the incident, the Police public relations Officer in the state, Haruna Mohammed, said the suspects escaped to unknown destination after committing the murder. “On the 29/7/2018 at about 1830hrs, One Uchenna Onyeama, female aged 25 of Orofia village, Abagana was shot and killed by one Chika Modili male of Oranto ukpo inside his friend’s room at oranto village ukpo. “Police detectives attached to Dunokofia division led by the DPO visited the scene of crime and discovered that the room occupied by one Nonso Nwabueze was locked and the suspects escaped to unknown destination. “Power of Ingress was used to gain entrance into the room and victim was rushed to Odumegwu Ojukwu university teaching hospital where she was confirmed dead by a medical doctor. He said the corpse had been deposited at the mortuary for autopsy, while efforts are on to apprehend the fleeing suspects. “One single barrel gun and one expanded cartridge suspected to be used in perpetrating the dastardly act was also recovered inside the room,” he added. Similarly, a 34-year old man, James Nwogha, allegedly killed his 30-year old wife in Nkpor, Idemili North local government area of the state. The suspect, reportedly hit the deceased, Jennifer Nwogha with a mortar piston following a sharp disagreement that ensued between them. The Police spokesperson, Haruna Mohammed, who also confirmed the incident, said the suspect has been arrested and detained. “On 31/7/2018 at about 0012hrs, one James Nwogha male aged 34 years of NO.2 Umudioka Street Nkpor used mortar piston and hit his wife one Jennifer Nwogha female aged 30 years of the same address on the head during altercation that ensued between them, as a result of which she died instantly. “Scene of crime was visited by police detectives attached to Ogidi division, corpse photographed and deposited at Iyienu Mortuary for autopsy after it was certified dead by a medical doctor. “The mortar piston used in perpetrating the crime was recovered and Case is under investigation after which suspect would be charged to Court for prosecution,” he said.