*signs up for National Youth service Corps Nigeria’s music sensation David Adeleke otherwise called Davido may have sent a direct advise to Nigerian youths to put their records right as they undertake the journey of life. The Music graduate who has made a huge career of his passion registered for the mandatory one year National Youth Service corps on Tuesday while indirectly urging the Nigerian youth not to take anything for granted. Otondo OBO …  #Nysc .. Tying up  every loose end!” The 25 year old dished out on his twitter handle @iam_Davido The twit was followed by a picture of the musical idol in NYSC Uniform as he sat on one of his eye popping rides. Davido who only recently celebrated the arrival of his private jet will no doubt inspire many academically inclined youths in the country with his decision to key into the mandatory one year service three years after bagging a bachelors degree in Music. Davido graduated from Babcock University, Ilisan- Remo, Ogun State, in 2015 after completing his course in music. His graduation ceremony it will be recalled attracted crème dela crème of the society including respected producer of popular track ‘Doro buchi’ done in collaboration with high flying female artist Tiwa Savage. Davido who has been hailed by some of his fans for taking the step will expectedly partake in all the known sporting activities in camp viz endurance trek,inter platoon football competition, tug of war to mention just  few.  There are strong indications that while in camp Davido may be drafted to play a role in the Orientation Broadcasting Service (OBS) which aside from passing information/announcement to corps members in camp also conducts live interviews and request shows. The compulsory one year National Service for graduates in the country was introduced in 1973 under the regime of under General Yakubu Gowon. Recall that Davido featured in the World Cup theme song for Super Eagles ahead of the last world cup in Russia in the form of video with commercial soft drink company pepsi.  The video which became instant hit also featured other pop stars like Wizkid and Tiwa Savage alongside midfield maestro Jay Jay Okocha and Arsenal forward Alex Iwobi.   