The leadership question was the subject of discussion as dignitaries converged on the MUSON Centre in Lagos to mark the 70th birthday of one of Nigeria’s foremost journalists Mr Ray Ekpu. The event also commemorated Ekpu’s 45-year career in journalism, the highpoint of which was the co-founding of Newswatch magazine with the late Dele Giwa, Mr Yakubu Mohammed and Mr Dan Agbese. The Ray Ekpu 70th Birthday Colloquium with the theme: Nigeria: The Leadership Question provided a forum for those whose lives were touched by Ekpu’s acts of kindness and mentorship to pay their tributes. The guest lecturer was former editorial board chairman of the Daily Times and The Guardian, Dr Chidi Amuta, who was represented by Agbese. Former External Affairs Minister Prof Bolaji Akinyemi chaired the event. The Nation Editorial Board chairman Mr Sam Omatseye, former Editor-in-Chief at The Guardian Mr Debo Adesina and Enough is Enough Nigeria Executive Director Ms Yemi Ademolekun were the discussants. Amuta was of the view that only strong and purposeful leaders could rescue a nation from the brinks of tragic failure to a new sense of direction. According to him, the crisis of leadership remains a problem in Nigeria. “We remain frozen in that moment and mired in that intractable crisis,” he said. To him, Nigeria needs the kind of leadership with the ability to develop a vision of community and the capacity to translate that vision into beneficial reality in a manner that carries the followership along. A leader, he said, must be enlightened to envision an alternative higher reality; must have the executive capacity to translate the vision into reality, and must possess personal electricity or charisma, including integrity, to attract and carry the followership. “The consequences of past leadership missteps and failures now haunt us all,” he said, adding that they manifest in dangerous highways, insurgency and general insecurity to the extent that life in villages has been rendered “even more capricious, brutish and short.” “Let us not be deceived. Leadership can kill or save a nation. History is as full of nations that have been ruined by bad leadership as it is of others that have been saved and resurrected from Hell because of the emergence of true leadership in the midst of disaster,” Amuta said. He cited instances of countries that have been transformed by quality leadership, such as Singapore and Botswana. “Only leaders that have personal integrity, decency and moral stature can respect and preserve the institutions for the common good,” he said. Among his recommendations on how to get the leadership question right is the outlawing of the concept of zoning. He said political parties should rather zone the leadership to merit, which he said can be found all over the country. He also wants the constitutional guarantee of immunity removed, emphasing that a polity that allows unfit persons to occupy high office cannot also grant them immunity from prosecution. He paid tribute to Ekpu, saying: “The real significance of the leadership of Ray and Newswatch is not in the sacrifices they had to make as leaders. “It is in their legacy in Nigerian media and journalism. The abiding gospel of Newswatch is possibility. It is possible to liberate the voice of the people, to give meaning to the freedom of expression as a cardinal aspiration of a free society.” Prof Akinyemi decried what he called “confusing” political developments in the country. “We applaud those we called villains last year and now they’re saints. We don’t know whether to applaud or cry. It’s confusing,” he said. He urged the media not to sell its soul. “If you sell your soul, you sell our souls. If something goes wrong, you the media will not be spared,” he warned. He paid tribute to Ekpu, hailing him for surviving the toughest of times in his career, including life behind bars. Omatseye recalled how Ekpu offered him after job after reading his unsolicited informal letter and was impressed by the quality of his writing. To him, while the likes of Ekpu and his partners blazed a journalistic trail, Nigeria was yet to blaze the trail in leadership. “Leadership in Nigeria was tribally imposed and tribally inspired,” he said, emphasising that tribal politics resulted in strong men and weak institutions, politicians rather than statesmen and “ideas submerged in money rather than in direction”, as well as the search for tribal heroes. Omatseye believes that to build a nation with the right leadership, the nation has to have a soul. To underscore his point, he cited the example of an 83-year-old Imam in Plateau State, Alhaji Abdullahi Abubakar, who saved about 300 persons on June 24 when suspected Fulani herdsmen invaded about 15 communities in the Barkin Ladi local government, killing over 200 persons. Omatseye said Abubakar hid Christians in his mosque, risked his life by lying that they were not there, and succeeded in averting a bloodbath. “He was standing there between life and death. He chose to sacrifice himself without thinking whether this people called Jehovah or Allah. But he saw them as human beings with hearts beating like his own. “Until we have leaders with that kind of compassion and empathy, and a sense of sacrifice, we have not started,” Omatseye said. A former Ogun State Chief Segun Osoba disagreed that Nigeria had lacked quality leadership. He said there were “firebrand” governors in 1999, who he said kept former President Olusegun Obasanjo in check, otherwise “he (Obasanjo) would have gone haywire”. He said the Alliance for Democracy (AD) governors gave a Obasanjo a tough time that the former president eventually “rigged” them out of the Council of State. “I’m sorry to say it. People say I keep talking of Obasanjo. The day Obasanjo rigged AD governors out of the Council of State, that was the beginning of the downward trend of leadership in this country,” Osoba said. Also at the event were former Akwa Ibom State Governor Obong Victor Attah, Akwa Ibom Secretary to the State Government Emmanuel Ekuwem, who represented Governor Udom Emmanuel; Dr.Pat Utomi, presidential aspirant Kingsley Muoghalu, Dr Reuben Abati, Vanguard Publisher Sam Amuka Pemu and Lagos Commissioner for Information and Strategy Kehinde Bamigbetan. Also present were Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) President Mrs Funke Egbemode, former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs Chief Dubem Onyia, Ambassador Greg Mbadiwe, former Vanguiard Editor Muyiwa Adetiba, Vanguard General Manger/Editor in chief, Gbenga Adefaye, Thisday Deputy Manging Director Kayode Komolafe, among others.