A 15-year-old girl has urged Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) Imohimi Edgal to get the man, who abducted and raped her, arrested. The minor, a secondary school leaver, was allegedly raped by a 37-year old man on July 31 at Adefela Marcus Street, Powerline-Okunola in Egbeda, Lagos. The Nation gathered that he had his way with the girl after hypnotising her. The girl was said to have been found in the man’s room after a long search for her by her relatives. The rape suspect was said to have been beaten by some boys in the area and taken to the Moshalashi Police Station. At the station, the police allegedly asked the girl’s father to take the man to hospital before lodging his complaint. The man’s family was, however, said to have taken him away from the hospital without the police recording the case. In a telephone interview with The Nation, the girl said she did not know her abductor. She said: “I went to the mosque (Okunola Central Mosque), in my area that day to pray. On my way back at Powerline junction, one man got off from a bike (motorcycle), tapped me at my back and carried me on his bike. That was all I knew till we got to his house. He started raping me. I was shouting, telling him to leave me and let me go, but he did not. I was in his house till the next day. “The following day, while I was sitting in his room where he locked me, my father and other neighbours found me. I believe it was the two boys I was with when he carried me that told my parent because they live in our house. I want the police to find that man, they must arrest him, he must be jailed.” Her father, who simply identified himself as Suleiman, said his daughter was hypnotised, adding that they searched for her everywhere before she was found. He said: “We searched for her throughout that night of July 31, the search continued on August 1st. We found her around 5pm in Azeez’s room. When we could not find throughout that night. The following day, one of the boys on the street, who once lived at Azeez’s house told me that Azeez might be the one that took my daughter. He told me that people in the area have been complaining about Azeez’s wayward attitude. “We immediately set for Azeez’s house, around 5pm, we met my daughter seated in his room, she was inside with him, he had locked her in the room so as to prevent her from escaping. The street boys beat up Azeez and we took him to the police station. “When we got to the police station, we were questioned on why he was beaten and I was told to take him to a hospital. When I took him to the hospital, many of his family members arrived at the hospital and they were ready to fight me. I intended to take him back to the police station, but his family members never allowed me to, claiming he is not well and they took him away.  Since then, he has been free. The police asked me why I didn’t bring him back and I also asked them why did they not follow me to the hospital?” He said the doctor told him that his daughter suffered some damages from the assault. A non-governmental organisation (NGO), Child Protection Network (CPN), is demanding that the perpetrator be prosecuted. Its Deputy Coordinator, Alhaji Lateef Akinborode, said CPN had contacted the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) to act on the matter.