***as state Assembly holds 4th constituency stakeholders meeting  Lagosians from across the state have called on their representatives in the state Assembly to prevail on the state government to provide more link and inner roads, clear the state of refuse, provide more drainage, hospitals, makers, light up areas not yet captured, more social infrastructure and economic empowerment. These were the demands of residents of Lagos yesterday at the 4th edition of the Constituency Stakeholders Meeting organised by the state Assembly which held simultaneously in all the 40 state constituencies. The theme of the meeting was, ‘Towards a peaceful and credible election‘. In Alimosho 1 constituency venue, the Alajasa of Ajasa, Oba Sule Suberu and other speakers commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and their representative at the Assembly, Hon.Adebisi Yusuf for the commissioning of 22 roads in Alimosho recently saying it has brought great relief to the area, they however requested for more link and inner roads, while the Igbos requested for more inclusiveness in the scheme of things among other request. Hon. Adebisi Yusuf representing Alimosho 1 constituency spoke at the Abesan venue of the meeting and Hon.Adebayo Osinowo representing Kosofe 1 constituency spoke at the Mende Town Hall, Mende, Maryland venue of the meeting. Yusuf assured his people that he has been proactive in the Assembly and that he has never been found wanting, making reference to the 22 roads commissioned recently in Alimosho by Governor Akunwunmi Ambode he assured them that all their request in last year’s stakeholders meeting have been met while work is ongoing on the remaining ones Speaking on the theme of the meeting,Yusuf said it is in furtherance of the unflinching commitment of the leadership of the House under the Speakership of Hon. Mudashiru Obasa in ensuring that the people have meaningful representation through good governance. “It is also because of our concern for the peaceful conduct of the 2019 elections. In view of this, we your representatives wish to enjoin you our leaders, members and supporters of political parties and groups to assume the responsibility to conduct ourselves in a way that promote peace and unity of purpose during and after the elections. “The electoral process is one of the most important features of democracy with voters as the major stakeholders. The electorate must have confidence in the process for them to participate as this makes government itself to be responsible and responsive to the needs of the people.” Yusuf urged religious leaders and parents to contribute to the success of the elections by preaching against violence in any form, before, during and after the elections. “Community leaders are hereby enjoined to embolden our people to always take advantage of their constitutional right to vote”. Adding that it is the responsibility of every member of a community to encourage eligible members of their various communities to collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) and mobilise others to participate in the coming general elections. Osinowo said the aim of the constituency stakeholders meeting is to among others create a more conducive environment for credible elections in year 2019 “And to acquaint the constituents of the efforts of the Assembly in ensuring that the Government of the State further deliver on the welfare and security of the citizens of the State. According to Osinowo the Assembly has considered 41 bills and passed 30 into laws which are effectively addressing various challenges and developmental activities in the State while others are at different stages of passage. Among those passed into laws are: Lagos State Cancer Research Institute Law, 2017; Yoruba Language Promotion and Preservation Law, 2017; Lagos State Customary Court (Amendment) Law, 2017; Lagos State Electric Sector Reform Law, 2018; Lagos State Transport Sector Reform Law, 2018; Lagos State Teaching Service Commission Law, 2018; Lagos State Pension Reform (Amendment) Law, 2018; Neighbourhood Safety Corps Law. “Through these laws, we have been able to demonstrate the commitment of this House of Assembly to the improvement of lives of the people and protection of properties in the State. The evident impacts of these are the on-going construction, rehabilitation and reconstruction of roads and other infrastructure across the State. “It is also worthy to mention that the House issued various Resolutions and attended to petitions geared towards ensuring good governance and peaceful co-existence among the citizens”, Osinowo said. The lawmakers assured Lagosians that all their request will be worked on by the Assembly and forwarded to the executive for implementation. Those present in all the 40 constituency centers where the meetings took place across the state include: Obas and other traditional rulers, religious leaders, political party leaders and supporters, artisans, CDA and CDC members, market women and men, Arewa and Igbo leaders, security personnel, youths, educationists, landlords and tenants etc.