Former Senate Minority Leader Godswill Akpabio yesterday declared as mere “rumour” the insinuation that his seat was likely to be declared vacant by Senate President Bukola Saraki. He said he was not perturbed by the rsport, saying over alleged plot to declare his seat vacant. The Akwa Ibom North west senator insisted that if the Senate President declares his seat vacant, Saraki’s seat should also be declared vacant especially when there is no division in the All Progressives Congress (APC). Asked if he is perturbed about reports that his seat might be declared vacant due to his defection to the APC, Akpabio said: “Even as you are looking at me, do I look perturbed? I have not heard the report. Because the reason why I think that is a rumour is that there is, at the moment, no division in the APC. “The APC is one family. If you hear about R-APC that was not really a political party that was not a division, has since been consumed in what they call Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP). “So, there is no division. And so, any defection from APC to PDP, we will like to declare those seats vacant.” On the insistence of the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole that Saraki should beremoved if he refused to resign and whether they are mobilising for the impeachment, Akpabio said He said: “I just came in from Ikot-Ekpene, (Akwa Ibom State) where I decided with my people to join the APC. I’m yet to be briefed on any of those items. “I have not heard anything. And what I am hearing now is what you are telling me. But why don’t you wait for me to formally talk to you. I believe that when the National Assembly resumes you will hear from me directly. So, exercise patience.” Akpabio described his defection as “a big event that attracted the high and mighty in the country.” Prodded to say more Akpabio said “I have noted all your reports. We are also in Abuja. So, thank you for the reports.” But an official in the Senate President’s office said: “It is part of the blackmail to link Saraki with plot to declare Senator Godswill Akpabio’s seat vacant. “The processes of declaring a seat vacant is clear. Saraki has nothing to do with the insinuation to declare any seat vacant. We don’t want to be drawn into the unnecessary insinuation. “It is part of the black because Saraki has no plan to declare anybody’s seat vacant,” says a source in Saraki’s office who does not want his name mentioned.”