The immediate past General Manager of Abia State Environmental Protection Agency (ASEPA), Martin Ikechukwu Apugo has said that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is dead in Abia state and will never resurrect for any reason. Apugo said that the PDP has caused a lot of harm to the people of the state in the past twenty years they have been in power with misrule and that the people are tired of their bad successive governments. Speaking in Umuahia while declaring his intention to run for the seat of member representing Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency at the House of Representatives, Apugo said that time has come for PDP to be voted out during the 2019 elections. Apugo said that his desire to run for the House of Representatives is borne of the zeal to give the people of the constituency vibrant and quality representation which they have been missing over the years. The former ASEPA boss said that he is coming out after many visits by different groups asking him to come out and lend a helping hand before they die of bad and misfit leaders who have been misrepresenting them for years. He said, “Several groups came to me asking me to come out and save them from misrule and I told them that I am not interested but they kept coming for over three times which made me to consult before accepting their request”. Apugo continued, “I am not going there to make money as I have what I am doing which has been taking my time, everybody knows that I run a football academy which has not been easy, so going to the House of Representatives is to serve my people”. “Those who have been there before have always said that there is no money there and yet they want to return for a second and third term, if there is nothing there why are they so bent on going back for another term”. The former environmental boss said that when he gets there that the people of the constituency will see the difference as he is going to empower them with tangible things outside tricycle, wheel barrows and such which others before him had been giving them. Apugo who expressed surprise at the large turnout of people for his declaration said, “We have been unlucky with those who had gone to the green chamber before me, as they end up pocketing monies meant for constituency projects”. He said, “They use the monies to build mansions that their great grandchildren will not fully accommodate or establishing businesses outside our state, for these we are saying enough is enough”, “It is against this background that I am offering myself to serve our people at the House of Representatives for the good people of Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency, as their plight gives me concern”. Apugo noted that he is qualified to represent his people in all aspects including equity, saying that there are five state constituencies in Ikwuano/Umuahia federal constituency and only his zone Umuahia East has never been to the lower chamber of the National Assembly. He said, “This is why it has become necessary that all lovers of peace, justice, equity and fairness should support my ambition so that representing our people would have gone round the five state constituencies in our area”. The high point of the occasion was the declaration of the entire executive members of the PDP Ugba Ibeku Ward 1 of Umuahia North who was led by their chairman, Henry Nwaobiala and all member of welding association of Umuahia. The occasion was attended by many party stalwarts including governorship aspirants including Amb. Okey Emuchay and Dr Sampson Uche Ogah who was represented and Abia Central senatorial district aspirant senator Nkechi Nwogu who was also represented among others.