The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), started yesterday a two-week warning strike against alleged poor funding. LAUTECH is jointly owned by Osun and Oyo states. In a statement after its congress by the Chairman, Biodun Olaniran and Secretary Toyin Abegunrin, ASUU said its LAUTECH chapter got approval to start the warning strike from its national body. It noted that despite the Memorandum of Action (MoA) between the union and the Governing Council after its eight-month strike last year, governments of both states reneged on their promise to properly fund the university. According to the statement, the two states only paid one of the 11-month arrears owed workers. The statement reads: “On February 13, the ASUU in LAUTECH branch in Ogbomoso signed an MoA with the Governing Council of the university. “The signing of MoA led to the suspension of the eight-month-old strike on February 17. One of the fundamental clauses of the agreement is the promise of the Governing Council that ‘it will ensure that the governments (of Oyo and Osun states) will be made to be responsive to their legitimate responsibilities (funding inclusive) to the university’. “The Governing Council also promised to work out the modality of paying salary arrears, promotion arrears, earned academic allowances (EAA) as well as paying monthly salary as and when due. Of 11-month salary arrears owed, only one month has been paid. “The payment of monthly salary has become dwindling since May and nothing has been paid on promotion arrears and EAA. The union observed these reneges of the MoA on the part of the Governing Council and the university administration and several correspondences were made to the duo of the university administration and Governing Council to call their attention to the implications of reneging on the MoA. “It is worthy of note that most of the time, the Governing Council does not reply to our correspondence to it, and whenever it does, the message has been ‘bear with us until the university’s finance improves’. The latest of such correspondence to the Governing Council was on July 5. No reply was made on this correspondence. “Reviewing the MoA, the union observed that the situation in LAUTECH is not improving because the Visitors to the university are not responsive to their financial responsibilities to the university. The situation becomes unbearable to members of ASUU in LAUTECH, who are being owed 10 months’ salary, among others. “The branch sought and obtained permission to embark on a two-week warning strike from the National Executive Council of ASUU. “The ASUU LAUTECH branch is on a two-week warning strike due to poor funding of the university by the owner state governments. Let the owner state governments remember the masses and give them their social rights.”