The fifth edition of All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA, in partnership with the African Union Commission (AUC) has received 8, 009 songs and videos on its online portal as entry submission closed last Wednesday. And according to organisers, this year’s submission sets a record as the highest number of entries from African artistes, music producers, songwriters, Disc Jockeys (DJs), video directors among others, since the inception of the most prestigious music event in Africa. There was an increase in entries by 63% against the 2017 edition of 4,816 submitted entries. And out of the entries received this year, Eastern Africa tops with 45% followed by Western Africa with 34%.  Southern, Central and Northern Africa had 13%, 6% and 2% respectively. Reacting to the development, the Acting Director of Social Affairs, African Union Commission, Mr. Machacha Shepande, congratulated Africa’s creative industry sector for participating in the 5th All Africa Music Awards Entry Submission campaign opened on May 25, 2018. “The significant rise in the entries has also shown that African talents spread across the continent are awakening to the call to promote our cultural and creative industry continentally as well as to the world at large,”  said Shepande. “The continent’s creative industry can only grow when we give relevant support to our creative talent and craft. “Thus, the AUC calls upon AU Member States, and other stakeholders in the music industry to continue supporting its efforts in the development and promotion of the creative economy sector through the All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA) platform and other Pan-African cultural initiatives.” Submission of entries closed on August 1, 2018 for works produced and released between August 1, 2017 and August 1, 2018. The entries will be screened by the 13-man jury of AFRIMA whose members are drawn from the five regions of Africa (two each from the Northern Africa, Southern African, Eastern Africa, Western Africa and Central Africa) and one African each represents the Diaspora – Europe and America and a representative of the African Union in the person of Mrs. Angela Martins who also is the Head of Culture of the African Union Commission. And between August 7 and August 15, 2018, the jury would screen, categorise, grade, select and announce nominations into the thirty-eight (38) Regional and Continental categories of the award that will emerge winners of the AFRIMA 23.9 carat gold plated trophy. The main events which include AFRIMA Music Village, Africa Music Business Summit and the 5th AFRIMA Awards will hold in November 2018. These events will be broadcast live to over 84 countries around the world.