Abia State Governor Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu has assured resident and Abians that his administration would complete all ongoing projects across the state before leaving office despite paucity of funds. Ikpeazu who spoke at a reception in his honor by the people of Abam Onyerubi in Arochukwu Local Government Area, said a movement would be started in Abam that would involve everyone tapping into the mineral resources in the area for even development. Ikpeazu stating that his business in government is to do good because his emergence as Governor of Abia State is an act of God, also assured that the ongoing Anaele bridge reconstruction would be commissioned before the end of the year. He commended the effort of member representing Arochukwu/Ohafia Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, Hon. Uko Nkole, for his efforts at ensuring that his constituent gets the desired representation and development. The Governor promised that Abam would get a befitting hospital soonest, among other things his administration would do. In his speech, Hon. Uko Nkole appreciated Governor Ikpeazu for his efforts at developing Abia especially infrastructurally including the ongoing bridge construction at Amaeke Abam, Ndiebe Abam and construction of Okobo Bridge and expressed belief that other outstanding projects of the governor would soon be completed. He assured of the unwavering support of his people for Governor Okezie Ikpeazu’s administration. The Deputy Governor of the State, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu was among top government functionaries of the state that attended the occasion. Governor Okezie Ikpeazu says his ambition is to create a platform that will raise the self-esteem of Abia Teachers to enable them compete favorably with their contemporaries around the globe. Ikpeazu who stated this during a Town Hall meeting with Teachers at the Michael Okpara Auditorium Umuahia, said, such will be achieved by exposing their psyche through training and retraining in modern teaching techniques The Governor, who also described teachers as strategic and significant to the development process of any society, said apart from salary his administration is also upgrading infrastructure in public schools, pointing out that the four new modern schools built by his administration will be commissioned next month. He added that the state has the highest wage bill in the whole south East and promised that the issue of salary Arrears of all Teachers in the state will be history before the end of December this year. In a remark the senior special Assistant to the Governor on Education Mr. Benjamin Iroakazi, said, the achievements of Governor Ikpeazu in the Education sector including free school feeding program, training and retraining of primary school teachers, including provision of enabling environment for teaching and learning has given Abia students an edge over their contemporaries elsewhere In an address on behalf of the 17 LGA’s Education Authority, the Education secretary of Aba South Mrs. Ngozi Nwaogwugwu thanked Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for clearing the salary arrears of primary school teachers in the state Correspondent Godwin Ike Reports that the Town hall meeting which featured talk on Classroom management and Teachers/pupils relationship attracted the presence of stakeholders in the education sector. In another development, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu says his ambition would create a platform that will raise the self-esteem of Abia Teachers to enable them compete favorably with their contemporaries around the globe. Governor Ikpeazu who stated this during a Town Hall meeting with Teachers at the Michael Okpara Auditorium Umuahia, said, such will be achieved by exposing their psyche through training and retraining in modern teaching techniques. The Governor, who also described teachers as strategic and significant to the development process of any society, said apart from salary his administration is also upgrading infrastructure in public schools, pointing out that the four new modern schools built by his administration will be commissioned next month. He added that the state has the highest wage bill in the whole south East and promised that the issue of salary Arrears of all Teachers in the state will be history before the end of December this year. In a remark the senior special Assistant to the Governor on Education Mr. Benjamin Iroakazi, said, the achievements of Governor Ikpeazu in the Education sector including free school feeding program, training and retraining of primary school teachers, including provision of enabling environment for teaching and learning has given Abia students an edge over their contemporaries elsewhere. In an address on behalf of the 17 LGA’s Education Authority, the Education secretary of Aba South Mrs. Ngozi Nwaogwugwu thanked Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for clearing the salary arrears of primary school teachers in the state. Correspondent Godwin Ike Reports that the Town hall meeting which featured talk on Classroom management and Teachers/pupils relationship attracted the presence of stakeholders in the education sector. 