Street cleaners yesterday stormed Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s office, protesting the alleged non-payment of their July and August salaries. Chanting songs and displaying different banners, the workers who were engaged under the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI) complained of discrepancies in their salaries and of not being issued with identity cards. Some of the placards read, “Visionscape and Environment and others, don’t make life difficult for us,” “Accumulation of Salary: we don’t want deduction of salary,” “Don’t politicise our lives,” “Governor should know sweepers are also voters,” among others. A protester Mrs. Salau Ologun, accused their employers of making life difficult for them. The government, she said, was in sensitive to their plight, adding that they could not continue to suffer in silence. Addressing the protesters Permanent (PS) Secretary in the Ministry of the Environment Mr. Abiodun Bamgboye said their July and August salaries were ready. The government, he said, took the project from the company handling and was still trying to put things in order. “We were able to clear the salaries from January to June. It is true we owe July and August, but we have got approval for the payment. We are trying to audit the staff and the accounts and ensure that we are not paying ghost workers. “There are some anomalies in the system. Your normal salary is N18,500 per month. Whoever collects less than that should lodge a complaint and attach his or her payment slip if the person has been reporting for work regularly. “We don’t want to send your money through intermediaries, which is why we pay you through banks,” he said. The PS said their identity cards, letters of employment other conditions of engagement would soon be ready. On the worker that died, Bamgboye said the ministry came to her aid when she was hit by a vehicle. According to him, she was taken to Lagos General Hospital, where she was rejected. The victim, he said, conveyed to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), where they said there was no space. Bamgboye said the victim died before she got to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). “We will visit the family of the deceased and do the necessary things. We have provided safety devices for you, but some drivers are drunk, while some are careless. We have insured your lives and our government is ready to compensate the family of whoever loses his or her life on the job,” he said.