STIGMATIZATION: That is terrible! I am shocked and really amazed- NACA DG  “…Schools discriminating against children will be sued!”  Nigeria’s HIV epidemic affects all population groups and geographic areas of the country. Consequently, February 2015, the Federal Government signed into law the HIV/AIDS anti-discrimination bill to protect the rights and dignity of people living with the virus. Thus, making it illegal to discriminate against people based on their HIV status. In this second part of her diary-like five-part investigative report across seven states in Nigeria- Ogun, Lagos, Edo, Delta, Imo, Benue and the FCT Abuja, TOBORE OVUORIE reveals children of school age living with HIV are overlooked when populations disproportionately impacted by the epidemic are assessed. These kids, the investigation discloses, are not only stigmatised and discriminated against by the society but are denied their human rights to educational opportunities. It’s been five months since Mrs. Oduntan told me a double NO! The first no was for my daughter. The second, for my son. My supposed daughter and son, actually. All the same, over 16 weeks later, I still remember line-by-line every words that left our mouths in that spacious office, particularly her telling me she is certain my daughter will affect the nation; is for signs and wonders; the lord will perfect her healing; among other blessed ironies. The sound of her “we love her,” I will never forget. Can you really love someone- a little child, yet reject her because of her health status? I still do ask myself. I yet remember clearly the smile on her face when escorting me off the school building and promising to keep in touch in order to check on my daughter’s health. Was the smile and her words real? I now ask myself. If so, why hasn’t her 08033476444 ever beeped my phone? BIRTHING MY HIV POSITIVE KIDS It all began sometime in February 2018 when I pitched a story; this story actually, to the Code For Africa team. “What about making it a series rather than a long narrative,” the Nigeria office of the team had suggested amidst the numerous back and forth via emails and slack- our official communication channel. Then, my colleague and friend, Vanessa Offiong of Daily Trust Newspaper, chipped in what I would later discover to be a life saver: “don’t go to any school close to where you live.” The story? I was to move around as many schools as possible, across seven states, on a simple mission: to find out if the school authorities will grant my kids admission without any form of biases because of their health status. What about their health status? They are living with HIV. Yes! The Human Immunodeficiency Virus.  HIV POSITIVE KIDS ARE CREATED FOR GREATNESS BUT WE CAN’T GRANT THEM ADMISSION INTO THIS SCHOOL! March 28th, 2018 10:28AM ISOLOG PRIMARY SCHOOL, OGUN STATE “Your baby, what class is he?” the elderly man in a t-shirt had asked me. “There are two of them. One is in primary one and the other is in primary two,” I had answered sitting right in front of him with a table between us. I had always driven past the school but never knew it was this gigantic within. “The Primary one, what is his or her age?” “She is five years old, while the one who is in primary two is seven years old,” I answered again. Then the floodgates of money-list was unleashed. Registration form at N2,000. N63,000 tuition and N1,000 PTA fees. Then an additional N18,000 for new pupils and another N10,000 for graduating students. All these aren’t a part of the N25,000 transportation fare (to and from home), N15,000 lunch, N6,000 after school lessons, N5,000 swimming classes. All per term, but the N10,000 graduation fee is not. I almost yelled, all these for a child in primary one? I sat still, listening to him. And he reeled on. This time, about the boy. “We would give them tests before being admitted. If we have been the one teaching the child from the beginning, by six years he should get to year two. If I put him in year three, can he move easily to the next class?” Anything was acceptable, provided we arrived at the crux of my visit. He continued. N2,000 for registration. N65,000 for tuition and N1,000 for PTA. An additional fee of N20,000 and N5,000 for him as a non-graduating student. N25,000 transportation fare (to and from home), N15,000 lunch, N6,000 after lessons and N5,000 swimming. All per term. I almost burst into laughter. All these money for primary one and two? What are they learning in school? I was asking myself again.  AND THE STORY CHANGED “The major reason we are actually changing the children’s school is because the girl is HIV positive. Hope it won’t be an issue,” I hit the nail. The elderly man whose name I never got the opportunity to know sat back, placed the pen he was holding on the sheets of paper in which he had calculated all the children’s educational cost. Then, he told me he will send for the section’s head. The section’s head would later tell me she is Mrs. Oduntan, a guidance counsellor by profession. After exchanges of pleasantries, I repeated the same question. “The major reason we are actually changing the children’s school is because the girl is HIV positive. Hope it won’t be an issue.” And Mrs. Oduntan couldn’t hide the shock. Like other schools I have been to, their first reactions were “Aaaah!” She did the same thing. “It is risky. It is risky,” she answered as if her voice was moulded into a whisper. I don’t know why I felt so much weakness in my knees. Isolog primary school wasn’t actually the first school I had visited. Neither was it the first where I was told no. Then, maybe, because it is a school with so much religiosity and is owned by a major church which preaches holiness and love. The school on her website promises ‘brotherly love and affection among staff and students’. Even new pupils are ‘ushered into the presence of the Almighty God.’ “Why do you think so?” I asked, my eyes fixed on her. “The child is HIV positive. The children, they play and while they play, there may be cuts and do you know what that means? Contamination. That means they would be easily infected.” It was supposed to be a story. But I was heartbroken. “Does that mean it’s only the boy that can be taken? He is not HIV positive,” I tried to make a case further. At least, there could be some light at the end of the tunnel. “Why not put them in the same school?” I missed a breath. Even him too? I asked myself. “What I am saying is that I don’t want to be selfish. I am a guidance counsellor,” she continued. “When you have siblings, it is better they are together….siblings should be together.” I don’t understand why, but I became numb. How many parents could have been told this? And, how many more would be in my position? I kept asking myself. The shock-series was not over. Mrs. Oduntan collected the sheets of paper which the elderly man had written the breakdown of the school fees for the two kids, from me. She smiled while at it and prayed that she is certain my daughter will affect the nation positively; she has been created for greatness; is for signs and wonders; the lord will perfect her healing…and promised phoning me to check on her health. “We love her,” she said at the exit after we had exchanged phone numbers. Over 16 weeks later, not even a beep from her.   The Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) pandemic is by far the most persistent medical challenge of man and science at the turn of the century. Since its discovery in America, the virus which is responsible for the development of AIDS has eluded medical solution. The HIV, reports indicate, is most severe in the developing world, with Sub Saharan Africa being the most affected. Unfortunately, the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) says Nigeria has the second largest HIV epidemic in the world with 3.2 million people living with the virus in 2016, among whom only 30 percent were accessing antiretroviral therapy. She also has one of the highest rates of new infection in sub-Saharan Africa with 220,000 persons freshly infected in 2016, and 160,000 AIDS-related deaths. It is estimated that almost two thirds of HIV infections in West and Central Africa in 2016 occurred in Nigeria. Together with South Africa and Uganda, the country accounts for almost half of all new HIV infections in sub-Saharan Africa every year. This is despite achieving a 15 percent reduction in new infections between 2005 and 2016.  Many people living with HIV in Nigeria are unaware of their status, while the country continually falls short of providing the recommended number of HIV testing and counseling sites. Studies so far in Nigeria, reveals low levels of access to antiretroviral treatment remains an issue for people living with HIV, meaning that there are still many AIDS-related deaths in Nigeria. Among pregnant women living with HIV, according to the National Agency for the Control of Aids (NACA), 32 percent were accessing treatment or prophylaxis to prevent transmission of HIV to their children. An estimated 37,000 children were newly infected with HIV due to mother-to-child transmission. Among people living with HIV, approximately 24 percent had suppressed viral loads. The NACA says Nigeria is guided by the National Strategic Framework 2017–2021. The devised strategy aims at ending AIDS by achieving zero new infections, zero AIDS related deaths and zero discrimination, with elimination of mother-to-child transmission of HIV being a top priority. Global discusses indicate zero discrimination is the only environment conducive to ending the HIV/AIDS epidemic by 2030. Unfortunately, stigma and discrimination has been a major challenge towards reducing the tide of HIV in the country. And some Nigerian government parastatals such as the Ogun State Education Ministry, allegedly, legalizes the discrimination against children of school ages.  “WE ARE DIRECTED BY THE GOVERNMENT NOT TO ADMIT HIV POSITIVE CHILDREN INTO STATE OWNED SCHOOLS…” Zumuratul Islamiyyat Primary School II Ogun State March 29th, 2018 8:00AM “Next term is third term. The problem now on ground is that we have specific numbers that government gave us. And, in as much as the number has reached the number given us, any child we want to admit will need to go and purchase a form from them at Pakoto, at N5,000 and after that N5,000, you will pay PTA levy here,” the headmistress of Zumuratul Islamiyyat primary school II in Ogun state explained in details. She later told me to call her Mrs. Oyegbami, after giving the monetary implication of bringing my daughter to the school. After the journey to Pakoto which is along Ifo road, Sango, in Ogun state, I was expected to return to the school to pay N4,550 from which my child will be given uniform, while the rest would go for policy and insurance respectively. “The total amount will be N9,550. But if there is space for the pupil, if he can get a space, I don’t think there is space in primary two anymore, is it a boy or a girl?” she continued. “It is a girl.” “I don’t think there is space.” I was willing to pay anything to get the story. “Don’t worry, I will pay,” I quickly added hoping the bargaining will stop. “If you cannot go, there are some money we have already collected, if you bring the money, we can go together, and I will help you to get it. After that one, you will now be paying N1,000 every term,” she continued. That, I agreed to as well. Then, went straight to the point. “The reason why we want to change the child’s school is that the child has HIV. Hope it doesn’t count? “HIV?” she asked as if trying to remember what it meant. Then, there was something like confusion written all over her face. “Yes, HIV. The child is HIV positive.” And a reality I can’t really explain flashed from nowhere and hit her. “Ahhh! We can’t admit her o,” she answered shaking her head vigorously to both sides. “Why?” My eyes were still on her. “Haaa. We can’t admit her o. Thank God that you opened up. We can’t admit her. In fact, there are some policies whereby they (the government) asked us if we have anything like that we should indicate and send it down. There are some people that indicated and they sent it back and said they should not allow them (not grant such kids admission).” “At Pakoto?” I was rather amused the government would have such policy. “No, at Abeokuta.” “The ministry of education?” I prodded further knowing fully well that is the agency she meant but there’s no harm in confirming in definite terms. “Yes,” Mrs. Oyegbami answered concretely. “Why?” I wouldn’t let it go just like that. I was still amused. “We don’t know. It’s like you, you are a well educated person. Some people may be illiterate, they won’t take proper treatment. That is just the issue. Some won’t take proper treatment, while some will be hiding it, by so doing, it will affect others. And here, they do injure themselves all the time. In fact, while they were playing last week Thursday, another person just pushed a boy. And, the teeth of that boy just entered the head of the other boy. And even the teeth cut. Can you imagine that? If you see how blood was coming out, coming out; so they always injure themselves.” I cringed. I am certain she saw the goose pimples all over me. “So, may be that is the reason why they (the ministry of education) did not allow it. They (the kids) injure themselves, at times, they stab themselves with biro. This primary school level, in short, one has to be very careful. Secondary school, they may still play maturity at times, but these junior ones, they can eat together, they can do things together. Like the one that happened last week, in fact, if that boy is having something like that, when the teeth entered his (the other boy’s) head, the blood stained him. These are the things.” Grief and concern were written all over her face. The students’ injuries is obviously something she witnesses often but doesn’t talk about. Well, I pushed my luck a little further but in a different direction. “But my aunt’s son we are looking at bringing from the village doesn’t have anything of sort. Do I buy the form for the boy?” “Yes, you can buy the form. When you are ready, bring the money. During the holiday, we can go and buy the form before resumption,” she answered with this motherly air all over her. At least, the boy didn’t get thrown out with the ‘dirty bathwater’ unlike the experience at Isolog primary school, I told myself while leaving the school for my next location in the state.   WE CAN’T ADMIT YOUR HIV POSITIVE KIDS. THEY MAY INFECT OTHER CHILDREN IN OUR SCHOOL…! Peaklane Primary School, Ogun State March 2018 9:45AM The interior of the school is awesome. ‘This one is by far finer than Isolog primary school. I am sure their fees will send me running and screaming,” I said to no one in particular while sashaying into Peaklane primary school’s premises. At the reception, I could barely hear her well. The school was obviously having a party or about to. I had to raise my voice. “I am here to make inquiries about bringing kids to the school next term.” “How old?” Mrs. Kadiri the front office manager asked. “One is five years old and the other is seven,” I answered. “First, you will obtain a form for N3,000 each. Then, they need to write a test. And it is that test we would use in placing them in a class.” Test ke? For ordinary primary one? I almost replied. “The one who is five is presently in primary one,” I tried pushing. “It is the test that determines the class they will be placed,” she replied quietly. “Then, what is the school fees like?” again, I tried for some more talks. “Between N90,000 to N100,000 without meal and transportation. Meal is N13,000 and transportation is N16,000” she reeled on like she does this round the clock daily. Hmmm. These figures are more than the monthly income of many journalists in Nigeria. Can reporters who live on just their salaries which often don’t come as and when due, afford all these? I was already imagining. I don’t know why, but for every school I visited, something in me died. Possibly, it’s the big money these schools charge for just a five year old in primary one. The fees for primary five will then be how much not to talk of secondary school!? What are they teaching sef? I imagined and consoled myself. The school’s fees were beginning to give me a headache. I simply went straight to the point. “The one who is five years old is HIV positive. Hope accepting her won’t be a challenge?” “I will need to ask the director. Come tomorrow for feedback.” “What time tomorrow do I come?” “This time, tomorrow.” “It is 9.52am. So, I will be here tomorrow 10am.” “Okay”.   10.00AM NEXT DAY The whole school was agog with music. They must be very merry folks. The few teachers I saw dressed better than many bankers and the students looked very happy and well fed. I am certain the teachers own those flashy cars at the school’s car park. If I weren’t a choleric, and restless soul, possibly, this would have been a great place to work, I told myself quietly. And Mrs. Kadiri turned up from wherever she had been. “I told her (the director) about it and she said no.” Her voice was softer. And her eyes full of pity. “What reason did she give?” “That,” she kept quiet suddenly. “Please, feel free to speak,” I had gotten used not only to the no! but the hows and whys that accompany them. “That those children, if we are not being careful enough, it might somehow be transferred carelessly. That is why before they come in, we ask them for medical reports to give us details.” “Before they come in, you take their medical reports?” “Yes” “They are to go to their own hospitals?” “No, we have ours…”   As I journeyed through Ogun state, I got used to school authorities telling me: No! Almost everyone I told the child for admission is living with HIV openly exclaimed: “Aaaah!” Then, some tossed me back and forth. And stopped taking my phone calls. For several months, all efforts to get the Ogun state ministry of education to confirm if the state has such anti-HIV policy as claimed by Mrs. Oyegbami the headmistress of Zumuratul Islamiyyat Primary School II, and other head of schools, have been futile. The education ministry and state government never responded to even emails and letters sent to them. *** Ogun State Government, January 18th 2016 said 100,000 residents of the state were living with HIV. In NACA’s most recent score card: ‘Nigeria Prevalence Rate’, Ogun state is indicated as the third state with the lowest HIV incidences, after Zamfara and Ekiti states respectively. The State’s Commissioner for Health, Dr. Babatunde Ipaye, had said the government would not renege on its responsibility of providing adequate treatment to the patients. He also called on the public to stop stigmatising persons living with the virus. “The number of people living with HIV in Ogun is about 100,000, but its has drastically reduced and HIV has declined from 3.5 per cent to 0.6 per cent as contained in the current statistics by the Federal Ministry of Health,” he had said. According to him, the virus was prevalent in sexually-active people who are older than 15. He asked young people to avoid multiple sexual partners or use protection during sex.  But in a medical research: ‘Prevalence and Seasonal Variations of HIV 1 and 2 Infection among Children in Abeokuta’, Dr. Babatunde Olanrewaju Motayo of the University of Ibadan; Iheanyi Omezuruike Okonko, University of Port Harcourt and Phillip Okerentugba of the latter’s institution, say in Nigeria, there is lack of sufficient data to demonstrate the actual burden of paediatric HIV in Nigeria, although there are several reports of institution based studies showing various prevalence rates across the country. The three researchers say studies done retrospectively have however indicated that likely seroprevalence rate may range from 5.7 to 20 percent. In developing countries such as Nigeria, new infections of paediatric HIV are mostly acquired through mother to child transmission. Symptoms of paediatric HIV infections include respiratory tract infections, otitis media, diarrhoea disease, malnutrition and septicaemia. This puts infected children at great risk of mortality as severe immunosuppression commences early in children. The three researchers indicate children as the most severely affected sub-population groups with various medical and social implications. In 2008 alone, about 2.1 million children were reported to be living with HIV. This figure has brought to bear the extent of burden exerted by paediatric HIV infection globally. Recent studies have also shown a high prevalence of HIV infection among children in Nigeria. Ogun state still remains un-investigated for the exact prevalence of paediatric HIV infection. Researchers so far have only tried to bridge this gap in knowledge by determining the prevalence of paediatric HIV infection in Abeokuta. For instance, a six month retrospective HIV 1 and 2, Paediatric infection study was carried out by the group between January and June 2010 to determine HIV sero-prevalence and seasonal incidence of HIV. About 269 children ages 18 months to 15 years, median age five years comprising 164 male and 105 female children, were screened. Age range six to 15 recorded a higher prevalence with 7.9 percent (10/131) while age one to five recorded 5.8 percent (8/138). The highest incidence of infection was seen in the month of May with 154/1000 children tested and the lowest incidence was recorded in the month of January with 18/1000 children tested. The study showed a relatively high prevalence rate of HIV infection among children in Abeokuta.  OUR KIDS CAN’T BE CLASSMATES WITH HIV POSITIVE CHILDREN! In interviews conducted in different parts of the state, parents kicked against schools admitting kids living with HIV. Even children, teenagers and young adults did not welcome the idea of sharing personal spaces with anyone living with the virus. Mrs. Temitope Igbodipe a seamstress and mother of two said she will immediately withdraw her daughter from the school notwithstanding her being in primary or secondary school. She said children in primary school are carefree, while those in secondary school, typical of teenagers, will do the exact opposite of whatever instruction they are given.   Nofisat Bolaji, an 11 year old in her first year as a junior secondary school student said she will remain in the school and be friends with the classmate living with the virus but the friendship will be well defined. Miss. Bolaji said she wouldn’t share personal items like cutleries, books and clothes with such a person. She wouldn’t sleep in the same bed with a friend who is living with HIV. “If she sleeps in the bed, I would stay on the floor…because I don’t want to get infected,” she said.   Mrs. Opaleye, a trader popularly known as Mummy Bukky in her neighborhood in Ogun State, admitted to have heard radio jingles that people shouldn’t discriminate against persons living with HIV as they can and do live normal lives. “But as a human being, you know, once one is aware of something negative, you can take away your eyes, but can’t take your mind off it. So, I will withdraw my child from the school as my mind won’t be at peace. “You know, little children can make the slightest of mistakes. They can play with razor blades in class and what if it is the child with HIV that last used the razor blades and the rest are now playing with it? Kids in primary schools, they can make any mistake and the ones without the virus will now use the razor blades on themselves, they could get infected through such. It is not only through sexual intercourse that people contract the virus. So, it is better I take my child away from there”. She would do same were the child in secondary school. “To just take him away is better because you may think it’s just one person that has it, meanwhile he has infected so many people. Even children in secondary school do pack friends and move around. “Their wisdom may not have gotten so matured. They may do stuffs together (with the infected person) and make a mistake at anytime. They may cut their nails, shave their bears or armpits in class; there is no play kids don’t play …my mind can’t be at peace to leave my child in such a place at all,” she stated.   Mr. Olusegun Bamgbose, a student, first said he will warn his child not to share razorblades and sharp objects with the classmate living with the virus. He however emphasized he will tell his child not to run away from such a person as people living with the virus can still be our friends. But if the child is in primary school, he said “I will change the school. I will just change the school because anything can happen.”   CREATE SPECIAL CLASSES OR SCHOOLS FOR HIV POSITIVE KIDS Renowned lawyer, Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) and human rights activist, Mr. Festus Keyamo in an exclusive interview said the law frowns at every form of discrimination against people living with HIV. While condemning schools for refusing to admit kids living with HIV, he noted they are afraid of the social stigma because parents will withdraw their children from such schools immediately they hear someone with HIV is in the class. He however said the federal government must do something about this, while suggesting creation of special schools or classrooms for children living with HIV. “Like I said, it is against the law to discriminate against them, but even if the schools are willing, I am talking about practical reality, if the schools are willing to follow the laws by admitting children who are HIV positive, we the parents will not help the situation. We will go and withdraw our children from the school, and at the end of the day, they will end up being in that school alone. “You know, children play with themselves a lot, they scratch themselves with items and may exchange their blood while playing together, parents may not consider it safe. But the government must do something about it if there is a widespread practice like that, either in a particular school, they create a special class or create a special school for them. But it is important that they are not kept at home. Government has to do something to accommodate them,” he said.   IT IS A CRIME AGAINST HUMANITY, NOT ONLY KIDS LIVING WITH HIV Prof. Bem Angwe, a professor of law and former executive secretary/Chief Executive Officer of National Human Rights Commission said creating special schools and classes for children living with HIV must not feature in the list of solutions. “It is not appropriate. It is discriminatory. It is against the provision of the constitution which prohibits any form of discrimination,” he stated. Rather, he recommended massive enlightenment campaigns and which must be taken to school authorities. “On a broader level, there is the need to enlighten even the school authorities on some of the provisions of the constitution that prohibits acts of discrimination in respect to grounds of health, status, sex, race, tribe of origin and so on and so forth. “It is better to give a general reorientation and to launch a campaign in that respect. If you have a particular child who is refused admission on such discriminatory circumstances, then the child’s right can be enforced,” he said.   Mr. Obatunde Oladapo, the Executive Director of the Oyo State Agency for the Control of AIDS (Oyo SACA), declared the riot-act when contacted by this reporter. “There is a law against the stigmatization of persons with HIV. If you know those schools where such has happened, I will give you the number of a colleague and you just tell him I asked he should followup on that. “In Oyo state, there have been cases of stigmatization and discriminatory practices against people living with HIV and when I came on board about one year ago, one of the things we are putting in place is to ensure we have a robust response to that. There is also an anti-stigma law in Oyo state. Therefore, there are sanctions against discrimination against people living with HIV. And people that are found wanting or have contravened the law will be prosecuted,” he stated. Mr. Oladapo cited the case of a teacher who was sacked by his employer- a school owned by a church in Oyo state, for being HIV positive. The teacher had disclosed his HIV status to the school authorities who then got him tested. The result confirmed he was honest about it. Then, he got sacked after being told “we would be praying for your healing but need to protect the school community.” “We have referred the case of that school and the laboratory involved to the ministry of justice. And we want the school and the hospital that carried out the test to be prosecuted,” he said. He however warned that when people claim they are acting based on directives, most of the time, it is their personal biases at work. “That is very, very wicked, and that is something we should take very seriously….If these things are happening across seven states you have sampled in the country, that is a bigger problem. “Interestingly, I raised the issue of all these testing at private facilities but I didn’t expect it to be as bad as you have just depicted….Let me tell you, it is a crime, not just against those persons but against humanity, for you to deprive any child access to education on account of that person’s HIV or any other form of health status. It is criminal. “There are laws in Nigeria that are against it. There is the national anti-stigma law that makes it a crime anywhere in this country. And the law has been domesticated in many states in Nigeria. I know of Lagos, Oyo, Ekiti, among other states. I am not sure of that of Ogun state,” he emphasized.   AFFECTED PARENTS MUST SEEK JUSTICE Mr. Oladapo, who for over a decade has been standing up for people living with HIV, said anyone living with the virus who has been discriminated against should seek redress. And this includes children. On how to seek redress, he cited an example with his jurisdiction “you report to the Oyo State Agency for the Control of Aids, or the ministry of justice through the office of the attorney general and minister of justice in the state. “But beyond those official reporting route, there is the network of persons with HIV in the state that can also take up peoples’ issues, and I want to tell you even in our office at SACA, people can report such cases and we have actually resolved many cases….we have not, sincerely, had one reported case of a child being deprived of access to education on account of his or her health status, but a school that can send a teacher out of the school saying we are praying for you and want to protect the school community, but will be praying for your healing and it is even a christian school for that matter, will definitely reject an HIV positive child. Sincerely, if we have a case like that, we would not take it lightly, “ he added.  HIV/HEALTH STATUS NOT DETERMINANT FOR ACADEMIC PROWESS Medical documentations so far reveal treatment as prevention is now the accepted global standard in curbing HIV/AIDS. A cross sampling of medical experts’ opinions indicated once anybody tests positive, placing the person on treatment immediately is the safest way of ensuring other persons don’t get infected. Treatment, the medical experts disclosed, is a veritable major prevention strategy which the whole world has now acknowledged. “Therefore, everybody should test, know their HIV status, and anybody that tests positive should be placed on treatment. And what that means is that assuming I am a parent with an HIV positive child and I want to enroll him in a primary or secondary school, I don’t have to tell the school, but if for any reason I just want to tell because sometimes we might want to disclose for one reason or the other, the school does not have a right to deny that child admission. The HIV status, or health status of a child is not a basis for determining whether a child is fit for admission in a school for studies or not,” Mr. Oladapo said.   SCHOOLS DISCRIMINATING AGAINST HIV POSITIVE CHILDREN WILL BE SUED! Dr. Sani Aliyu, Director-General of the National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) in an exclusive interview expressed shock on hearing findings of this story. “That is terrible! …I am shocked and really amazed that in this time and age, people out there are still considering HIV as a topic to run away from. Within the populace, there is a lot of hypocrisy,” he said. He disclosed that the anti-discrimination bill passed in 2015 is being updated by the national assembly to accommodate children in particular, emphasizing that people living with HIV have a right to normal life, grow a family and the kids do have rights to education and other privileges a child without HIV accesses. “I am not aware of anybody (people living with HIV) who went out to deliberately get infected. So, why on earth would you discriminate against such a person? Even the lady at the school you spoke about, if she tests for HIV, does she know if she might be HIV positive or not?” he queried. He stressed that discrimination lingers because no one has been used as a scapegoat, especially schools which are legal entities. “They can be sued and they need to be sued if that is what they are doing. They need to be taken to court and an example made of one or two schools,” he added. Dr. Aliyu said HIV is not that infectious and is contracted only through intimate contact. He also stated that when on treatment, people can’t be infected, even through sex. “So, why on earth will you discriminate against a child? It is unacceptable. At NACA, we would support any child discriminated against. It’s not what society wants. “We shouldn’t be discriminating against people living with HIV. How do they know who has it? They live healthy normal lives. HIV is like any other viral infection. Do they do the same thing to people with other viruses? So, what is so special about HIV that people get treated in a different way? I am very disappointed that the schools are behaving in such a way,” he further expressed dismay. The NACA DG urged Nigerians to be bold enough to declare their HIV status. He stressed that one of the reasons stigmatization lingers is because public figures still keep their status secret. “If people know there are members of parliament, people in the executive and governors who have HIV and they openly come out and declare it, maybe the perception of society will change. What is wrong is wrong. It is wrong the way schools are treating the children and we will definitely not allow that,” he said.  SCHOOLS TESTING STUDENTS FOR HIV AS ADMISSION PREREQUISITE IS ILLEGAL Dr. Aliyu warned schools testing kids for HIV as part of admission prerequisite to desist from the act for it is illegal. He said schools can test for tuberculosis, chest x-ray, and check if a child has had the routine immunization because certain infections like TB and chickenpox are much more common and infectious. “I am yet to hear of any school child who has transferred HIV to another child in the whole world. So, it is of no benefit doing a HIV test if it is for the purpose of the school,” he added. He however stated that if such test is for the purpose of the child, it will help initiate treatment for him/her but must be done with permission of the parents, lest it is illegal. “And doing tests to determine if to admit (a child into school) or not, is illegal,” he emphasized.   Editor’s Note: The interview, photograph, audio-visual of the child- Miss. Nofisat Bolaji, in the story, are used with parental consent. This story was produced with support from Code For Africa and her Naija Data Ladies Fellowship Programme.