Muslims in Nigeria especially Lagos state have been enjoined to embrace peace, love and unity in order to build the society of “our dream together.” Lagos state Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Hon. Olajumoke Okoya-Thomas stated this in a statement made available to journalists as Muslims celebrate this year’s edition of Eid-El-Kabir. Okoya-Thomas said further in the statement, which was signed by her media aide, Oladipupo Awojobi that it is a thing of joy for “all of us to be alive to celebrate another Sallah in good health. “My warmest wishes to you on this solemn festival of Eid-El-Kabir. May the blessing of Allah fill your life with peace, joy and good health. “We, the women of our great party, the APC are happy that Nigerian Muslims are joining numerous other Muslims from across the world to celebrate another Eid-El-Kabir. “This is an annual event that brings to mind how Allah replaced Ismail with a ram for Prophet Ibrahim. May He replace your sorrow with joy and your few with abundance. “As we are celebrating another Eid-El-Kabir, we should all remember that Prophet Mohammed (SAW) stood for peace, love and unity in his life time. Nigerian Muslims and indeed all Nigerians should realise the need for us to learn to live together as one and embrace tolerance as a people. “While we are not unmindful of our challenges as a nation, we should all realise that there is always light at the end of the tunnel and that we can do better than we are currently doing. We should not over celebrate bearing in mind that we have a lot on our hands as a nation. “The current government of the APC both at the federal and state levels, are working hard to make sure that things get better and ensure that we move forward even as we approach another general elections in the country,” Okoya-Thomas said in the statement. The Women Leader was quoted to have reminded the Muslims in Nigeria of the need to use the Sallah period to pray for Nigeria, adding that no nation can make progress without peace, love and unity. She said further in the statement that the occasion of Eid-El-Kabir calls for sober reflection and that Muslims in the country should stand for the development of Nigeria, which she said could only happen in an atmosphere of tranquillity and peace. “We need peace in Nigeria to catch up with the developed countries of the world and time has come for us once again to remind ourselves of that simple fact that we have spent enough time battling insurgency all over the country.” The Women Leader then called for support for the leadership of President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, who she said have done much for the people in the last three years that they got to office. Okoya-Thomas reiterated that the APC remains the party with the best solutions to the problems confronting the country and that the federal and Lagos State governments have handled issues maturedly and have potentials to do more. “What is needed is cooperation from members of the public and I believe that this Sallah period gives us an opportunity to get across to the people even as we are celebrating one of the most important anniversaries in Islamic religion. “Once again, receive my simple gift of ” Eid Mubarak” wrapped with sincerity tied with care and sealed with a prayer to keep you safe everyday, ” the statement read.