Flight connectivity within Africa has received a boost, with some Nigerian carriers  getting set to begin operation on some routes on the West Coast. This will be a big relief to passengers, who have continually suffered connecting from one part of the continent to the other. According to experts, increased intra-African air connectivity will enable the continent  seize the opportunity for growth provided by its demographic and resources advantage. Stakeholders in the air travel industry have at various times rued the challenge of intra-African connectivity, which they claimed, has forced passengers on such routes to pay higher fares, suffered increased flight time and other hiccups associated with movement within the continent. Besides, the continent has also been at a loss economically, given that the situation has continued to be a roadblock to efforts at integrating economies on the continent due to the difficulty in movement of persons and goods. All these are set to change because two Nigerian carriers, Air Peace and Overland Airways, are set to commence operations into more countries in the region. While Air Peace has  four weekly flights from Lagos, Abuja and Accra into Monrovia this week, Overland Airways  will, with effect from August 12, launch flights from Lagos to Cotonou and Lome. The entrance of these carriers into the West African Coast will engender competition among other African carriers, including: ASKY Airlines, African World Airways, Rwand Air and Air Cote D‘ Ivoire, which are struggling for market share on the competitive routes. Investigation by The Nation, revealed that DANA Air and Medview Airlines, which had a stint on the Lagos-Accra route, have pulled out due to operational and sundry reasons. Investigations revealed that the pulling out of  Aerocontractors and Virgin Nigeria Airways, which  controlled the market share on the West African Coast many years ago due to challenges of capacity, bequeathed the routes  to the struggling Arik Air. Former Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) Director, Dr  Harold Demuren said Nigerian carriers could take the bull by the horn by converting the West African Coast operations to a single domestic market. Demuren said Nigerian carriers have the capacity to drive operations on the routes because there are no strong carriers on many West and Central African countries. Overland Airways Chief Operating Officer, Mrs Aunu Benson, who spoke in an interview, said the airline’s decision to begin flights into Benin and Togo Republics is to create reliable air travel services for the movement of persons and goods from Nigeria’s secondary airports into capitals of African countries. Benson said the beginning of domestic West African operations will provide travel opportunities for Nigerians, who hitherto could not connect flights from airports in the hinterlands to cities in West Africa. She said uninterrupted scheduled flights will now be available for passengers from Lagos, Asaba, Jalingo, Ibadan,  Akure and Ilorin into routes in some West African countries. “Overland Airways operations to Cotonou and Lome are to offer choices to customers as our contribution to regional integration in West Africa. We want air travellers in the region to team up and discover each other while enjoying the excellent services we offer. It is an expression of Nigeria’s aviation renaissance in West Africa.” “One of the most important missing factors facing sustainable economic transformation in West Africa is smoothinter-connectivity. Over the coming years, Overland Airways will facilitate a new environment for business, leisureliness, families, students, and more essentially bolster that bonding among the peoples and groupings in the region. There is need to reinforce unity and prosperity at the regional level,” Benson said. According to her, the airline will leverage its fleet utilisation programme to provide the right aircraft that will offer quality service on the route. Overland, she said, has in-house maintenance capacity for its fleet of aircraft to service the routes. “ Overland Airways relies on its fleet of technologically superior ATR and Beechcraft aircraft, and team of seasoned aviation and management professionals to drive its vision of providing excellent flight services in Nigeria’s and West Africa’s economies. ”We invite our customers to enjoy our premium services as we expand into the region to enable our current and new customers enjoy the Overland Airways experience in the region. We will continue to improve our services, and we are here to serve you,” she said. Speaking in an interview, Air Peace Corporate Communications Manager, Chris Iwarah, said the airline’s foray into Lagos and Abuja to Monrovia, Liberia and Accra, Ghana, will offer passengers more travel options. This, he said, is  the third phase in the network expansion plan  within the continent. Air Peace launched its first regional flight out of Lagos to Accra on February 16, 2017. The airline also added Freetown (Sierra Leone), Banjul (The Gambia) and Dakar (Senegal) to its route network on February 19, 2018. Iwarah said: “Monrovia, Liberia and Abuja-Accra will be joining our route network this week. We will also be inaugurating our Abuja-Accra service besides connecting Accra and Monrovia on the same date. This is our way of  expressing sincere gratitude to members of the flying public, who have continued to support and endorse the Air Peace brand. The launch of the new services will afford air travellers on the Lagos-Monrovia, Abuja-Monrovia, Accra-Monrovia and Abuja-Accra routes the option of a truly efficient, customer-centric and exceptional alternative. “Since the launch of the first and second phases of our regional flight operations to Accra (Ghana), Freetown (Sierra-Leone), Banjul (The Gambia) as well as Dakar (Senegal) on February 16, 2017 and February 19, 2018 respectively, we have received pieces of positive feedback, confirming how our operations have transformed air travel and eliminated the challenges of connectivity on the West Cost of Africa. “We are determined to offer our valued passengers  an even greater experience in safe, on-time and efficient flight services. The inauguration of our Monrovia routes would bring our regional network to five important destinations. Lome, Abidjan, Niamey, Douala, among other cities, will also come on board soon. “Air travel is essential to the prosperity of Africa as it opens up opportunities that did not exist before. Fostering the African aviation industry may be one of the driving forces of regional integration on the continent.  Better  connected African countries and regions through a viable air transport industry could be the catalyst that can boost intra-African business, trade, tourism as well as cultural exchange.”