THE Executive Secretary of the National Universities Commission (NUC), Prof. Rasheed Adamu Abubakar, has advised vice chancellors on sexual harassment of female students. He said lecturers accused and found to be sexually harassing students must be punished. The NUC boss spoke at the 33rd Conference of the Association of Vice-Chancellors of Nigerian Universities with the theme: “Revitalisation of University Education in Nigeria”. It was held at the Redeemer’s University, Ede, Osun State. Abubakar said: “We must ensure that the image of our universities being dented by some unscrupulous perpetrators of sexual harassment is protected. If this trend is allowed to continue, the future of education is bleak. The universities should be seen as producing graduates that could compete favourably with their colleagues anywhere in the world.” He advised the vice chancellors not to restrict their research and academic collaborations to international universities, but to collaborate internally with their co-universities in Nigeria and ensure that their products can complete internationally. The executive secretary, who hoped that Nigerian graduates could compete anywhere in the world, however, lamented that some international institutions found it hard to employ Nigerian doctors, engineers and other professionals. Welcoming participants, the host and Vice Chancellor of the Redeemer University, Ede, Prof. Debo Adeyewa, who is also the chairman of the association, told his colleagues that the onus is on them to produce graduates that can compete with their contemporaries anywhere in the world. He said: “We, therefore, need to encourage ourselves by stating the fact that the Nigerian education system is not beyond redemption. We only need a purposeful leadership, absolute commitment from key stakeholders and a sense of urgency to turn around the education sector. “We are glad that the current leadership of the NUC is resolutely committed to this. His style of leadership and ongoing restructuring through the NUC is heartwarming and points to a better future for the country. “While the society is quick to point out areas of weaknesses in our tertiary education system, we need to salute the courage, tenacity and doggedness of our able vice chancellors in moving the system forward in spite of the myriads of challenges confronting the ivory towers.”