Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Chief Akanni Seriki has said that defectors from the party to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) will fail in their plot to abort the second term ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari. He accused the defectors of political kleptomania, saying that many of them got better positions after the 2015 elections more than the founding fathers of the ruling party. Seriki told reporters in Lagos that the party could have averted its current travails, if the president has backed the call for party supremacy and discipline championed by experienced party elders. He however, said the defections notwithstanding, President Buhari will retain his position beyond 2019, based on his performance and support base across the six geo-political zones. Seriki said: “The PDP defectors came to the APC to take over the party and the government and it is impossible for them. They nearly succeeded. They became Senate President and House of Representatives Speaker, only to galvanise their PDP colleagues. Their target is the presideny. “Asiwaju Tinubu had foresight. He saw the disaster coming. That was why he was canvassing support for party supremacy and discipline. While Asiwaju was calling for party supremacy and discipline, Buhari said he was for nobody and for everybody. If the president had put his feet down on the election of National Assembly principal officers, this trouble would have been averted. Despite all these, Buhari will win. The party only has to work for victory.” Seriki urged the pr4esident to look at the genuine grievances of committed chieftains who are loyal and steadfast. He said many committed party chieftains may not have been given a sense of belonging by the BUhari administration, adding that many PDP chieftains were retained in government, despite the change of government in 2015. The politician said there should be an institutionalized way of rewarding party loyalty and commitment, warning that, if this is not done, loyal members can be discouraged from staying focused. In his view, the president should consult critical party leaders regularly on party affairs to prevent the impression that he has sidelined them.