Nigerian rapper, Eva Alordiah, has revealed she is presently horny. Sharing her experience in a new video, Eva who revealed she has been single for a year told of how she was horny while in Accra, Ghana recently while she also endeared her fans to channel their sexual energy into creativity. Eva who said she has been single for about a year now recalled how she felt horny throughout the two-week trip to Ghana. “I was horny for no reason at all,” she said in the video. “I could just be sitting and I would tell my friends, ‘I’m horny ooo.’ Just like that. I could feel the sexual energy was so intense in my body. It was like the strongest horny I have ever been in my life. Every single day, I was horny. And I knew I had to sit back and try to understand why I was so charged. And I had a couple of shows. I had about like three, four shows in Accra. And after the first show, I noticed that if I was horny before, I became extra horny after the show because when I’m performing, I mean, sexual is energy. It’s energy in your body and you can only transform the energy from one form to another. So, I guess what was happening was that I was transforming the sexual energy to performance energy, creative energy when I was performing. And with that the energy was multiplying. “By my last show in Accra, I was a mess. I was a totally mess. On stage, I felt so energetic that I had so much energy and I was going and going and going. At the end of the show, when I got to my room that night, I was messed up. I was just like, ‘look, I am horny.’ She said the sexual desire was intense and it was till 7am the next day before she could sleep. But she confessed she decided to tackle the horniness she was feeling. She also talked about not having to suppress anything. “Throughout our lives, we haven’t been properly educated about sex. People don’t want to talk about it. When they talk about it, they say ‘this is bad,’ ‘don’t do that,’ ‘you will go to hell fire.’ They don’t really tell us what to do. So, they tell you not to have sex. But they don’t tell you what to do with all that time when biology is taking over you, when energy is taking all over you. So, people are lost She therefore talked about how she started moving on couch, following the sexual yearnings of her body and feeling the ‘energy’ in her pelvic region. She said the movement ‘turned her on the max’ and she started having ‘creative ideas.’ she said she then ‘maxed out’ on her sexual energy. Though she admits it could be a form of masturbation, the rapper said “all I know I didn’t have to touch myself. I didn’t have to imagine that somebody was touching me. I just had to imagine that the energy was moving through me. So, try this and let me know how this works for you. Let me know if you’re successful in transmitting the energy from sexual energy into creative energy and if you’re actually able to use it. For the most part, I’m still horny. I still have my sexual energy intact and I look forward to doing some more creative visualisation with it in another couple of days.”