Governor Aminu Bello Masari of Katsina state, on Tuesday announced a cash gift of N72, 231, 350, to about 2500 pilgrims from the state who were performing this year’s Haj in Saudi Arabia, as Sallah gift Each Pilgrim was given the sum of three hundred Saudi Riyals, equivalent to N28, 892.54, when converted at the rate of N96.31 to the Riyal The Amirul hajj and leader of Katsina state delegation and Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Abubakar Yahaya kusada disclosed the donation when he visited the rants of the pilgrims at Arafat ground while they are performing their prayers. Kusada who further expressed happiness over the way and manner the pilgrims conducted themselves during the period, called on them to continue in that regard. He also urged them to pray for President Muhammadu Buhari and Governor Masari so as to enable them continue their good works Meanwhile Governor Aminu Bello Masari has felicitated with Muslims over the Eid-el Kabir, calling for more sacrifice and obedience to leaders in the true spirit of the religious occasion. A press release from the Special Assistant (Media),to the governor, Abdul Labaran, quoted the him as saying that religious occasions were moments which citizens should use for both merriment and sober reflection for the advancement of the society. He said “For Muslims across the globe the importance of the Eid-el Kabir cannot be over emphasized, as it signifies sacrifice and unquestioned obedience to the command of Allah (SWT) by Prophet Ibrahim( AS)’’. “For us in Nigeria, regardless of creed, the significance of the lesson of the occasion cannot be more poignant, coming at a time when our nation requires from each of us the twin virtues of sacrifice and obedience’’. “There is no doubt that Nigeria is facing serious challenges which the leadership under President Muhammadu Buhari is pulling out all the stops to address. The APC administration means well for all Nigerian citizens’’. Masari further urged the citizens to assist the leadership to successfully navigate the country out of the dire straits in every positive way and not allowing differences in religion, region and ethnicity to be used by those averse to the advancement of the nation to divide the country. He said “We must resist, reject and renounce politics of negative instincts, and put a distance between us and the proponents and promoters of such divisive tendencies, as their interest is at variance with the Nation’s”.