Nze Modestus Umenzekwe is one of the top politicians many thought would contest for the last All Progressives Congress governorship ticket during the last election in Anambra State. In this interview with Nwanosike Onu, he speaks on the chances of his party in the forthcoming general elections, why Ndigbo will vote for APC, the current defections in the parties and other sundry issues. Excerpts YOUR party has not shown any sign of seriousness towards 2019 General Elections in the state; what is going on? You are getting it wrong. We are strategising. You are talking about 2019, which is February 2019. We are serious and when we come out with our masterplan, you will know that we are serious. We are working and working seriously to make sure that Southeast will belong to APC during the general elections In 2017, people looked up to you for the governorship ticket of your party in Anambra State; what went wrong? Rome was not built in a day. I consulted widely with our leaders and they said I should allow others to vie, considering that we still had a long way to go. This gave reason for all of us coming together to support Dr. Tony Nwoye. We are not in a haste; it is  bit by bit. It was equally alleged that majority of your party members worked against your party’s candidate, how true is this? To the best of my knowledge, we worked closely in making sure that it went the way of our candidate. But man proposes and God disposes. I never knew of any APC member that worked against our candidate. All our leaders were there at Ekwueme Square at the grand finale rally to give our candidate the full support including, Mr. President, Mohammed Buhari, exactly what happened at the Holy Trinity field in Onitsha when the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), came and flagged off the campaign. From the look of things, it will be a tough battle for your party in 2019 General Elections. With the pressure from opposition mounting, are you not afraid? Not at all; opposition is normal in political system, people move from one party to another because of selfish reasons and greed. But in APC, we are on ground and there is no need to be afraid of any other party.  2019 Presidential Election will happen to many people like a movie and that is why our party is not the noisy type and we believe in working underground to surprise our critics. Being a believer in APC, do you see the body language of the president as one who is ready to carry on with the load? What people do not understand is that President Muhammadu Buhari is a very calm person. He is not desperate, but he knows where he is going. He takes time to get to his destination and he will do it in a genuine and democratic manner. He is not perturbed at all despite what opposition is doing and saying. His mien has equally brought influential members of the opposition to APC. I pity some of the leaders who defected to the PDP recently, because what they seek, they may not get when the time comes. But we in APC salute the courage of some opposition members who are trooping into APC because we regard them as those who have seen tomorrow before it comes. But the opposition say Mr. President is too weak to rule, from what you are saying, you don’t see him from such angle? Who, among the opposition, is stronger than Mr. President? People go into things they cannot explain; until we examine everybody, we now know who is strong and who is weak. Anybody can become sick at any time. The problems in Nigerian politics are noise making and name calling and if Mr. President behaved like his predecessors, some of them would have kept quite before now. Most of them make such noise because President Buhari is a real democrat. The one thing most of them are holding against him is that he has not opened the vault of the country for the vultures to feast on, exactly the way it was during the PDP misrule era. What of his silence on the issue of herdsmen killings in the country? I have said it times without number that Mr. President has made statements on the wanton killings and we know his administration is working seriously to nip it in the bud. But soon, the people will know those behind such atrocities and that is the much I can say about the herdsmen killings in the country. People believe that what happened in Anambra during 2017 governorship election may repeat itself in Abia, Ebonyi, and Enugu; how true is this? It is not going to be so, the indices on ground show that APC will win those states, during the election. The Anambra scenario may not play out. With all the noise in Ekiti State, APC still won and we do not believe in noise making. What do you make out of the silence of APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu? Our National Leader is a master strategist. His political sagacity cannot be beaten by anybody. He is a goal getter. The people of Southeast are now hailing Buhari for the works going on at Aba-Enugu-PH express way and Enugu-Onitsha axis; do you think the situation can make the people change? Many years ago, Buhari made it clear that Southeast will benefit from his infrastructural development. He used his eagle eye to put a seasoned administrator, a perfect gentleman and a dedicated Nigerian, in the person of Babatunde Fashola (SAN), and he has left no stone unturned, including the 2nd Niger Bridge which the former administrations never did. I also read the other day of the approval of over 37 billion naira refund to Anambra State on federal roads done in the state of which he had been congratulated by Iyom Uche Ekwunife and more are coming the way of the Southeast before the 2019 General Elections, despite the criticisms from some uninformed opposition members in the zone. These are the reasons our people have vowed to vote for APC. Is it true you want to represent Anambra South at the senate? My people have been clamouring for that, but I don’t think it will work. For now, my interest is just to get it right with our party members in the Southeast zone for President Buhari; it will be a distraction if I venture in any other thing without helping our party to achieve total victory. Even before now, they believed that I was going to be appointed a Minister or Ambassador, but all those things, didn’t distract me because we know where we are going. After our victory in 2019, every other thing can fall into place.