The Students Industrial Work and Experience Scheme (SIWES), otherwise known as Industrial Training (IT), was established in 1973 as subsidiary to the Industrial Training Fund (ITF) in order to prepare students of tertiary institutions for employment after graduation. The scheme is aimed at reposing practical knowledge in students and getting them acquainted with the work environment they are likely to meet after graduation. Before the establishment of the scheme, there was a growing concern among industrialists that graduates of institutions of higher learning lacked adequate practical knowledge preparatory for employment. Thus, employers were of the opinion that the theoretical education going on in higher institutions was not responsive to the needs of the employers of labour. As a result, students found it almost impossible to get a job in the field of their study because to lack of work experience. Hence, the urgent need for a synergy between lecturers and industrialists or prospective employers in the interest of Nigerian students and also for the technological advancement of the country. Although, the challenge of unemployment has not been solved, it is worthy of note that the Industrial Training has made great impact in the lives of many, with no exception of this writer. I am a student of Communications and Journalism and I have heard many testimonies of how the scheme paved way for successful journalists and broadcasters, as well as professionals in other fields like Information Technology, Agriculture, Sciences, Engineering and Management. Having recently completed the scheme in a period of four months, as a rookie with an online newspaper, I must say I am fulfilled and optimistic of a brighter future ahead of me. Thanks to my bosses and seniors colleagues. I was soaked in a deluge of field assignments; due to my unyielding passion and dedication to the job, my nose for news was sharpened, and with tenths of bylines of news stories and articles, I returned to school as a star. While a few of us saw the scheme as an opportunity to broaden our horizon beyond the four corners of the classroom, and acquire as much practical knowledge as possible in our various fields, majority yawned off these primary objectives and granted themselves a long vacation from school. Many lost interest in the middle, saying they were “being used by employers” with little or no remuneration. Many, especially ladies embarked on a totally different adventure, and coined a new title for the scheme. They call it “industrial romance” and here is the crux of this article. I was having a chat with a female colleague who had her IT at a radio station in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. I asked her about her experience and she replied with smiles and delight. “It was fantastic,” she retorted. “Really, how do you mean?” I asked with a tinge of interest. She laughed and replied: “You can’t understand, Tobi. I wished we never resumed back to school.” She left me wondering what the word “fantastic” meant in the context. I decided to examine her physically body thoroughly. I noticed how big she became, just in a space of four months. Definitely, there is more to her “fantastic experience” and I must find out. Already, I had heard of the phrase “industrial romance” used jokingly by students and even lecturers, but I never took it serious. I thought it was just a new slang in students’ parlance, but now I understood what the expression really meant. It is the new name for IT; it is a concept that defines the nature of experience exposed to female students by male employers in some places of attachments. May I inform you that this particular experience comes with adequate remuneration for ladies who would not decline the offer; for those who would not emulate poorly remunerated IT students who are mocked to have been “used and dumped” judging, perhaps, by their ostrich-like necks and darker skins. Little wonder, ladies in my class have grown so fat and well-fed. That is not even my headache, the most annoying part is they have become intimidating and unapproachable with their colourful appearances and flashy expensive mobile gadgets. They now see us as small boys that do not deserve their big meats. One even asked if I could present any of my laudable bylines to get garri or rice from Kuto Market. I almost hated my hardworking self, but common! It is a matter of time, when they would start coming for assignments and projects. In my usually ‘walk-around’ assignment on campus, I overheard a conversation between two ladies. Let me call them Sade and Bola for the purpose of this write-up. Bola who was looking hungry and haggard, was lamenting to her friend about her needs. She claimed not to have food stuffs at home, and does not even have airtime on her phone to call her parents for money. Bola was surprised by the response of her friend to her lamentations. “What have you been doing in the last four months?” Sade asked Bola. With keen interest, I moved closer to them, pretending to be reading a paper I picked on the ground. “What do you mean?” Bola asked in surprise. She is probably one of the students who fulfilled the purpose of the IT scheme and indeed explored the opportunity to garner practical knowledge. Sade laughed scornfully at her friend for being uncivilised. “Mehn, O dull gan o (you are so dull). Are there no men at your placement area? Or this is how you dress like old woman over there?” The young lady (Bola) could not withstand the mockery since her ‘civilised’ friend was not willing to help her. She left in disappointment. I was not surprised as I have suffered worse than that. SIWES has birthed two schemes, the one funded by ITF and the other, adequately funded by adulterous men in corporate organisations and offices. Verily, I say unto thee, the former is more profitable. May I share with you, a quote by Benjamin Franklin? He says: “An investment in knowledge always pays the best interest.” I feel sorry for the female students who wasted the opportunity. I am yet to hear of a success story that emanated from industrial romance; instead, successful men and women often point to hard work and pursuit for knowledge as their inspiration for success. The gadgets you have acquired through this unfaithful and unprofitable adventure would not last for more than a decade, but knowledge is a lifetime treasure. It never fades, nor expires. And to those who would argue that the knowledge acquired in the classroom is enough for the outside world. My experience during the training showed that, what we obtained on the field is a total ball game. The textbooks we cram for exams will not bail us out before interviewers. Also, knowledge is of no value unless you put it into practice. I shall also plead with the Federal Government and ITF to fund the programme and provide stipends for students. Education is not really expensive in this part of the world but the standard of living is very low; the struggle for greatness is tough, but we cannot throw away the baby with the bath water. Most of these ladies engaged in industrial romance out of frustration and inexperience. The men, who should help them and encourage them towards achieving their dreams, derive pleasure in exploiting these girls, taking advantage of their ignorance. Let me save my ink for another day. “The only thing to do with good advice is to pass it on; it is never of any use to oneself.” – Oscar Wilde.  