Recently, the headquarters of the Delta State Police Command was agog with excitement as men of the Nigerian Police Force (NPF) in their numbers witnessed the commissioning of the ultra- modern office of the Eagle-Net Special Squad and observatory post/transit camp within the premises of the Delta State Police Command by Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa. In addition to the harvest of infrastructural projects, 20 operational Siena mini vans with specially fabricated cell facilities for detention of suspects were also presented. It was a carnival atmosphere as scores of policemen and women in freshly starched uniforms beaming with smiles walked smartly, barely able to contain their excitement. It was joy unconfined. The buildings and operational vehicles were a jointly funded project by State oil interventionist agency, Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and Delta State Security Trust Fund. Although the project was initiated by AIG Alkali Baba Usman during his tenure as the State Police Commissioner in 2016, it was brought to fruition by the newly appointed CP Muhammad Mustafa, who has renovated the facilities at the Delta State Police Command in record time. The inauguration of the edifices mark an end to the sordid and harsh living conditions many policemen were subjected to  in the course of duty;  no longer will policemen live in makeshift  cramp quarters , exposed to the elements, but  these long suffering policemen and women  will enjoy the   cozy well apportioned buildings with modern facilities. Okowa  appealed for the support of all stakeholders for the security agencies so as to ensure peace and security in the society. According to Okowa, the task of ensuring peace and security of our society should not be left for government alone, stressing that “we cannot continue to leave the affairs of security just to the government alone; individuals who are blessed, corporate organisations ought to and should continue to support police in their work so that they can have the best in delivering their duties because when they have the best working environment they are likely to be more civil in your duties. “As a country and as a people we must realise that we require the partnership of the police and we ought to be their partners if we want things to work, the private sector should support the security agencies to ensure peace and security in the country.” He commended the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission (DESOPADEC) and the Delta State Security Trust Fund for the building projects and operational vehicles stating: “I  must also thank the management of DESOPADEC and the management of the Delta state Security Trust Fund for their collaboration with the police, starting first with the Eagle Net Squad and the Transit camp for the women that was built, we need to partner with Police Force to provide conducive working environment for its officers and members, so  as to get the best out of them.” While congratulating Police Commissioner Muhammad Mustafa for his leadership qualities in bringing out the best in his subordinates, Okowa eulogised the initiator of the projects, DSP Usman Dimka, O/C Eagle-Net Special Squad, Asaba, for his initiative in building the office and transit camp and urged others to emulate him. Earlier, in his welcome address, the State Police Commissioner, CP Muhammad Mustafa appreciated Governor Okowa for his support to the state Police Command and DESOPADEC for the partnership and the projects. Mustafa said the building projects will boost the morale of his men who will undoubtedly redouble their efforts at crime fighting, adding that the Eagle Net Special Squad with its over 100 personnel will “complement the efforts of other existing operational outfits such as the Quick Response Squad (QRS), the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), the Special Anti-Kidnapping and Cyber Crime Squads (SAKCCS), the State Anti-Cult Unit (SACU), the Dragon and Safer Highways outfits”. He praised DSP Dimka for initiating and completing the projects for the benefit of the Nigeria Police. He said:“ You have best exemplified the message which has been my watchword since my assumption of office as Commissioner of Police, Delta State Command which is: “leave the Command or any place you find yourself, better than you met it”. By building this ultra-modern office, along with its accompanying Women Police Transit Camp/Public Toilet and Bathroom, you have bequeathed a worthwhile legacy to generations of policemen and women and even those yet unborn who one day will serve in this Command.” DSP Dimka said the projects were in fulfillment of his vision of what the future police station should look like and providing conducive working environment for his colleagues. 