OZEGBE: My name is Ozegbe. I am from Delta State. I retired on October 15, 2006 as a senior foreman (carpenter) on grade level 7 Step 8. I did my capturing in 2016. My problem is the non-payment of my federal share since 2006 till date. Thanks. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting PTAD to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. ORSHIO: My complaint is the non-payment of my late father’s pension entitlement by the Nigeria Police Pension Board. I am a registered next of kin to the late Inspector Samuel Adem, who died on October 2010. He retired from Nigeria Police on June 30, 2004, but did not receive pension. I underwent several verification to enable me collect his entitlement, but no fulfillment till date. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting PTAD to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. YUSUF: I am a CIPPO pensioner under PTAD. I forwarded my application  last November 7 to PTAD seeking review of my computation on gratuity and pension. But till date, there is no reply from PTAD. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting PTAD to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. SADIQ: I am Sadiq, a retiree of NICON Insurance, where in October 1990. I attended PTAD verification last October. I am told that others are paid while I have not been paid. They said my name was not forwarded to them. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting PTAD to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. SAMSON: My name is Samson. I am an Ondo State pensioner with federal share. I was verified by PTAD during the last exercise and captured into their scheme. My financial benefit was supposed to start from January 1, 2002. To my surprise, when I received bank alert for the payment, PTAD only paid me pension for March, April and May 2018. Please when am I going to receive the arrears of my pensions starting from January 1, 2002 ? Please I am dying. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting PTAD to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. FLORENCE:  Please how far have you gone with my case about pension cut since last May and the non-payment of federal gratuity since my retirement in 2005. Please I need a solution. Florence. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting PTAD to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. TUNDE: Dear Omobola, greetings. I am Tunde. I am a retired professor from University of Ibadan(UI). I retired in January 2008 and have satisfied all requirements to be paid my benefits. I have been cleared by UI and I have been at my PFA. I was told that they were awaiting PenCom’s approval. I have been without any income six months after 43 years of meritorious service. This is no joke. Please help me. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting your PFA and PenCom to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response. OGUNTOLA:Dear Omobola, I am a staff member of Federal Ministry of Works and Housing Lagos. I have not been paid my pension salary for April and May, this year. Kindly help me out of this problem, save me from anger. Thank you. THE NATION: The newspaper will intervene by getting your PFA and PenCom to respond to your complaint. Watch out for the newspaper every Wednesday for your response.