The Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has appealed to the manufacturers of the A-29 Super Tucano Attack Aircraft, to expedite action on its  delivery  to Nigeria. Abubakar said this when Mr Taco Gilbert, the Senior Vice – President of Sierra Nevada Corporation (SNC), manufacturer of the aircraft, visited him  in Abuja. The Air Force chief said a quick delivery of the aircraft  would  enhance Nigerian Air Force’s (NAF) operational capability for the swift conclusion of the counterinsurgency operations in the North- east. The CAS commended the visiting delegation which included officials from the Office of Security Cooperation of the United States Embassy in Nigeria. Abubakar expressed his delight at the US government’s support for the fight against insurgency with the signing of the contract to sell the Super Tucano Aircraft to Nigeria. The air chief, however, noted that the major concern of the NAF was the time frame for delivery of the aircraft. He expressed confidence that the counterinsurgency operations in the North- east could be executed more effectively, if the aircraft like the Super Tucano could be made available to the NAF in good time. He noted that the light attack aircraft with its long range, precision munitions as well as day and night capability would boost counterinsurgency operations in the affected area. He  urged the company to expedite production so that at least two of the aircraft would be available to Nigeria within an earlier timeframe, to boost counterinsurgency operations. Gilbert assured the CAS of the company’s determination to deliver quality aircraft capable of providing the needed impetus for NAF air operations. He expressed the commitment of the company to provide adequate training for NAF’s air and ground crew to ensure effective and efficient operation of the aircraft. The SNC Vice – President said that “the company looks forward to continued collaboration with NAF towards building a new air capability to address the security challenges in the country”. Air Force’s (NAF) spokesman, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola,  who issued a statement encapsulating discussions at the meeting said  one of the highlights  was the presentation of a model of the Super Tucano aircraft to the CAS. The Nigerian government in February, 2018 placed an order for 12 Super Tucano aircraft at a cost of $496million. Delivery date is 2020.