Akinyemi Adeleke, 20, has emerged as one of the top youngsters in Europe with 13 goals in 18 games, 11 goals in his last 10, including six in two UEFA Europa League clashes with Albania’s Luftetari and one against Bordeaux in the same competition. Following his explosive form, the youngster’s attracted the interest of a slew of more prosperous clubs in Europe before finally inched the ink with Norwegian outfit IK Start from Latvia’s FK Ventspils on a 3-year contract. With interests from France, Austria, Norway, and Belgium, the attacker opted for IK Start after the club met Ventspils’ valuation of the promising youngster. Akinyemi has been in superb form this season, netting 20 goals in all competitions. He will now hope his move to Norway edges him closer to a future Super Eagles’ call-up following his meeting with Gernot Rohr last month. From Nigeria to Latvia My route to Latvia was a big opportunity to start somewhere because I know that the ladder to the top is not that smooth, so I decided to jump at that opportunity of playing Latvia league. Even though some of my friends go against it, because I have a dream to pursue, and I am always confident that I am going to play the game to the highest level, and I must start from somewhere. I went to Latvia to prove I can stand up to the world when the occasion permits me. And to God be the glory, I have benefitted a lot, and that decision has taken me to the next level, which is IK Start. Yes, I am in a new club, new life and adventure that are bigger than where I was coming from. This is a league where most young players prefer to develop their game before achieving a bigger dream of playing in one of the top teams in the world. My target is to quickly adjust to life in the country, understand some basic things and get straight into the business. I am here to prove the quality of my game as well as to prove that I am not limited to Latvia league where I score lots of goals. I am approaching the starting point of my dreams, and I want to do more on the pitch to justify a lot at every given opportunity. This is a league that most people in the world give attention to, especially Nigerians, because of high profile players that have risen from the league and I want to follow that great step by the grace of God. Four goals magic In all honesty, I think scoring one, two, three, four goals is very difficult, but I think it was a wonderful moment that has a lot to do with God. I was only thinking about helping my team to qualify in which I was only trying to do my job, but I think God used those goals to credit my hustling. Four goals were just a moment of the truth in my career and I can never forget that night, but scoring against Bordeaux was a moment of destiny. I knew it would be tough beating Bordeaux in France, but scoring against them was a target. I was highly motivated by my friends and people in France also to score against such team because of my previous four goals. The blessed goal in France Yes, a goal in France turned me up. Everybody in France, Latvia and Nigeria wanted me to prove myself against a team like Bordeaux, and I think I really put in my best for the team before the goal finally came in my favour. I am glad God really put me on top of the world that very night. I was delighted that my effort as a player was crowned with a goal. I really appreciated my teammates’ efforts but the most unfortunate thing is that we couldn’t perform magic to advance beyond that level. Super Eagles coach presence It was a great night indeed. I knew there were many scouts across Europe that came to watch my game but I was not aware until a few hours to the game that I heard the news that Nigeria’s senior coach was around to watch our game. And you know what that means? I had to be at my best which I did. Yet, I was never carried away with his presence in order for me not to have a worse game. But I think his presence helped me at some point, though I was eager to score goals for my club and at the same time giving my best effort to ensure his coming to watch the match was justified and thank God everything went well. A moment with Gernot Rohr It was a wonderful moment I cherish most in my career so far. He’s a respected man in Bordeaux. He spoke to us with respect and let me know what I have acquired as a player. I really appreciate that little moment we spent together after the match. His meeting with me didn’t have anything to do with emergency Super Eagles invitation, he only encouraged me to keep banging the goals; that I have what it takes to achieve greater as well as to get better credentials for Super Eagles’ invitation in the future. IK Start move and other clubs They are the most serious and lucrative club that came around. After several meeting with my representative, I have many offers in France, Russia and Holland but I think IK Stark came at the right time and I believe I can develop and expose my game better in Norway. I am happy to be here and give my best for the club. Love for Luiz Suarez He’s my main guy on the pitch; he’s my idol and my best motivator ever. He’s a deadly goal poacher, a natural nine that any team can rely on. I want to be a better player than Suarez. He’s a goal machine and I am hoping to score as many goals as I can in my career. While growing up in the street, my uttermost dream was to play football to the highest level, especially when you see motivated and determined players like Suarez, Didier Drogba and others, the game of football will attract you. Manchester United dream I love to watch Manchester United. I support them while I was growing up because of their style and inspirational team spirit with a good history. My focus is to work hard and be the first Nigerian player to play for Manchester United in the future. Real Madrid is a good club, I think; I will prefer Manchester United to Real Madrid or any La Liga team.