A Building construction firm, ITB Nigeria Limited, has said it is set to complete its first steel and concrete building project, the Azuri Peninsula, in the Eko Atlantic City, Lagos State. The Azuri Peninsula project, which began in early 2015, is a unique steel and concrete residential building project, consisting three sets of over 30 floors. Steel and concrete structures involve a mix of steel and concrete to form a single element. The advantage of using this technology gives rise to benefits like speed, performance and value. Additionally, concrete encasement protects the steel from buckling, corrosion and fire. The building offers a collection of four-bedroom luxury and super luxury apartments; two and four-bedroom town houses, known as ‘Marina,’ as well as six-bedroom penthouses. ITB Nigeria Quality Assurance / Quality Control Co-ordinator,  Emmanuel Adeyemi, expressed satisfaction with the project, which he said is the very first of such by his firm. For him, the project is a testimony to the quality of work being undertaken by the firm “We are excited about this project because it’s our first composite structure created by a combination of steel and concrete to form a single element. This helps to deliver performance that is more effective than when individual components are used together but not unified,” he said. He added that the firm is fully focused on understanding its clients needs and delivering on its promises, regardless of the scale or complexity of the challenge at hand. Adeyemi explained that the uniqueness of composite structures is that it enhances construction time, performance and value. This is because steel framing for a structure can be erected quickly and the pre-fabricated steel floor decks can be put in place immediately. When cured, he further revealed, the concrete provides additional stiffness to the structure, making the structure one that can stand the test of time. ITB Nigeria is the major building civil engineering contracting firm handling some of the infrastructural projects being carried out in Eko Atlantic city.