Benny Sampson-Uche of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State and Jefferson Ejaife of DSC Technical High School, Aladja, Delta State are in the semi-finals of the 2018 Cowbellpedia Secondary School Mathematics Television Quiz Show, junior secondary category. They saw off stiff competitions from Otutochi Nwadinkpa of Nigerian Tulip International College for Boys, Abuja; Oyongwo Gwanette of Britarch Secondary School, Umuahia, Abia State; Festus Ebarekor of University Preparatory Secondary School, Benin, Edo State; and Mustapha Muhammad of Jigawa State Academy for the Gifted, Bamaina, Jigawa State in the first and second rounds of Group B preliminary stage to secure two slots for the Southsouth region. Benny, who scored 145 points in the second round, had an average response time of 1.88 seconds; while Jefferson, who qualified with 120, responded in 1.57 seconds. Thirteen-year-old Benny, described as “small but mighty” thinks he has what it takes to lift the trophy, which is worth N2 million this year for each category in commemoration of the 20th anniversary of the competition. Promasidor Nigeria Limited also increased the reward money for the first and second runners-up to N1.5 million and N1 million, and those for teachers of the winners (from N300,000 to N500,000 for the top three).  In addition, each of the winning schools will be presented with Mathematics textbooks, desktop computers and printers. Jefferson is also confident he can be in the final. “I feel very happy to scale the hurdle, especially being my first time of participating in the competition. I hope to get to the final. I have done a lot of prayers and practice,” he said. In the senior category, Praise Isinkaye of the Federal Government Academy, Suleja, Niger State, and Israel Adegboyega of Scholars Universal Secondary School Ota, Ogun State got the semi-final slots ahead of Fakorede Oluwafunmbi of Bibo Oluwa Academy, Ilesha, Osun State; Vincent Ezeanyagu of Baptist High School, Naraguta-Jos, Plateau State; Adegbamiye Oluwagbemiga of Reality High School, Ilesha, Osun State and Haruna Hassan Kabaju of Nigerian Tulip International College for Boys, Damaturu, Yobe State. Praise is happy to be in the semi-final this time around.  Two years ago, as a junior pupil, she could not go beyond the preliminary.  But she does not plan to go back home from the semis. “I feel cool scaling this hurdle. I really thank God, but my ultimate ambition is to be the 2018 Cowbellpedia champion,” she said. Israel is no push over as well.  Though it is his first time in the competition, he has his eyes on the ultimate prize. “My expectation is to be the champion. Cowbellpedia remains my ultimate dream,” he said last week. The quiz show continues this weekend.