A group, the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC), has expressed concern over the planned celabration of Isese Day in Lagos and other Southwest states, today by some traditional worshippers. MURIC said the traditionalists have restricted movements in their areas. The day is expected to be celebrated in Epe, Ikorodu, Iyana-Ipaja in Lagos State as well as in Ibadan (Oyo) and some parts of Osun today. In a statement yesterday, MURIC Director Prof Ishaq Akintola criticised the restriction of movements at a time Muslims, would be marking Eid-el-Kabir on Tuesday. Muslims, he noted, would be moving from one part of the country to the other. The group described the restriction as illegal, unlawful, illegitimate and unconstitutional, adding that it is calculated to cause a breach of the peace. Akintola said: “Only the state government on the advice of the Commissioner of Police can impose curfew on a town. Even then, such imposition must be based on adverse security report. “Traditionalists are taking the law into their hands. They have become another government on their own. This is unacceptable. Traditionalists have frequently usurped this power without being challenged. Worse still, the police and other law enforcement agents have adopted a lackadaisical attitude towards the excesses of traditional worshippers. “We assert the right of Muslims to freely move around anywhere in this country. The Federal Government has declared Tuesday and Wednesday as holidays. Nobody has the right or the power to make it impossible for people heading towards their various towns to reach their various destinations. “For the avoidance of doubts, MURIC is not averse to the declaration of a day for traditionalists. We made this clear in our statement issued on May 10 that we believe in equal rights. What we oppose is a situation whereby one religious group lords it over another. Traditionalists must respect the law. “Traditional worshippers need to be told that they have limits. Christians and Muslims have never restricted the movements of adherents of other faiths. “We call on the governors of Lagos, Ogun, Oyo, Osun and Ekiti states to call traditional worshippers to order.”