An All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant, Engr Temitope Kuyebi, has called on the people of Yewa-Awori(Ogun West) to keep praying for Governor Ibikunle Amosun not to renege on his promise to work for the realization of the zone’s dream of producing the next governor of Ogun state in 2019. Kuyebi, the youngest among the zone’s governorship aspirants, said the “2019 Ogun West for Governorship Agenda” can’t be achieved without interceding on behalf of Amosun so that he does  not falter in his avowed resolve to hand over the baton of power to Ogun West person in May 2019 The aspirant who hails from Imasai in Yewa North, made the call on Saturday while addressing a crowd of APC members, supporters and youth leaders at Asade Agunloye Pavilion, Empire  building, Ilaro, Yewa South Local Government Area of Ogun state. He noted that the zoning of the governorship ticket of APC to Ogun West was a good omen but warned that the golden opportunity zoning presented to the area, must not be allowed to elude them this time. He said the incumbent Governor is very critical to the actualization of the governorship project of Ogun West hence the need to keep interceding for him lest 2019 becomes a mirage again to Ogun West. “Without Governor Ibikunle Amosun in this project, the dream of a Yewa candidate mounting the saddle of the governorship leadership of Ogun state, come 2019 may become a mirage. “The leadership of our great party (APC) in Ogun State has zoned the governorship ticket to Ogun West which translates to our prayers being answered. So, we must not toy with this opportunity. “Our gathering here today is to raise ambassadors and partners for this great opportunity coming ahead of us in Ogun West. Teamwork had always been one of the core values in life, because togetherness we can make it and achieve much, but not alone. “Secondly, we are gathered here to interact and brainstorm on how to uphold and support my aspiration to be the next governor of Ogun State come 2019. “I am not new in this governorship project. I had once taken a shot at the number one plum job in the state in 2011 and that was on the platform of the Action Congress (AC). I was the consensus governorship candidate and endorsed to fly the AC ticket but in a meeting in Lagos, party leaders asked me to step down,” Kuyebi said. However, guest speaker at the occasion, Mr Bayo Idowu, appealed to the sons and daughters of Ogun West to bury their differences and support the Yewa-Awori governorship agenda. “This is the right time for us in Ogun West. Let us throw our weight behind Engineer Temitope Kuyebi to be the governor of this state come 2019,” he said.