Did you overeat during the yuletide? OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes on how to cure the problem. As moslems end the Eid-El-Kabir, a traditional health practitioner, Dr Segun Fahuwa, has cautioned them against constipation. He described constipation as a condition of less frequency in the excretion of bowel from the body. “Constipation is a situation when person experiences regular pain or strain while passing stool and stool is hard and difficult to pass. It mostly occurs due to less water content in the digestive system. It can be chronic or acute. Constipation can be really troublesome if the problem persists for a longer period of time. But, it can be treated easily with some home remedies that work best in order to cure this problem.” Fahuwa, founder, Miser Guarantee Trado-Medical Centre, Surulere, Lagos, said to avoid chronic constipation, “eat fewer foods with low amounts of fibre such as processed foods, and dairy and meat products. Include plenty of high-fibre foods in your diet, including beans, vegetables, fruits, whole grain cereals and oat. Drink plenty of fluids. Stay as active as possible and try to get regular exercise”. He added: “Try to manage stress. Don’t ignore the urge to pass stool. Try to create a regular schedule for bowel movements, especially after a meal. Make sure children who begin to eat solid foods get plenty of fibre in their diets.’’ He said constipation could be a serious health condition as chronic constipation is infrequent bowel movements or difficult passage of stools that persists for several weeks or longer, adding, “Constipation is generally described as having fewer than three bowel movements a week. Though occasional constipation is very common, some people experience chronic constipation that can interfere with their ability to go about their daily tasks. Chronic constipation may also cause excessive straining to have a bowel movement and other signs and symptoms. Treatment for chronic constipation depends in part on the underlying cause.” Citing what could lead to constipation, he said poor dietary habits, as it is the single most important cause of constipation, “Dietary fibre is essential for a smooth bowel movement. An average adult need about 30 g of fibre every day. The dietary fibre absorbs water and swells up in the large intestine. That makes the stools soft and easy to pass. Lack of fibre in the diet makes the stools hard and difficult to pass. So people should be careful this season, and not stuff themselves with all sorts, without adequately balancing same with fibre containing fruits and foods”. This period is not also for being slothful, as Dr Fahuwa said laziness makes the bowels lazy. There is a relationship between levels of physical activity and bowel habits. Low levels of physical activity are one of the leading causes of constipation. Just, as poor toilet habits, “one day you go to the toilet in the morning to empty your bowel. Next day morning you are busy and you avoid the toilet. So, you try to pass stools in the evening. You find it hard. This kind of lack of toilet routine is not going to help your bowels”. In the same vein, too much stress causes an imbalance of many hormones in the body, “the hormonal imbalance makes slow bowel movements, as abuse of laxatives can also cause the condition. Laxatives are medications that help relieve constipation. Some people use laxatives without any clear indications. Sometimes people use laxatives to lose weight. This sort of laxative abuse can make the bowels ineffective. The ineffective bowels can’t contract properly. That makes the accumulation of stools in the bowel. Also, if you don’t drink enough water, you will be dehydrated. That makes your body reabsorb more water from the large intestine. It will make the stools dry and hard”. Symptoms to watch out for include difficulty in having a bowel movement; hard faeces; heart burn; abdominal pain; straining when passing a stool; swelling in the abdomen; intestinal pain; vomiting’ s ensation of fullness after a bowel movement And already down with constipation? There is nothing to fear , as Dr Fahuwa said yoghurt can help out, “the probiotics present in the yoghurt aids in improving the digestive system while helping out the good bacteria present in the body. So, have at least one cup of yoghurt every day in order to keep your intestinal tract clean and get rid of hard stools. “The person can also do with pawpaw (Papaya) is also a natural laxative, and therefore, helps in constipation. Eat a pear every day. It will help you to remove constipation problem. Or can even drink a glass of hot water daily as it is a good home remedy to do for constipation. Oranges are a great source of Vitamin C and rich in fibre too. Therefore, it can give respite from constipation. Just as including cabbage in the regular diet. Cabbage is rich in fibre, and so, helps in cleaning the intestine. You can also try cabbage juice”. He warned that constipation stops the normal process of body to flush out toxins and presence of constipation for a longer duration can allow the toxins to flow in other parts of the body to raise serious health issues. Diseases and problems like appendicitis, high blood pressure, cancer, rheumatism, and arthritis are few of such problems which are commonly initiated by chronic constipation, “It can affect person of any age from young toddler to an old person, though once or twice in a lifetime almost every person faces episodes of constipation for a short duration, which is normal”. Does drinking water during or after a meal disturb digestion? There’s no concern that water will dilute the digestive juices or interfere with digestion. In fact, drinking water during or after a meal actually aids digestion. Water is essential for good health. Water and other liquids help break down food so that your body can absorb the nutrients. Water also softens stool, which helps prevent constipation. Looking for other ways to promote good digestion? Focus on a healthy lifestyle. Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. 0Maintain a healthy weight. Include physical activity in your daily routine. Is vegetable juice as good as whole vegetables for meeting the number of recommended servings a day? Vegetable juice can be an easy way to increase the amount of vegetables in your diet, but you shouldn’t routinely use it to replace whole vegetables. Most adults should eat the equivalent of 2 1/2 cups of vegetables a day. The exact amount you need depends on your age, sex and level of physical activity. Any type of vegetable counts, whether it’s raw, cooked, fresh, frozen or canned. Vegetable juice counts, too. Just make sure it’s 100 percent vegetable juice and low in sodium. While vegetable juice has plenty of vitamins and minerals, it’s lower in fiber and less filling than is a serving of most whole vegetables. Fiber is important because it may help prevent constipation and reduce your risk of heart disease, diabetes and obesity. 