Southwest Zonal Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Chief Kemi Nelson has repudiated claims that she sent thugs to attack her Lagos State counterpart Jumoke Okoya-Thomas on Monday. In a statement yesterday, she said she had never been involved in thuggery and hooliganism in her 30 years in politics. The statement issued by her media aide Princess Folashade Oba reads: “To set the record straight, Mrs Nelson was never part of the incident on Monday at Lagos State APC secretart, Ikeja. Six weird looking men in black T-shirt stormed the office of the Zonal Women Leader (Southwest), demanding to see her. Her staff at the office requested for details of their visit including reasons for the visit. They refused to provide information on their mission at Mrs Nelson’s office other than they came there from one iron lady on Lagos Island. “Apparently sensing that they may not be allowed to gain entry because Mrs Nelson was in a meeting with the Lagos State Deputy Chairman, Chief Sunny Ajose and State Vice Chairman, West Senatorial District, Chief Funsho Ologunde, the men unleashed terror of unimaginable proportion on the office and on everyone in sight. They vandalised the office, beat up all staff members, party members and stole personal belongings, such as phones, office items and other valuables. “The men came prepared to maim and destroy. They were armed with shot guns and other dangerous weapons. This made party members, including Mrs Nelson to run for their lives.” Mrs Nelson called on party members, her associates and well-wishers who may have learnt of the incident to remain calm as the matter is being looked into by the party leadership. “We wish to maintain that it will be resolved amicably. We also want to reiterate that our party, the APC is a party of peaceful co-existence and development, which are in alignment with what Mrs Kemi Nelson has preached in her over 25 years of active politics in Nigeria. The Monday incident is alien to Mrs Kemi Nelson and we are assuring that the party leadership will work assiduously towards a peaceful and amicable resolution,” the statement said.