Stakeholders, under the aegis of Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) and Assembly of Healthcare Professional Associations (AHPA), have rejected the Yayale Ahmed Presidential Committee of Experts on Professional Relationships in the Public Health Sector (YAPCEPRPH). The associations, which constitute about 95 percent of workers in the  sector, in a statement, said the recommendations were biased. The statement was signed by National MHWUN President, Biobelemoye Josiah; NANNM National President, SSAUTHRIAI President, Comrade Adeniji A. A.; Comrade B. A. Akintola; NUAHP National President, Dr Ogbonna O.C.; NASU National President, Comrade Christ Ani; AHPA President, Dr G. C. Okara. Others who signed were MHWUN Secretary-General, Comrade Silas Adamu; NANNM Secretary-General, Comrade Shettima Thomas; SSAUTHRIAI General Secretary, Comrade M. O. Akinade; NUAHP General Secretary, Comrade O. A. Obisesan; and NASU General Secretary, Comrade Peters Adeyemi. According to the associations, the report was not in the interets of their members. “We strongly demand this report, which is not in tune with national development and interest be immediately withdrawn for public good and the future of the health sector as it is certainly not a positive reference point in the quest for international best practices,” they warned. The non-medics claimed that the committee was influenced by the Nigerian Medical Association (NMA). “Nothing gives insight to this better than the phraseologies, which perennially referred to doctors as ‘Leaders of the Health Team’, while other health professionals were favouritely dubbed, ‘Allied Health Professionals,’’ the groups said. The groups identified other contentious areas in the report to include the recommendation for the establishment of the office of Chief of Medical Adviser to Mr. President; regulation of all health professionals through the Healthcare Commission to replace the 15 regulatory agencies, which are products of the Acts of parliament as Section 315 of the constitution,  thereby taking away the statutory responsibilities of the regulatory agencies in the sector. They also said the committee did not address the laws that provide that only medically qualified persons could be appointed as heads of federal health institutions, which over time the Federal Government, in conjunction with NMA, has interpreted as only doctors. “Rather, craftily the Yayale Ahmed Presidential Committee of Experts on Professional Relationships in the Public Health Sector (YAPCEPRPH) relied on the ancient perception known to only our clime that doctors are the sole cadre of staff who are medically qualified and so should continue to head federal health institutions. ‘’Appointment of Chairman, Medical Advisory committee (CMAC), Deputy Chairman, Medical Advisory Committee (D-CMAC), consultancy cadre for eligible health professionals, and  composition of boards of management for federal health institutions is not addressed as well,” they lamented. JOHESU and APHA said they were surprised that the Committee was opposed to the appointment of other health professionals as directors in federal health institutions. They said the report only favoured NMA members, saying that is why it approved the post-graduate colleges for ‘allied’ health professionals to the clinical needs of the institutions in the approved areas of professional practice. They berated the report for saying that post-graduate colleges should ‘not just be for acquisition of additional qualifications unrelated to professional specialty’, adding it failed to boost confidence. 