There was excitement on Thursday at the Abuja national secretariat of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), as the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki attended the party’s National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting. It was the first NEC meeting Saraki would be attending since his defection from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the PDP last Tuesday. Also in attendance were the Governors Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and Samuel Ortom of Sokoto and Benue States respectively. Similarly, former Kano State Governor, Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and Senator Barnabas Gemade who returned to the PDP last week, also attended the meeting. Speaking at the opening session of the meeting, Saraki attributed events of the past week to the “mercy of God”, saying that it was beyond human wisdom. Saraki said, “Anybody that believed this could happen based on the wisdom of just human beings does not know or is not being realistic. It is by the mercy of almighty God that this has happened. “So, today, as we thank the Almighty God for allowing us to be alive to witness this, for allowing those that are able to be here today, those of my colleges who had a long journey, tough journey, tortuous journey to be here, those on the side of PDP who made it possible for it to happen, it was because of the intervention of the almighty God. “We will have a day for speeches; we will have a day to say many things. But for me, I am happy to be back to the political party where I started my political journey. For me, I am back. “I am happy to see some of my colleagues here who have given me faith in this country, who have made me believe there are still men of character, that there are still men who are still ready to make sacrifices for this country”. The Senate President explained that his defection was a sacrifice he had to make, saying he did it for the sake of the country. Continuing, Saraki said, “This sacrifice that we are all making, is just the first part because we are doing this for Nigerians and that exercise will not be complete until we make a better country for our people. “So, I want to appeal to all of us, all of you who are here, to please receive us from the bottom of your hearts not only here but down to our local government and wards, many people who will join. “Because what we are learning in the history of politics is that everybody is important, everybody is important in this journey we are embarking on and no sacrifice is too much for us to make to reach that promised land. “It is only when we reach that promised land that this sacrifice we are making comes good, when we see a better tomorrow for our people. Because it is easier here in Abuja. “But when we get back to our constituencies, please, let us continue to open our arms and receive the numbers that will give us victory come February 2019 because it is for a better tomorrow for the lot of Nigerian people. “Once again, on behalf of all of us that just joined this party, those who we have met, we are so happy to be back here. And I assure you on behalf of all of us that we will work tirelessly and courageously to do what is right to put this country in the right place where it should be and we will not stop. “I offer myself to ensure I continue to play my part, to continue to ensure that we defend our democratic principles in this country, we provide security and good leadership and good governance for everybody. But that is only possible if we are all united because not any one man or two or three can do it alone. “The message that I will like to leave here with is a message of let us all work together so that these sacrifices will really be worth it in the interest of our people”. Speaking earlier, the national chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus assured Saraki and others who defected to the party recently that their efforts would not be in vain. Describing Saraki as key in the renewed struggle to “free” Nigeria, Secondus commended the defectors, saying history would be fair to them. Said he, “The bold steps you took to return to the party where you truly belong, is a sacrifice not for yourself but for Nigeria and history will be fair to you. “Today is the beginning of the great journey to freedom, the great journey to free our people and rescue this country from the damage done to it by the APC in the last three years”. The party chairman expressed regrets that agencies of government established to protect the people have been deployed by the government to assault institutions of democracy. Taraba State Governor, Darius Ishaku also expressed dismay over the recent killings in some parts of the state, saying that situation in the county has continued to deteriorate and that Nigerians are worse off today. Ishaku said, “It’s time Nigeria is free or move 100 years backward. Defectors to the PDP saw tomorrow and they decided to change the situation. “Some of us wake up crying every other day because you see pictures of your people being killed in their homes because they don’t have AK-47 rifles. I cry more than I celebrate. “We must change this government because with the defectors, the PDP will do better for Nigerians. Corruption is not about stealing money alone. Killings, nepotism and allowing killers to go free are also corruption”. Governor Ortom on his part said he left the APC worse that he joined the party in 2014, stressing that he lost everything he brought into the APC. Others at the meeting include the governors of Rivers, Akwa Ibom and Cross River States. Also at the meeting were past party chairmen, past and serving members of the National Assembly and others. 