The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has urged Nigerians and other Africans to guard the fledgling democracy, which is gradually taking root on the continent. He said this would help catalyse economic development on the continent and by extension the maritime sector. Peterside, who is also the chairman of Association of African Maritime Administration (AAMA), spoke yesterday in Lagos during a breakfast with reporters to mark the Eid-el-Kabir. He said AAMA under his leadership has prioritised projecting Africa as a block deserving a larger share of global maritime trade, based on its contributions. “Some African countries still operate along colonial inclination and that tends to slow down development, particularly in the maritime sector. In those countries where democracy is fully thriving, such as Nigeria, stakeholders in the maritime sector now speak with the voice of development, independent of colonial masters. AAMA, under my watch, has given African maritime sector a new voice, particularly at the International Maritime Organisation, IMO”, Peterside said. Commenting on how the agency has become one of the leading parastatals of the Federal Government in its contribution to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF), the NIMASA D-G said some policies his administration adopted alongside the Treasury Single Account (TSA) were responsible. “NIMASA has transformed from contributing barely 3 billion naira to over 20 billion naira annually to the Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) and it will keep getting better,” he said. Peterside added: “In order to block financial leakages, we subscribed to a full bouquet of the Lloyds and Clarkson intelligence; this made it almost impossible for any vessel calling at our ports to escape or under declare. The TSA and our collaboration with the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS), among other agencies, also played an important role.” He restated NIMASA’s commitment to growing indigenous capacity in the sector, noting that the engagement ongoing between the agency and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) was aimed at securing special interest rates and intervention funds for vessel acquisition and other ancillary transactions in the sector, geared towards improving the Cabotage regime and the realisation of a robust maritime sector. Peterside, who referred to the maritime sector as a goldmine, took the opportunity to call for more objectivity in the report of activities of the sector. He said the agency would embrace all forms of collaborative initiatives that could help boost the fortunes of the nation’s maritime sector. In his Eid-el-Kabir message, the NIMASA D-G urged Nigerians to love one another and live peacefully as they celebrate Sallah, adding that the period was not only for merriment, but also a time to reflect on happenings in the country.   