The police have arrested 31 people in connection with arson which led to the burning down of a police station in Iwo, Osun State. The police station was razed by demonstrators protesting the killing of a student of the Federal Polytechnic in Iree (IREE POLY), Tunde Nafiu, by a Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) operative, Lukman Gbadamosi, last Thursday. The protesters set the police station ablaze in the early hours of Friday. It was gathered that the late Tunde was shot while he was trying to board a commercial motorcycle in Ile-Ogbo area of the town. The deceased was said to be son of an Army General and a prominent chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Aiyedire Local Government Area of Osun State. A statement by the Commissioner of Police, Mr Fimihan Adeoye, signed by the command Public Relations Officer, Folashade Odoro, said the alleged killer policeman had been arrested and taken to the State Criminal Investigation Department in Osogbo. The statement reads: “Information was received that an operative of the Special Anti Robbery Squad attached to the Area Command Headquarters, Iwo allegedly shot and fatally wounded one Tunde Nafiu ‘m’, aged 30 years at Agboigboro in Iwo. “The Area Commander immediately moved out, doused the tension and assured the gathered youths that justice will be done. The officer that allegedly fired the shot that killed the deceased was promptly arrested and transferred to the SCIID, Osogbo for interrogation. “In the early hours of 24/8/2018, a very large crowd of youths thronged the Area Command Headquarters to protest the killing. The protest was however hijacked by some hoodlums who took the law into their hands. In the process, they torched the buildings housing the offices and residence of the Area Commander as well as three patrol vans and two other vehicles belonging to the officers of the Area Command. “The police exercised restraint in order to prevent further loss of lives. However, the hoodlums were eventually dispersed while 31 of them were arrested and are undergoing interrogation. The situation has been brought under control while people are going about their lawful businesses.” Dauda Ahmed, an Iwo resident, confirmed the arrest of some of the protesters, but said residents had lost trust in the police to do justice in the matter.