THE Chairman of the Southsouth Peoples United Forum, Kosofe Council, Lagos Mr. Dennis Joseph, has commended the state government for its developmental drive. He urged Lagosians and other non- indigenes to support Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for the second term ambition. He said that the Southsouth would mobilise its people to ensure victory for the governor. Joseph said Southsouth residents in Lagos are preparing for 2019 election, noting Lagosians, irrespective of background benefitted from the  Ambode administration. He said: “The position of Southsouth in Lagos is to ensure we contribute our quota to the rapid development of the state by supporting the peace and orderliness presently championed by the Lagos State government.” “We will ensure we enlighten our people on the need to be law abiding, perform their civil responsibility by voting in coming election. We are thrilled by Ambode’s performance and we will vote for him.” Joseph said Ambode’s superlative performance should be emulated by other governors, noting that every resident in the state could attest to it. “The Southsouth people have unrestricted access to unbiased business environment, they have benefitted from the developmental structure of the state. The planning and the conduct of state affairs are perfect.” “You can agree with me that Lagos State is the fifth largest economy in Africa. This is to support the position that the governor is doing very well.  The road construction is very marvelous and massive. “The security of lives has been impressive. You will agree with me that when the governor came on board, there were lots of problems, people could not sleep well but the trend has reversed. “He empowered the law enforcement agents, bought ten armoured tanks, three helicopters, two gunboats, 16 armoured personnel carriers and many security truck vehicles. The moment all these were done the criminals disturbing Lagos relocated”. According to him, other leaders should learn from the legacy of former Governor Bola Tinubu, stressing that the structure he built has endured. He added: “What is happening in Lagos is not by accident. The credit goes to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, an excellent builder of men and structure.”