No fewer than 12 aspirants are struggling to succeed Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun on the platform of the All Progresives Congress (APC). Correspondent ERNEST NWOKOLO examines the issues that will shape the primary and the party’s preparations for next year’s poll. The die is cast. The Ogun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), which conducted relatively peaceful ward, local government and state congresses in May, is bracing up for the challenge of next year’s general elections. The party is working to retain power. The first critical step was the election of ex-Senior Special Adviser on Political Affairs to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Chief Derin Adebiyi, as the  chairman, the emergence of Patrick Ogunde as secretary and Wole Elegbede as publicity secretary. The congress was devoid of rancour. Adebiyi is expected to bring his wealth of experience to bear on the running of the party.The hope of many is that the party will also conduct a rancour-free governorship primary next month. No fewer than 12 aspirants on the platform of the party are itching to succeed Amosun, who wil complete his second term on May 29, next year. They include: House of Assembly Speaker Suraj Adekunbi (Ogun West), Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s Chief of staff Tolu Odebiyi (Ogun West), the  Commissioner for Forestry, Kola Lawal (Ogun West), Commissioner for Culture and Tourism, Bashorun Muyiwa Oladipo  (Ogun East), Abayomi Hunye(Ogun West) and Chairman, Local Government Service Commission, Rotimi Rahmon (Ogun West). Also, former Deputy Governor Gbenga Kaka (Ogun East), Commissioner for Commerce Industry, Otunba Bimbo Ashiru (Ogun East), Jimi Lawal (Ogun East), Abiodun Isiaq Akinlade (Ogun West),  Adekunle Akinlade (Ogun West) and Abayomi Hunye (Ogun West) are in the race. The crowded race is a source of concern to partly elders and leaders.Their worry is not misplaced. Since the return of civil rule in 1999,  no political party in Ogun State has been able to transmit  power from one person to another, in an unbroken pattern after the incumbent had served two terms of eight years as witnessed in Lagos, Edo  and Anambra states. This is significant for APC, which is aspiring to break the jinx. Until the last congress, the camp loyal to former Governor Segun Osoba and and Amosun’s group had engaged in a protracted over alleged  marginalisation and hijacking of the party structure by Amosun and his group, shortly after the 2011 governorship victory. Today, both camps have Senator Akin Odunsi from Ogun West who contested against Amosun in the April 11, 2015 election on the platform of Social Democratic Party (SDP) is back in APC. Also, the party has also made some in roads into the opposition to poach key members and swell its ranks: Alhaji Sarafa lshola, former chieftain of PDP and ex – Secretary to Ogun State Government, Senator Lekan Mustapha and Tunji Akinosi are now in the APC. But, the party should not rejoice, until it has picked its candidate at the primary. According to observers, what currently exists in Ogun APC is the peace of the grave yard, warning that the party may erupt, like a volcano, into another major crisis. It is expected that on August 15, Amosun would draw to a  close, his hide and seek game on the awaited ‘annointed candidate’ and unveil the ‘whizkid’ to the people. Only few weeks ago, Kaka  appealed to the leadership of the APC to give the people free hands to decide who should fly ticket in 2019. He reasoned that a free and fair primaries would ensure victory at the poll. But, Amosun’s body language suggests he must have an overriding input in the choice of who succeeds him. How the party handles this and the booby trap that is the Ijebu agenda amid increasing clamour for power shift to Yewa – Awori in the spirit of justice, equity and fairness, portend danger. Already, the signs are there that the party is on a tortuous path to 2019. Three weeks ago, a federal High Court sitting in Lagos ordered the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), APC in Ogun State and the Police to recognise and deal only with winners of May 5, 2018 Congress conducted in Ifo State Constituency Wards 1, 2, 3 and 11 respectively. This attests  to the fact that all is not well with the ruling party in Ogun. The court also ordered the Party to conduct a fresh congress in Coker ward 10 for election of a new ward executive committee  on the grounds that the May 5 congress was inconclusive. The suit was filed by Alhaji Asimiyu Aderibigbe, Tope Lawal, Segun Abolade, Ramon Sodipo,  Solomon Isola,  Folorunso Ojerinde, Chief Kola Olutola, Hon. Monsuru Akinyele, Alhaji Okesola and Mr. Dare Aninkan on behalf of themselves and other winners of  party congress elections in ward 1, 2, 3  and 11 and contestants in Ward 10. Also, last week, the chairman, Adebiyi, dropped what looked like a bombshell at the party secretariat on Abiola Way, Abeokuta, when he said certain key positions have been zoned to the senatorial districts. Adebiyi said the party executives are just “umpire” and would provide a level playing field and ensure free and fair primary for members seeking elective offices. But, he said the governorship ticket is already allotted to Ogun West and the deputy to Ogun East while the party chairman went to the Ogun Central. He made the revelation in response to a governorship aspirant, Jimi Lawal from Ogun East, who was at the secretariat to unfold his ambition. The chairman admitted that Lawal “has the experience” and fit for the job but regretted that were it not for the zoning arrangement in place as well as the forthcoming primary designed  to give everybody a level playing field, he would have said straight away that the ticket should go to him. The implication of the arrangement is that any governorship aspirant from Ogun East has a slim chance of getting the ticket. Lawal is already kicking against it, saying zoning is not in the party’s  constitution. He said zoning and level playing field do not go hand in hand, stressing that the party should use direct primary to select the candidate. He argued that zoning would shortchange Ogun people and rob them of the opportunity to pick the best from the array of aspirants across the state. Again, the party may play into the hand of ADC with former President Olusegun Obasanjo as the arrowhead through his Coalition of Nigerian Movement (CNM) to contend with ahead of 2019. Obasanjo had not hidden his desire  to support the Ogun West Senatorial District to produce the next governor in 2019 provided the zone fields a “credible candidate for the governorship election.” He said that since the creation of Ogun State over four decades ago,  the zone has produced a governor. Although, his earlier  support for the zone  in 2011 on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) failed, but he used the occasion of  the burial service for the former Secretary to the Ogun State Government, Deacon Adepoju Adeyemi, in Ayetoro, Yewa North Local Government Area to reiterate his commitments to Ogun West agenda for governor. The promoter of the Believe Movement, Prince Gboyega Isiaka is contesting the 2019 election on the platform ADC. The pioneer Managing Director of the Gateway Holdings, during the administration of Gbenga Daniel, said ADC is the third force that will offer Ogun people an escape route from the failed promises of APC. However, an APC chieftain, Yomi Olojeloju, said APC had a brither future. “The atmosphere portends a window of opportunity for APC to win convincingly come 2019 in Ogun State. Unlike in 2015 when some of us were in SDP, some UPN and all the rest. The major opposition party in the state too is now in disarray because they were expecting to reap from the crisis that never happened, but alas, no bounty to reap from. So, it’s a new beginning, and we are very happy about it,” Yomi said.