The Lagos State secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was on Monday invaded by the people described as loyalists of the party’s Southwest leader, Chief Kemi Nelson. APC Lagos State Women Leader Jumoke Okoya-Thomas yesterday said some executive members were meeting in the office of the Chairman Alhaji Tunde Balogun, when Mrs Nelson stormed the secretariat with her ‘boys’. She said Nelson’s aide Ayo Alli-Balogun led the thugs. But Nelson denied bringing thugs to the secretariat yesterday. Okoya-Thomas said Alli-Balogun warned her at the party’s chairman’s office “to behave.” In a statement by her media aide, Oladipupo Awojobi, Okoya-Thomas said she left the meeting for her makeshift office in the secretariat. She said: “Alli-Balogun followed me to the makeshift office, attacked my Personal (PA) Assistant, Alhaja Abiodun.  Abiodun was injured and rushed to a nearby hospital.” Okoya-Thomas urged the party leadership to caution Nelson over her “continuous harassment, intimidation and assault.” According to her, she had extended a hand of fellowship to Nelson upon resumption in office. But her predecessor, she claimed, rebuffed her, wondered what the problem was. She said Nelson’s actions were becoming unbearable. “I am surprised that Nelson, who I took over from, could have any animosity towards me. She is the Southwest APC Women Leader and I don’t think my duties and responsibilities will clash with her own. My mandate is to mobilise all Lagos women for the success of our party in the 2019 general elections and no amount of intimidation from a fellow woman will deter me from achieving this goal. Nelson should face her job,” Okoya-Thomas said. She advised her supporters to keep the peace, saying the party leaders would do the needful. At an empowerment event in Ogba organised by House of Representatives member, James Faleke, Nelson called on her supporters not to seek revenge. She said Ikeja, being the ward of APC National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, should be above board. “If we truly respect our National Leader, Monday’s incident shouldn’t have occurred. Let’s remain peaceful and avoid retaliation,” she said.