The United Nations (UN) is advocating safe spaces for youths to thrive. In Nigeria, youths believe the responsibility for creating these spaces rests on the government and them. KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE and ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA report. Issues affecting youths took the centre stage during  the United Nations International Youth Day on Sunday. Various programmes were  held in many cities in the country in line with the theme for the  “Safe Spaces for Youths.” According to the United Nations’ (UN) Secretary-General, Antonio Guterres, providing safe spaces will help the world’s 1.8 billion youths, aged 10-24, to express their views and pursue their dreams. Guterres also underscored the importance of investment in youths’ education and training. “We must invest so that young people have access to education, training and decent jobs to achieve their full potential,” he said in his message to mark the day. The UN advocates “civic spaces to engage in governance issues; public spaces to take part in community activity such as sport; digital spaces to interact virtually across borders; and well-planned physical spaces for diverse youth; especially those vulnerable to marginalisation or violence”. However, such spaces are not readily available for youths in Nigeria and many other places. Guterres said over 400 million young people worldwide live in armed conflict areas or areas vulnerable to organised criminal violence.  He also said millions of youths “face deprivation, harassment, bullying and other infringements of their rights”. According to Education Rights Campaign (ERC), a students’ rights advocate body, Nigeria is still miles ahead of attaining the theme for this year. The group’s co-ordinator, Hassan Soweto, said for Nigerian youths to begin to explore their space adequately, there must be non-miltarisation of campuses nationwide; reinstatement of student’s unionism where proscribed; recall of students suspended for agitations for their colleagues’ emancipation; as well as non-interference in the students’ union activities by tertiary institutions’ management. “Successive governments have conspired with managements of tertiary institutions nationwide to ensure that the space the youths deserve is being denied them via repeated victimisation,” Soweto lamented, adding: “While the present government has used its right hand to sign the ‘Not-too-young to rule ‘ bill into into law, it is unfortunate that it is the same government that has used the left hand to  ensure that very few youths are qualified to explore the provisions of that law. This is the biggest danger that we have in our tertiary institutions, affecting the youths today.” To create the kind of space they desire, Soweto challenged Nigerian youths not to sit back, but demand for their rights. “We youths need to resist (the authorities) by constantly pushing back by demanding our rights to freedom of association, expression and freedom to explore our space. Students’ Unionism still remains one of the few available spaces by which we can assess and criticise government policies. Once this aspect is policed, there is no way we can flourish across all ramifications.” National Public Relations Officer, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education Alumni Association, Comrade Eniola Opeyemi, also said limited opportunities for employment might affect the gains of the Not-Too-Young-To-Run law. “Recently the President of the Federal of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, signed into law the ‘not too young to run bill’, which got many youths excited after long agitation for the reduction of the age of eligibility of the youths to run for public offices. Far from that, the youths are still seen wandering about without jobs years after graduation. The most productive time of the able youths are left to waste; hence it leaves the country far from the expected development. “I have come to realise that the motivation of the teachers is declining, because they know that the students they are teaching are showing lack of interest, a development that may be due to outdated government policy, high unemployment rate, and seeming lack of prospect upon their graduation,” he said. Chukwuka Amadioha, who completed his youth service in Lagos State last month, thinks a way to create safe spaces for youths is to provide youth centres in strategic places across the country. The Petroleum Engineering graduate of the University of Aberdeen said: “I will think of youth centres because there are not a lot youth centres around Nigeria.  It will give youths somewhere to come together and discuss with government officials.  The youth centres should be places where youths can get training, learn skills.  Whenever the government officials want to address them, they should come to the youth centre.” However, Amadioha is of the view that young people should not wait on the government before achieving their dreams. “Safe spaces are good, but I don’t know what impact they will have on the youth. It is good for youths to face challenges.  Life is all about challenges.  If they start giving safe spaces to them it might limit them in one way or the other. But. in general, I think it will give them the opportunity to express themselves,” he said. Ibrahim Balogun, who is undergoing a Post Graduate Diploma in Education (PGDE) is also of the view that young people need to create safe spaces for themselves in a harsh environment. The graduate of Business administration from the Lagos State University (LASU) said he was able to create his own safe space by learning technical skills outside his formal education, which serves him well today. Balogun said he apprenticed as an electrical technician under his brother-in-law when he was younger and now uses the skills to augment his income as a private school teacher today. “This is the fourth year after I graduated from LASU yet no job, but I was lucky not to let go of my interest as a technician. “I fell in love with house wiring as a young boy. Fortunately for me, my brother-in-law is a technician; so I went to live with them for three years and learnt virtually everything before gaining admission into LASU. “Today, I have made name with what I do. I work as a school teacher during the week, while I go to site to wire houses for my customers and get paid for it. “I am at present running a post- graduate diploma in Education. I’m not losing hope, even though the banking job I am hoping for has not yet come; yet I am finding joy and fulfilment in what I do at present. I think my advice to my mates is to discover themselves by looking inward at what they can do. We do not seem to have a government that creates space for youths; so let us struggle to create that space for ourselves.” Oil and Gas expert Abayomi Awobogun, while addressing youth corps members and some other young people at a Mega Youth Conference, organised by Rise Networks in collaboration with the Lagos State Government and the Nigerian Bottling Company (NBC), said youths could also create safe spaces for themselves by volunteering in healthcare, contributing to food security, and respecting demography. He said youths that would thrive were those who eould not let religion, tribe or sex limit their relationships and work with various groups that they meet.  By so doing, he said they would be able to find solutions to problems around them. “Your ability to tap into opportunities being created by the government would depend on your understanding of demography – that religion, gender, personal preferences, tribe, state of origin do not matter.  People, who tell you to focus on such are creating unsafe spaces for you,” he said.