The Independent Service Delivery Monitoring Group (ISDMG), on Friday asked the National Assembly to pass the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) budget without further delay. The group said that the delay in passing the INEC budget may jeopardise the preparations for the 2019 elections. A communiqué issued at the end of a one-day round-table meeting on the 2019 Election Budget Empasse held in Abuja, the group warned that all forms of intrigues and politics associated with the budget should cease immediately in national interest. The stakeholders drawn from different interests who cover the Civil Society, the political class, the media and citizens among others, condemned in strong term, the use of thugs and some security personnel to harass citizens and INEC officials. The group and frowned at the disruption of elections saying that the development portrays country in bad light before the international community. The ISDMG faulted the delay in submission of the INEC budget by the Presidency, since the budget was said to have been submitted to it since January, 2018 by the commission. The group noted the controversy trailing the INEC budget was unacceptable and unnecessary especially since the Executive ought to have submitted the budget to the National Assembly long before now. In a communiqué which was signed by Dr. Chima Amadi, ISDMG, Faith Nwadishi, Centre for Transparency Advocacy, Abdul Mahmud ,Public Interest Lawyers League,Comrade Sheriff Mulade, Center for Peace and Environmental Justice, among others, the group urged INEC to continue to be proactive by submitting their budget proposal in good time in a transparent and open manner. The group also recommended an urgent need to review the appropriation process especially when it involves the needs of INEC knowing the importance and role the Commission plays in the stabilisation of our democracy “We note the hard fact that the INEC budget is not like contracts that can be hidden from public purview as activities of INEC are open and easily verifiable by citizens, stakeholders and in fact, any interested party, ” the group said. It commended the openness of the budget process and urge INEC to continue with the practice. The group noted that this should be encouraged while insisting that Nigerians should support INEC as it strives within the ambits of integrity to conduct credible, free and fair elections in country. The group said: “That suspension of elections where there are infringements and security breaches as was done in the Rivers State constituency bye-election to protect lives and property and the integrity of the electoral process and elections should now be the norm. “All perpetrators of election violence must be severely punished according to the law to serve as deterrent to others. “The allegations of budget padding draw from mischief or an inadequate appreciation of the issues involved, therefore we recommend that all parties should strive to verify issues and INEC should operate an open door policy for these clarification. “We recommend also that stakeholders should utilize the quarterly stakeholders dialogue by the INEC Chairman to seek for information and clarify issues. ” We condemn the actions of the police and other security agencies that were used by unscrupulous politicians to disrupt the elections thereby putting the lives of INEC staff and citizens in danger. “This is bizarre, shameful, embarrassing, disgraceful and condemnable. We however, commend INEC for taking quick measures to suspend the election so as to protect the integrity of the election.“