National Council of Arts and culture (NCAC) Director-General Otumba Segun Runsewe yesterday said culture would change the country’s narratives. Runsewe spoke in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital to launch of the meeting on arts and culture. He noted that neglect of the cultural diversities is the bane of our disunity “What do you think are the issues in this country today,  it is because they do not respect each other’s culture, if you respect the other man’s culture,  there will be no need for us to disagree,” he said. The 31st National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAFEST) is holding in Port Harcourt in October. Runsewe said:  “And this year, in Wike’s honour, we are taking NAFEST to the next level. Come October in Rivers, we will give free skills acquisition, free health care, waste to wealth opportunities, to the Rivers people. “We will introduce Ijebu Garri, beans and yam flour, all to tell the world that good things happened to the people of Rivers during the time of Wike”, Otumba Rusenwe hinted on the coming NAFEST Rivers 2018.” he said. Governor Nyesom Wike assured stakeholders of unbeatable cultural festival in October. Represented by his deputy, Dr. Ipalibo Banigo, Wike said:  “We gave a good impression when we last hosted in 2003. This time Rivers will host NAFEST that would be difficult to beat. We are ready to show Nigeria and the world our state as a center of hospitality. You would have wonderful memories as you come in October. “We must also use this (NAFEST) opportunity to tell the international community to intervene is saving Nigeria from these kinds of shame because we need peaceful election and rule of law in Nigeria.” Commissioner for Arts, Culture and Tourism  Mrs.  Tonye Briggs-Oniyide described the festival as a national event that celebrates the unity of the country,  irrespective of its challenges. “This is the only socio-cultural forum in the country that reaps its value from the verse unique creative and productive heritage of the people of the country and the opportunities created by NAFEST is a pillar to the economy the country seeks as a nation,” she stated.