The Students Union Government (SUG) of the University of Calabar (UNICAL), has constructed an ultra-modern laundry bay for students living in the hostel, popularly known as Malabor Republic, estimated at almost N4 million.  President of the SUG, Enyam Kelvin, said the bay, which also has provision for ironing clothes, became necessary as some of the hostel halls in the Republic had nowhere for students to wash their clothes.  Speaking at the commissioning of the project, he said the bay could take up to 500 students washing at the same time.  Kelvin, who assumed office about three months ago, said funding for the project was through partnership with the University management.  He said a structure has also been put in place to ensure the proper management of the bay.  “We had to develop a means where students can wash comfortably and make it up to standard considering the equipment and facility. The project cost almost N4 million, the funding came through partnership with the University management because of the Vice-Chancellor is students oriented and he assured that the project must be completed and we want to thank God for it.  “The bay can simultaneously carry up to 500 students washing at the same time. We have a maintenance structure in place because if we don’t manage it, it will become a problem. We have put up modalities to ensure the facility is maintained to serve all Nigerian students. This is the first capital project in the republic. We would also orient the students on the need to maintain the facility so other students can also enjoy the facility after them.  “The Vice Chancellor has been very encouraging. He made this a reality. He is a student oriented VC. He has always promoted the students agenda and we are grateful to him,” Kelvin said.  Vice Chancellor of the University, Prof Zana Akpagu, said students’ welfare was his priority.  Akpagu who promised to do more to make life better for the students, said he would avoid bureaucracies to provide facilities for the students.  He congratulated the leadership of the SUG for the project, saying they have etched their names positively in history.  Former Senator representing the Southern Senatorial District of Cross River State, Prince Bassey Otu, who commissioned the project, lauded the SUG for their effort to improve the lives of the students.  “This gives the consolation that the future is bright if young people can embark on such endeavours,” he said.  The Senator representing the Central Senatorial District of the state, Mr John Owan-Enoh, promised to support the students to do more.  Senator Owan Enoh, who was represented by Mr Patrick Okon, urged the students to continue to support the SUG.