No matter your age, everyone can benefit from a healthy diet and adequate physical activity, especially in maintaining a healthy heart. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes. MOST people have seen the movie scene where somebody gasps, clutches his chest and falls to the ground. In reality, a heart attack victim could be that; or the scene may not be that dramatic. According to a caregiver, Mrs Bolanle Alabede of Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories, paxherbals, the food you eat, can decrease your risk of heart disease and stroke. Mrs Alabede said people should learn to choose foods that are low in saturated, trans fat, and sodium. As part of a healthy diet, eat plenty of fruits and vegetables, fibre-rich whole grains, fish, especially oily fish-at least twice per week, nuts, legumes and seeds. “Also, eating some meals without meat is advisable. Select lower fat dairy products and poultry (skinless).  Limit sugar-sweetened beverages and red meat. If you choose to eat meat, select the leanest cuts available,” she advised. Being physically active is another way to ensuring a hearty heart, as she explained, “One can slowly work up to at least two and half hours (150 minutes) of moderate-intensity aerobic physical activity (e.g., brisk walking) every week or one hour and 15 minutes (75 minutes) of vigorous intensity aerobic physical activity (e.g., jogging, running) or a combination of both every week. “Additionally, on two or more days a week you need muscle-strengthening activities that work all major muscle groups- legs, hips, back, abdomen, chest shoulders, and arms. Children should get at least 60 minutes of activity every day”. She said it is good to also learn the warning signs of a heart attack and stroke, “Heart attack symptoms include but not limited to chest discomfort. Most heart attacks involve discomfort in the centre of the chest that lasts more than a few minutes, or that goes away and comes back. It can feel like uncomfortable pressure, squeezing, fullness or pain. “Discomfort in other areas of the upper body is a symptom. Such symptoms can include pain or discomfort in one or both arms, the back, neck, jaw or stomach. Shortness of breath with or without chest discomfort is also symptom to note. While other signs may include- breaking out in a cold sweat, nausea or lightheadedness”. And for stroke, Mrs Alabede said the phrase ‘Spot a stroke F.A.S.T’ is apt. Where F.A.S.T means Face drooping- Does one side of the face droop or is it numb? Ask the person to smile. Arm weakness- Is one arm weak or numb? Ask the person to raise both arms. Does one arm drift downward? Speech difficult- Is speech slurred, are they unable to speak, or are they hard to understand? Ask the person to repeat a simple sentence, like ‘the sky is blue.’ Is the sentence repeated correctly?” If one or more of F.A.S.T is noted kindly call 767 or 112, “if the person shows any of these symptoms, even if the symptoms go away, call 767 or 112 and get them to the hospital immediately”. In the same vein, Hippocrates was not kidding when he said this powerful quote, “Let food be thy medicine and medicine be thy food.” Proven many times over, food naturally and synergistically works within our bodies to boost immunity, protect DNA from oxidative stress, improve skin health, lower blood pressure, and many other healthy benefits. She said: “Each day’s choice of food can only affect your health a little, but over a course of time, those daily choices become amazing rewards – or detrimental consequences.  In addition to food choices, there are two other steps we can take towards a healthier life and that is a step towards more activity as well as finding more time to reflect and relax.  In light of this month’s heart health awareness initiatives, let’s move forward and turn a new leaf on life; a heart healthy life”. “Don’t forget the Five. Make sure to incorporate at least five portions of variety of vegetable and fruits every day. Find if they are a good source of minerals and vitamins. You can use your creativity on how to include them with your regular meals such as adding chopped fruits to your pasta sauce or putting vegetables in your curry. An article by Toby Amidor, MS, RD, CDN, lists heart-healthy yet budget-friendly foods: Beans – even big on the list of disease proofing foods. Oats – As mentioned above, get your soluble fiber daily with this powerhouse food. Tomatoes – Lycopene, naturally found in tomatoes, is a bright red carotene and carotenoid pigment that will pack a punch when it comes to fighting all sorts of diseases. Nonfat Yogurt – Through its fermenting process, yogurts friendly probiotic bacteria may help to guard against diseases. Bananas are amongst the more budget friendly, but when you buy in season you are more apt to get a wider variety of other less costly fruits and vegetables,” she added. Mrs Alabede added: “Physical activity is important. It is not only the apple a day to keep the doctor away, it is also the more steps in a day! Performing such things as taking the stairs instead of the elevator, parking further away from the door when out shopping, getting outdoors to run around with the kids, or even doing simple games include jumping, skipping and running in place (when weather does not permit being outdoors). Strive towards moderate activity for 30 minutes on most days of the week.  Grab a loved one or your closest friend and you’re on your way to an even healthier heart because of great company.”