The mPulse is the latest innovation Information Communication Technology company, MTN Nigeria, developed for young adults to learn and play seamlessly. According to the telecommunication operator, mPulse  is a sea of exciting contents designed for tweens and teens (ages 9-15) to enable them learn and gain useful skills while having fun. MTN  on Thursday transformed the venue of the mPulse launch into exciting and impressive wonderland tagged; “mPulse Planet,” providing thousands of teenagers with lots of memorable attractions and fun packed activities.  These included a Virtual Reality masterclass facilitated by a 13-year-old, JSS3 student, Obaloluwa Odelana and the youngest hyper-realism artist in Africa, Kareem Waris Olamilekan of Waspa Art both of whom inspired children at the event. Hundreds of Parents, guardians including the Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), the telecommunication industry regulator witnessed the innovative launch in Lagos. Nnena and Friend during the mpulse launch… At the forum, the  Nigeria Communications Commission (NCC), explained to parents and guardians that it is safe for teenagers to leverage the internet. And that it is needful in their quest to learn and explore digital world. According to the Executive Vice Chairman; NCC Prof; Umar Danbatta who shared the regulatos position on the solution said, “NCC approved mPulse- has a learn and fun creative solution by MTN Nigeria for teenagers.”  Represented by the Zonal Controller; Lagos, Henry Ojiokpota, the EVC explained that “Nigerian children cannot afford to be left behind the digital world ecosystem which is fasten driven by teenagers around the world. “Before the mPulse solution was approved it has to undergo different regulatory test before without that the commission will not throw its weight on it. i Can tell you and ascertained that it is safe, educative and fun in line with the regulatory standard and bench-mark for safety.” Another educative centre during the launch of mPulse Speaking at the launch, General Manager, Consumer Marketing, Oluwole Rawa who share further insights on the innovation explained that; “We always seek to proffer innovative and relevant solutions that enable our customers connect with their tomorrow. This platform does precisely that, providing a controlled environment where our youngsters can explore and learn more, and have fun while doing it.  “MTN is a community of people from across the country, mothers, fathers, brothers and sisters some of who are parents themselves. We all have family connections and like you, are dedicated to protecting and nurturing a brighter future.” The mPulse package comes with a voice plan and a fun, educative website which hosts a wide variety of courses and study aids to help children from Primary 1 to SS3 excel.  The portal also provides a bouquet of single and multiplayer games as well as life skill videos. From computer programming, fashion designing, medicine and blogging to engineering, writing, data science and motivational speaking etc, there is something for every interest. The Portal has built-in parental controls. Once a child is signed up, the registered parent/guardian can track and control what the child is accessing on the Internet.  With the launch of MTN mPulse, MTN is giving parents and guardians more ways to equip the next generation.