PEOPLES Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant Tanimu Turaki has said leaders should emulate Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade for his sustainable peace, agricultural revolution, industrialisation and good leadership style. Turaki spoke when he led his campaign team to the Government House, Calabar, on Monday as part of his consultation with delegates and stakeholders. The aspirant, who noted that Cross River is his 26th state to visit: “I am very proud of you and we are very proud of what you are doing in Cross River. Today, you are the pride of PDP in Nigeria and what you are doing shows that there can never be a substitute for knowledge and education.” He assured Ayade that “we will continue to take a lot of inspiration in your kind of leadership because it has worked for Cross River and there is no reason why it can not work for Nigeria,” adding that “we will pray for God to strengthen you with wisdom, strength and humility, even as we impress on other PDP leaders to emulate you and do what you have continued to do in Cross River.” Turaki who explained that agriculture has been revolutionised in Cross River, which is the only state practising  precision agriculture, remarked: “It’s been knowledge-driven, you plant at the commencement of the planning, you know what amount of fertiliser you need, the type of fertiliser, amount of water and sunshine that you need in a manner to get a bountiful harvest, that is what Ayade has brought here.” Turaki, who argued that there is peace in Cross River because the rule of law work, hinted that “we need a person that has the intelligence, credibility, knowledge, exposure, peaceful, a bridge builder and healthy like you (Ayade) and that is why you have been working 26 hours a day. I don’t know where you get the additional two hours. It is because you are young and dynamic, that is why you have been able to bring dynamism in Cross River.” On his blueprint if he wins the Presidency, Turaki said he would implement the presidential committee report on dialogue, rejig the economy, rebuild decayed and decaying infrastructure as well as create jobs. Ayade stressed the need for the aspirant to focus on the 13 per cent derivation, which is denied the state, the spill over of 14,000 Cameroonians in Cross River threatening security, the devastating effect of the state economy due to loss of oil wells, and dwindling federal allocation, if he becomes the president. clinch the office. The governor who prayed for the unity of the nation to remain critical in his administration said: “The subject of restructuring along the different philosophies that exist remains critical as Nigeria moves forward,” pointing out that, “it creates opportunity for people to turn round and look at what they have got. It also allows the states to explore to the best of their abilities all their resources within the dictates of federal law and to explore their resources particularly those that are time sensitive and may soon be old-fashioned.”   