Stakeholders have been advised to collaborate to review the administrative processes for identifing plants, research, development and approval of remedies and drug production from  herbs and plants. Emeritus Professor Joseph Okogun of the Department of Chemistry, University of Ibadan made the call at a public lecture as part of activities  marking his 80th birthday. The lecture, organised by Bevekt Gedu Chemical Company, was entitled: “Active, bitter and sweet – A lifetime of research on plants, anti-cancer remedies and drug discovery”. In the lecture, Okogun said plants are organic chemical factories which produce useful chemicals that man exploits for healthy living. He spoke on various active ingredients that have been discovered from leaves and fruits in Nigeria and West Africa that can either treat or manage many common ailments at affordable cost. “There are organic and natural remedies for the management of various diseases, including cancer and HIV/AIDS, using several decades of data from scientific research on plants by Bevekt Gedu. Out of Bevekt Gedu’s work, a pure compound initially obtained from a Nigerian plant, which has been adopted and about to be finalised for drug development as a blockbuster drug by IMI of USA. This is an indication that opportunities for long-lasting and sustainable investments are abundant locally,” Okogun said. Okogun said the extraction, isolation, analysis and modification of active natural products for potential drug leads or drugs and molecular probes; and the role of different professionals in the process of drug discovery. “Plant materials are usually processed and powdered for extraction with solvents of various polarities so that different types of compounds are extracted by the different solvents. The solvents range from gases (carbon dioxide and hydrocarbon) in supercritical fluid states, petroleum ether through ethanol to water. For instance, the removal of solvent, the usually dark brown gum is separated into the component compounds in the mixture, using various chromatographic methods with or without bioactivity screening depending on the nature of the targeted compounds,’’ Okogun said. According to him, biological activity screening is done by pharmacognosists, pharmaceutical chemists, pharmacologists, biochemists and microbiologists to identify potential drugs and other biologically active compounds, including pesticides. Toxicologists determine the toxicity including teratogenicity of identified potential drugs. When biologically active compounds are identified, there may need to improve on the activity and or toxicity by modifying the structures using chemistry linked with biology. Identified potential drugs with known mechanism of actions are used as molecular probes in diagnosis and disease research. 