The Lagos State Youth Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr. Omotayo Sanyaolu, has urged youths to collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) and push for more active roles in politics and nation building. Sanyaolu who made the call while speaking with reporters at the Lagos Youth Conference, held at Alausa yesterday, said it is very sad that only 20 per cent of the youth population have their PVCs, in a country where they make up 62 per cent of the population. The conference took place under the theme, ‘Youths as catalyst in national development’. Sanyaolu’s words: “The youths need to play active roles in politics and nation building; we need to get our PVCs, because that gives us the right to vote. We discover that 62 per cent of the nation’s population is made up of the youths, but it is very sad that it is just about 20 per cent of that number that have their PVCs.” This, he said, clearly shows that the youths are not ready. He added: “This was why we brought everybody together to know that we have an active part to play in nation building and building of Lagos. “We need to continue the legacies of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; we need to build Lagos; we brought them together to know that we need to move as one to make a change as youths in Lagos State. We are not too young to run; we need to fire ourselves up to take over the mantle of leadership.” The APC youth leader said all the youths require for leadership is to be focused, be themselves and refuse to be instruments or tools in the hands of old politicians. He added: “We have to stay away from thuggery; we don’t have to allow some politicians to mortgage our future, because once you sell your vote, you have practically sold your future. “So, we need to actually come together to stand for ourselves and our children. We are the tools to make the future bright; yes, we are the leaders of tomorrow, but our tomorrow starts today. We need to build our nation; we need to take our lost glory back.” Also speaking at the occasion, the Chairman, Committee of Youths, Sports and Social Development, Hon. Richard Kasunmu, said it is time for the youths to sit back and think about the way forward. He said: “It is time for the youths to stop being catalyst for thuggery, bad behaviour and instruments employed by bad politicians to commit atrocities. We must show that we are ready for leadership, by disengaging from thuggery, truancy, cultism, bad social norms, bad company etc.” Kasunmu said as a progressive party the APC wants to help the youths to contribute to nation-building and by so doing make them catalyst for national development. He added: “They must stand up and revise the stakes and they have to prove that they are ready to take the mantle of leadership. “We, as youths, must stand up with one voice and say yes, we are ready; that is the way forward. We have been given 30 per cent inclusion in government; there is no reason why we can’t build that up to 50, then 100 per cent.” The Lagos State Co-ordinator of the Not-too-young-to run, Comrade Godbless Otubore, urged youths to be focused and be catalysts for change. He said: “We must stand and fight for what we believe in; we must never give up and we must fight every barrier and hurdle and keep moving.” Among those who participated at the conference were students from tertiary institutions, youth groups across the 57 local councils and the Chairman, Igbogbo-Beyeku Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Sesan Daire.