Youths under the auspices of Ezza Ezekuna Youth Association on Monday stage a peaceful  protest in Abakaliki the Ebonyi state capital be to protest the death of an All Progressive Congress,  APC, Local government Chairman in Ebonyi state. Ernest Oduu, a Lawyer, who until his death, was the Chairman of APC in Ezza South Local Area slumped on Saturday in an Enugu hotel alleggedlly owned by a stalwart of the party in Ebonyi state and later confirmed dead at a hospital. The Youths, numbering over 500 marched round some streets in Abakaliki before terminating the march at Government House Abakaliki. Addressing Journalists, they called on the Inspector General of Police to investigate the matter and unravel the cause of the death of Mr Oduu. The protesters carried inscriptions like, “IGP, please investigate the death of our son; Ezza Youth mourns Barrister Ernest; We don’t want the death of our brother swept under the carpet; The cause of his death must be made public; amongst others The leader of the group, Leonard Alegu said that they were in the government house to protest the delay by the Enugu police command in unraveling the death of the deceased and urged the Ebonyi state government to liaise with the Commissioner for Police Enugu State to commence investigation into the cause of the death. “Since Saturday, 17th of August that our brother was said to have slumped and died in a hotel in Enugu, where he went to attend a political meeting, nothing have been heard about his death. We are worried that the police command in Enugu State has not commenced investigation and we are calling for justice”. “We are here to make a passionate appeal to the Ebonyi State government to please liaise with the Enugu State Police command not just to investigate the cause of the death but to unravel the cause of his death because, justice will not be achieved if the cause of his death is not unraveled”, Elegu said. Receiving the protesters, the Chief of Staff, Ebonyi state Government House, Ofor Okorie thanked the protesting Ezza youths for embarking on a peaceful protest rather than taking laws into their hands. He said their action is most commendable and shows a high level of maturity and civility. Mr Okorie assured the youths that the state government having received their complaints would ensure that it would liaise with the police to ensure that the death of the deceased is properly investigated. He urged them to return back to their different houses and not to allow miscreants hijack the protest as that would not go down well with the state government. Ebonyi State Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of Operations, Mr. Tony Olofu, said that the Ebonyi State Police command will collaborate with its Enugu State command to look into the matter. He further assured them that everything contained in the letter submitted to the police command would get to the appropriate authorities. He urged them to go back to their businesses and remain law abiding citizens pointing out that the Ebonyi State Command of the police will continue to ensure the security of lives and properties of its citizenry.