The Inspector General of Police Force (IGP), Ibrahim Idris on Wednesday sounded a note of warning to criminals. The Police Chief who said the killing of Policemen in Abuja and Edo State were not justified added that the Nigeria Police Force would not tolerate further attacks on its men. The IG disclosed this in Abuja during the monthly meeting with Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Assistant Inspector General of Police  (AIGs), Commissioners of Police and other senior Police officers. Idris said some suspects who have been arrested in connection to the killings are presently undergoing interrogation. He said: “Our officers in Abuja, Edo and other parts of the country came under attack by some miscreants. “They just picked on Police officers not because of anything  but because Police have been very strong in ensuring that the right thing is done in this country. “Some miscreants picked on policemen not because of anything but because they stood by the law. These are done by people that don’t mean for this country. “The Nigeria Police Force at the various levels of responsibility will not tolerate any killing of Police officers. “I want CPs of Commands, AIGs and DIGs to ensure that officers are galvanised to tackle any group of individuals or group of people that pick on policemen because they are Police officers and doing their job of providing security in various parts of the country.” He added: “In all parts of the country, anybody that attacks a policeman does not mean well because all we do is to protect lives and property.  We don’t take sides. “I think Nigerians need to understand that our commitment is to the law of this country. I think Nigerians should understand our commitment and that I believe is what some people were not happy about because I do not see any justification for anybody to attack policemen who were doing their job.” On those arrested, he said: “We have arrested some suspects and they are presently going through interrogation and investigation.” The IG who said he did not overdeploying men to Ekiti State hinted that similar number of personnel deployed to Ekiti for the governorship election would be deployed to Osun State. “I did not see any overdeployment. Deployments are done based on requirement.  The demand in Ekiti led to the deployment of 30,000 personnel and it is normal.We are going to do same in Osun “We are going to be having various elections in different parts of the country. In Osun, we are going to deploy officers to be able to provide enough security for the election in order to ensure that we record the same success recorded in Ekiti.” On the drama that played out where eight House of Assembly members were granted access to the Assembly and others denied entry by the Police, the Police said: “We are fully on ground to provide security. The 22 members that impeached the speaker, how did they sit? Is it not the same House? So we are not partisan.”