A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State, Mr Goddie Akpama, has called for the jettisoning of the zoning arrangement for the governorship position in next year’s election if the party intends to win the election next year. The political class appears to have an unwritten agreement that the governorship should rotate among the three senatorial districts and by this arrangement the northern senatorial district still has another four years with Governor Ben Ayade of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) from Obudu local government area, almost concluding his first four years. The other two districts are the southern and central senatorial districts which produced former governors Donald Duke and Liyel Imoke respectively, who both served for eight years each from 1999. Speaking against the background of the by-election for the Obudu State Constituency of the House of Assembly, where the candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Mrs. Abbey Ukpukpen, scored 12,530 to beat the All Progressive Congress’ (APC) candidate, Mr Adah Ishamali who polled 4,349 votes, on August 11, Akpama said the zoning should not apply to the APC. According to him, going by what transpired in the by-election, the northern senatorial district does not have what it takes to win the governorship for the APC. Speaking with The Nation in Calabar Friday, Akpama, a former governorship candidate of the Progressive People’s Alliance (PPA) in the state, called on the APC to support someone from the south as according to him, this would greatly improve their chances next year, given they have the voting strength. Akpama said, “The main lesson from that by-election is very clear, and it is that the northern senatorial district APC aspirants do not have what it takes to win the governorship elections next year for our Party. As a member of the APC, I still stand tall to say, that the governorship aspirants of the north have no political muscle to win elections in 2019 by what transpired during the by-election. We have three governorship aspirants from Obudu and they did nothing to show for the capacity of being governors in the by-election. “Even though for the sake of equity, we shout it is the turn of the north, but for the APC to win elections in the state, they must not rely on such a zoning formula if we must win elections in 2019. Again it is not constitutional to limit participation to any unit, constituency or zone. “We have approximately 69, 000 registered votes in Obudu. The APC could not even mobilize half of that number to its credit. The by-election was a total failure to the APC. My conclusion is that all of the aspirants do not have the capacity to be able to do or win elections come 2019. “I suggest that we the APC begin to look for other options if we intend to win the state next year and not just limit themselves to the issue of zoning. This would be inimical to the party. The party has better materials that would be able to mobilize to win the elections next year, so they should look towards that direction. “Let every other party member stand behind whoever would be able to have such capacity to match the PDP, to win the elections come 2019. It is pertinent to reiterate that the PDP has lost popularity with the people and this is the right time for the APC to put themselves together and come up with someone that can win next year.” 