The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has mocked the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and laughed laughed off claims by the ruling party that the opposition planned to attack its senators. Describing the claims as childish, the PDP said the ruling party was smarting from its failed attempt to impeach the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu as an exercise in futility. The opposition said the ruling party has come to its wits end in its desperate plot to illegally impeach Saraki and Ekweremadu hence the “spurious” allegation. A statement on Tuesday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said it was sheer hallucination for the APC to link it with any attempt to attack anybody, not the least, senators. Rather, the opposition party said it’s clear to Nigerians that, it is the APC that has been involved in sponsoring violence and attacks in the residences of the presiding officers of the Senate as well as in the National Assembly. “Equally derisory is the APC’s claims that it is in talks with some PDP senators to get a two third vote to impeach the Senate presiding officers when it is public knowledge that all PDP senators are loyal to their party and had already pledged their loyalty to the presiding officers that they elected by themselves. “It is therefore foolhardiness for the leadership of the APC, to contemplate a capacity to impeach the presiding officers of the National Assembly whereas they are neither senators nor members of the House of Representatives. “It is also funny that rather than lobby senators and members on their party position, if they have any, the APC leadership toed the path of brigandage, claiming to have powers to upturn or upstage the leadership that it did not ab-initio bring into existence. “Confronted by the realities of its shameful adventure, the APC leadership has now turned around in its trademark shambolic character to begin to look for scapegoats and who to hold responsible for their failures. “It is necessary to impress it on the APC that Nigerians, in attracting a democratic lifestyle, have since abandoned the garrison command leadership approach of any Nigerian, no matter how highly placed. “Therefore, it is too late in the day for the APC to attempt to deploy underhand tactics that are strange to democratic norms to remove a duly elected Senate leadership”, the PDP added. 