Minister of Health Prof. Isaac Adewole  has called for more awareness on the elimination of obstetric fistula to reduce maternal mortality. Adewole said this  at the High Level Awareness Seminar on Fistula in Abuja. The minister said obstetric fistula is childbirth injury, which  causes both physical and social harm in women. Women, who experience obstetric fistula suffer incontinence, shame, and social segregation and health problems. He said: “The development of obstetric fistula is directly linked to one of the major causes of maternal mortality: obstructed labour. It is estimated that more than two million young women live with untreated obstetric fistula in Asia and Sub- Saharan Africa “In Nigeria the most common cause of obstetric fistula is prolonged obstructed labour due to limited access to emergency obstetric care. Unfortunately only 38 percent of deliveries in Nigeria are supervised by Social Birth Attendances (SBAs). Socio- cultural practices, including early marriage and early childbirth before the pelvis is fully developed, also contribute significantly.” Adewole said in a 2017 report by UNICEF, 43 percent of Nigerian girls are married off before their 18th birthday, while 17 percent get married before 15. The Northeastern and Northwestern have the highest number of cases. He added: “An estimated 150,000 women and girls are living with untreated fistula in Nigeria, with an annual incidence of 12,000 to 15, 000 cases, approximately, the country contributes 15 percent to the global burden of the obstetric fistula. It is estimated that the unmet need for the treatment of OFs could be as high as 98 percent in Nigeria, with less than 3,000 fistula repairs done annually (NSF2018).  It is also estimated that about 2,000 fistula repairs annually (NSF 2018- 2022) and 10,000 clients are added annually to subsequent years new cases’’. To this end, the minister said  the Federal Government  and development partners were making efforts to eliminate fistula and investing in capacity building of various cadres of healthcare workers. Adewole said the ministry has developed National Training Guidelines with the National Group on Obstetric Fistula, development partners, line ministries and other key relevant stakeholders. “FMOH would establish four more National Centres and one regional centre, in addition to the three National Centres. This will increase our national obstetric centres to eight including regional centre. I urge partners to join the fight against the scourge of fistula in our society, so Fed Govt would continue to play a leading role in setting the agenda,” Adewole said. The Family Health  Director, Dr. Adebimpe Adebiyi, assured that the  ministry was committed to eliminating Obstetric Fistula and improving the lives of women and children in Nigeria. UNFPA Acting Country Representative in Nigeria, Dr. Eugene Kongnyuy, said that there was the need to create more awareness on OFs in Nigeria, “and the focus should be on improving Girl- Child Education, Child spacing, Gender trust and people showing more compassion.”. 