A coalition of youth organs under the auspices of  ‘Sokoto state Youth and Students Leaders For Tambuwal’ joined to celebrate youths day, calling for a sustained efforts to allow their active participation in the process of national development. The coalition which seem to be rooting for ‎Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal said” If we back out from Tambuwal, our generation has failed. Speaking on Monday in Sokoto at a symposium in commemoration of the 2018 International Youth Day‎ organised by the coalition, a youth Ambassador, Comrade Nafiu Bello Basakkwace said youths deserve to be given their rightful place in the activities of governance and general developmment. He noted with joy the signing recently of the ‘Not too young to run’ Bill by President Muhammadu Buhari. The theme of this year’s event is” Safe Spaces for the Youth” According to Basakkwace” we constitute the most vibrant segment and nucleus that can drive the nation on the path of prosperity. ” We are closing ranks to sustain the drive by creating space for our even and collective participation.” The youth Ambassador who also described Governor Tambuwal as the needed choice of a leader‎, said they were ready to extend to him their unflinching support, noting that he was capable of delivering results. ” We will ensure he realises his passionate ambition by supporting him ‎to the destination of success”, he assured. He however, frowned at a recent comment against Governor Tambuwal, describing him as “too in a hurry.” He said” How can you say that a 52 year old is too in a hurry? In developed worlds, we have presidents at 39yrs and below 50‎yrs.”, he wondered. ‎Delivering a lecture, Comrade Sanusi Yakubu who recalled that the day which was set aside by the United Nations and first celebrated in year 2000, was initiated to focus on 15 fundamental issues relating to socio-economic, education, health, drugs, among other related issues bordering on youths development and survival. According to Yakubu, youths involvement in state affairs would encourage positive changes in development process. ” ‎They are themselves means and solution to problems if given the flow of space to actively participate in nation building”, he pointed out. Comrade Yakubu further observed that there has been consistent clamour globally for youth to enjoy opportunities inorder to demonstrate their abilities for positive change. ” Is therefore, of enormous importance to allow youths drive the desired positive change‎ for the benefit of the country. He charged youths to take up the purposeful challenge of changing the narrative while urging government to map out policies to encourage collaboration that would promote youth aspirations to leadership positions. While noting that government was a critical player and stakeholder in developing youths, Yakubu expressed concern over the attitude of most youth on social media platforms. He cautioned youths on how they use social media platforms negatively by promoting and provoking hate and derogatory posts. ” You have to be alive to your responsibility as leaders of tomorrow. Be careful and always conscious of messages and comments you pass across on social media platforms‎. ” I want to draw your attention to the dangers associated with hate and derogatory speeches and comments either by direct post or sharing others post that are sensitive to negative reactions”, he specifically mentioned. In his remarks, Director General, Media and Publicity to the Government of Sokoto state, Alhaji Abu Shekara urged the youths to rejuvenate and emancipate themselves ‎from all kinds of negative vice and own up to responsibilities that defined them as symbol of feature leaders. According to Shekara who was represented by Director Mobilisation and Enlightenment, Sokoto state Media Corporation, Nura Ibrahim Dogon Daji, such was the only panacea to advancing their desire for participation in development process. He further hailed Governor Tambuwal for ably dislodging as well wiping out all forms of ‘area ‎boys’ activities in the state especially within the state metropolis with a view to giving new sense of order to the youths who were dominant in the negative life.