The Department of State Services (DSS) yesterday denied that cash, weapons and electoral items were recovered from the home of the agency’s former Director-General Lawal Daura. A trending online video indicating that N21 billion cash, weapons and Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) were found in Daura’s Abuja and Katsina homes was being circulated yesterday. But, in a statement in Abuja, the DSS said the various biased and conflicting interpretations of last week’s incident at the National Assembly were being disseminated by various interest groups. The statement reads: “The attention of the Department of State Services (DSS) has been drawn to the circulation of fake information and videos in which several items were said to have been recovered from the Katsina and Abuja homes of its immediate past Director-General, Lawal Daura. “These non-existent items include: twenty-one billion Naira cash, 400   assorted   and   sophisticated   small   arms   and   light weapons/rifles and thousands of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) belonging to Niger Republic immigrants. “In another video also in circulation, some persons believed to be personnel of a security outfit were seen forcing open safes stocked with money. “The security operatives were described as executing a recovery operation at the Katsina home of the former DG of DSS. “Consequently, the Service wishes to inform the public that these videos are false and should be disregarded. “So far, no such recovery operations have been undertaken by the EFCC or any other security agency at DSS’ office or residences of the former director-general”, it stated. According to the DSS, instead of further spreading such fake news, Nigerians should await the official outcome of the Presidential investigation of last week’s incident at the National Assembly, which various antagonists have misinterpreted to suit their interests. It said: “There is no doubt that different interests have continued to give varied accounts of the incident of last week at the National Assembly. “It may, however, be recalled that the Presidency had pledged to carry out a detailed investigation regarding the alleged National Assembly siege. “The public is, therefore, advised to exercise restraint in their narration of events and as such,   desist from spreading fake news   or engaging in activities that may mislead or further cause a breach of the peace as well as preempt the outcome of investigations.”