Minister of State, Health,  Dr. Osagie Ehanire has advised Nigerian Medical Association (NMA) members to show compassion while handling emergency and accident cases. He urged doctors to give prompt attention to victims. The minister spoke when he received NMA’s executive members, led by their President, Dr. Francis Faduyile. According to him, life is sacred and the medical profession is a divine calling; as such, health professionals, particularly medical doctors, should have a change of attitude towards their patients while discharging their duties. He said: “As keepers of a profession that has to do with human existence, you need compassion, dedication, integrity and selflessness. As team leaders, you must remember to carry others along because quality health care delivery requires the cooperation of everyone involved, success requires team work.” The minister urged the executives to ensure better working relationship with other associations in the sector, adding that this  would stem the tide of strikes in the sector. Ehanire assured the group that the ministry would continue to partner the association and other bodies to achieve a strike-free atmosphere. He assured that the ministry was committed to resolving every issue to improve the welfare of health professionals. Faduyile said there was the need to ensure the release of the white paper  by the Yayale Ahmed-led Presidential Committee on experts on Inter-Professional Relationship in the Public Health Sector, adding that it would play a vital role in achieving peace in the sector. He said the NMA was poised to partnering the ministry and other relevant stakeholders in the sector towards health care delivery. Meanwhile, the Federal Government has put in place strategies to improve the health of adolescents and youths. The Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole made this known at a stakeholders’ meeting on Health and development of adolescents and young people in Nigeria, organised by the ministry in partnership with World Health Organisations (WHO). The minister, represented by the Permanent Secretary of the ministry, Mr. Abdulaziz M. Abdullahi, said the meeting was a reflection of the ministry’s commitment to ensuring significant improvement of health and well-being of adolescents and youths. Adewole said adolescence is a period of transition between childhood and Adulthood (aged 10-24). There are about 47 million adolescents and youths. Evidence indicates that adolescents and youths face challenges, which include mental health resulting from drugs and substances abuse, sexual and reproductive health problems as well as endemic and chronic diseases. As part of the strategies, the ministry banned production and distribution of codeine drug and other substances harm adolescents and youths. The minister explained that National Strategic Health Development Plan II, approved during the National Council on Health in Kano, would support adolescents and youths. He said the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), being adopted by states, had great impact on adolescents and youths, adding that the Saving One Million Lives Programme, the health intervention funds to states, was beneficial to adolescents and young people. “I implore the group of experts to come up with innovative ideas and feasible interventions that would enhance adolescents and youth friendly health services and programmes across the country, particularly as we work together towards the achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),” the minister said. The Permanent Secretary, represented by the Director, Department of Family Health, Dr. Adebimbe Adebiyi, said investing on adolescents and youths was a national priority considering the growing population and the increasing need of their health care services. Abdullahi called on participants to assess adolescents and youths to harness resources to address their needs. The WHO Country Representative, Dr. Wondi Alemu, represented by Dr. Andrew Nbewe, said the global health body made adolescents health a flagship programme. “Adolescent health is a flagship Programme for World Health Organisation and the Organisation is available to provide every necessary assistance to ensure that our adolescents are healthy,” he said