The National Assembly joint Committee on the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will meet on Monday to further consider INEC budget for 2019 elections. The meeting is coming against the backdrop of growing anxiety over which of the budget proposals the joint committee will endorse for the elections. The joint committee had announced through its Chairman, Senator Suleiman Nazif, that it will meet  to decide which of the two budget proposals, the N143billion President Muhammadu Buhari requested for in a letter sent to the National Assembly and the N189billion INEC is asking for, will be approved. President Buhari had in the letter to the National Assembly said that out of the N189bn INEC budgeted for the conduct of 2019 elections, N143bn should be approved this year through virement from the N578bn additional votes members of the National Assembly inserted in the budget , while the balance of N45.6bn would be captured for INEC in the 2019 budget. INEC officials at two different appearances before the joint committee insisted that the entire N189billion should be approved for it for the smooth conduct of the 2019 elections. This led to sharp division among members of the committee across party lines as they failed to agree on which of the requests to be approved. The Committee chairman said in the statement: “Sequel to the ongoing consideration of the Independent National Electoral Commission, 2019 General Election Budget by the joint committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, the general public is hereby informed that work on the budget is in advanced stage and in line with mandate issued to the joint committee by the leadership of the National Assembly. “Equally the Joint Committee deliberated on all key attributes of the budget while taking into cognizance the imperative urgency for the budget to be ready in time for the 2019 general election hence, necessitating sacrifice and selflessness from our distinguished and honourable members. “Furthermore, it is imperative to state here explicitly that, after  audacious sessions with all critical stakeholders the joint committee dissolved into executive structure and agreed to resume on 27th August, 2018, (after Sallah) to consider the harmonized version of the budget report diligently. “More so the report of the joint committee will be made available for further and appropriate legislative action in earnest”. The committee at its last session on the budget which had the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udoma Udo Udoma and INEC Chairman, Prof Mahmood Yakubu in attendance, could not resolve which of the requests to approve. While members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the committee supported the approval of N143bn requested by President Buhari in his letter, their colleagues in the All Progressives Congress (APC) backed the approval of the N189 billion INEC asked for. The position of the Minister of Budget and National Planning that the committee should use its discretion on matter did not help the issue. The Minister who was asked for authorization for the approval from President Buhari, noted that N189bn requested by INEC was the same amount the President wrote in the letter to the National Assembly. The Minister said that because of funding constraints, President Buhari decided to break approval for it into two fold by seeking virement for N143bn for INEC this year while the balance of N45.6billion would be taken care of in the 2019 budget . He said “Mr. President will have no objection to the National Assembly approving the entire N189billion INEC budget as long as it does not in anyway, lead to increase in the overall size of the 2018 budget . “If this is to be done, the N45.6billion the President in his letter proposed to be provided in the 2019 budget would also have to be vired along with the N143bn from the N578bn fund appropriated in the 2018 budget by the National Assembly for the additional 1,403 projects included in the budget. “Discretion on which of the requests to be approved by you now, is yours. If you approve the N143bn the President requested it is okay and if you approve the entire N189billion for INEC this year is also alright. “Any of the two is okay for the executive, except that if you approve the N189billion through virement, the N45.6 billion planned to be captured in the 2019 budget , would no longer be part of the budget estimates for that year.” 