The National Assembly has been engulfed in crises, following the defection of some legislators from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI and MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE examine the bone of contention and the implication of the logjam for governance. WHEN it comes electing Senate Presidents, the norm in most federations around the world is to elect a senator from the majority party to lead the upper legislative chamber. This usually happens at the start of each new term or whenever the position is vacant. For instance, in the United States of America (USA), which also practices the presidential system of government like Nigeria, the constitution provides for two officers to preside over the Senate. In theory, the Vice President is constitutionally designated as the presiding officer of the Senate. But, in his absence, the president pro tempore (or, “president for a time”) takes charge of deliberations of the upper legislative chamber. By custom, the most senior member of the party that has majority seats is elected to preside over the chamber. The system in Argentina is similar to that of the USA; the titular President of the Senate is the Vice President. However, the day-to-day leadership of the Senate is exercised by the Provisional President. In Canada, which practices the parliamentary system of government, the constitution also provides for two officers to preside over the Senate. By convention, the Speaker of the Senate is appointed by the Governor General of Canada, on behalf of the Canadian Monarch, and on the Constitutional advice of the Queen’s Privy Council for Canada. The Speaker of the Canadian Senate is usually from the party with majority seats in parliament. In the absence of the Speaker, his duties are carried by the Speaker pro tempore, a Senator appointed at the beginning of each session by the Senate. Should both chair officers be absent, any Senator can be called upon to take the chair. Irrespective of who is in the chair, their decisions hold the same force as that of the Speaker of the Senate of Canada. In Nigeria, the general expectation is that the Senate President would come from the ruling party. This convention has prevailed since the return to civil rule in 1999. It is easy for the ruling party to achieve this, because the election requires a simple majority. But, to undertake his or her removal, according to the constitution, requires two-thirds majority of the chamber. The drafters of the 1999 Constitution did not provide for a situation where the Senate President defects from the ruling party to join another and the consequences of such a move. Thus, following the defection of the Senate President Bukola Saraki from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) last Tuesday, the APC National Chairman, Adams Oshiohmole, said after a meeting with some senators elected on the platform of the ruling party that he should relinquish his position as Senate President, since he is no longer a member of the party. Oshiomhole said it was a matter of honour for Saraki to leave “the crown in the family it belongs to”. While many APC chieftains are in synch with Oshiomhole’s position, other observers argue that the election of principal officers of the Senate is an internal affair of the upper legislative chamber and that it not an APC affair. Former Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Neimeth International Pharmaceuticals Plc and founder of the Sam Ohuabunwa Foundation for Economic Empowerment, Mazi Sam Ohuabunwa, does not see any reason why Saraki should be asked to resign. He said: “Why should he, when he has not been voted out by his colleagues? Members of the Senate that voted for him to become Senate President are the only ones that can either ask him to resign or remove him. “We have had people jump parties in the past and they were not asked to resign, so why should he be asked to resign. The last time when former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal, switched parties, he was still Speaker; nobody asked him to resign. They are asking him to tow the path of honour and resign, which honour? After they tried to demonise him, by saying he is corrupt and calling him all sorts of name, does he still have any hounour? “The APC is only reaping what it sowed. Haven’t you heard that whatsoever a man sows he shall reap? During the run-up to the last general elections, the APC played dirty politics; that is what it is getting back in return. The APC supported insurrection and breakup of the PDP, to build its own house. The same thing is happening to the party today, so why are its members complaining?” Ohunbunwa condemned what he described as the combative approach of Oshiomhole in resolution of party affairs, saying the former Edo State governor “is probably the liquidator or the undertaker that will undertake or liquidate the party, the way he going”. He added: “When the President was trying to make peace with them the other time, he was trying to scatter. He was even provoking a minister to decamp as well. He is not tactical at all; he needs to realize that he is no longer in the trade union; politics requires a different approach. He needs to calm down and employ wisdom, to manage the party.” The National Chairman of the United Progressives Party (UPP), Chekwas Okorie, agrees that there is no justification for the Senate President to resign. His words: “I listened to Adams Oshiomhole saying that he should tow the path of honour and resign. But he is forgetting that it was not at the goodwill of the APC that he became President of the Senate. It was through the support and conspiracy of PDP members of the upper chamber that he became Senate President. “One would say that it was his emergence as Senate President that led to his fall out with the APC. He fell out with the party in trying to patch up with that option. If he should resign now, he would be disappointing those who rallied behind him to become Senate President, most of whom are from the PDP. They would regard him as an ungrateful fellow. If he should do so, his new party, the PDP, would lose the leadership of the chamber which it gained by virtue of the defection. That is the angle I’m looking at it. “But, on the other hand, there is a lot of lack of discipline among our politicians, particularly those that have been privileged to be elected into offices. Once they get to those offices, they begin to jettison the party that brought them into power. It is only in Nigeria that one can be elected into an office only through a political party. A political party is a vehicle that stands for something and what it stands for is contained in its manifesto with INEC. Ordinarily, you have to believe in what the party stands for before you become a member. It is not the type of vehicle that you board in a motor park; you just go there and board any vehicle that is loading, whether it is Ekene Dili Chukwu or the Young Shall Grow. “So, after riding on the vehicle of a political party to power, you cannot just disembark anywhere you like. That is the reason why the National Assembly that Saraki is heading came up with an a constitutional amendment that would make it intolerable for a politician to defect after being elected into an office on the platform of another party. It is just that the amendment has not been passed into law, but it has been passed by the two houses. They agreed that it is not the right thing to do. Owing to the fact that it has not been passed into law, they are now taking advantage of the fluidity of our electoral laws on defection, to do what they know is not morally right. “Nevertheless, in the case of Saraki, there is a moral burden for the APC in asserting that the Senate Presidency is their crown; it is not their crown, because he is not the one they wanted to wear that crown. In the position of the law, it is the members of the Senate that has the responsibility to elect their principal officers. But, if you are a loyal party member and your party has taken a position on the matter, it is expected that you will abide by the party’s position.” Afenifere Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yinka Odumakin, is equally not in agreement that Saraki should resign. He said: “Why should Saraki resign? On what grounds are they insisting on his resignation? Did Tambuwal resign in 2014 as the Speaker? So, what goes around comes around. I was just reflecting on what transpired then and I remember when the President was praising Tambuwal for resigning and contesting in the 2015 governorship election in Sokoto State. It is a case of a man who is used to cutting peoples head, but is now afraid of seeing someone with cutlass coming near his head. “They should tell us why he should resign; politicians always believe that when others defect to their own party, such persons are patriot, but when they move to the other parties, they are traitors. Let me say that the only way they can remove him is for them to follow the constitution. I will like to say what is going on now is healthy for democracy. How can you celebrate the same act in 2014 and now you are carrying cutlass and guns in 2018.” A Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Ahmed Raji, said Saraki has not violated any known law by defecting from the ruling APC to the main opposition party, the PDP. He advised the ruling party to muster the majority of senators, if it desires to remove Saraki. The legal practitioner, however, pointed out that the ruling party must muster two-third majority of senators to constitutionally undertake the removal of Saraki as the Senate President. Raji said Oshiomhole’s position that Saraki should resign was founded more in morality and does not have any basis in law. He pointed out that Saraki was not elected as APC Senate President. He said: “In this case, we are talking of the Senate President that is elected by all of them; it is not APC affair, but that of the whole house. This is not a parliamentary system of government, but a presidential system of government. So, the question of party discipline, party structure and party hierarchy is more pronounced in parliamentary system of government, because both the legislature and the executive are fused.” But other observers are of the view that Saraki must resign, because he is no longer a member of the ruling party. Southwest APC leader, Chief Ayo Afolabi, is one of such persons. His words: “The leadership of the party has said he should resign. It means we all have said the same thing. I am a party man and will support whatever they said. If you get a position that belongs to a particular association and you decide to quit that association, when you are leaving, you have to leave whatever you have benefited with the association.” Another APC chieftain, Chief Niyi Akintola, said while Saraki has the right to leave and join any political party of his choice, he should resign as Senate president. The legal luminary said: “The honour and dignity demand that he should step down as Senate president. But, unfortunately, honour and dignity are in short supply among Nigerian politicians. “The legal implication of his defection can only be decided by the court. But, speaking as a concerned citizen, I think Saraki should not wait for anybody to tell him that he should leave the office of Senate President honourably.” 