With the global cost of cyber crime estimated at over $600 billion in 2017, the Central Bank of Nigeria on Thursday said it would strengthen its regulatory framework to check cyber-crimes on Nigeria’s financial system. Deputy Governor, Financial Systems Stability of the CBN Mrs. Aishah Ahmad, made this disclosure during a cyber-security conference in Abuja on Thursday. She stated that “whilst a variety of organizations are exposed to cybercrime, the financial sector is particularly vulnerable given its crucial role of financial intermediation in a highly connected global financial system.” Aishah Ahmad said while technology is transforming the way financial transactions are being conducted, Aisha Ahmad lamented that “the adoption of innovation such as robotic and artificial intelligence and block chains have potentials to disrupts this process.” This development she said has necessitated the need to further strengthen regulatory framework had become imperative because of “attractiveness of globalisation, interconnectivity and financial innovation are being undermined by incidences of cyber crimes.” The CBN DG said the CBN was aware of these threats and has convened the conference to tackle these threats. According to Aisha Ahmad, “technology is transforming the way we learn, communicate and conduct commercial event and the way we experience payment also innovation such as robotic and artificial intelligence and block chains all have the potential for further disruptions.” She noted that these series of cyber crimes “has ushered in complex security challenges some of which range from identity and intellectual property theft, emails spamming, virus dissemination, sophisticated hacking and theft by digital crime syndicate. All of which have led to a significant rise in cyber crimes.” She then added that “at the CBN we are committed to strengthen the regulatory framework for cyber risk, we are encouraging our regulated institutions to build realistic vulnerability testing systems for contingency planning.” She also revealed that “a recent study by the IMF estimated global annual losses from cyber-attacks may be close to nine per cent of banks’ net income or around $100 billion, and in a severe scenario, where the frequency of attacks are twice as high as currently experienced and with greater contagion, losses could be as high as $350 billion.” Also speaking at the event, the Director, Information Technology Department, CBN, Mr John Ayoh said the CBN was putting up strong measures to improve data protection in the banking industry. He noted that steps have to be taken to ensure that the CBN is not attacked by cyber criminals and he acknowledged that an attack on the central bank will affect the stability of the financial system. According to him, “it will make CBN lose tremendous reputation in the market place. People will start to wonder whether or not they can depend on the CBN, he said.