Members of the National Union of Electricity Employees on Wednesday barricaded Ikeja Electric’s (IE) offices across Lagos including the headquarters in Alausa. The picketing, which stated before 8am and continued till about 5pm was said to have been as a result of the retrenchment of  about 40 workers by the electricity distribution company (Disco). It was gathered IE recently conducted job performance appraisal in which some workers were promoted while those considered to have under performed, relieved. Angered by the sack, the union mobilized placard carrying members, who resisted customers and workers access to the company’s offices. It was gathered that it took the intervention of security agencies for IE workers to be allowed into the premises. Reacting to the picketing, IE said it had to shut down nine feeders serving about three thousand customers within Ikeja for safety concerns. It described the protest was self-serving, noting that about 300 workers were promoted last week across all cadre. The company said over 500 workers was recruited in one year, adding that the recent separation of staff was due to varying actions not in furtherance of overall company objectives. Head, Corporate Communications Felix Ofulue said: “When NUEE chooses to cripple socio-economic activities of over a million households, for issues that can be resolved through dialogue, one then wonders if the motives are as selfless as they claim. “How do you plunge a country’s commercial nerve center into darkness because of a few of your members who have been separated from the business for cogent reasons? It is really appalling. It’s an abuse of privilege to picket. “Imagine that our employees in Alausa Injection Sub Station were chased out of the facility by the union and they had to shut down nine feeders that supply power to Ikeja and its environs on safety grounds. This has resulted in an immediate blackout for at least 3000 customers.” Ofulue apologized to customers for the disruption of service, assuring that the company would continue to partner stakeholders for improved service delivery. 