The police yesterday paraded 13 persons for alleged robberies in some parts of Lagos. Among the suspects was a father of four, Abiodun Oluwa, 34, who allegedly attacked his victims at Atiporomeh in Badagry. According to Commissioner of Police (CP) Imohimi Edgal, Oluwa was arrested on August 10, in the roof of his mother’s house, where he took refuge after allegedly robbing a woman. Edgal said one locally made pistol with one cartridge was found on him. The suspect he had so far stolen four phones. He said: “I bought the gun for N20,000. But it is not working. I discovered it was not working. So, I kept it in my house. “I robbed a woman but I never knew that she knew me. She went to my mother and reported. Police then came and searched the house, they found the gun and then I was arrested.” Edgal said four others – Ezeja Oluchukwu, 29, Tochukwu Samson, 21, Ifeanyi Oshomi, 30, and Tochukwu Matthias, 27 – were arrested for vandalising some parked vehicles at Abesan Estate. He said a Toyota Camry EKY361FC, 20 pieces of auto glass winding engine, three pieces of vehicle brain boxes, a car trampoline, two pieces of side mirrors, one black knife and a school bag were recovered from them. “Four armed robbers were arrested on August 26, around Olayinka/Cele axis, Itire. They are Toheeb Ogunjimi, 24, Matthew Olumosu, 19, Qudus Akala, 18 and Akintoye Faruq, 18. “They were found with one black toy gun, seven phones, a locally made double barrel pistol and one live cartridge. “On June 20, at about 6am while Kingsley Ochoma was attending to customers, four armed men forced their way into his warehouse, at Graceland Estate, Isheri-Oshun and held them hostage. In the process, they carted away cartons of phones and accessories worth over N9,000,000. “Based on complaint received about the incident, I directed the Officer-In-Charge of Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) to commence investigation. The detectives visited the warehouse and recovered some items left behind by the robbers. “These items or specimen were critically examined and the observations made were used to unravel the authors of the crime. The chain of events leading to the arrest of the suspects, started on August 14, when Kareem Badmus and his mother Bola Badmus were arrested using two of the stolen phones. “During interrogation, they confessed that the phones were given to them by a relation Yusuf Badmus and they led detectives to apprehend him. Search was immediately conducted in the house of Yusuf Badmus and seven of the robbed phones were recovered. Also recovered were two locally made cut to size double barrel guns with three live cartridges, which he hid inside his operational vehicle, a Nissan Quest (BDG339CA). “The said Yusuf Badmus later led detectives to arrest his gang members Chimere Njenobi, 26, Dominic Anawo, 36, and Abimbola Austine, 30. Investigation into the case is ongoing and suspects will definitely be charged to court,” he said.