Students of the Osun State University, Osogbo, Osun State have been urged to be selfless towards the plights of the poor. Founder of the Great People Foundation, (GPF), a scholarship awarding and Non-Governmental Organisation, Mr James Aluko made the admonition at the university auditorium, last Tuesday and called on the students to join the foundation in her mission to drastically reduce the rate of dropouts in Nigeria educational system. According to Aluko, the foundation was established to provide scholarship opportunities to indigent students and offer professional trainings to support none indigent ones who are members of the foundation. “If you want to be great, you have to reach out to others. You have to meet the needs of other people. Whatever you give comes back. “You have to believe in the law of sowing and reaping. So, this is why we chose to be there for others. No matter how small, help people in need even without soliciting,” he said In his remarks, the Vice Chancellor of the University,Professor. Olabode Popoola commended the foundation for bringing the opportunity to the University students. He joined members of the group and other staffers of the University community in charging the students to be self-reliant. “I came across the foundation last year when they approached me about offering scholarship to students. They are great inspiration. There is so much to learn from the group.” Professor Popoola stated. He showered encomium on the organisers of the programme and implored the students to not just seek knowledge and understanding but also strive towards self-reliance. “What you can do by yourself is where your potential is. Money is not everything. Seek knowledge and understanding,” he noted. Professor Oladele Popoola, the University Director of Research and Linkage declared that it is not a crime to be poor and also lend his voice to the call for selflessness among the students. “It is not a crime to be poor. The Great People Foundation is doing a very great job. What they are doing is bridging the gap between the rich and the poor, thereby reducing crime and criminal activities.” Corroborating Prof Oladele, the Dean of Students Affairs of the University, Dr. Oluseye Abiona noted that there are a lot of people that are in financial trauma, adding that there are students who could not afford to pay their school fees and automatically have extra year. He commended the brain behind the programme and pointed out that the Vice Chancellor and other staffers of the University equally offer
bursaries to indigent students in the institution. “A lot of people are in financial trauma. This is why we have to appreciate this group. Even the VC gave out 10 bursary to needy
students. So also, other lecturers in the University are doing this. The more you give, the more you are blessed,” the don remarked. The foundation which was backed by Etisalat and other private individuals had already awarded scholarship to no fewer than ten students from and outside the University. Scores of students of the university bagged valuable incentives from the foundation and freely sought for scholarship from the foundation.