Minister of Sports Solomon Dalung has charged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, (EFCC) and the Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) to beam their searchlight on monumental corruption ravaging the sports industry in Nigeria. Dalung stated this during the logo unveiling of the 1st Edition of the National Anti-Corruption Marathon billed for November 3, 2018, in Abuja, saying that the anti-graft agencies have neglected their responsibilities due to reasons which are best known to them. The Minister emphasised that the worst hit in the sports industry is the Nigeria league where he winner will be determined before the kick-off of the season as a result of corruption in the system. “We need the anti-graft agencies to sanitize the sports industry especially our local leagues where our clubs don’t go beyond the first round in inter-club completions due to inducement by the managers of the game, even in international competitions, Nigeria struggles especially the athletes because most of the selections are not based on merits but man know man.   There are so many petitions right now on your table, I expect you to work on them urgently and make it public”. Dalung said. Responding, the representative of the Acting Chairman of EFCC and Chairman EFCC Sports Committee, Mohammed Saleh assured the minister that the commission is fully involved in the marathon to create awareness on the activities of the anti-graft agencies. Salem said the petitions received on the NFF and other sports federations are being investigated and very soon, their findings would be made public and the culprits will be charged accordingly. He said the Commission got involved because it will give the opportunity to educate the government agencies and para-military outfits that will be actively involved in the marathon that will take-off at the Abuja National Stadium and terminate at the Eagles Square. According to the organisers, Fairplay Sports International Agency over 10,000 athletes will take part in the marathon.