… 645 Councillorship seats Fourteen political parties including the ruling All Progressives Congress ( APC ), Accord Party, Green Party of Nigeria (GNP), Young People’s Party (YPP), KOWA, Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN), Social Democratic Party (SDP), African Democratic Congress (ADC), among others will be participating in tomorrow’s Local Government election in Imo State. The Chairman of the Imo State Independent Electoral Commission (ISIEC), Hon Ethelbert Ibebuchi, made the disclosure while briefing journalists on the preparedness of the Commission. He said the political parties will be contesting for 27 Chairmanship positions and 645 Councillorship positions. The ISIEC Chairman stated further that the Commission has concluded all necessary arrangements to ensure a hitch free and credible polls. According to him, “the Commission is ready for the election and we are urging the people to come out perform their civic responsibilities. Let me assure all and sundry that ISIEC has made available to all participating political parties and their candidates, a level playing ground to actively take part in order to actualize their political goals”. He continued that, “may I in unequivocal terms assures our numerous publics that ISIEC is sufficiently ready to go. Be rest assured that as part of our altruistic design to ensure a hitch free exercise, there shall be restriction of movement of persons between 8am and 4pm when polls are expected to come to an end”. Meanwhile the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) considered the main opposition parties in the state are boycotting the election over pending litigation that retrained the state electoral Commission from conducting the election. But the ISIEC boss dismissed the claim as unfounded and mischievous, adding that, ” I am not aware of any Court Order or judgment stopping the Commission from conducting the Local Government election. It is a different thing altogether for people to go to Court to make certain demands and conducting an election”.