In a concerted effort to get the buy-in of the state’s Diaspora community, Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, will be showcasing the revolutionary Edo Basic Education Transformation (Edo-BEST) programme and the 1800-unit Emotan Gardens project, among other growth and development enablers at the Edo National Association Worldwide (ENAW) Convention in Canada. The four-day Toronto convention, the 27th in the series, will hold from August 31 – September 3. It is arguably the single largest gathering of Edo professionals in the Diaspora, making it a key stakeholder in the state’s affairs. Governor Godwin Obaseki, will lead the state government’s delegation to the Toronto convention and will be showcasing a bouquet of projects, which needs the input and buy-in of the Diaspora community. Among the star projects listed to feature in the governor’s discussions is the Edo-BEST programme, for which approval has been given for full roll-out in three oil and gas producing local government areas, comprising Ovia North East, Orhionmwon and Ikpoba-Okha. A pilot phase is running in select local governments across the state. However, more investment is needed for full roll-out across the state. An initiative of the Governor Godwin Obaseki-led administration, the Edo-BEST programme, will develop a highly-skilled teaching workforce by training, supporting and motivating Edo State teachers to succeed in the classroom of tomorrow; enhance the Edo State Basic Education curriculum thereby empowering children to compete effectively in the world of work. The programme is expected to leapfrog the basic education delivery systems by leveraging technology in education provision and to gather and utilise accurate and timely data to drive policy and planning decisions. In the programme, every teacher will receive tablets loaded with digital lesson plans for every lesson needed for each day. Head teachers are given smart phones and provided with monthly data to enable them use the software in the smart phone to register all children and take attendance and manage teacher performance in each classroom every day. The other project is the 1800-unit Emotan Gardens, an ambitious real estate project, that seeks to rejuvenate the state’s real estate sector and provide affordable housing to residents and those in the Diaspora. The state government is developing the estate through the Edo Development and Property Agency (EDPA) in partnership with MIXTA Africa, a renowned real estate and property development company. Executive Chairman, Edo Development and Property Agency (EDPA), Isoken Omo, in the build up to the convention, assured that a mix of engagement strategies would be deployed in the state government’s effort to meet the housing and other needs of Edo people in the diaspora. According to her, “The Edo State Government and her partners are upbeat about the Emotan Gardens and similar housing projects coming on stream soon. It is an opportunity many of our people have been waiting for to acquire decent housing through a very transparent process devoid of encumbrances.” She explained that “the appeal of Emotan Gardens has been phenomenal, as would-be subscribers are just waiting for us to open sales. Governor Obaseki is passionate about this product and will be exhibiting it at the ENAW Convention.” Another sector expected to be featured by the government at the ENAW Convention is the ease of doing business, specifically in the built sector, following the signing of the Private Property Protection Law, which has abolished the activities of Community Development Association (CDAs).