The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola has said the Federal Government’s focus is  to complete road, power and housing projects. Spaeking at an interactive session with 10 social clubs at the Lagos City Hall, Fashola emphasised that the completion of some road projects has led to the construction economy bouncing back and  promoting growth of businesses. He explained that in the 2015 budget, N19 billion was earmarked for road projects out of which only N9 billion was released leaving a huge deficient that made several contractors to abandon site. Fashola said the trend coupled with huge debts owed contractors, affected businesses, which in turn, impacted the economy negatively. “And because of dwindling oil revenue, we had to do more with less money,” he said. The Minister explained that the government decided to prioritise the roads for repairs based on six main categories. These include roads that carried heaviest vehicles; those that led to the ports; roads critical to agriculture; and those that required counterpart funding and the Sukuk bonds. “There is no state where we are not constructing one road or the other,” he said. On housing delivery, the minister said the Buhari regime was also completing housing projects started by previous administrations. This, he explained, is because only completed projects were useful to Nigerians. He urged Nigerians to speak up in favour of the good gesture to complete projects. The minister said apart from the Alhaji Shehu Shagari administration, this was the second time the Federal Government was embarking on mass housing initiatives across the country. He said there was need to get the product formulation, packaging and delivery right, adding that there were several unoccupied buildings across the country either because they were not affordable or did not meet the taste of consumers. He said pilot schemes were still on-going for new housing projects as there were no empirical evidence of what kind of homes people could afford or their taste preferences. “If you don’t sample correctly, the product would fail. When we say we are planning, people think we are joking,” the minister said. He said the government through the Federal Mortgage Bank, was removing impediments to access to loans and was at the same time expanding the scope to capture more beneficiaries. “Clearly, it is getting better. Let us honestly admit,” he said.