What gain is in pursuing a goal which in the end may be of no use? This is one question that comes to the mind when one learns of prisoners awaiting execution but pursuing Ph.D, master’s and other academic degrees in the university. Is it a worthwhile venture in their circumstances? INNOCENT DURU asks after a visit to the Kirikiri Maximum Prison in Lagos where he interacted with some of the condemned prisoners. TUNWASE KABIRU, an inmate at Kirikiri Maximum Prison, Lagos was crestfallen when a death sentence was passed on him three years after he was taken into prison custody. Many who knew him as a man who with a burning desire for education deemed the sentence the end of the road for his unbridled dream of acquiring higher academic qualifications. Although he was distressed by the verdict, Kabiru did not see it as capable of truncating his educational ambition. Rather than brood over his situation, he vowed that if he would lose anything in life, it would not be his dream of acquiring higher degrees. So, like a hungry lion sighting a prey, Kabiru jumped at the opportunity to go back to school when he found out there is a study centre of National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) in the prison. Today, he is studying for a PhD at the centre. Going down memory lane in a chat with the correspondent, he said: “I was incarcerated in 2003 after a communal clash here in Lagos. I was charged for murder and condemned to death in 2006. The death sentence was commuted to life sentence in 2009. “Before then, I had HND in Insurance and was a member of the Chattered Insurance Institute of Nigeria. I have always had the zeal to study. I was doing PGD (post graduate diploma) in Human Resources Management at Lagos State University (LASU) before I came into prison. I never thought there would be a school here. “I enrolled for the PGD programme which I could not continue in LASU. I completed the programme in 2014 and enrolled for a master’s degree programme in Business Administration. It was after that, that I enrolled to start PhD in the same course. “I was the best student in all the NOUN PGD programme across the country for both prison inmates and non-inmates in that academic session. I was duly recognised at an award presentation held at the National Museum, Iganmu, Lagos.” Explaining why he did not allow his plight to extinguish his burning desire for higher education, Kabiru said: “If you feel you are in prison, then you are in prison. You can be in your house and still feel you are in prison. There are many of my colleagues who have not had additional qualifications after our HND programme. But here I am already studying for PhD. I have the firm belief that I will one day walk out of the prison to impact knowledge to the society. “Everything in life is a matter of perception. If I had thought that furthering my education in the prison would not be useful, I would not have registered in the first place.” The PhD student said his interest in education is “purely about acquiring knowledge and not about the certificate. I know I am in prison. I am also aware of the stigma out there. But I want to make a difference by being able to defend the certificate that I am acquiring. “I used to be a teacher and director of studies here. I was teaching the primary school Mathematics as part of my contribution to the academic development of fellow inmates. I have moved to higher responsibility as I am now the chaplain of Liberty Chapel. I counsel inmates on self-development. My only daughter is pursuing her master’s degree now. I have the support of my family. On the award ceremony day in 2014, they were there to support and encourage me.” Asked how he felt the day a death sentence was passed on him, Kabiru said: “I was sad when the death sentence was passed. I thought it was finished because of how prison is perceived out there. Everyone in prison gets downcast. Even the most hardened criminal becomes downcast when a sentence is passed. “So much has changed between the time I came to the prison and now. I am not the same Kabiru. I have been transformed and reformed.”  When the hunter became the hunted Another inmate and master’s degree student, Alegbe Afolabi, is a former police officer. When he left for work on November 25, 2005, he did not have any premonition that he would not return into the warm embrace of his family at the close of work. As a law enforcement officer, he had been arresting and prosecuting suspects. But on that fateful day, he became a victim of what he had been legally doing to people caught on the wrong side of the law and ended up in prison where he has spent 13 years. But why would a law enforcement officer going about his legal duty end up in the prison? Alegbe explained: “I have been here in the prison since 2005. I was a policeman attached to Isheri Division, Ojodu Berger, Lagos. I served as a police officer for 16 years before the issue that brought me to prison came up. I was a sergeant then. “My journey to prison started on November 25, 2005. I was on duty with three other officers on that fateful day. At about 3 am, our operational vehicle developed a mechanical fault and we had to push it back to the station. But while waiting for the people on morning shift to come and take over from me at 6 am, I received a radio message that there was a robbery attack at Ojodu Berger. “I moved immediately and met three other officers in the area where the incident happened. Being the most senior officer among them, I gave instruction that we should spread ourselves to different parts of the area.” Alegbe recalled that shortly after they had positioned themselves, a vehicle on full speed started advancing from the direction where the robbery took place. “We tried flagging down the driver, using our touch, but he failed. Before I knew it, he rammed into me and hit my left leg. “We subsequently shot at his tyre to make him stop. When the vehicle stopped, the driver came out crying, ‘MOPOL has killed my brother!’ He started calling for assistance from area boys. I asked my men to go back to the office and reinforce. “By that time, it was about 6 am. Before I knew it, the area boys came and tried disarming me. I narrowly escaped and jumped on a waiting motorcycle that took me out of the place to the office. I was thereafter arrested and taken to Panti from where I was taken to court and charged for murder. I spent 11 years awaiting trial before I was eventually sentenced to death.” Alegbe said although his conviction was devastating, instead of brooding over it, he saw the prison as a fertile ground to pursue his academic dreams. He said: “All hope was not lost when I was sentenced to death. I was already in 400 level at the National Open University of Nigeria (NOUN) centre here in the prison. The sentence did not deter me from pursing my academic dreams. Before I came to the prison, I had diploma in Cooperative Economic Studies. Now I have BSc in Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution and I am studying for a master’s degree. “I decided to study the course when I sat in my prison cell and ruminated over the myriads of problems in the society. At the end, I settled for the course, hoping that if I regain my freedom, I would use my knowledge to proffer solutions that will not require force to resolve some of these problems.” Explaining why a death sentence would not end his academic dreams, Alegbe said: “I believe that with the help of God and faith in the judicial system, I will regain my freedom. I do encourage other inmates to further their education. I teach the inmates in secondary school Commerce and Accounting. This is one of the things I want to do when I regain my freedom. I want to impact knowledge. “I am married with four children. My wife and my children feel sad each time they come to visit me. The children always ask when I would be coming home. Even at that, they are consoled by my academic achievement in the prison. My wife and my children encourage me.” Fulfilment even in death The correspondent’s encounter with Nwomuh Chika, who was about to complete his studies for BSc in Peace Studies and Conflict Resolution, sparked some emotions. Although he has a death sentence hanging on his neck, the former secondary school drop-out said after achieving his academic dreams, he would be a fulfilled man even if the death sentence is not quashed and he is eventually hanged. He said: “The thought of death sentence weighs me down, but I have continued to press forward, believing that there is gain in my pain. If tomorrow the death sentence is carried out, I will be fulfilled that I made use of the opportunity I had to acquire higher education. I am happy for it. “But no condition lasts forever. I hope to be free one day to impact on the society positively than I left it. Right now, I have been telling fellow inmates about the beauty of education. I teach the inmates in secondary school as my contribution to their academic development.” Chika said he was only a secondary school drop-out when he came into prison but was about completing his first degree. “Precisely, I dropped out in JSS 3. While awaiting trial, I was always reading novels in my prison cell. One day, a fellow inmate said if I had been in a prison where there was facility to further my education, I would have been in the university. I prayed about what he said and as fate would have it, I was sentenced two weeks after and moved to the prison in Abeokuta which had Yewa College of Education at that time. “Shortly after, an inmate who was transferred from Lagos to Abokuta saw me reading and suggested that I should seek transfer to where I could get higher education. I applied and it was granted. That was how I came here and went back to continue from SS 1. “From SS1, I got to SS3, wrote GCE and passed. I was subsequently admitted to NOUN. My project topic is on Evaluation of Capital Punishment and Its Effectiveness in Combating Crime. I submitted three topics but Dr. Bolarinwa of NOUN chose the one I am working on now. “I am in my final year now and already writing my project. I was charged for robbery in Ondo State in 2005 and sentenced to death by hanging in 2010.” In spite of the progress he is making academically, Chika said his penchant for reading has made him an object of ridicule among his peers. “I do read in my prison cell, but some inmates always try to discourage me by saying if I loved book so much, how manage I became a prisoner? But I am determined to give education all it takes.”  Motivated by fellow inmates The chance to go back to school has kept Joel Ighalo, a death row inmate at the prison, going. He said: “I was charged with robbery, awaited trial from 2003 and sentenced to death in January 2007.  I am currently pursuing a BSc degree in Political Science. I was a secondary school drop-out. I started from JSS class when I came here and moved all the way to the senior class from where I wrote GCE and thereafter got admission at NOUN.“ “I sat the GCE twice before I could make my papers. My fellow inmates motivated me to further my studies. They saw that I am eloquent and encouraged me to go back to school. I lost courage before and after I was sentenced, but the motivation of my colleagues helped me. I am happy because I have access to the library and resource materials here in the prison.” Ighalo added: “My family members have been very supportive. They bought the GCE forms for me and brought food and drinks on my matriculation day. Aside encouraging my fellow inmates to go back to school, I am also the soul winner chairman. I move from one prison cell to the other to minister to inmates.” On his part, Francis, who said he dropped out of primary school before returning to school in the prison said: “I was charged for drug trafficking and sentenced to life imprisonment in 2009. Before coming to the prison, I had a