A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Chief Lanre Razak, has endorsed the party’s direct primary for picking its candidates ahead of next year’s elections. According to him, a direct primary is similar to the Option A4 (open ballot) adopted by the defunct Social Democratic Party (SDP) in conducting its primary that produced the late Chief Moshood Kashimawo Olawale (M. K. O) Abiola as is presidential candidate in 1993. “If strictly implemented, a direct primary will produce popular and credible candidates with massive grassroots support,” Razak said in his Epe country home at the weekend. He urged voters not to allow “desperate politicians” to entice them with material and financial gifts so that the election will produce transparent leaders in the 2019 polls. Razak said losers in the primary would accept defeat and work for APC’s success in the elections since the candidates were not imposed on members. The APC chieftain also urged the politicians to fulfil its promises to the electorate, adding: “It is an unforgiveable sin for anybody to raise other people’s hope and dash it. Promising people and not fulfilling it is dashing their hope because they believed you when you were making the promise.” Razak, an aspirant for the Lagos East senatorial district’s seat, implored the media to educate the electorate on the repercussions of vote-buying and the need to reject politicians who practise it. He said: “My appeal is that nobody should sell his or her conscience to the highest bidder or succumb to any form of material or financial inducement because those offering voters money are political traders who will spend N10 and later divert millions of naira of public funds to their private pockets under the excuse that they have paid the people off through vote-buying and must, therefore, recoup their investment.” The aspirant attributed most of the nation’s socio-economic woes to bad leadership, saying those seeking public offices to render selfless service to the people will not be involved in vote-buying.