The personalities behind the 67 million Youth Initiative have unveiled the vision, mission and guiding principles that will drive the group’s operation. In a note released Wednesday, the group explained that as young progressive leaders, it took decision to build an initiative that cuts across party lines, religions and tribes. The seven personalities behind the group: Maryam Laushi (founding member of Not-To-Young-To-Run), Asuquo Ekpenyong (PDP Commissioner of Finance for Cross River), Mohammad Sani Abdullahi (APC Commissioner of Budget and Planning for Kaduna State), Mark Okoye (APGA Commissioner of Budget and Planning for Anambra State), Moji Rhodes (First female deputy Chief of Staff for Lagos State), Luqman Edu (CEO FilmoRealty) and Adebola Williams (Co-Founder of RED) were named and reiterated their commitment to its operation. “We jointly signed up to the following guidelines so that the initiative could not be hijacked for ulterior motives. We agreed on the vision of advancing Nigeria with a new generation of leaders at all levels of politics and government; vision to build/organise and leverage on the block vote for the interest of the collective youth and identify its guiding principles for 2018/2019. Part of the guiding principles is that 67 Million will not support or make any endorsement for the Presidential or Governorship races in 2019. “We will focus on getting as many young people appointed into various positions in their states and on the national level and We shall support the emergence and success of young candidates across all platforms and will particularly endorse our members that are running for State and National Assemblies, and Local Government positions across party lines,” the group said. Furthermore, all major decisions and activities will be decided through a democratic voting process by delegate members. Once this was agreed, each trustee convinced 15 people to join this initiative as delegates A lot of attention has been put on the Muslim APC delegates but if you carefully go through the delegate list you will find delegates from other political parties, faith and tribes. Till date, the initiative has only been funded by delegates and supporters that have donated between N10,000 to N1million. We admit to some mistakes such as engaging a media consultant who proceeded to acquire an existing twitter handle without doing proper vetting, we knew of the plan but not what the account was used for in 2015 – this is indefensible. We shall meet three different kinds of people in this journey; people that will never believe or support us, people that will buy into what we are trying to do, and people in the middle that will have an open enough mind to make decisions with the information presented to them. The truth is on our side so we shall only focus on the last two, for the first set of people, we say carry go. “We shall continue with this initiative and endeavour to accomplish the mission we have all come together for. We know that this task shall be hard and there shall be resistance from people that will not want the youth united, the youth should not be distracted and together we should forge on”. The group said there has been negative posts on social media about The 67 Million Youth Initiative and that the note is meant to correct the anomalies. 