The former secretary to the Kano state Government under KwanKwaso’s administration, Rabiu sulaiman Bichi, alongside 12 legislators and party leaders of the KwanKwasiyya group have dumped the ruling All Progressive Congress ( APC ), to the the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in Kano. The mass defection to the People’s Democratic Party, PDP in Kano has been in the increase since the leader of the Kwabkwasiyya political Movement and Senator representing Kano Central Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso joined the party after dumping the ruling All Progressive Congress APC. Bichi, joined the PDP on Sunday when he collected his membership card at his ward in Bichi Local Government. The defection celebration was attended by crowd in Bichi, in which a member of the House of Representative, Alhaji Ahmad Bichi and Alhaji Hamza Sulaiman, who is a member of the State House of Assembly are among those that dumped the APC for the PDP. Others include Abdullahi Shuaibu Bichi, a former Director Pensions Board, and Alhaji Abdullahi Shehu Bichi along with thousands of their supporters. Also,in a similar event that took place in Gwarzo Local Government, several supporters of Sen Kwankwaso also joined the PDP. Among them are Comrade Aminu Abdussalam Gwarzo, former Commissioner for state affairs, Rabiu Sale Gwarzo, member State House of Assembly, Sunusi Abdullahi Getso, former Chairman Gwarzo Local Government, Adamu Lawan, former Chairman APC Gwarzo Local Government and Garba Sarkin Zage former education secretary Gwarzo local government. Others, include Dahiru Rabiu Rugoji, former Secretary Gwarzo Local Government, Ahmed Shehu Sabon Birni former local government leader and Abdulmumini Garba Lakwaya and their various supporters among others. Responding to questions on the possibility of picking on the former Kano SSG as the PDP candidate for the gubernatorial seat in Kano, the PDP secretary in Bichi Rabiu Ibrahim Maisauri said that there are presently 17 contesters for the gubernatorial seat in Kano under the PDP and the party will decide on one and vote for him. He further called on the people of the state to join the PDP to emancipate the state .