A delegation from the Confederation of African Football (CAF) ]have visited Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State where they inspected the readiness of the newly installed artificial turf and other facilities at the refurbished Enyimba International Football Club’s Stadium as the club sets to play its remaining CAF and other league games at their home ground. Recall that for about two years, Enyimba Int’l FC have been playing their local and international competitions outside their home turf due to the ongoing repair work being carried out by the state government at the stadium, but with the completion of work, it is expected that the Aba darling team would return to enjoy the support of the fans who have missed them over the years. Since the state announced the completion of work in the stadium, Aba residents and Enyimba supporters are expecting that the city would host the last Group-C match of the CAF Confederation Cup between Enyimba and CARA Brazzaville of Congo scheduled for Wednesday 29th August 24, 2018. Speaking to newsmen after the inspection, the Chairman of Enyimba, Felix Anyasi Agwu said he is delighted with what that is already in place and stressed that he is hopeful that CAF will give their approval as according to him, it is difficult for anyone not to be impressed with the facilities already in place at the stadium. He said: “It is difficult for me to really define what their true assessment should be. I believe the inspectors from CAF are impressed with work done so far. They will report it to CAF and it will be left for CAF to have the final say. I don’t know what they will write in their reports or what is in their minds in terms of their true impression. Be that as it may, I think it is difficult for anyone to come here without been impressed with the facilities here. “So, in my opinion I think they have seen the level of work, they will write their reports and we have to wait for that we shouldn’t be in a hurry for that. We will keep praying that CAF will give us their final approval for that particular match that we want to play here in few days time. All the facilities are ready. All we are doing as they have seen is putting finishing touches on things. They have seen it all and they know that if they give us approval, the match next week will be played here. “Between today and tomorrow almost all the areas would have being in place. They went through a lot today. They have seen the dressing room, the toilet, the doping room, match commissioner’s room, the media stand, the referees’ room, and the flood lights which they said they want to make sure they are on obviously in that area work is still on there and they saw the engineers working on it. “Aside the world standard pitch, other facilities must be available and to some extent, I can say it is 98 percent ready and if something is ready at that percent and you still have time to get it at the required 100 percent then, it must be done because it must be 100 percent ready. “Everything that is needed was painstakingly looked at.  I cannot speak for CAF because I am not CAF, but I am hopeful, this is our stadium and I will always that we are encouraged by CAF since we have come so far. The inspector just left now and we are hoping by tomorrow we might get some answers from CAF. Enyimba will play its match on the 29th. This is a CAF competition and the dates have never changed. “The government has done a lot here and the opening of the stadium is left is their hands, but to me the real opening in football sense is if we get approval to play the match on Wednesday. That does not take away any other plan from the government who are the custodian.” Meanwhile, Aba fans would on Sunday (tomorrow) have the opportunity to watch Ex- ENYIMBA FC players play against Ex-Super Eagles players at the stadium. According to sources, stars like Bob Osim, Emeka Nwana (Ayaya), Ogbonaya Okemiri, Obinna Nwaneri, Ndidi Anumudu, Uga Opara, Chidozie Johnson, Muri Ogunbiyi and among other Enyimba players are expected to play against ex super eagles team that would comprise of Pastor Taribo West, Ike Shorumu, Victor Agali, Victor Ikpeba, Uche Okechukwu (Gentle Giant), Daniel Amokachi (The Bull), Samson Siasia, Mutiu Adepoju