IT was with great joy and excitement that the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) launched a new structure for the Journalists International School in Arepo, Ogun State. The school, located within the Journalists’ Estate, Arepo, was inaugurated by the Director General, National Council for Art and Culture (NCAC) Otunba Olusegun Runsewe. Runsewe, it was, who envisioned and built a structure for the school in 2007 after creating the Journalists Estate in 2003. The school for many years was left unused until the Chairman of the Journalist Estate Resident Development Association (JERDA), Funke Fadugba and her executive council refurbished it with Runsewe’s. It started formally in 2014 with about 50 pupils and now has over 100 pupils. Speaking at the unveiling of the new structure built by the present JERDA executive council, Runsewe said he conceived the idea of the school to add value to journalists. “I believe that journalists deserve the best. It is good we start investing in the people especially journalists. Eleven years ago it was like a joke and today it is a reality.  It was done to add to the social needs of not just for journalists within the estate but for all to benefit from. “The democracy we are enjoying today was fought by journalists. Journalists deserve to enjoy the best of life.  But a lot of them retire in poverty which is not right.  We believe education is key to development. It is high time we began to change the narrative of a violence and crisis society,” he said. He advised the management of the school to use materials which reflects the culture of Nigeria as choice for the uniform so as to promote local content. He also advised that peace and love should be the watchword within the NUJ family and urged other sectors to emulate to contribute positively in the society. He commended the effort of Fadugba in making the school a reality. Mrs Fadugba noted that the secondary arm of the school will commence in September.  She reminded Runsewe of his promise to support the expansion of the new structure to adequately accommodate the secondary school, which he said he would fulfill. She thanked him for his efforts in the lives of journalists. “Otunba assisted us in showcasing the estate.  He invested in the estate by building this school even when the beneficiaries were n where to be found at that time.  The building was left unused for many years but he was not discouraged. In 2014 the school was established. And by September, the secondary School will commence” The NUJ Chairman, Lagos Chapter, Dr Qasim Akinreti said the school was a dream come true  He explained that it was a project started by Fadugba who was relentless in making it a reality.  He said the school has been provided with a school bus and by extension, the provision of secondary school which was part of his campaign. The Journalists International School, Arepo is the first to be established by the NUJ in the country.