Leisure spots in Ibadan, including the popular Agodi Gardens, were a beehive of activities  as the Eid-el-Kabir celebration continued on Wednesday. There was a huge crowd at many of the fun spots in Ibadan  metropolis. At the Agodi Gardens, there was a build-up of patrons at the entrance inspite of the  N500  entrance fee. Mr Nico Odediran, who brought his wife, four children and some relations,  told our reporters that he went the extra mile to ensure that the children celebrated the season. “We came to the Agodi Garden all the way from Osogbo;  such a period is an appropriate  time for the family to come together, interact and celebrate. “We are here mostly to make the children happy and relax; it may take a while before we can have such a time together again,” he said. Also speaking, Mr Suleiman Boladala, who brought six children, described the Sallah  as the best festival and was worth celebrating. “The festival calls for huge celebration and we have no other option than to celebrate, the essence is just to make the kids happy. “We pray that our families and country be blessed,” he said. A staff of Vivid Pearls Entertainment at Agodi garden, Mr A.Y Davids, said the funspot often witnessed high patronage during festive periods such as the Sallah due to the competitive prices on offer. “We collect just N200 for each child who comes to play on the Bouncy Slide for example. “Efforts are made to ensure they don’t hurt themselves as we don’t allow them to climb wearing shoes or holding any sharp object. “By God’s grace, none of them has ever had any injury and we have never recorded any casualty” he said. Mrs Mudasir Adeyemi, who brought three children to Shoprite Fun spot, expressed gratitude to God to witness another Eid-el-Kabir festival. “We still thank God even though we don’t have enough but we did our best to bring the children to celebrate. “We pray and hope that the government improves the economy to better our lots,” she said. One of the operators at the children’s playing ground at  Shop rite, Mr Lekan Akinfenwa, said operators were making brisk business. “During festive periods such as this, we normally make five times of what we make on a normal day. “What we make during such a period alone is even enough for us to pay off our debts “Many people will still be trooping in  till Sunday, we just give glory to  God,” he said. Many fun seekers were also sighted at the National Museum of Unity Ibadan, Bubble Plus as well as  other recreation centres in Ibadan metropolis. NAN