FEMALE breasts come in various sizes and shapes, depending on how nature has endowed each individual. It is a very important part of the female body. Ideally, it should not matter how big or small a lady’s breast is. What should matter is how she cares for it. Looking closely at a lady’s dress sense, if the breasts are not well packaged and the right kind of brassiere worn, it could completely destroy her entire posture. Naturally, a teenager’s breast is firmer. That is one reason some men desire teenagers as partners.  However, as one grows older, the breast begins to sag, especially if one is married with kids. Naturally, most babies are nursed for at least six months. As a nursing mother, the breast is filled with milk. So, it goes up and then down. This is when utmost care and attention should be given to it. I repeat, the right kind of bra. Some women will tie wrapper tightly on their chest when doing house chores, especially in this part of the world. This is criminally wrong. Our breasts are our assets. They serve multiple purposes in our lives, in the lives of our husbands and, most importantly, in the lives of our children. During pregnancy, the breasts grow larger. I will advise that you wear your bra to sleep during pregnancy and nursing period. If not, the breasts will sag or completely go flat after nursing, and our husbands will not like them. Don’t be in a hurry to blame nature when your breasts sag. It could be your fault. And if yours is already completely saggy, not to worry, there’s still hope. But henceforth, there should be no more wrappers tied around the chest. Buy padded bras (bras that have foams inside) so you can appear full-chested. In the Western world, I know how much money women spend to enhance their breasts. That could be very expensive. I don’t really encourage that because I’m sure it has its defects as well. Even if yours is small, just walk tall and chest out a little. But no more slack bras and no more taking these assets for granted. Our husbands must no longer squeeze them too hard; they are meant to be tenderly touched. If they are harshly squeezed and they become too saggy, they will be the first to look elsewhere for firmer assets. For our suckling infants, ensure that you use cotton wool at intervals. Dip it into warm water and clean the nipples thoroughly before feeding the baby. We should wear bras with iron underneath them. These push up the breasts and make you look and feel very firm. Whether we admit it or not, it is the first thing our husbands or would-be husbands cherish. Remember, men are wired by sight. Of course, a gentleman may pretend not to notice it, but I assure you, they are looking. If as a woman, you are the meticulous type, follow a man’s gaze closely… Though it is a flying glance, the man will not stare so he does not come across as rude or promiscuous. It is not all that matters to him, but it is an advantage. I know of a guy that turned down a lady he was match-made with just because he felt her breasts were on the downward slope. I have not said that we should push them up so much that they start falling off our clothes; that will be trashy and irresponsible. No, that will be too obvious. It can put our husbands off, because they will know it is artificially packed. At those times, the bras you use should be strictly nursing bras. Those bras that have zips or clips in front. Feed the baby and neatly tuck it back in. Remember, every lady must walk tall, tummy in and chest out. To walk tall, you must walk like a model i.e. you walk as if you are carrying a book on your head. I assure you, with your assets well packaged, you can’t go wrong. Your man will stay at home more. The only two times you should put on a bra to sleep should be when you are nursing a baby and during the second trimester of your pregnancy. Age, of course, plays a prominent role in its maintenance. The breast is the feeding machine. It feeds the entire world. Imagine a world without breasts and see how dry the world will become! The divine nectar for sustenance is hidden inside these treasure domes for mankind to feed sweetly and deliciously with the innocence and tranquility of a child. There are women who do not properly take care of their breasts. It is due to the fact that they are not so much aware of the greatness of their most valuable asset, hence they neglect any chance of beautifying their breasts. They have to be very seriously and sincerely nurtured without any wear and tear happening to them. The uniqueness of the female is its peculiar curve with its huge degree of sensitivity to tangibility.