Initiator of the Giant of Africa (GOA) Basketball camp, Masai Ujiri will lead seven foreign coaches to the Nigerian leg, which comes up from August 21 to 25 in Lagos. They will be joined by five local coaches who are regular faces at the annual event. The foreign coaches who will join Ujiri are Jama Mahlalela, Patrick Engelbrecht, Joe Touomou, Godwin Owinje, Harry Ezenibe, Eric Khoury and Arsalan Jamil, while the Nigeria-based coaches are Adeka Daudu, Lateef Erinfolami, Emmanuel Odah, Peter Ahmedu and Michael Akuboh. The list was released before the young players of Uganda rounded off their programmes following the initial tip off in Kigali, Rwanda on August 6. The talent search programme started by Ujiri and a few partners 15 years ago, had Rwandan President, Paul Kagame in attendance in Kigali. Giants of Africa, the not-for-profit co-founded by Toronto Raptors president, Masai Ujiri a fortnight ago announced they would visit seven countries across the African continent this August. Celebrating its 15th anniversary, Giants of Africa has committed to hosting basketball camps and community outreach initiatives in Rwanda, Uganda, Democratic Republic of Congo, Kenya, Nigeria, Cote D’Ivoire and Senegal. According to Ujiri, the last 15 years has seen GOA providind African youths access to the game as well as empowering them to achieve their potential.  “Over the past 15 years, I have seen the impact basketball can have not only on one kid, but also on their entire community. “When I started Giants of Africa, I envisioned providing African youth access to the game and empowering them to achieve their greatest potential. With 63 per cent of Africa’s population below the age of 25, we have a huge goal and responsibility to help them develop. We are excited that this year we are able to extend our reach further across the continent to help realize that dream,” Ujiri added. Giants of Africa youth camp took place in Rwanda from August 6 to 8 and then moved to Democratic Republic of Congo from August 10 to 11. The programme is holding in Uganda from August 13 to 14; Kenya from August 16 to 19, Nigeria from August 21 to 24 and ends in Senegal from August 26 to 28. The organization will also host girls’ camps alongside the boy’s in Kenya, Nigeria and Senegal. Giants of Africa will also activate local outreach initiatives in the communities of Kakuma, Maiduguri as well as Bingereville, Cote D’ivoire. Caption: Rwanda President Paul Kagame running the jump ball for Giant of Africa basketball camp in Kigali.