Chief Executive Officer, X3M Ideas, Steve Babaeko has echoed a mantra; Adapt or Die, to drive home the awareness that digital technology has changed the landscape of doing business across the globe and for a business to remain relevant in Nigeria, and other countries in the continent; irrespective of its industry, it has to evolve. The Marketing Communication guru, who spoke with journalists in Lagos shared concerns about the stunt adoption of among media practitioners, reiterating that the success or failure of Nigerian businesses is hinged on their ability to evolve with innovation and digital ecosystem. He described Nigeria as an advanced nation with most ideal modern business landscape with innovative and creative businesses minded especially in the media landscape with most leveraging on the changing Dinosaurs. Sharing insight into the success of X3M Idea in last half a decade, the creative wizard attributed the secrete to a changing Dinosaurs driven with the passion to evolve with time and technology of his outfit. According to Babaeko, the Dinosaurs represent most agencies and media houses who are still stuck up on old ways. Refusing to embrace technology, social media, or the changing tides in media either out of ignorance or doggedness. “When we started 6 years ago we knew what we wanted to do but we always kept an open mind of how we could evolve with the ever changing business landscape. Both from a business and creative standpoint, we always give room to adapt, room to evolve.” – Said Mr Babaeko. We at X3M, have gone through great lengths to make our point and it isn’t just about the message, the execution too highlights how controlling the narrative is different now compared to just a few years ago. Some of the channels that would have been previously considered when doing a PR stunt are now obsolete. Back in the day, print was the medium of choice to spread information. Now print gets its news from social media. Mr. Olasunkanmi Atolagbe, X3M Ideas, Group Head, HR/Admin echoed X3M’s shape shifting strategy. – “we know the business we’re in but sometimes we forget to continually learn. We get caught up trying to run a business that we forget to study the industry. Steve has been doing this for a long time, he has seen it all, from the era of Print, to Tv, to social media. He knows how the industry has evolved and how its consumers have adjusted accordingly. An ad that would have been brilliant 5 years ago may strike a wrong cord now. This keen eye for observing trends and adjusting accordingly is what has set X3M apart.” As a content provider, a business owner, or consumer, you must stay ahead of the game, anticipating changes and adjusting your strategies to allow your business thrive because of these changes not in spite of them. “It’s not easy to predict the future of media. Technology often plays a huge part in these changes. It also isn’t easy to adapt but nobody said being successful was going to be easy. If there is a trick to it, it is being grounded enough to understand that tomorrow is never given. Once you become safe in the achievements that you have and refuse to continually innovate, you will be left behind as the game evolves.” –   Said Mr. Babaeko. After numerous awards, after stunning numbers in revenue, and a hugely impressive clientele including some of  Nigeria’s biggest brands, X3M remains the leader of Marketing communications in Nigeria because we are constantly evolving, constantly winning. So our message to African Businesses is simple – Adapt or Die.