The efforts by the First Lady of Niger State Dr Amina Abubakar Bello, towards fighting breast cancer have received a boost. The management of Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU), Lapai in Niger State, expressed its readiness to partner and support the goals of RAiSE Foundation – a non-governmental organisation founded by the First Lady. The school said it would establish a Breast Cancer Awareness Club to disseminate the message of the foundation among students. The awareness club, according to the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Administration, Prof Abu-Kaseem Adamu, who represented the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Muhammad Nasir Maiturare, will partner the foundation, with a view to stemming spread the awareness about the killer disease. Adamu led the school delegation to pay an “appreciation visit” to the governor’s wife. The partnership with Dr Bello followed the First Lady’s appeal to the school management during the last convocation to collaborate and synergise efforts with her foundation to effectively tackle the killer ailment in the state. Prof Adamu said: “The First Lady, about a month ago, visited our campus to make a passionate appeal to support her project. We are always willing to give our support to idea that will make life meaningful to our staff and students. Remarkable successes have been recorded and this is evident in the sheer number of female students who have been tested and some, subsequently diagnosed of breast cancer symptoms.” He praised the First Lady’s “incredible strides” recorded in tackling other deadly ailments and diseases affecting women and children in the state. He noted that the rate of maternal and child mortality had reduced within three years of the governor’s wife established the foundation. He expressed management’s gratitude to the First Lady over the hitch-free sensitisation rally she led, revealing that necessary plans had been concluded to float a breast cancer awareness club at the school. He said: “We belief that breast cancer’s days are numbered in the state absolutely. Like heavyweight champions, our formidable partnership with RAiSE Foundation will hand a knock-out punch to all the killer ailments shrinking the population of our women and children. We shall remain committed to this sacred course.” Dr Amina Bello, a gynaecologist, noted that the objective of the rally was to educate women on the symptoms of breast cancer. She expressed joy that her foundation’s medical team was able to detect symptoms of developing tumour in about 16 students. She appealed to the VC to expedite action in establishing the cancer advocacy club, assuring that her foundation would financially and morally support the activities of the club. The school’s Registrar, Alhaji Musa Ango Abdullahi, called for partnerships with various NGOs in the state, maintained: “Gallant soldiers in the war front against breast cancer must neither retreat, nor surrender. Otherwise, they leave to fight another day. And our women may just be left at the mercy of breast cancer if we fail to fight now.” Highpoint was the presentation of Certificate of Appreciation and a souvenier to the governor’s wife by the Deputy VC.