Tottenham has defeated Jose Mourinho’s led Manchester United side sound and silly at Old Trafford in the Premier League match played on Monday. An opening goal from Harry Kane with an header at the 50th minutes and a brace from Lucas Moura in the 52nd and 84th minute sealed the victory for the visitors. After the match Kane described the victoru as a big statement. He said, “Harry Kane has been speaking to Sky Sports after that emphatic win for Spurs. “That’s massive. To come here and win the way we did is a big statement. Three wins out of three, it’s a fantastic start. We did well to come in at 0-0 at half-time. In the big games, the first goal is so important. “We then saw the game out great. This is the only way we’re going to win the league. The top six is so strong now you have to stay at the top all the way through. This will give us huge belief and this is the type of game we have to win.” TOTTENHAM TEAM NEWS Team to play Man Utd: Lloris, Trippier, Rose, Alderweireld, Vertonghen, Dier, Dembele, Alli, Eriksen, Moura, Kane. Subs: Vorm, Davies, Sanchez, Aurier, Winks, Lamela, Llorente MAN UTD TEAM NEWS Team to play Tottenham: De Gea, Valencia, Shaw, Jones, Smalling, Matic, Fred, Herrera, Pogba, Lingard, Lukaku. Subs: Grant, Lindelof, Young, Fellaini, McTominay, Sanchez, Rashford. OPTA STATS Tottenham Hotspur manager Mauricio Pochettino: “We are a big club of course, we need to be bigger of course and we are on the way to being a bigger club. “But after four years, many people say we haven’t won anything. “That is history. We are trying to set the basis to win, we are breaking records about good results but of course it is not enough.” Manchester United manager Jose Mourinho speaking before the match said, “If I don’t play [Antonio] Valencia, [Nemanja] Matic, [Jesse] Lingard when they are ready I don’t think you’d accept it. You’d ask why I don’t play important players in the team when they are ready to play. “Tottenham had similar problems, every professional player, a guy like Matic who came from surgery, for 90 minutes, they have to be ready to make that effort. “He’s a player who gives balance to the team, Andreas [Pereira] has done well but Matic is a different level of experience and I think we need that. “You can expect 11 players, I hope to see fighting hard with great organisation when we don’t have the ball but also expect a team of 11 to be involved in an attacking dynamic when we have the ball. We have to score goals to win the game.”