President Muhammadu Buhari is set to inaugurate $ 250 million dollars new brewery, International Breweries PLC (IB Plc), sited at Flowergate Industrial Scheme, Sagamu-Abeokuta Expressway, Ogun State. IB Plc which is part of the AB InBev group, the world’s largest brewer has Trophy, Hero, Betamalt, Grandmalt, Castle lite and Eagle lager as its products line. It also recently launched a global brand, Budweiser. The plant is the company’s fourth brewery in Nigeria, after those in Ilesa, Onitsha, and Port-Harcourt, demonstrating the country’s capacity to attract foreign direct investment to drive socio-economic growth and development. The Plant Manager, Mr. Tony Agah, who made this known to reporters at the at brewer’s state – of – the – art facility on Monday, said it will be the Company’s largest plant within the group in Africa, outside of South Africa. Agah added that it will also significantly engenders multiplier impact on the value chain within Ogun State, its environs as well as provides direct and indirect employment. According to him, other dignitaries expected to join President Buhari to perform the commissioning of the facility on August 28, include Minister for Commerce and Industry, Mr. Okechukwu Enelamah, Minster for Budget and Planning, Mr. Udo Udoma, President of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Mr. Oscar Onyeama, the global Chief Executive Officer of AB InBev, Mr. Carlos Britowill. Also, the Company’s Managing Director, Annabelle Degroot, described the plant as a major step towards the company’s strategic goal of producing high-quality drinks locally. Degroot said “International Breweries Plc is a brand that places a premium on quality.” Degroot assured that Nigerians will be treated to the best traditions in brewing, with outstanding recipes, superior ingredients, innovation and world-class techniques and provide a great opportunity to engage qualified locals. “One of the objectives of the company is to create job opportunities for the people of Ogun state as well as Nigerians in general. “The plant will also be instrumental in empowering farmers as most of the raw materials required will be sourced locally. This will, in turn, contribute to the economic development of the country,” she said. On his part, Otunba Michael Daramola, the Corporate Affairs Director said that establishment of the plant in Nigeria is in further recognition of the corollary between having prestigious brands and a befitting world-class setting.