Eleven sports is the new player for football broadcasting rights in the UK and the Ireland Republic for the next 3 years. They launch their opening event on 9th August in the UK. Their opening event will be to broadcast  PGA championship in the US followed by La Liga and Series A football. Eleven sports already has its footprint in 7 countries. They include Poland, USA, Luxembourg, Taiwan, Belgium, Italy and Singapore. It already airs Series 1, formula 1 and Bundesliga in the 7 countries. This is the first time it will be taking over the UK market. A British company is taking on broadcasting giants the likes of Sky Sports and BT sports that aired Laliga and Serie A respectively. The Emergence of New Players It is not just in sports broadcast that we have new players coming in. There are new sports betting companies as well, including the likes of Betway and mPesa. Betway, for instance, was founded a few years back, and have already sponsored English Premier League teams like West Ham United. A Look at Eleven Sports: The New Contender Eleven sports was founded by Andrea Radrizzani the owner of Leeds United and run by Marc Watson who won the champions league for BT. Currently, Andrea Radrizzani is desperate to get back Leeds United to the Premier League. Just like new players, Eleven Sports is bound to bring something new to the industry. But one challenge they will have to face is putting themselves on the map especially in the first 18 months. However, Eleven Sports has different tactics to tackle new audiences. For instance, in Taiwan, they use entertainers instead of pros while in Italy they air their matches to a small crowd. Even though Eleven sports has gotten the airing rights to air La Liga, but they have big shoes to fill. Sky Sports has been airing LA Liga for the past twenty years, and they fought really hard to keep the coverage. But the market has changed since they have been facing stiff competition from Amazon and BT Sports. As Eleven Sports tries to penetrate the Premier league, they will be facing stiff competition from companies such as Sky Sports which has the most dominating rights. Amazon has already ventured into the Premier League and already have two full match days to air per season. Eleven sports is targeting a younger audience. Moreover, they are going to change the way sports are being broadcasted. There will be space on Instagram and the F2 Freestylers. As a sports brand, eleven sports is supposed to bring the people together. They have acquired rights to broadcasts in a country such as Myanmar. Though there are speculations, the country might have been involved in acts of genocide. All eyes are on Eleven Sports to see if they can make a difference in sports entertainment. What do you think of the development? Let us know in the comments below!