Labour leader Issa Aremu pays tributes to the 10th president of the Alumni Association of the National Institute (AAANI), Kuru, Jose who clock 70 today Today all roads lead to Abuja (precisely Army officers mess Command Asokoro) for family members, friends and well wishers to mark the 70th birthday of General Lawrence Anebi Onoja mni (rtd). My dear friend and great chronicler, Elvis Ogenyi in a book to be made public today entitled Echoes of Destiny  had ably documented the eventful life of General  Onoja. The book could very well be entitled Onoja; From Grass to Grace. The book is a compulsory read of a dramatic transformation of a village boy, gallant survivor/combatant of the unfortunate civil war, to a military governor of both Plateau and Katsina states, a General of Nigerian army and the 10th  President of Alumni  Association of the National Institute, (AANI) Kuru Jos. Godliness is in the details of the 17 chapter book on the General today. My tribute on Onoja at 70  flows from my record of his sterling unprecedented achievements as the elected President of AANI  between 2013 and 2017. Yours comradely was also elected two terms as the Secretary General of AANI during the period. What struck me about General Onoja was his love and compassion for members of Alumni. He celebrated members alive both in terms of their promotions, (many members were elevated or promoted in their various organizations through his personal intervention) birthdays, weddings of children. AANI under his leadership had cause to intervene on members’ promotions and deployments in some government agencies such as immigration, customs service, external affairs and agriculture ministry. I recall the case of a female member in Ekiti state whose job was threatened by the state governor on account of alleged disrespect. He personally called the governor who in turn reversed his decision and member’s job got secured. AANI was visible at, book launches and all positive manifestations that involved our members. Significantly he had been consistent to demand for the appointment of Members of National Institute to strategic positions in the country towards better society. He also worked out a new policy framework for a comprehensive welfare package for members including life insurance policy. He  empathized  in case of adversities through personal visits and cash donations. Hadjia Memunat Abdullahi, mni of SEC 38, 2016 a permanent Secretary, with Niger State died tragically on the eve of the graduation day of SEC 38. General Onoja as AANI president conferred on her posthumous TOWARDS A BETTER SOCIETY award. Remarkable too was his team spirit. With his larger than life qualifications and pedigrees, General Onoja was and still one among equals which included Dr. Garba Usman Tetengi, PhD, SAN, mni Vice President, Comrade Issa Aremu, Bsc, MA, mni Secretary General, Mrs. Maryamu Nghargbu, mni Assistant Secretary General and Mrs. Comfort Olu Eyitayo, CFA, FCA, mni, Treasurer. Others include Alhaji Abbas Bello, FCIA, FCTI, FCNA, mni, Financial Secretary; Dr. Juliana Mafwil, PhD, mni Publicity Secretary; Dr. Pat Emembolu Eze, MON, PhD, mni, Welfare/Social Secretary; Hon. Sola Ephraim-Oluwanuga, LLM, BL, MA, FCI Arb (UK), mni, Legal Adviser and Air Commodore C.A. Ogbeche, DSS, CAN, mni, Internal Auditor. Nelson Mandela once observed that; “A good head and a good heart are always a formidable combination.” I bear witness that Onoja-led  Executive was made up of good heads and hearts making good combination. In spite of occasional legitimate policy disagreements, the Executive was united throughout in the service of AANI. Never was there external intervention to manage any internal organizational feud since there was none anyway.  General Onoja brought a number of innovations to the alumni.  One significant innovation  was the historic first AANI Re-union which took place on Monday 12th January 2015 at NICON Luxury Hotel, Abuja. The event marked the 36th anniversary of the prestigious annual Senior Executive Course (SEC). Notable foundation members and members of the Board of Patrons namely Major General David Jemibewon, mni (rtd) SEC 1/1979), Senator Olabiyi Durojaiye, mni (SEC 1/1979) and Major General (rtd) Joshua Dogonyaro, mni (SEC 4) among others were present.  The Chairman of the event was Professor Ibrahim Gambari, Former Minister of Foreign Affairs.  His Excellency Mr. John Kofi Agyekum Kufuor, former President of Ghana was the distinguished Guest Speaker, whose address on the theme was delivered by Professor Ibrahim Gambari. Lt Gen. Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, GCON as a special Guest was represented by Major Gen. Joshua Dogonyaro mni. The highlights of the Reunion included the interactive lecture by the then Honourable Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Olusegun Aganga who spoke on the Nigeria Industrial Revolution Plan (NIRP).  More than 100 AANI members attended the historic event. The maiden edition of AANI Magazine was launched at the 35th AGM, March 7th 2015 under his leadership. For the first time, three AANI Calendars for 2015, 2016 and 2017 were produced.  For the first time, AANI anthem as composed by Mr. Ugochukwu Okoroafor, mni (SEC 36) was unanimously adopted by the 35th Annual General Meeting (AGM) as the official Anthem of the Alumni Association of the National Institute (AANI). AANI held an unprecedented Special Town Hall Meeting/Policy Dialogue on “Effective Implementation of the 2016 Budget” in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture on Tuesday August 9th, 2016 at the Shehu Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja. His Eminence (himself a member of National Institute) Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar III, CFR, mni, Sultan of Sokoto was a special Guest . Inspired by the renewed activism in governance by President Buhari administration to link budget outcomes with target plans and with the successful launching of the Strategic Implementation Plan (SIP) for the 2016 budget, the Policy Dialogue complimented the efforts of the Federal government for effective implementation of the 2016 budget and to link budget outcomes with target plans. The Honourable Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed led the team of other Honourable Ministers that participated in the Town Hall Meeting.  They included; Kayode Fayemi – Minister of Mines and Steel Development; Babatunde Fashola – Minister of Power, Works and Housing; Kemi Adeosun – Minister of Finance; Audu Ogbeh – Minister of Agriculture; Udo Udo Udoma – Minister of Budget & National Planning; Lai Mohammed – Minister of Information; Amina Mohammed – Minister of Environment;  Geoffrey Onyema – Minister of Foreign Affairs; Isaac Adewole – Minister of Health. AANI’s voice  was also loud on topical national issues under his leadership. AANI registered support for the three point Agenda President of Buhari Administration namely security, anti-corruption and economic diversification.  It commended the efforts of the administration in identifying and damning corruption in ways that have not been done before. AANI  saluted  security men and women who have jointly put the criminal terrorists on the run. AANI was willing to partner with the states governments of the north east in the task of reconstruction and rehabilitation. AANI also strongly condemned  the indiscriminate unprovoked xenophobic attacks on Nigerians resident in South Africa. AANI called  on the Federal government to hold South African authorities accountable for the security of all Nigerians and indeed Africans in South Africa. Happy birthday to one of the Presidents AANI ever produced. 