Spectranet 4GLTE has rewarded the final batch of winners in her World Cup Promo in Nigeria. Out of thousands of eligible subscribers, 216 subscribers eventually emerged as winners in a transparent draw observed by representatives of lottery regulatory bodies- National Lottery Regulatory Commission and Consumer Protection Council. Elizabeth Lekwuwa from Lagos emerged as winner of the star prize, and she won a return trip to Dubai. Five customers comprising Sandra Igene and Yemi Oyedun were rewarded with Unlimited Data for 1 year. Obinna Anokwute, Diran Onifade and John Basil were among 10 subscribers rewarded with LED TVwhile  100 subscribers were rewarded with Bluetooth Speaker, another 100 subscribers will enjoy 7GB data for purchasing Spectranet devices and subscribing to data plans within the duration of the promotion-June 1st to July 31st, 2018. Tagged ‘World Cup Connect &Win Big’, the promotion drummed support for Nigeria’s national team as they jostled for honours at the recently concluded 2018 FIFA World Cup. Prior to the final draw, 216 winners emerged from the first draw held in July 2018 thus bringing the total number of winners to 432. One of the many winners, Obinna Anokwute who responded to phone calls that he won an LED TV set adjudged Spectranet as the best broadband company in Nigeria just as he commended the brand for keeping to the promise to reward subscribers who purchased modems within the period of the promotion. Speaking at the draw, Head of Marketing Spectranet 4GLTE, Mike Ogor said, “The World Cup comes with a unique kind of enthusiasm and excitement. We tapped into this feel to make our customers happy even as they enjoyed the moments of the tournament. Our fast and reliable connectivity to things that matter made this possible. “This draw brings the Connect & Win Big Promo to a conclusion. New and existing subscribers participated in the promotion. Right from the onset, we ensured that the promotion was as transparent as possiblewhilst engaging relevant regulatory bodies. “We will continue to innovate and offer the best to our customers even after this promotion. This is in accordance with our corporate philosophy hinged on appreciating and rendering reliable connectivity to customers as they are key drivers of our leadership position in the internet service landscape in Nigeria”. Chief Executive Officer, Ajay Awasthi assured that Spectranet would continue to work with stakeholders in the internet service market to deepen broadband penetration in the country. Spectranet Limited was the first Internet Service Provider (ISP) to launch 4G LTE internet service in Nigeria. The brand is known for providing an affordable, faster and more reliable internet broadband to Nigerian homes and offices. Its internet service is currently available across Lagos, Abuja, Ibadan and Port Harcourt. Its state of the art network ensures high speed internet connectivity for the customers. Spectranet 4G LTE is a recipient of multiple awards and hasbeen voted as the Best 4G LTE Internet Service Provider in Nigeria for three years in a roll from 2016 to 2018.