The Leader, Buhari Parliamentary Support Group, Senator  Abdullahi Adamu (APC-Nasarawa),  said yesterday that Senate President Bukola Saraki  should be prepared to bear the consequences of his defection from the All Progressives Congress(APC) to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The former Nasarawa State governor told reporters in Abuja that Saraki, by his defection, had “stepped on banana peel and should be prepared to bear the consequences.” ”If Saraki knows political intricacies and the political terrain or the path where the banana peel in political landscape is, he will be more cautious,” Adamu said, adding:”the way he is going now, he has obviously stepped on banana peel and only God knows how far he will slip. “I will not pretend. I think he made a mistake and he took a wrong decision. He will have stories to tell along the line. “It was not the best he could have done. He had a duty to his father to keep the flag of the family flying but the way he is going, I do not think he is doing that.” He then urged Saraki to step down to avert consequences, adding that “he should honourably return the crown or be ready to bear the consequences.” Adamu vowed that with the defection, it would not be business as usual. He explained that “the defection of Saraki and the other lawmakers is a game changer. “We expect them to do it amicably and peacefully. They should make sure they do not run away with our crown. “If they think they will go and nothing will happen and that it will be business as usual, then they need to think again. “I will not say whether we will take steps or not take steps. We hope that between now and resumption of Senate plenary, more events will unfold. We do not want to be in a hurry to speculate.” The lawmaker, however, said that if Saraki insisted on leading a senate with majority of lawmakers from the APC, there would be repercussions. On the belief that Saraki did not do anything constitutionally wrong by defecting, and that there was a precedent where former Speaker of the House of Representatives, Aminu Tambuwal, defected but remained the Speaker, Adamu said: “It will not happen this time. We are more educated on the rules now.” On gale of defections from the ruling party, Adamu said he would not want any member to leave the party again, noting, however, that it was a free world and everyone was at liberty to join the party of his or her choice. “Before the defection, we spoke with some of them, but they insisted on defecting with Saraki. We will see where it will take them. They are expecting automatic tickets. For me, it is automatic ticket to failure. They will have and they will fail. Write it down,” he said.