In the busy and hectic life of today, not everybody has the time for leisure. Still leisure remains a very important part of life writes, OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA There are many benefits packed into the proverb- All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy. It means that without time off from work, a person becomes both bored and uninteresting. This could have negative effects on both the systemic and psychological health. It is very true in the context of our modern civilisation. According to a university Don, Prof Olubukola Adefule-Ositelu, the lifestyle of many Nigerians, especially in cities and urban areas is becoming worrisome because such breaks them down easily, and could be part of the underlying reasons for the spike in depression, and suicide cases. She said: “It seems as if we all are a part of the rat race. It is essential for all of us to get out of this rat race at least for an hour or so and turn our mind towards something else which is quite different from the daily routine of life. “Participating in leisure and recreation activities can help you better manage stress and reduce depression. Leisure provides you the chance to find balance in your life; it also puts you in control of how you’re spending your time, which is an important consideration because you may feel overwhelmed by obligations”. Prof Adefule-Ositelu explained that leisure is activity chosen in relative freedom for its qualities of satisfaction. Leisure is a multi-dimensional, contextual, and individual concept. What counts as leisure differs from person to person, adding, “People should first ask the question- what it means to have? Leisure means to be free from endless rounds of labour; to pursue what you want; to spend your time in voluntary, pleasurable ways; or to have freedom to explore and accept your place in the world.” The benefits of leisure, according to her, includes bringing a balance to one’s life; relaxation; self-improvement; cultural/family stability and interaction; escape, novelty, complexity, adventure, excitement, and fantasy and reducing stress. So also, Leisure provides rest and relaxation to our mind and body. To turn one’s mind to something else that one enjoys doing is a happy end to a day’s work. One can easily forget the tension and the pressure at the place of work and divert the mind in a creative and constructive manner. Prof Adefule-Ositelu said in order to have a work-life balance; one must partake in leisure activities while they are not working. Therefore many people do recreational activities in opposition to work. Recreation is a narrower component of leisure. These activities provide pleasure/satisfaction and restore us mentally/physically. “Other benefits of leisure are enhanced immune systems, improved memory, improved self esteem, and better quality of sleep. It is quite important to relax. So much of how we perceive our world is through our brain, and stress affecting our brains can really affect how we view people and the world around us. So finding good hobbies is not only fun, but they can refresh the mind and body; assist one in staying healthy, active and happy. It is a proven fact that spending time doing the things that we enjoy can help delay signs of aging and the pleasure in participating can lead to positive feelings that can help fight against some illnesses,” she added. And for those who believe living a routine life, especially work that involved little or no stress, and hence has no need to break the chain, Prof Adebule-Ositelu said normal is so boring and hence doing something which is different from the routine is essential to get rid of the boredom that could develop from leading such a life. She said there are various ways of spending the leisure time. One can engage himself in a hobby which he enjoys such as reading, gardening, stamp collecting, photography, cooking, social work or anything else, “Nowadays, people are busy with new found hobby of blogging. Every hobby enlightens the mind as one always keeps learning new things. Reading broadens our outlook and often shows us a side of life that we have never been exposed to. “Gardening not only gives us a lot of physical exercise but also teaches us to appreciate the unique beauty of nature. Stamp collecting arouses our interest in various countries and we also get to learn a lot about them. Photography allows one to be creative and social work gives immense satisfaction as one person helps another person to improve his life. Thus every hobby provides a welcome relief from one’s work. It is the one hour of the day when one can do what one has always wanted to do, but never finds the time to do in one’s busy life. In fact, cleaning up one’s cupboard, kitchen, living room or even toilet which one has not done for a long time can be an interesting experience. “One comes across things which one had considered lost and forgotten. Those objects might be linked with pleasant or unpleasant experiences of the past and one can just sit and go down the memory lane, which in itself is a very pleasurable experience. We get an immense sense of satisfaction and achievement. Another usually long neglected occupation one can engage in is writing letters to people who have either written and are waiting for a response, or those who one should have written anyway. Just ask yourself, in today’s internet age, how many people write letters to friends and relatives. When was the last time you had written a letter to a friend or a relative? You are not able to recall, right? Isn’t letter writing a great hobby? It helps revive old links and at the same time one feels content of spending one’s leisure time in a profitable manner. Another way to relax, according to her, ‘’is to go out of the house – do window shopping or merely walk in a park and watch children play. During evening hours, I often go out to the nearby mall with my friends, do a bit of window shopping and pick fruits or an ice cream. Anything that is different from the daily routine and that one enjoys doing is a good way of spending one’s leisure hours,” she explained. Prof Adefule-Ositelu added that the importance of leisure can never be exaggerated, as it helps to break all barriers and come out of the shell in which one is confined, “By spending good time at leisure, one can have a healthy mind and spirit. In fact, our forefathers who were free from the work load and tensions of the modern life and had a leisurely way of life, were also free from the problems and diseases caused by the stressful living such as anxiety, high blood pressure, heart problems and so on. We humans, who cannot lead a leisurely way of life, can at least spare an hour of leisure a day. Let us pay attention to animals like goats, sheep, ox, cats, even plants, they all create time to rest, and really relax, and they have longevity of life free from debilitating diseases such as cancer, diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular diseases. Wont you rather recreate,” she asked rhetorically. 