HOW has your aspiration for the position of president of Nigeria been so far? That’s a simple question but it’s a very complicated question because there are so many links to that question. In terms of acceptance, I have been seriously pleasantly surprised at the level of acceptance both from the men and the women. Nigerians are not so put-off of the possibility of having a woman at the helm of our affairs. I am looking forward to doing so much work so that they can even see the values of leadership and the quality of leadership I am proposing to bring to Nigeria. On the basis of financing, it’s been very slow. So far, we have invested about N86.7m in National Interest Party and in the campaign so far, bringing people together, trying to do a lot of social media campaign, appointing people to do some basic groundwork for posters, fliers, banners. And we have invested a lot but even all that investment is not even showing at all but obviously, it requires so much money than we have been able to put in. But we are hoping against all odds that the more of our programmes and policies for our government the people of Nigerians see, the more they would all come out and donate their ‘small small’ monies and incentives and experiences and talents to help us move further. In terms of media outreach, we have had quite a lot of coverage. Yes, generally I would say it is a lot more positive experience than I had prepared for. I actually prepared for rejection and abuse. Of course, there are threats, there’s quite a lot of abuse. There’s quite a lot of negative comments but nowhere near what I had prepared for. Talking about the funding, I saw a ‘Go Fund Me’ account for your campaign. How has the response been? I don’t think we have ever received a dime from Go Fund Me. We’ve had it up since I think,  July 1. But this is August 8 and we haven’t received any one naira from Go Fund Me. From the public, we haven’t received any money till date. But from within us, we have taken a lot of loans. A lot of us mortgaged our properties, our vehicles, our houses. Some of us sold properties. I sold all my cars. Because if we’re waiting for Nigerians to start giving us money before we start to do things, we may never do anything. So, some of us spare N100, N500, N1000. There are some who brought a million naira. But most of the money we have spent came from loans. Some of them secured, most of them unsecured loans. What’s your party slogan? Our slogan is ‘Nigeria For All.’ If you’re to do three things as president, what are the three things you’re going to do? First of all power. We’re going to revamp the entire power sector, remove the regulation that requires that our power production, transmission and distribution lines are operated by different people. That restricts our ability to produce and distribute light in Nigeria. We have to completely change that so that investors who can do the power can come in and invest their money as producers, transmitters and distributors of energy in Nigeria. That’s the quickest way to make sure the entire country has light 24-7 every day, every year. Then, we’re looking very seriously at education. We have this quota system that is killing our education and we want to remove it and we want to make it possible for everybody to access first class education in accordance their ability. Those who can go to university should go to the best possible university they can go to. And those who cannot meet up should go to vocational school. We don’t all have to do academic work. My administration would surely build a strong vocational system. Then, in terms of security, we’re looking at revamping the system of appointing and assigning security officers like leaders of the security outfit in Nigeria, make sure that we are picking the best and we’re making sure that it’s coming from every part of the country so that we don’t have a particular area leading the security outfits and then being too sentimental about dealing with people who are doing evil to the rest of us. For example, the herdsmen and farmers clashes, this is something that could have been easily curbed had we just had security outfits working together from all the angles and all the areas of the country, not being too sentimental or too protective of a particular area. We want to make sure that the proper equipment are available, that proper training is available and then make sure that the funding for security and other parts of the economy is applied according to the budget. Not that you give money and somebody who siphons it. You’re also into filmmaking and even left it to study Law. How was your experience while you were involved in filmmaking and are you still in touch with your Nollywood people? Yes, I am still very much in touch with my Nollywood people. In fact, so many of them have been asking me when I want them to join my campaign trail. Three already are part of my inner caucus campaign strategy team. And then, quite a lot of them are ready to do it. So, it has been a really exciting period for me. All the areas that I have worked in from the time I started working as a teenager are ready to join my campaign and help me. A lot of people also say the things that happen in Nigeria, especially Nigerian politics, are like a movie. Do you look at it that way? Yes, Nigerian politics is definitely like a movie. In fact, it is a movie (laughs). You just need to think about people like Dino Melaye with that ‘n’toin’ on TV. You will enjoy the movie. And look at the DSS people that went with masks to lock up the National Assembly. It is a movie. Or look at the ‘Games of Thrones’ kind of game that Saraki played with them the other day. It’s a movie. So, it is definitely Nollywood in our political system but it gets to the point where you think ‘now, enough of the jokes. Let’s get serious.’ But you rarely ever see that and that’s sad. Whereas it is indeed a movie in our political landscape in Nigeria, it’s not supposed to be like that. There could be comic relief now and then but it shouldn’t be the norm that everything should be a joke in our country. So, when last did you make a movie or act in a movie? That was 2005/2006. The movie is called ‘Heartbeats’. That’s a long time ago Yes, that was the last time. How optimistic are you of getting the numbers of votes required to become president of Nigeria come 2019? I am very optimistic, particularly because I am a member of the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP. So, when we finish the primaries of our various parties, we’re supposed to come in for a second primaries within the CUPP. Now, that primaries, what I’m proposing then is we have a free and fair primary where we have maybe, a primary of maybe of a thousand people selected from all walks of life in Nigeria – all ages, rich, poor, educationists, okada riders, market women. And then, we screen them; ensure they don’t have any relationship with any of the contestants. And those people are the ones that would review the presentations of all the candidates, panel discussions, debates and at the end of the day, they vote for the people that they think deserve the seat. In that kind of a set-up, I’ll definitely come out first if not completely thrash out everybody and win the ticket. And if that happens, everybody would back me. And if everybody in CUPP is backing me, 100%, I would be president in 2019. You have five children? (Laughs) Okay, yes. And I have a husband, yes, what else. You’re married? Of course (laughs) How many times have you been married? Twice. Once to a German. Once to a Nigerian. I’m still married to my Nigerian husband Next week will be your birthday and you’ll be 40 No, next week is not my birthday. My birthday is August 16. Today is August 9, so it’s next week Oh, God Almighty. I didn’t even remember it was that close.  Yes. Oh my God (laughs). So, what’s the plan for your birthday? No plans. I didn’t even realise it’s my birthday. I have no plans whatsoever for my birthday. I’d probably be in one orphanage or one care home somewhere, just hanging around and talking with people there. I have no plans at all. It’s the last thing on my mind. But 40 is very landmark birthday and you weren’t planning for it? Not at all.