Alhaji Aliyu Omar (MON), a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), is a career diplomat and former Nigerian Liaison Officer at the United Nations (UN). In this interview with Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, in Jalingo, Omar took a look at the performance of the current administration in the state and concluded that there is an urgent need for the people of the state to enthrone an APC government in 2019. Excerpts WHY are you, a well-known diplomat, in the race for the governorship seat of your state? First and foremost, I am in the race to address the widening divide between our two great religions. Not long ago, I met one of the top guns of the current administration; I said, ‘you are one of the leaders of the state. Look at the divisions we are having growing wider and wider. Why don’t you do something about it? He looked at me and said the divisions were far gone, and it would be impossible to get the state back to where it was. This could be the defeatist view of the government right there! A leader saying he had given up on trying to unite his people! I was very disappointed and started hoping that one of the next candidates for governor would focus on the unity of Tarabians. That was when I concluded there is a serious need for us to change the PDP administration in Taraba and install an APC regime in 2019. So when the people approached me and said it is a technocrat who had never run for office before that they desire to lead them, I took some time to think about it before I was finally persuaded. Like our people desire, I want to be the new face that will appeal to both Muslims and Christians; young and old. In the past, late Governor Danbaba had tried severally to get me into politics, but I politely declined. The same way some top politicians approached me to run for a political office, but I also declined that. All the people who know me also know my aversion to politics. I am in the race this time because of where Taraba State and Tarabians found themselves presently. I know it is normal for every politician to say he was called to serve, but you should wonder why I never joined politics during Governor Danbaba’s time, when it would have been an ‘easy pick’ for me. Again, you would have noticed that it took quite some time before I confirmed my candidature, even though some people went to the extent of putting up my banners. Our leaders now are making the people to concentrate on the things that divide us, which are religion, tribe and region, instead of the many more things that unite us like the yearning for fair and just governance, the need for peace and unity, potable water, good roads, good hospitals, and so many other things. This should stop. Number two is my very deep passion for Taraba State and Tarabians. Look at all the resources we have in Taraba. If you take out any one of them, it is enough to sustain the state. Take out timber, our several solid minerals, tomatoes, farm produce, anything you want but we are not concentrating on all those things, instead we are just relying solely on federal grant which is not very good. Tomorrow if the oil dries up, where are we going to? I believe it is high time somebody brings the people together. But do you think you can clinch the ticket of the APC in the state given the situation of things within the party today? Yes, we have two groups in the Taraba State APC today. I belong to the Integrity Group. I am not the spokesman for the group, so I cannot say much. However, both groups are doing their best to come together, especially with the efforts of our new National Chairman who is an astute administrator. I believe we shall soon settle or differences. The division in the party will soon be over and the party will come together. I am very sure of that and in the end we will be able to come up with one person that we will all support. With the way Tarabians are tired of the happenings in the state presently, I am sure the next government in Taraba State will be APC. As to my chances at the primary, I am not desperate. I am in the race for the people and fighting the system. I believe in politics without bitterness. At this point in time, we really need to bring the people together. I have reached out to many aspirants to let us come and bring forward the best, irrespective of who he is; someone with a vision and mission to take the state to the greater heights that we all will be proud of. Don’t you think presenting yourself as a Danbaba associate will affect your acceptability to some groups and persons within and outside your party? Yes, I am a Danbaba loyalist, but I think everybody in the end is an individual. Of course, Danbaba has influenced me greatly, and this happens when you stay with somebody. Whoever you stay with will rub off some of his traits on you. You could just choose the best of him, observe his shortfalls, and learn how to avoid them. Danbaba is indisputably the best governor Taraba State has had so far. So, yes I am his loyalist to the core, but I will try and improve on his shortfalls. The only thing is that when you say this guy is my friend then you know that whatever is the bulk of the things he does you like. When Governor Danbaba was in power, I was always in touch on developments in my state. I loved the way he governed by bringing peace and unity to the Taraba people, and I thought being his friend, and seeing how he did it, I could make an impact and unite the people of Taraba, and make the state how it should be. The quest for peace and security of lives and properties is one major desire of all and sundry in Taraba today. How can you achieve this if elected? Like I said before, if you rule people justly and fairly, peace will follow immediately; wherever you see a crisis, there is some kind of injustice. Some people feel short-changed that is why there is crisis. There is no way you will please everybody but when you treat the bulk and everybody right, then in the end there will be peace. You talk about change often. Are you dissatisfied with the performance of the current administration? I am in the race because I am not satisfied yet with what we have currently. I think the governor is doing something but he’s not doing enough. I mean his regime, and not himself. I don’t want to talk about just an individual. The government is not doing enough, they could do more, a lot more and that is why we are here. We have come more to fight the system than an individual.