The 11 electricity Distribution Companies (DisCos) have come under fire of late. Consumers are berating the firms for billing them for services not rendered. The government is accusing them of turning themselves into monopolies. But, the operators are not keeping quiet. EMEKA UGWUANYI examines the power sector crises. However, the reference to the issues of supply of meters, or the proliferation of estimated bills here seems quite odd. Yes, estimated billing, a methodology designed and codified by the regulator, NERC, as an interim billing measure, has its challenges. “The DisCos do readily acknowledge that it has been difficult to get this right, in their application of the methodology, and have continuously developed methodologies to improve on same. “It is important to highlight the fact that since DisCos cannot earn more than the amount allowed by the regulator, for every customer over-billed another customer has been under-billed by the same amount. “Naturally, the only people who complain are those over-billed while those under-billed simply enjoy the benefits without complaining. It is, therefore, with great concern and dismay that we receive and attend to complaints of customers that have been billed in excess of their reasonable consumption.” According to him, customers with evidence of crazy billing have the right to dispute the bill served on them, while paying the average of the last three undisputed bills. He listed the measures put in place by DisCos as: the installation of check meters for some of the concerned customers about their estimated bills to more accurately gauge their consumption; ready adjustments of disputed bills; conduction of energy consumption audits to accurately determine customer’s consumption; introduction of online tools on some DisCo websites for manual computation of customer energy consumption; and near total installation of maximum demand meters for the commercial customers has been provided by the DisCos. Oduntan said: “In addition to the MAP programme that is expected to accelerate the metering effort, the DisCos will continue working with NERC to improve the accuracy of the estimated billing methodology for better customer satisfaction, especially, as it brings no added revenue to DisCos when they are less accurate. “Like our customers, we believe that progress must be made in turning around a sector that was inefficiently operated for 62 years, prior to its handover to private investors. “However, we do not understand the constant references to the increase of generation capacity to 7,000Mw from 4,000 Mw, for the period of 2015 to 2018 that has been used as the basis of defining the DisCos as incapable of taking on more power – the stranded 2,000Mw.  A review of NERC’s ‘Daily Energy Watch’ for January 28th, 2015 would indicate a generation availability of 6,421Mw. “In other words, it is misleading to state that available generation has grown from 4,000Mw in 2015, as a measure of progress, given that a volume of generation slightly under 7,000Mw already or previously existed, prior to the beginning of this administration. “Furthermore, there is no stranded 2,000Mw.  While there is an available capacity of 7,000Mw, the best that can be generated, at this time, is 5,000 Mw.  This is because there is insufficient gas to power the thermal plants due to gas line limitations (for instance, the non-completion of the Oben pipeline) and the absence of a commercial framework that would encourage gas exploration. “Generation that is constrained by gas amounts to an average 1,500 Mw daily. Of note is that 25 out of 28 generation plants are fueled by gas. Transmission grid frequency, line limitation and water management make up the difference of the balance 500 MW of constrained generation. In simple terms, the often-advertised and pronounced DisCos’ limitation to take on 2,000 Mw of additional generation is not consistent with the facts or reality. This, therefore, shows that very little has actually changed contrary to the minister’s constant pronouncements. “Transmission has increased from 5,000Mw (approx) in 2015 to 7,124Mw (approx) in December 2017 averaging 1,062 Mw per annum. TCN currently has about 90 transmission projects in various stages of construction and many are to be completed this year. “So, we can transport what the GenCos generate and there is a 10-year transmission expansion plan (2018 to 2028) which the government is committed to implement.”  No short cut  Acknowledging the government’s effort to reverse the TCN fortunes, Oduntan said the hitherto weakest link in the NESI value chain, the reversal of 62 years of inefficiency and underfunding will not occur overnight. Nor will spacious pronouncements of a magical increase of company’s limited wheeling capacity change reality. He said: “In spite of TCN’s tested wheeling capacity of 5,500Mw, with the two historical generation peaks of 5,074 Mw (February 2nd, 2016) and 5,222Mw (December 18th, 2017), only 4,577Mw and 4,265Mw was wheeled or transmitted, respectively. In simple terms, TCN has not wheeled energy in excess of 4,265MW “Further confirmation of the limitation of TCN is the 22 total systems collapse in 2016 and six partials; 15 total systems collapse and nine partial meltdowns in 2017; and six times in the first eight days of 2018 alone. “As such, there certainly is a need for the government’s increased focus on strengthening the grid, for the required alignment of the NESI energy supply chain. However, such strengthening of the grid must be in tandem with the DisCos’ expansion plans, rather than a haphazard design and implementation of projects, resulting in the wastage of taxpayers’, donors’ and multilateral institutions’ funds. “The above shows independent balanced feedback on the actual state of affairs from the TCN. It should be noted that within the TCN and DisCos, potential capacities exist that are not useful, mainly due to placement of such capacities in locations that do not need these or cannot draw on these capacities. Hence, such cannot be counted as available capacities. “It is puzzling where the data provided about the increase in DisCo’s capacity to distribute electricity is derived from, as provided in the minister’s press briefing.  A stress study of the distribution network conducted by the Presidential Task Force on Power (PTFP) in 2012 indicated a DisCo capacity utilisation of 4,561Mw. “Another stress test conducted by the Systems Operator, a unit of TCN in 2015, indicated a distribution capacity utilisation of 6,288Mw (of note is that the distribution capacity rating of the DisCos by TCN for 2012, at 6,026Mw, is significantly higher than that specified by the PTFP stress test. “As previously stated in a series of publications on this issue, the Nigerian Electricity Market Stabilisation Fund (NEMSF) N210.61 billion intervention has been labeled, interpreted and surrounded with various erroneous and misleading information, especially in relation to the DisCos. “The intervention was a vehicle provided by the CBN to ease the beginning of the liquidity crisis that is much worse today. It is not a subsidy or a bailout, but a loan (repayable over a ten-year period) to the sector that is carried on the DisCos’ financial books. “A loan that, substantially, has nothing to do with the DisCos, but is on the DisCo financial records, for ease of recovery via the tariff. It is critically important to understand that the loan comprises of two parts “Specifically, of the N210.61 billion NEMSF amount: N58.45 billion or 27.75 per cent was designated for the DisCos; and N152.16 billion or 72.25 per cent was designated for the GenCos, gas suppliers and industry service providers. “The GenCos, like the DisCos, want a commercially sustainable and viable framework that is driven by contracts that are predicated on a pricing that sends the right signals for the investment that is required to improve generation. “A one-off government intervention will not do it.  Neither the GenCos nor the DisCos are interested in arrangements that require frequent government interventions. “We believe that all NESI operators seek to run their businesses in an environment of balanced regulation and policy making/implementation, cost recovery, effective contracts and sanctity of contracts – all these elements do not exist in NESI. “As long as the average retail tariff of N32/kwh average is significantly less than cost reflectivity that is in excess of N65/kwh, no creative application of billing will increase the remittance that is due to NBET. “Interestingly, the Power Sector Recovery Programme (PSRP), the government’s roadmap to resetting the sector, recognises the fundamental truth that cost recovery is key to solving market problems, this being at variance with the minister’s various contrary assertions.  DisCos’ fear  “Again, we laud the government for seeking to intervene in addressing an issue that will resolve a NESI challenge.  However, we are concerned that this may be another government intervention that would, ultimately, result in a waste of taxpayers’ fund. As previously discussed, investing N72 billion for procurement of equipment and installation to help get the 2,000Mw to consumers is inconsistent with the facts.  While an increase in the electricity distribution network is always desirable, the 2,000Mw that is referenced is currently constrained by other factors other than the distribution network – gas, transmission grid frequency, line limitation and water management. “Additionally, with the government’s announcement that the implementation of the N72 billion distribution will be done under the auspices of TCN, we have to wonder whether this government continues to view the DisCos as government parastatals rather than entities that are majority-owned by private investors.” Among the concern raised by the DisCos on the government latest moves are: With the artificially suppressed electricity tariffs, what is the pathway for the recovery of the N72 billion of taxpayers’ funds? Odundan said that the DisCos have no clarity as to the N37 billion the government metering initiative that the minister refers to. He said: “As previously stated, the DisCos are totally committed to metering their customers, in a manner that is both transparent and commercially sustainable. The DisCos have no issue with the declaration of eligible customer, as specified under Section 27 of EPSRA. “We do have an issue as to whether the timing is right for such a declaration, given the following This seems to be a guise for the cherry picking of the customers of DisCos which will lead to the reduction of the funds available to run their business; “These new participants are allowed to charge tariffs much higher than DisCos are allowed to charge, which is not the competition the minister has been advertising; We are worried that when these better paying customers are removed from the DisCos pool of customers, the tariffs of the ordinary citizen and customers would need to be raised, to compensate for the revenue loss which, we believe is unwise at this time. What the public interest demands is the complete and unadulterated implementation of the ideas of the Electric Power Sector Reform Implementation Committee, 2000 (EPIC), that resulted in National Electric Power Policy, 2001 (NEPP), and the statutory codification of the principles of the privatisation and reform of the power sector. “Woefully, we are currently faced with a situation in which the major tenets of the policy have been turned on their heads.  After procurement exercise that was deemed to be world class by various domestic and international bodies and organisation, resulting in an inflow of $2.4 billion into government coffers, for the sale of the GenCos and DisCos ($1.4 billion), the investors seem to have been given short shrift. “There is no greater testimony to this than the minister’s determination that ‘the DisCos bought these assets with their eyes opened, and they must compete to deliver or exit., “What the minister is doing is holding down the DisCos and using that as an excuse to take our best customers and make it commercially viable for REA and friends. “What is the logic in taking a good customer from DisCos that have tariffs pegged at an average price N32/kWh, by the government, and giving them to REA and friends at N54/kWh? “DisCos paid a collective amount of $1.4 billion to acquire 60 per cent holdings in these companies from BPE. Then comes REA, a government agency under the control of the minister, that goes and poaches the customers of DisCos under some arrangement with some private companies, all of whom paid nothing, yet would charge almost double what is allowed for the DisCos and it is called competition? “If the honest desire is to attain improved power at a higher cost, why are DisCos not allowed to do it? This is the question the Minister needs to answer honestly. Unfortunately, the minister’s expression of his interest in promoting national interest, has resulted in his ministry’s consistent promotion of policy initiatives that have resulted in sector-wide confusion and that infringe on the roles and responsibilities of the various sector players; the imposition of the ministry’s agenda on the regulator, compromising its independence; the seemingly lack of respect for contract; and the self-serving distortion redefinition of the law that is the bedrock of the privatisation and reform.” On the minister’s assertion that steady power has not been attained after five years of privatisation, Oduntan said: “We have to ask, ‘did the government meet all of its obligations that were pre-conditions to the DisCos’ ability to implement the requirements of their Performance Agreements?” “With the minister going outside of the specifications of NEPP and the general policy role stipulated under EPSRA, issuing directives to NERC, we now have a regulator whose independence has been compromised and that has, essentially, become the minister’s enforcer, a bastardisation of the role specified by its enabling act. “How can this increased regulatory risk foster the enabling environment that is required for the attraction of the investment that is needed for the magnitude and long-term nature of power sector infrastructure? “We would suggest that, as long as the minister continues to play politics with the power sector; as long as the minister continues to refuse to recognise the independence of the regulator (in spite of the frequency of ministerial assurances stating otherwise, assurances that are contradicted and belied by his actions); as long as the minister continues to fail to recognise the change of role for the ministry, from that of operating a utility (PHCN) to that of general policy formulation, under the reform; as long as the objectives of NEPP and the requirements of EPSRA continue to be ignored, no number of ‘directives’ issued to NERC will correct NESI’s headlong plunge into cataclysmic collapse. “Nigerians deserve better than the seemingly uncoordinated and unfocused policy and regulatory environment that continues to undermine the attainment of private-sector driven efficiency that was the objective of the power sector reform. “For comparison, it is interesting to note that the New Delhi, India model, the basis for the privatisation of the PHCN successor DisCos, which has been deemed a total success, was supported by governmental actions that aided its success.” The measures according to him include: law enforcement support for addressing electricity theft; special courts for expedited prosecution of electricity theft; media campaign to build stakeholder consensus on the reform;  a policy framework that was definitive statutorily; guaranteed rate of return and incentivised performance; subsidised residential class energy consumption for the first three years;  access to low interest financing for the operators and appropriate risk allocation. The success of the New Delhi privatisation saved its government an estimated $1 billion, between 2003 through 2011 and a cost to the government of $98 million.  Genesis of the conflict  The raging feud began when the minister announced some policy changes. On July 9, Fashola unfolded a Federal Government plan to keep the DisCos on their toes on their responsibilities to consumers. In a statement titled: “Power sector state of play, next steps and policy directives,” the minister directed the NERC to mandate DisCos to meter all customers and improve on their distribution equipment’s capacity to take more powers from GenCos. He also directed the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) to work with the Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE) to improve DisCos’ collection remittance and pay their debts for stability in the sector, warning that the complaints coming to the government over metering, estimated billing and mass disconnections cannot continue. The minister, however, stated that he remained convinced that privatisation is way forward citing broadcasting, newspapers, telecommunications and banking sectors, among others, as some of the privatisation successes. According to him, an improvement in DisCos network and increase in capacity would enable them to take up the stranded 2,000 megawatts (Mw). He directed the NERC to stop DisCos from threatening private entrepreneurs from entering the market to supply meters to consumers whom they (DisCos) are unable to supply, adding that the Electric Power Sector Reform Act (EPSRA) gave no exclusivity or monopoly to either the GenCos or DisCos. The minister said entry of private entrepreneurs into the power market has become imperative because after five years of privatisation, many people and businesses lack access to adequate power supply. Fashola, who said he was not unmindful of concerns about loss of market or customers by DisCos, such concerns must be balanced against national interest and that with improvement in their businesses, they would be in a position to use their economies of scale of large volumes of power to buy out or out-price the small entrepreneurs. The minister said: “The government must act and it will do so. The DisCos bought these assets with their eyes opened, and they must compete to deliver or exit. Small businesses that need very little power are not getting enough because the DisCos could not take the power to them.” Expressing dismay that investment of GenCos was threatened because they could not utilise the capacity they have installed, Fashola added that in order to improve service to small businesses, the government, acting through the Rural Electrification Agency (REA), was linking Small Power Entrepreneurs with markets like Ariaria in Aba, Sabon Gari Market in Kano, and Sura Market in Lagos, which contain approximately 37,000, 13,000, and 1,047 shops respectively, which are being metered by the small entrepreneurs who have offered to replace the generators of traders with more efficient power and meters. He said that as a facilitator of business and enabler of the private sector, the government had, through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), injected N213 billion into the power sector at a concessionary interest rate, below market rate, to GenCos and DisCos. He, however, added that some of the DisCos shy away from taking the facility. On debts owed by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to DisCos, the minister noted that after verification, only N27 billion was verifiable. “Prior to the tenure of this administration, GenCos and gas suppliers were being underpaid by NBET because the DisCos were under-collecting or under-remitting, such that GenCos were getting only about 20 per cent of their invoices from Power adding that Government intervened and created N701 billion Payment Assurance Guarantee (PAG) to NBET to ensure that payment to GenCos improved. “Despite all these, NBET owes the GenCos N325.7 billion. DisCos were also asked to submit their transformer and other equipment requirements to enable them evacuate the stranded 2,000Mw and as 40 per cent shareholders in the DisCos, government has committed to invest N76 billion for the procurement of equipment and installation” He listed other interventions to include: settling an inherited court case and provision of N37 billion to Meter Asset Providers (MAPs) under the regulations made by NERC to license meter investors, he added.  The bombshell  Uncomfortable with some contents of the new policy, the DisCos fired back at the minister through their umbrella body – the Association of Nigerian Electricity Distributors (ANED). The association’s Executive Director, Research & Advocacy, Sunday Oduntan, who doubles as its spokesman, responded to Fashola’s statement. The minister, who was irked by Oduntan’s response, said in another statement titled: “My directives on improved service delivery in the power sector went to legal entities, not to an interloper. I feel obliged to respond to some, not all of the allegations credited to one Mr. Sunday Oduntan, who presents himself as Executive Director, Research and Advocacy of the Association of Electricity Distributors (ANED), which he made in response to my directives to NERC (the regulator) and BPE/NBET as contracting parties to the DisCos. “Throughout my statement which contained the directives, I referred copiously to the provisions of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act (EPSRA) which is the law that regulates the power sector. I referred to DisCos in their capacities as licensees. “Mr. Oduntan should tell members of the public if ANED is a licensee, or whether he is an investor in a DisCo and in which DisCo? He should tell members of the public that I walked him out of our monthly meeting because he has no capacity to attend and he was not invited. I do not recognise him because the law that guides my functions does not recognise him. “If ANED is not a licensee, who then is ANED, a Non-Governmental Organisation (NGO)? If so, they should listen to consumers because nothing is going on about poor service. The BPE, NBET and NERC, to whom my directives were made, contracted individually with DisCos not as an association. “Any right-thinking and well-meaning person knows that power supply has economic consequences and has political relevance. However, to suggest, therefore, that my directives were political, turns reality on its head; because for the past 20 months, in all my public briefings at monthly meetings with the DisCos, these same issues of service delivery of meters, estimated billings, investments in distribution equipment by DisCos have dominated my remarks. “His statement that no directives from me will save the power sector from collapse is consistent with the views of someone who has no skin in the game. It is perhaps a Freudian revelation of the mindset of those he represents, whoever they may be. “It is revealing of the mindset of a saboteur not a builder, and he would do very well to acquaint himself and advise his co-travellers about the consequences of sabotaging the economy under our laws. “As for the allegation that figures of power generation and distribution released by me are not true, the taste of the pudding lies with those who eat it. “Electricity consumers know what their experience was in 2015, 2016, 2017 and today. These figures have been released many months back when we reached those milestones as part of my monthly report and roadmap of incremental power. “Another Oduntan-minded interpretation of my directive is that it is an attempt to demonise the DisCos, far from it. If the DisCos connect with their consumers, they will hear from them first-hand, how traumatised they feel about load shedding, absence of meters and estimated billing. “The GenCos that are short-paid because the DisCos under-remit in spite of the high estimated billings to consumers, will tell DisCos how they feel. The is simple, electricity consumers want better service; NBET wants its money; about N800 billion to pay GenCos; DisCos should respond to the query as to why 408 feeders, which have a capacity to deliver 5,756Mw of power to consumers only carry 444Mw because of faulty lines, bad equipment and load-shedding? 