The national coordinator of the Buhari–Osinbajo Mandate Group, Prince Ebunola Martins, has predicted that President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Professor Yemi Osinbajo, would win the 2019 presidential poll. Martins, who addressed reporters in Lagos, said the achievements of the Buhari administration in the past three years have increased the popularity of the president among the Nigerian people. According to him, Buhari has done more than previous administrations within three years. He has been able to block all loop holes through which looters siphon the money meant for the provision of basic amenities for the people. He lamented that the $42 billion in the national foreign reserve was squandered by former President Goodluck Jonathan before he left office in 2015. “All incomes generated by Customs Service, proceeds from Value Added Tax (VAT) and excess earning from crude export when crude oil was selling for over $100 per barrel were not saved for the raining day by the Jonathan administration. “But, under Buhari when the crude is selling for about $50 the national reserve has risen to $52 billion today. With little resources President Buhari has embarked on road constructions across the six geo political zones. About 56 projects are on-going in the South-East and South-South regions. The second Niger Bridge; the Enugu –Port Harcourt road and many other roads in the country that had been abandoned over the years by the previous administrations are now under reconstruction. The refineries are working; the power supply has improved considerably all over the country”. He said that the emergence of many presidential aspirants from the north was being driven by selfish interest. According to him, “the aspirants knew if Buhari wins in 2019, the presidency would go to the South in 2023; that is to say, the northern aspirants would have to wait for another 12 years to contest, he fear is that they would be out of equation by then”. On security challenges in the country, he said it was unfair to say Buhari was not doing anything to arrest the situation or that the Fulani herdsmen were responsible for the killings in the country. He said “those who killed the Reverend Fathers in Benue State were not Fulanis. One of them was a political aide of Governor Sam Ortom. The suspects are in police custody. Are the Fulanis responsible for arms and ammunitions seized by Customs at the airports including a Nigerian bound ship loaded with ammunition from Russia which was intercepted in South Africa? We need to tell ourselves the truth.  Non-Fulani are involved in the senseless killings of innocent Nigerians.