•Public voting to commence Monday, August 27 A total of 79 songs made it to the Regional nominees list out of 8,009 entries submitted for the 5th All Africa Music Awards, AFRIMA, scheduled to hold in November 2018. The list was last Tuesday unveiled by the African Union Commission, AUC, and the International Jury of AFRIMA, at the Eko Hotels & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. The released nominees list covers the five Regional Categories divided into Female and Male categories. Cameroon takes up four of the eight spots in the category for Best Female Artiste in Central Africa, followed by DRC (2), and Angola (2). In the category for Best Male Artiste in Central Africa, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) takes the lead with five spots followed by Cameroon (2) and Chad (1). From Eastern Africa, the female category Kenya holds three spots while Uganda takes two with Ethiopia, Rwanda and Tanzania occupying one spot respectively. In the male category, Kenya and Tanzania maintain three nominations each, with Ethiopia and Uganda registering one nomination apiece. The Algerian female artistes occupy four out of the six spots in the category for Best Female Artiste in Northern Africa, with Tunisia and Egypt holding one spot each. The Male category has Moroccan artistes occupying four of the eight spots, Algeria (2), Egypt and Tunisia earning one nomination each. The Southern African region is dominated by South African artistes both in the male and female categories, with a total of nine spots, followed by Zimbabwe (3), while Swaziland, Namibia, Malawi, and Zimbabwe take one spot each. The Western region Male category is having great contenders between Nigeria and Ghana. Holding up 4 spots is Nigeria, closely followed by Ghana (3), while Guinea and Cape Verde hold 1 spot each. The Best Female Artiste in the Western region has Nigeria and Ghana in a tie of 2 spots respectively, with Benin (1), Mali (1), Senegal (1), and Cote d’Ivoire (1). The spokesperson for the International Jury of AFRIMA and the Programme Director, Cameroon TV and Radio, CRTV, Mr. Robert Ekukole (representing Eastern Africa) said: “The AFRIMA Nominees list we arrived at reflects and represents the top-notch creative expressions of music talents and professionals within the relevant regions and validity period. However, we also have a challenge where some artistes failed to enter for the awards and as such missed the opportunity to be evaluated or possibly nominated for AFRIMA.” The AFRIMA adjudication is carried out electronically via the proprietary AFRIMA Adjudication Software, which was designed by AFRIMA in 2014, has been deployed for use since the 2015 annual adjudication process. Public voting opens on the AFRIMA website, www.afrima.org, on Monday, August 27, 2018 to determine who wins the coveted 23.9 carat gold-plated AFRIMA Trophy in 38 categories. Other activities scheduled for the main awards events is the Africa Music Business Roundtable and the AFRIMA Music Village, a music concert and cultural festival that accommodates over 40,000 music lovers to witness live performances from African artistes.