Nigerians have been urged to screen for Hepatitis as its early detection can save from untimely death. According to an Herbal Medicine Practitioner and Chiropractor, Dr Joel Nudewhenu Logbo, viral hepatitis affects many people. Quoting the World Health Organisation (WHO), Logbo said about 30 million Nigerians have Hepatitis B. ‘’Nigeria has one of the highest cases of Hepatitis B in the world. So, early diagnosis and taking preventive steps are very important to reduce the number of affected people or even eradicate the disease,’’ he said. Logbo said most of the herbs are available in our communities. The medic said hepatitis refers to an inflammatory condition of the liver, commonly caused  by a viral infection. However, he said, there are other causes. For example, autoimmune hepatitis and hepatitis are caused by medications, such as drugs, toxins, alcohol abuse, smoking, and poor dietary lifestyle. Shedding light on the functions of liver,  Logbo said the liver is located in the right upper area of the abdomen with some wonderful functions that affect metabolism throughout the body, like bile production, which is essential to digestion; filtering of toxins from your body; excretion of bilirubin (a product of broken-down red blood cells), cholesterol, hormones, and drugs; breakdown of carbohydrates, fats, and proteins activation of enzymes, which are specialised proteins essential to body functions. So also in the storage of glycogen (a form of sugar), minerals, and vitamins (A, D, E, and K); synthesis of blood proteins, such as albumin and synthesis of clotting factors, adding: “All these functions and others will make disease to the liver life threatening, especially hepatitis.” Causes Logbo said there are viral infections of the liver that are classified as Hepatitis A, B, C, D, and E. “A different virus is responsible for each type of virally transmitted hepatitis. Hepatitis A is caused by an infection with the Hepatitis A virus (HAV). This is the most commonly transmitted by consuming food or water contaminated by feces from a person infected with hepatitis A. “Hepatitis B is transmitted through contact with infectious body fluids, such as blood, vaginal secretions, or semen, containing the Hepatitis B virus (HBV). Injection drug use, having sex with an infected partner, or sharing razors with an infected person increase your risk of getting Hepatitis B. ‘’Hepatitis C comes from the Hepatitis C virus (HCV). It is transmitted through contact with infected body fluids, typically through injection drug use and sexual contact,” he explained. Logbo said Hepatitis D also called Delta Hepatitis is a serious liver disease caused by the Hepatitis D virus (HDV). It is contracted through contact with infected blood. It is a rare form of hepatitis that only occurs in conjunction with Hepatitis B infection. Hepatitis D virus can’t multiply without the presence of Hepatitis B. While Hepatitis E is a waterborne disease caused by the hepatitis E virus (HEV). Hepatitis E is mainly found in areas with poor sanitation and typically results from ingesting fecal matter that contaminates the water supply. Other causes Logbo said alcohol and other toxins do impair livers as excessive alcohol consumption can cause liver damage and inflammation. This is sometimes referred to as alcoholic hepatitis. He said the alcohol injures the cells of the liver. Over time, it can lead to liver failure and cirrhosis, a thickening and scarring of the liver, adding that other toxic causes of hepatitis include overuse or overdose of medications and exposure to poisons. “In some cases, the immune system mistakes the liver as a harmful object and begins to attack it. It causes ongoing inflammation that can range from mild to severe, often hindering liver function. It’s three times more common in women than in men,” he added. Symptoms of hepatitis disease On how to easily detect the condition,  Logbo said if anybody had infectious forms of hepatitis that are chronic, like hepatitis B and C, such may not have symptoms in the beginning, as symptoms may not occur until the damage affects liver function, but signs and symptoms of acute hepatitis appear quickly. They include: Fatigue’ flu-like symptoms, dark urine, pale stool, abdominal pain, loss of appetite, unexplained weight loss, yellow skin and eyes, which may be signs of jaundice. Chronic hepatitis develops slowly, so these signs and symptoms may be too subtle to notice, he cautioned. History and physical examination Logbo said to detect hepatitis requires proper diagnosis, the orthodox way. “Apart from physical examination from your physician to observe some symptoms of hepatitis, the following laboratory investigations are important to arrive at appropriate diagnosis – liver function tests. Others include blood tests, ultrasound, and liver biopsy. After your physician has confirmed that your liver is affected by any virus or conditions, the next step is treatment options.” One of such promising treatment option for hepatitis is the use of our herbs. Logbo said for years, various herbal preparations have been used effectively in managing various chronic diseases like Hepatitis; one of such is Morinda lucida (Oruwo- Yoruba) or Brimstone tree. He said Morinda lucida is a medium size tree with short crooked branches and a bitter taste, yet the plants, leaves, stem bark and roots are known to have medicinal properties. “The many benefits derived from morinda lucida is owed to it high contents of vitamins A, K and E, alkaloids and other phytochemicals which are powerful antioxidant bioactive components like flavonoids, which are effective as free radical scavengers. “Morinda lucida also contains anti-inflammatory, anti-viral, anti-proliferative and anti-carcinogenic properties. Also, Phenolic, which are anti- apoptosis, anti-aging, anti-inflammation, anti-atherosclerosis, anti-carcinogen cardiovascular protection and improvement in endothelial function as well as inhibition of angiogenesis and cell proliferation activities. It contains steroids as well as anti-bacterial, anti-allergic, anti-plasmodium and many other phyto-chemicals”. Logbo said in traditional herbal medicine, the root, leaves and the stem are often used, either in combination or separately for treating liver diseases. He said: “Various research have shown that  Morinda lucida can be promising in the treatment of hepatitis, which can be attributed to the potent immunostimulatory and immunorestorative properties of the aqueous leaf, root extract of Morinda lucida, which may explain some of the beneficial effects of the plant in the treatment of infections and immuno-inflammatory disorders. “In some cases, Morinda lucida root, stem bark or leaves and other herbs can be combined in the treatment of hepatitis like Enanthia chloranta stem bark, ( Awopa in Yoruba) Azardiracta indica ( Dongoyaro, Neem tree) Garcinia kola ( Orogbo) Bird pepper , Capsicum annum ( ata ajosi) etc. I have identified some  herbal preparations for the management of hepatitis. Morinda lucida root and Enanthia chloranta stem bark can be boiled with water for 30 minutes, one glass cup morning and evening. The leaves of Morinda lucida (60 per cent) and Azardiracter indica (40 per cent) can be encapsulated, and client can take two capsules twice daily with warm water. This can also improve the condition. Enanthia chloranta stem bark can also be used alone in the treatment of hepatitis; one of such preparation is to ferment it in palm wine for three days, and taking a 30cl dose morning and evening”. Logbo advised sufferers to see a qualified herbal medicine practitioner when they decide to use herbs for managing hepatitis and other health problems. “Don’t treat yourself because people have different body compositions and individual circumstances are different and also there could be drugs and herbs interactions,” he added.