First Bank of Nigeria Limited is deepening e-payment with top-range cards that make banking easy for card-holders. The bank’s Contactless Naira MasterCard and Contactless Platinum Debit MasterCard are helping cardholders, especially high net-worth customers, enjoy convenient alternative banking. The cards provide direct access to funds in cardholders’ accounts across all channels like Automated Teller Machines (ATMs), Point of Sale (POS) and web payments, writes COLLINS NWEZE. Gone are the days when banking was boring and simple transactions took almost a day to complete. Today, with digital banking, commercial banks are finding new ways to ensure they provide efficient services to their customers. They are also finding new ways to ensure that card-holders get quick and efficient services at lowest possible cost. This is expected to boost the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) e-payment vision and drive for financial inclusion. First Bank has unveiled key e-banking cards to ensure that its customers get value for their money. The lender’s Contactless Naira MasterCard and Contactless Platinum Debit MasterCard are helping cardholders, especially high net-worth customers, enjoy convenient alternative banking. These cards have the contactless identifier to differentiate it from the other Naira MasterCard. “This allows same card to be used for contact and contactless transactions. The contactless payment capability provides a fast, secure and convenient way to pay on a contactless enabled terminal”. “A simple tap of customers’ Contactless Naira MasterCard is all it takes to pay at checkout and it is most suitable for low value payments. They are linked directly to  customers’ Naira denominated Current and/or Savings account. They offer a convenient alternative to the use of cash and cheques by giving direct access to funds in cardholders’ accounts across all channels like Automated Teller Machine (ATM), Point of Saale (PoS) and web,” the bank said. The lender said that Unique Selling Propositions for contactless cards is that the card can be used for making payments where ever the contactless identifier is displaced. The cards can also be used on the entire London transport network such as buses, tubes ,trams ,Dock and Light Railway (DLR) and London Over ground, grocery shops, supermarkets and gas stations. According to the bank, key features of the various cards include that they have worldwide acceptance, can be used to pay for goods and services at over 29 million locations and withdraw cash from over 1.8 million ATMs worldwide. “In terms of safety, the card eliminates the risk and inconvenience of carrying cash, employs the use of Chip & PIN technology to guard against unauthorized transactions and help in effective funds management.  Transactions done with the card can be easily monitored via the First Bank Internet Banking service,” it said. The product enjoys dependable support of 24-hour access to support for all card-related complaints through our Contact Centre – First Contact. It is also naira denominated, and linked to customers Current or Savings account.  Campaign on card usage/timeline According to the bank, ongoing campaign on the card usage will run for a period of four months (June to September, 2018) and customers who use their cards for international transactions will be rewarded using the following criteria. It said customers that transact on POS/WEB for values between $2,000 and $3,000 per month will get the naira equivalent of 0.5 per cent the value of the transaction credited back into their accounts. Also, customers that transact on POS/WEB for values between $3,000 and $5,000 per month will get the Naira equivalent of one per cent the value of the transaction credited back into their account Should more information be needed beyond these below, please contact the undersigned. First Bank of Nigeria Limited is the first financial institution in Nigeria and West-Africa to hit 10 million issued cards to customers across the country. This makes FirstBank the second bank in Africa to achieve this the 10 million cards feat. The accomplishment is reminiscent of a similar milestone achieved two years ago when the bank in December, 2015 and May 2016, was named the first financial institution in the Nigeria to achieve sustained alternative channels transaction volumes of 100 million transactions in December 2015 and May 2016. FirstBank has sustained its edge in payment card issuance with its Instant issuance/Instant activation technology, which was pioneered about seven years ago. This has also informed the Bank’s consistency in maintaining the highest active Card ratio in the industry. According to the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, First Bank of Nigeria Limited, Adesola Adeduntan “delivering this feat is a testament to the bank’s brand promise to put our customers first and continuously improve our business to serve them better”. We can attest that our customers have become more technology savvy and we will continue to encourage this attitude with our commitment to world class service delivery as we work to ensure optimal performance and availability of all our alternative channels, to meet and exceed the expectations of our customers. The bank currently processes over 78% of its customer transactions through self-service channels. PCI DSS certification secured First Bank of Nigeria Limited has successfully recertified to the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) version 3.2, having been one of the first top-tier banks in Nigeria to obtain the PCI DSS certification in 2014. This recertification reaffirms the Bank’s leading position in the payment card industry in Nigeria. Recently, FirstBank was named the first financial institution in Nigeria and the West-Africa sub-region to issue 10 million cards to customers across the country. This makes FirstBank the second bank in Africa to achieve this feat. With this milestone, the Bank has maintained a 95 per cent active card ratio and currently processes about 33 per cent of card transactions in the entire banking industry. The Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI DSS) is a set of requirements designed to ensure companies that process, store or transmit credit/debit card information, maintain a secure environment thereby guaranteeing the protection of cardholder data throughout the transaction process. The award of this certificate is a strong indicator that FirstBank consistently has its customers’ interest at the core of its business operations, is committed to securing customer information as well as maintaining a safe and secure environment for customer transactions. Consequently, the Bank presently has a card transaction volume of over 2,700 per minute with one in every three card transactions being a FirstBank card. Adeduntan said the bank’s recertification is a testament to its high level operational standards and its strict adherence to international security standards and other regulations. “In an era of increasing sophisticated attacks on systems; adhering to the PCI DSS represents an organisation’s best protection against cybercrime. FirstBank remains committed to excellent information security management and would continue to apply the PCI DSS in its business practices” he further stated. It is worthy of note that FirstBank recently won three Interswitch awards in Electronic Payment as the fastest Mobile Penetration Bank across Africa, the Highest Card Transacting Bank and the Highest Issuer of Verve Cards. These are clear indications that the giant strides taken by the Sub-Saharan leading bank brand towards fostering its banking technologies are well aligned to the fast-paced technological advancement in today’s ever evolving financial ecosystem.