Oyo state government has appealed to pregnant women and nursing mothers in the state to ensure they embrace exclusive breastfeeding for their children for at least the first six months of their lives. The State Commissioner of Health, Dr. Azeez Adeduntan, while declaring open the 2018 World Breastfeeding Week, organized by the state government in collaboration with ANRiN, said newborns and children must be allowed to enjoy breast milk more than anything so as to have a good foundation for life. The event held at the House of Chiefs, Secretariat, Agodi, Ibadan. The Commissioner, who was represented by the Executive Secretary, Primary Health Care Board, Dr. Lanre Abass, explained that exclusive breastfeeding means that the breast milk given to children will not be complemented with water, fluid or any other foods. Dr. Adeduntan added that, only 10 percent of the content of the breast milk is made up of nutrients for the baby while the remaining 90 percent is water, emphasising that there is no need to give the baby water or fluid after breast fed. He explained further that, children fed on exclusive breast milk would be healthy as such children would not be down with malaria, diarrhea and respiratory tract infections. Dr. Adeduntan hinted that the first 1000 days of life that is, the period of pregnancy and first two years is very important, stressing that, this period is the time that the brain development is at maximum and if any parent miss breastfeeding the child at this period, they have missed a whole lot in the baby’s life. Speaking on the breastfeeding week, the Head, Health Promotion and Nutrition, Dr. Khadijat Alarape said the rate of exclusive breastfeeding in Oyo state has increased from 30.5 percent in 2013 to 50 percent in 2017. She advised nursing mothers to continue to practice exclusive breastfeeding so that the 80 percent target for breastfeeding can be attained. Dr. Alarape further urged mothers to not only breastfeed their children exclusively for the first six months, but also continue to breastfeed even after six months when complementary foods would have been introduced into the baby’s diet. 