The presidency yesterday faulted the claim of bomb blast in Borno State by a chieftain of the Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM). A statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said the lie was a futile effort to undermine the successes recorded by the President Muhammadu Buhari government in the area of security. He said: “On August 21, Akin Osuntokun, a chieftain of the stillborn Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), appeared on Politics Today programme of Channels Television and made a false claim that a bomb blast occurred earlier in the day, killing about 88 people in Maiduguri, Borno State. “Osuntokun, a newspaper columnist and public affairs commentator, has never hidden his antipathy towards the Buhari administration, but to go on national television and tell lies of the most heinous kind betrays a mind taken completely over by ill wishes against his country. “Sallah Day had passed quietly and peacefully, without even a firecracker going off, let alone bomb blast. “That was contrary to what used to happen before the advent of the Buhari administration, when such festivals were turned to orgy of killings in parts of the country by insurgents. “Apparently, enemies of peace and progress had expected a return to the infamous past, thus Osuntokun appeared on television with his bag of lies. “When those on the programme remonstrated with him that they were not aware of any bomb blast on that day, he stood his ground, all in a futile bid to puncture the successes recorded by the government in the area of security.” Adesina said till the Eid-el-Kabir holidays ended, no bomb blast was recorded in any part of the country, “to the shame and discomfiture of the naysayers.” He went on: “One wonders, if there were bomb blasts and more than 80 people truly died, what would be the gain of anybody, except those who have become blinded by malediction and morbid wishes? Is carnage something now to glory about? Is the struggle for power now so ghoulish that some people have lost their humanity over it? “Osuntokun and his ilk should realise that this is the only country we have, and we can’t swallow poison and expect it to kill the next person. What we sow is what we reap.” Adesina noted that the tripod goals of securing the country, fighting corruption and reviving the economy were central to the Buhari administration. 