Following uncertainty over the reconvening of the National Assembly, senators in the All Progressives Congress (APC) Caucus yesterday summoned an emergency meeting. There were strong indications that most of the APC Senators were still insisting last night that Senate President Bukola Saraki must step down. The APC senators will, however, use yesterday’s meeting to take a position on the logjam in the National Assembly and the way forward. But Saraki and House Speaker Yakubu Dogara were weighing options last night on how to “overcome” the tension in the National Assembly. The support figures for Saraki and Dogara in the two chambers were said to be “not adding up” for comfortable majority to hold rancour-free sessions either way. It is unclear what will become of the 2019 poll budget which the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  expects to be passed. The agenda of the meeting of the APC Senators was kept under wraps to avoid leakage, it was learnt. But, according to a source, the senators may deliberate on eight issues, namely: A ranking senator, who spoke in confidence, said: “The emergency meeting became necessary because we are getting fed up with the ongoing foot-dragging by the Senate leadership on the reconvening of the chamber to consider important state matters, especially the 2019 poll budget. “We have discovered that the National Assembly leaders are more occupied with the aftermath of pre-sitting tension in the country than the matters at hand. “But, we are saying the leaders should be courageous enough to reopen the two chambers. The interest of the country is more paramount than any other consideration. “So, we are meeting to take a position on the way forward for the National Assembly.” Another APC Senator said: “Our party has taken a position on Saraki and we are also meeting to come up with a firm decision as a caucus. “We have a challenge at hand. The Chairman of the National Assembly, Dr. Bukola Saraki, wants to have his cake and eat it. He is seeking to retain his plum seat. We are insisting that he cannot have his way. Let him step aside. “It was imperative for us to meet because we have heard of plot by PDP senators in cahoots with some of our leaders to ambush APC senators through kangaroo reconvening of the National Assembly.”