The leaders and Chiefs of Ogulagha Community have dismissed allegations made by some youths of the community against the paramount ruler of Ogulagha kingdom, HRM, Elder (Capt.) King Joseph Timiyan. It would be recalled that youths of the community had on Wednesday accused their traditional ruler, King Timiyan, of shortchanging the community, being responsible for the death of a member of the community and withdrew from his rulership. But in a press release issued on Friday and signed by Chief Prefugha Karawei JP, Chief Peter Tuasinde, Chief Samuel Timiyan JP, Chief Anoruse F. Macdonald, Chief John Diegbegha, Chief William Borme and others, the leaders of Ogulagha community dismissed the allegations and expressed utmost displeasure over the “unguided statements by few uninformed youths of Ogulagha community. “We state that the said statement did not emanate at the instance of the generality of the people of Ogulagha community, rather it was an act by some subjects tending to be lawless with no knowledge of the native laws and customs as it relates to the traditional institution of the Ogulagha Kingdom. “He (Timiyan) is a king that has brought peace and prosperity to the people and in the Kingdom. Our King does not harbor evil and corruption. Also, we are stating that the reign of our King has not led to killings of sons, daughters, fathers and mothers of Ogulagha community as wrongly insinuated by the protesters, rather his reign has brought peace, security and good health of mind and body to the people. “We, as the representatives of the generality of the people of Ogulagha community, hereby renounce the statement/publication/protest made on Wednesday, 1st of August, 2018 and state unequivocally that our King; HRM, Elder (Capt.) Joseph Timiyan, remains and will continue to remain the traditional ruler of Ogulagha Kingdom until the end of time”, the statement said. They pledged their commitment to continue to support and collaborate with the Ogulagha monarch, the Delta state government, led by the governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa, and relevant agencies to sustain peace and bring development to Ogulagha community and the kingdom at large. The leaders also urged all sons and daughters of Ogulagha community and the entire kingdom to support the efforts being made by the monarch to attract the federal and state governments and relevant agencies to provide social amenities and infrastructural developments for the various communities in the kingdom.