Any Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) official found wanting will be shown the way out, its General Manager (GM) Olawale Musa has said. He spoke on Tuesday at the authority’s Oshodi headquarters during the decoration of 444 officers with their new ranks and the valedictory ceremony for a former director, Peter Okonji. Musa warned the officials against acts capable of dragging LASTMA’s name in the mud. The promotion, he said, was in fulfilment of the government’s promise to boost public servants morale through improved welfare, prompt payment of salaries and allowances, trainings and creation of a friendly-working. He urged the officials to rededicate themselves to duty and ensure free flow of traffic. According to him, they must professional and civil in the control of traffic and enforcement of traffic laws. The authority, he said, would not condone laxity at a time when all hands are on deck to rid the state of traffic gridlock in order to drive socio-economic development. LASTMA, Musa said, had drafted over 500 officials to work round the clock to restore sanity on the roads. He thanked the retiring Director and Head of Engineering Department for making the authority proud while in service. “I envy him because he’s a good man. We thank God for him because not all the people that joined service with him are alive today for retirement service,” he said. LASTMA Chief Executive Officer Chris Olakpe, a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG), said: “I have no doubt that as a professional, the service has prepared him for the years ahead and therefore he would continue to be relevant and also make himself available to the service of his community and people generally,” he said. Lagos State Head of Service Folasade Adesoye, represented by Rashidat Olatunji, said: “You started your career well and ended well. We thank God you did not die in service. We pray you won’t retire to sorrow and death. You will be blessed everywhere you go because you have sowed good seeds in Lagos. We want you to do things in moderation as you grow older and spend your retirement benefit wisely.” LASTMA Lagos Island Area Controller Lateefat Olaitan Giwa thanked Okonji for his impact on the officials. “Many don’t know him until he joined us for the management meeting. He is too quiet. I wish I can be as quiet as him,” Giwa said. Member of the audience burst into laughter, saying “it is too late.” Okonji thanked Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and LASTMA chiefs for creating a conducive environment for workers to do their job. He also thanked the workers, saying: “you have all made my stay in LASTMA enjoyable. I pray God will reward you all and make your service enjoyable. LASTMA will be greater than what we are witnessing now.”