The Executive Secretary, Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF), Dr. Bello Aliyu Gusau, yesterday said a researcher funded by the Fund has discovered a petroleum refining wax for import substitution. He spoke at the 2017/18 PTDF Annual Oil and Gas Research Grant Competition Close Out Seminar in Abuja. The PTDF chief said the materials used for the wax refining catalyst are 100 per cent locally Nigerian contents. He had earlier recalled that the management of the fund was in Kaduna a few months ago, where there was also the application of a locally sourced refining catalyst in the Kaduna Refinery and Petrochemical Company. Throwing more light on the Kaduna refinery catalyst, he said: “One particular one at the moment is the deposit of wax in course of producing petroleum. That is a refining catalyst. It is just one of the issues. “The one in Kaduna is just a refining catalyst and one of the researchers here has come up with hitherto to this country has been importing catalyst for refining process. “And one of the researchers has developed a catalyst for the purpose of import substitution and using 100 per cent local materials. That is one of the issues that is going to be presented in the course of this event.” Gusau also tasked the researchers on translating their researches from mere academic exercise to commercial uses. He however said the Fund was looking forward to receiving a proposal on the commercialisation of the researches in the next few weeks. Speaking, a professor of Microbiology, Alex Ekwueme of the Federal University, Ndufu-Alike, Ikwo in Ebonyi State, Prof. Chuma Okoro, said the major challenge in the oil and gas industry is the microbial resistance to biocide in oil exploration. He said there is panic over the major resistance to the microbial that is making combatting corrosion ineffective. He added that “now we are looking at the future of green biocide so that we can actually synthesise here in Nigeria without wasting our scarce foreign exchange.” The research when concluded, according to him, would attract investment in ranching, and it is hope to save the country of the ongoing herder/farmer crisis over grazing. Okoro noted that the use of the biocide that he is working on would save the country 75per cent of the original cost, representing $600million yearly. He said  the study is now near conclusion as the partners are already giving him the assurance of funding once he is through with the PTDF. The university don said: “Our major obstacle now is to get the PTDF push this pilot stage forward so that we can go to the next stage. It is just to sponsor the pilot stage. “We have given them the budget. The budget was  about $129, 000 in 2015,  (about N21million) when we costed it. But because of the devaluation in naira we are looking for N26million now.”