The pay Tv subsector of the broadcast industry plays a very critical role in nation building. It does not only provide public information and enlightenment through its rich bouquet content, it is also a veritable vehicle for entertainment. Lucas Ajanaku reports on the challenges of pricing. This is not a good time for Nigerian consumer. They earn the hard way and spend the hard way. The current issue is over what it takes to enjoy the services of  pay TV operators. Since the new pricing regime started at the begining of this month, there have been reactions to the development. While  some have condemned it, others have justified it. MultiChoice communicated the price adjustments, on its DStv platform, to its customers directly via a text message, which stated that it would take effect from August 1. It is almost becoming a tradition of the company to hike tariffs yearly and  this was witnessed in 2013, 2015 and last year. Under the new deal,  DStv Premium package now attracts N15, 800 as against the previous rate of N14, 700. DStv Compact Plus customers, said the company, are now to pay N10, 650 instead of N9, 900, Compact subscribers, who were until this month paid N6, 500, would now be paying N6, 800. In the same way, prices on its DStv Family and Access packages have been raised to N4, 000 and N2, 000 respectively, as opposed to N3, 800 and N1, 900 that were initially being paid. Though, there has not been any official statement, the South African firm replied to an online enquiry through its Twitter Handle, of DStvng. It explained: “The price adjustment was necessitated by the escalating costs to business.” These, it said, include satellite costs, maintenance of network, channel and operational costs. It added: “The DStv cost structure has marketing costs and channel costs. We have however managed to restrict the price adjustment as much as possible.” Investigations showed that the South African PayTV firm has about 11 million subscribers in 50 African countries where it operates. It has about 4 million customers in Nigeria as at last year. Though it increased the prices on the digital satellite platform, Multichoice however, slashed the prices on its terrestrial platform, GOtv. In the various messages sent to subscribers, those on GOtv Max package would enjoy a price slash from N3, 800 to N3, 200, while the prices on GOtv Plus, GOtv Value and GOtv Lite packages remain fixed at N1, 900, N1, 250 and N400 respectively. To many subscribers, it is like a red rag to a bull.  A subscriber who gave her name simply as Esther, a civil servant, said, her anger is for two reasons. “I have two reasons for being angry over the hike. One is the way it is being justified in comparison with what is obtainable in other climes. “Another reason is the fact that our people have suddenly become stereotype to think and pitch their tent only with a monopolist when we have other operators in the market that can match them content for content, that provides same content at cheaper pocket friendly rates,” she said. She said her believe is that if truly pay the Tv firm was consumer-friendly, its wouldn’t have gone ahead to increase tariff at this time, considering the harsh economic realities and the fact that over the years, it has taken advantaage of the fact  the peoples’enthusiasm and commitment to grow the entertainment sector. Another subscriber, CEO, Greenstar Line, a firm of clearing and forwardig agents, Mr Temitope Akindele,  said while not trying to argue for, or against whether pay TV rates in Nigeria are the highest in the world, he disagrees with the plea that Nigerians must show understanding and abide by the new payment regime simply because MultiChoice increased prices in all the countries it operates. “I take this position because of the varying capital income in countries. For instance, if DStv Premium subscribers in South Africa are paying N15, 000 and the company decides to peg it down to N15, 000 in Nigeria, it is unfair treatment. First, there may be urgent need for the company to compare the ability for Nigeria to pay the money. Critically speaking, between South Africa and Nigeria, per capital income is around ratio 10-1. This implies that capital income is higher in South Africa than Nigeria,” he said. While agreeing that the country lacks infrastructure, he nonetheless beleives some things still cheap when  compared to other countries. “That is why it is easy for people to come to Nigeria with few foreign currencies and buy a lot. The import of this is that service providers and manufacturers of goods must align their prices with the local economic realities. Some companies are doing so, while some are not,” he said. Another subscriber, who gave his name simply as Mr Kolawole,  said much as he wouldn’t want to bring in competition into the matter, there is need to look at other options. Increasingly, the option of the average pay TV subscriber is growing by the day and aspirational Nigerians who want to up their content consumption would get more value for their money Nigeria companies offering pay TV series have access to an ever growing subscriber base which offers pay-television companies huge potential for lucrative business, there are millions of households within the various economic strata that have huge appetites for programmes, giving viewers alternatives to monotonous, limited programmes on the country’s free-to-air television. On the surface, the country represents a pay-television investor’s paradise. But somewhat curiously, the sector is notorious for its high mortality rate, leaving its cemetery with corpses such as those of CTL, FSTV, DAARSAT, HiTV and others. The most notable escapees of the fate that befell these players are MultiChoice and the Chinese-owned StarTimes. MultiChoice launched in Nigeria in 1993 with DStv. In 2011, the same company added a down market platform, GOtv. StarTimes, also a down market offering, launched in 2010. It added an up market variant, Starsat, in 2015 and both have remained in business albeit with different levels of success. The high mortality rate, however, has not discouraged other players from trying out their luck in the market. Currently, there are two new entrants-Kwese TV, owned by Strive Masiyiwa, the Zimbabwean investor behind Econet Wireless, the first telecoms company to launch in Nigeria; and TSTv, fronted by Bright Echefu, a young Nigerian medical doctor. Each of the new entrants, in different ways, has advertised its intention to change the pay-television game. What each means, but has left expressly unstated, is that it wants the crown that has adorned the head of MultiChoice and StarTimes as pre-eminent and most enduring market players. But in a free market, there will always be  alternatives to an insensitive player to forestall unnecessary rip-off. When Kwesé announced the launch of its entertainment and sports television network Kwese TV in Lagos, on October 19 last year, the news was everywhere. The company had come with the ‘pay-as-you-watch’ subscription packages for premium programming which enables consumers to purchase three and seven day subscriptions at N990 and N1,850 respectively, as well as a 30-day subscription option for only N6,275 as these rates are beyond the reach of an average Nigerian. If  Kwesé not considered mature enough to assuage the thirst for Pay TV service, StarTimes could readily fill the spot.  Just recently, StarTimes added foru exciting new channels to their bouquet; Ebony life, Fox, Nollywood Plus and ST Kids. In addition to this, StarTimes, as a company that is conscious of the economic realities of Nigeria is equally planning to reduce subscription prices of its bouquet as part of their core values to make entertainment affordable for every homes. If they do this, it may be the end of monopoly in the market as the decision may further compel many Pay TV patrons to pitch their tent with the firm. Also, StarTimes open month is between September 1and 31 while its subscribers (Active or non- Active) will have access to all its channels without paying subscription fee. From any angle one chooses to look at it, only thorough competition supported by the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) can break the seemingly monopolistic practice in the pay Tv sub-sector of the broadcast industry. 