Nigerians will experience bloom again as soon as they turn to God, General Overseer of The Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) has declared. He spoke at the just-concluded 66th annual convention of the church at the Redemption Camp, Kilometer 46, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, Ogun State. Acting President Yemi Osinbajo Lagos State Governor Akinwumi Ambode; his Akwa Ibom counterpart, Emmanuel Udon; Chief of Defence Staff, Abayomi Olanisakin; Wife of the Benue State Governor Eunice Ortom; Director General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dakuku Peterside and Chief Executive Officer of Emzor Pharmaceutical Limited, Stella Okoli were prominent Nigerians who attended the weeklong event. Adeboye said Nigeria will blossom, excel, dominate and exceed the expectations of the world in all areas if Nigerians recognise the place of God and turn away from evils. Speaking at a special fellowship for royal fathers, the respected cleric charged traditional rulers to speak with one voice against the ills in the society. He said when the unite, they can get politicians to implement policies for societal goods. He lamented traditional rulers cannot leave their domains without permission of their local government chairmen, declaring such development as absurd. “I am not a politician, nor am I an activist. I am a pastor but issues like this must be addressed and I am happy the politicians are talking about restructuring and issues like this should be look into so that that the royal fathers will take their rightful position in the scheme of things in Nigeria,” he stressed. He further charged them: “Please do not submit to forces that want to share your throne with you. God will take care of you. “You must allow any high Priest to have dominion over your throne or businessmen to dictate how you run your throne.” His wife, Pastor Foluke, charged Nigeria leaders to exhibit the fear of God so that it may be well with Nigeria. Leading a 20- minute prayer for the nation, she expressed optimism Nigeria would rise again.   