Web-to-print printing solution, with full pantone color support, has arrived in Nigeria. When it comes to a list of the best printing companies in Lagos, Kiakiaprint is top of the queue. Printing, from the perspective of a wide range of business owners in Nigeria can be quite challenging. Power issues, bad customer service, failure to meet deadlines and the occasional delivery situations are just a few of these challenges. From the service provider and customer’s perspectives, there are a lot of drawbacks in the printing space. In recent history, getting full-colour printing has been a challenge and Kiakiaprint is here to help solve all of those printing bottlenecks. How cool is it to order for prints without actually leaving the comfort of your home or office? Kiakiaprint offers same day delivery for products such as business cards, letterheads, and flyers. We also have a corporate portal for clients that need prints on a large scale. Web-to-print has become easier with our company that has a lot of satisfied customers and clientele, both retail and corporate. Have you ever been angry, sad and frustrated when your printing orders are not printed quickly enough? It is a very dangerous situation as you can lose clients, business, appear unprofessional and fail to meet important deadlines. Most brands need prints one way or another, and here is where we come in.  For all things printing, we are here for you. We are a leading print and design company based in Jibowu, Yaba, Lagos. We have taken printing in Nigeria to another level, as we possess the ability to ship print jobs across the length and breadth of the country. We have shipped printing orders to places such as Kaduna, Port Harcourt, Kano, Ibadan, Abeokuta, and every other major town in the country. Your location is not a barrier to us at Kiakiaprint.  By employing stringent quality control in our printing process and making the use of highly-skilled individuals in all aspects of the printing process, we produce high quality print products. We are also the fastest company in Lagos State when it comes to delivery of orders. You can go on social media to verify these claims. Yes, we are that cool! Most companies, brands, individuals, and businesses need prints one way or the other.  With this knowledge in mind, it is important to make printing closer to them. The importance of online printing can never be overemphasized and that is why Kiakiaprint is changing the game in Nigeria. Delays, substandard products and poor customer service actually put people off when it comes to print. Kiakiaprint prides itself as the leading print and design company in Nigeria.  Kiakiaprint’s custom online print portal is designed for the Nigerian market, to overcome the shortfalls in the printing industry and also make the relationship between customers and producers of printing services just a click away. On our platform, all you have to do is highlighted in 5 simple steps, which are stated below: To the average Nigerian, “kiakia” is one word that connotes urgency and speed. Adding print to that simply implies that our mission is to deliver quality prints in the quickest possible time. With a wide range of products on our online printing portal, we tick all the boxes when it comes to ordering prints. Perhaps you are in need of a business card printer in Lagos, we are your go-to guys. You can upload your designs, choose from a list of templates or engage the services of our design team. For products such as Business cards, Letterheads and Flyers, you get to enjoy SAME DAY DELIVERY if you are in Lagos and you order before 10am. While Same day delivery is currently only being offered in Lagos, plans are in the works to extend this service across Nigeria. You may be asking yourself, “Why should I choose Kiakiaprint over my regular printers?” Think no more. You can join a lot of satisfied clients such as WAPIC Insurance, Red Dish Chronicles, Lume Light, Unilever, Piggybank, LSScientific, YOA Insurance Brokers, Scentimental and others that have done business and still continue to do business with us.  We are a step ahead of the competition. Give us that opportunity to print for you, and get ready to be blown away with what we do. Here are some of the reasons you should call us for your next printing job.  For other products, we have other print accessories that are not lacking when it comes to quality. Mugs, shirts, booklets, rollup banners, you can name them. On social media, we ensure that all your messages and comments are responded to in due time. We have a wide range of products to serve all your printing needs. For your printed street marketing products, we have flyers, folded leaflets and posters. Perhaps you are thinking of doing some outdoor marketing and looking for large format printing in Nigeria, we print rollup banners. We also print flex banners, all kinds posters, different flyer sizes, teardrop banners, x-banners, and so much more.  We can ship your wedding stationery and other products to any part of the country. Our machines use CMYK and RGB formats to ensure that there is no web-to-print disparity when your orders are being printed. We print bespoke wedding invitations, Save The Date Cards, and Food and Drink Menus to ensure that day of yours is truly special. We use matte and glossy lamination for our business cards; while there are different paper types for products such as Letterheads, paper bags, flyers and spiral notepads. On the platform, we have one-sided and two-sided options. No matter the option you go for, be rest assured that your company, brand, and business is represented well with our classy full-colour business cards. When uploading your designs, be mindful of bleeds and standard cut sizes so as to ensure we do not take out what is important on your order.  Customizable print souvenirs that are perfect as gifts or party packs can be ordered online.  Customized print products to help you achieve business objectives such as brand awareness and uniform identity are popular with corporate clients.  There are the customized mouse pads, personalized flash drives, t-shirts, and paper bags that have a touch of you when ordering.  Other customizable print products include t-shirts, print stickers, presentation folders, all types of posters and calendars, both wall and table variants. Greeting cards such as Christmas Cards, Ramadan cards and Thank You cards are also available on the website. Show some love to people around you with our range of customized, high-quality greeting cards. Festive times such as Ramadan and Christmas are the perfect periods to spread love, and with Kiakiaprint, that has become easier. We also produce cards on which you can record your audio messages. When people open the cards, your voice or any audio is the first thing they hear. How cool is that! Perfect for political aspirants, they can inform your constituents of your manifesto and plan if elected. Upload your audio and we do the rest. We can ship and deliver anywhere across Nigeria. Keep your favorite memories in our bespoke photobooks that can be used as vacation books, baby pictures books, family presents, as well as look books for businesses. All you have to do is upload your pictures and we do the rest. We deliver anywhere in Nigeria. They are made from photo paper with different finish options such as Gloss and Matte. We have sizes such as A5, A4 and A3, while they also come with soft and hard cover variants.  On our website, you can order for magnets. Magnets are print materials made from magnetic paper that can be placed on metallic surfaces. They are easily removable as well. We have different types of magnets as products such as Fridge Magnets, Christian Magnets, To-do List, Food Plan, Save The Date, Calendars and so much more.  Gift your loved ones, friends and acquaintances our classy, glossy portraits which come in two formats. We have digital prints, which is a digitally painted version of your favourite pictures. We also have hand sketched portraits, which is an artist’s impression of real pictures. They are perfect as birthday gifts, especially for milestone ages. Both products come with frames. Turn your home and office to a gallery with our glossy canvas prints. We can ship and deliver anywhere across Nigeria. Get scenes of your favourite drawings, location or photos. Made from pelican paper, our canvas prints help you take special life memories and things that mean a great deal to you closer to you.  When it comes to printing, we have done all the heavy lifting for you. All you have to do is check out our website for more products and simply order. Simple as ABC! We have a corporate portal for firms that print in large quantities. Kiakiaprint corporate is a dedicated printshop customized with your brand colors and images. There you can order for products in large amounts and of course, get discounts. We also have a reseller program where for every customer you refer to us, you get a commission. As long as your customer keeps ordering for prints, you receive a commission. On our blog, you get to read articles that can help your business in more ways than one. You also get to discover new trends in printing and new innovative products on our website. We like to create a very close rapport with our clients and customers. We like to hear from you. Enquiries, complaints, feedback and commendations are all welcome. Also, check out our YouTube channel to see visuals of what we have been up to, our products and other fun stuff! Find us on various social media platforms @kiakiaprint and be sure that you will get a response in due time. Watch our commercials on YouTube that highlights just what it means to order prints with Kiakiaprint You can order for all your printing products HERE Address: 8, Lawal Street, Off Oweh Street, Jibowu, Yaba, Lagos, Nigeria. You can also see our location by following this link. Phone: (234) 817 543 9754, (234) 806 284 6560, (234) 809 1465902 Email: info@kiakiaprint.com