Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday hailed the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, for the stability and development in his domain. Ambode spoke at the celebration of the monarch’s third anniversary and opening of the new Ayangburen Palace in Ikorodu. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the palace was built by indigenes and well-wishers of the community. Ambode, represented by Commissioner for Local Government Affairs Mr Muslim Folami, noted the monarch’s role in battling the notorious Badoo gang, which invaded the community at a time. “His Royal Majesty is a good son of the soil; somebody like that, I am sure if the community supports him in return, he will continue with his fatherly role in ensuring peace and stability in Ikorodu,’’ Ambode said. House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa praised Shotobi for the infrastructural and economic development of Ikorodu. Obasa urged  him to encourage his subjects in the use of Yoruba language and traditional practices as custodians of culture and tradition in the state. “I am delighted to be part of this programme being among the first set of chiefs after the coronation and Kabiyesi invited us to lay the foundation of this palace and I am happy to be part of the coronation anniversary and its commissioning. “Kabiyesi should encourage Ikorodu people to use the Yoruba language, especially during occasions like this, as custodians of our culture and heritage, regardless of their social backgrounds. “Many developed communities in the world make use of their local languages as a means of communication,’’ Obasa said. Shotobi hailed the residents and the indigenes for their support since his ascension to the throne. The monarch promised to work for the exploration of the community’s potential and ensure that it evolves into a great city. He said the re-development of the palace was borne out of the necessity to enhance the status of Ikorodu. “This event is a great opportunity for me to thank the governor, who has brought notable infrastructural development to Ikorodu, in particular, and Lagos State, in general,” he said.