…set to drop video of single, Mirror  University of Lagos ( UNILAG ), rising music star, Magixx has signed a new record label deal with Music By Nature Record (MBN). The deal was announced on Friday at an official unveiling which took place in Lagos. The unveiling had in attendance, the Label owner Mr. Ifeoluwa Awelewa, Chief Operating Officer (COO) of the label Mr. El-ameen, the Music Coordinator Scope Nero, the Media Director Prado Maserow Zeany, Magixx personal Manager, Kunbi Black and well wishers. Awelewa told newsmen during the unveiling of Magixx, that the artiste was carefully selected based on his skills, creativity disposition, charisma, and character. He expressed optimism saying the record label has signed on Magixx and has promised to ensure his sound repositions the entertainment industry. Meanwhile, the three years contract will see the new artiste enjoy promotions/marketing and sponsorships from the record label. “The artiste is a well known individual and he is family to the record company,” said the MBN Chief.  “He is humble, talented, vast in music, and as an entertainment company, we were poised to sign him as the first Artist & Face of our “Record Label”, the CEO said. Speaking shortly after the unveiling, Magixx said MBN(the Label) has given a life time opportunity to lunching him into limelight, pledging to put in his best and not to disappoint his new platform and fans. In an interview with journalists, an apparently elated Magixx said, “I want to use my music to change the African narrative to the world and give hope to the average Nigerian.” Meanwhile, Magixx has hinted his fans that the video and audio to his latest single “Mirror” would be dropped soonest.  Adelabu Alexander Adewunmi popularly known as Magixx, was born and raised in Oke ira-Ogba, Lagos. He attended Bethel Germany primary school, then moved on to Emcoy secondary school where he learned how to play 3 instruments namely the Trumpet, Mouth organ and the Recorder (Flute). He started writing songs at age 11 when he joined the Choir in CAC(Church) where he then moved a step further into to doing music professionally. In 2013, he first recorded his hit solo track Mirror, and this helped him gain a lot of listeners in his area, Oke Ira. In 2015, Magixx gained admission into the UNILAG to study Mass Communication. In the year 2016, he became popular for winning Mass Communications Got Talent. This earned him significant popularity in the UNILAG especially with Mass Communication students being the core fans and soil which he continued to grow on. In 2017, Magixx got featured on tracks and blogs. magics was pronounced as “The next big thing” out of UNILAG