The Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN), says it will provide credible leadership in Ebonyi if  elected into power in 2019. The party also said that Ebonyi would become preferred destination for investment within the first four years in office. Delivering a valedictory speech, Dr Laz Eze, the immediate past state chairman of the party, said that ANN, which was registered in 2017, had recorded numerous  achievements, especially in Ebonyi. He commended party faithful for their commitment and dedication to the party and stressed that ANN has been fully re-positioned to capture political power in 2019 in Ebonyi. “There are indications that our party is making remarkable progress, especially in Ebonyi, and shall take over governance in our state in the nearest future. “Today is a historic day in the history of the state and I make bold to declare that a new Ebonyi beckons; our people shall cry no more for better days are ahead. “I choose not to bore you with data indicating abysmal poor development indices including high maternal and infant mortality, high unemployment rate, low literacy rate and low quality of life in general. “Rather, I prefer to let you know that we shall ensure that  every citizen in Ebonyi counts; we shall localise the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals and use it as a frame work for the overall development of our beloved state. “We believe that human beings, particularly young people, are our biggest assets, hence we shall develop programmes that will assist people to unleash their potentials ” Eze said. Eze added that ANN would give human capacity development through qualitative education and skills, improvement in the quality of lives of Ebonyi people through sustainable and curative health care delivery service a boost. He further said that sustainable economic development through capacity building and grants to small scale businesses and industrialists would be given priority under the administration of ANN. “We will change the sad political realities of our state and put Ebonyi on the path of sustainable development and growth if we are elected into power in 2019”. He said that ANN was a child of necessity which has come to provide credible alternative to the people and bring them out of misery and years of misrule. “Our party is committed to the emergence of a new Nigeria where equity, equality, rule of law, social justice and equal opportunity for all shall prevail. “Our commitment is to bring positive change in Ebonyi if elected into power in 2019 governorship election. “ANN is a mass movement and I implore the people of the state to embrace the change our party is bringing, ” he added. Eze commended party faithful and delegates for the smooth, successful and credible state congress and hitch free election. He urged the newly elected state executives of the party to work hard to sustain the achievements of the past executive in order to ensure that the party emerges victorious in the 2019 general elections in Ebonyi. The congress elected 11-member state executive to pilot the activities of the party. Members of the executive were elected by 50 delegates drawn from nine of the 13 local government areas of Ebonyi through affirmation in line with the party’s constitution and congress guidelines . Mr Ifeanyichukwu Nweli was elected chairman, while Mr Austine Irem and Ifeanyichukwu Ude were elected vice chairman and secretary, respectively. Nweli, who spoke on behalf of the other executive members, urged party faithful and loyalists to shun acts that could bring disunity and work towards strengthening the party. He promised that the new executive would take the party to a new height. 