***tells INEC to use over 4,000 CDAs in Lagos to distribute PVCs Lagos State Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Kehinde Bamigbetan has called on the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC to end the long queues of residents besieging registration centres by providing more registration machines and personnel. Addressing members of a political group, The Mandate Movement at a special meeting to pray and prepare members for the Sallah festival at his residence in Ejigbo, Bamigbetan said the hundreds of enthusiastic citizens mobilized by the group to register are discouraged by the hardship encountered at the centres. He said the hardship was unnecessary and avoidable as more machines and personnel could be deployed to meet the surge that the advocacy for registration has created. “If INEC lacks the funds to purchase more machines, it should seek aid from state and federal agencies which appreciate the importance of this civic responsibility. The members of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC can be mobilized as ad-hoc staff. I am appealing to INEC to think outside the box. A situation in which two machines are serving thousands of willing registrants in Ejigbo is certainly not advisable.” Bamigbetan also called on INEC to make use of the over 4,000 community development associations in Lagos State to distribute the millions of cards in its possession. “Our CDAs are legally registered entities with authority over specific number of streets and households. They can act as agents of INEC in distributing the cards to the owners. The current system of waiting for them to come is not delivering results,” he said. Bamigbetan urged participants at the meeting to ensure that the All Progressives Congress plan to expand its membership is executed to the letter, adding that the directive of the National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu reiterated by Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode recently is a task that must be accomplished. He thanked the members for their staunch support of the APC government at federal, state and local government levels assuring them that all the electioneering pledges would be fulfilled. In his speech at the event, the chairman of the Ejigbo Local Council Development Area, Hon. Monsuru Bello Obe commended the state and the local government for the successful completion of Ona Iwa Mimo street where the meeting took place adding that many road projects are still on the board. He appealed for peaceful conduct during the Sallah festivities and advised the people to avoid provocation from any quarters. No fewer than 100 bags of rice, 2000 bags of garri and ten cows were mobilized for the needs of the people at the event.