Toyota (Nigeria) Limited (TNL) has unveiled the eighth Generation Camry. The event held at the TNL headquarters in Lekki, Lagos. The latest model has undergone  transformation from a proven sedan to one that pushes the limits. It is a model that has enjoyed high level of goodwill. The Camry model was first introduced in 1982 and has evolved through generations to what was launched last week. By 2015, over 18 million units have been sold across regions. The models introduced into the Nigeria are 2.5L and 3.5L Petrol engines. TNL Managing Director Kunle Ade-Ojo, who was represented by General Manager, Corporate Services, Mr Bunmi Onafowokan, described the latest model as a masterpiece Ade-Ojo said the Camry has enjoyed a high level of goodwill and acceptance not only for the superior quality engineering behind it but also for its stunning beauty. He said: “It is no exaggeration that the rich history of this model already imbues it with outstanding attributes peculiar only to all its siblings in our model line-up.  From its upgraded, trendier exterior to its spacious interior design, the latest model of the CAMRY available in 2.5L and 3.5L engines will readily arouse in its lovers a driving pleasure unparalleled in its class. Indeed it is a remarkable package of safety, comfort and performance in equal proportion.” Despite the unfriendly economy, Ade-Ojo said this had not deterred TNL. He added: “In fact, it has positively impacted on our creativity in responding to the demands of our dear customers all over Nigeria and we will continue to explore ways of keeping them satisfied and also uphold our culture of excellence.” He thanked their dealers and  reporters for their “consistent support even in this challenging business climate to ensure that we maintain our leadership position and the success of the Toyota brand in the Nigerian market”. The firm’s Marketing Manager Mr Bayo Olawoyin, who presented the car before unveiling, said its interior projects a feeling of excellence and a driving experience that everyone appreciates. The car’s key selling points include high efficiency, and high power next generation, dynamic force engine,” powerful acceleration and new direct shift 8AT contributing to low fuel consumption, sequential shifter that allows shift operation like in manual transmission, improved noise reduction. It is equipped with light weight high rigidity body and new suspension, new double wishbone rear suspension system, low centre of gravity resulting from overall height, floor height, lowered hood, high rigidity body with a 30 per cent increased torsional rigidity, new four point engine mount to reduce engine vibration transmitted to the cabin, sound deadening and sound insulation material with increased areas and thickness. The car comes with a world top class safety performance, which include high strength cabin and collision support body to effectively absorb and disperse shock and all speed dynamic radar cruise control. It has a seven-inch colour multi-information, which displays the car’s average fuel economy, compass heading and audio presets. The Camry offers eight-inch Multi-Media touch screen and available six speakers, 800-Watt Entune 3.0 Premium Audio. The advanced airbag standard comes with an Advanced Airbag System with advanced dual-stage SRS driver and front passenger airbags, in addition to front and rear side curtain airbags. There are nine airbags in all and all focuses on rider’s safety. When the brake-hold switch is on and the transmission is engaged other than Park or Reverse, the brake is automatically applied. In fact, the electronic parking brake will automatically engage after three minutes if the car has not moved. The car’s interior has been redesigned to be roomier especially for the rear occupants to enhance the luxury feel of the vehicle. The seats have also been redesigned to increase comfort for all occupants.