TO explore West Africa’s aviation market, through the opportunities provided by the Single African Air Transport Market, Overland Airways has started flights to Cotonou, Republic of Benin and Lome, Togo. Speaking last week during the inaugural flight to both countries, Overland Airways Managing Director, Capt Edward Boyo, said the airline planned to boost integration through the flights. He described the development as historic and the beginning of an initiative to unite the over 400 million people in West Africa. He said: “Overland Airways has come to provide economic integration between Nigeria, Republic of Benin and Togo. We have come to promote trade, which happens when people move from one point to the other. It is possible for prosperity and economic development to come to our lands. “We are adding more value. Economic integration has no end; it only has a beginning. We are going to intensify the relationship between Nigeria, a very large economy in West Africa, and the rest of the 400 million people in West Africa, because we are not doing enough trade. Our people must trade with one another. This is what the Economic Community of West African States is all about.” He said ECOWAS had made it possible for people within the region to move from one place to another without visas, hence the need to provide the needed air transportation. Togo Civil Aviation Authority Director-General, Dokisime Latta, stated that the arrival of Overland was a good thing just as SAATM was a noble idea. According to him, Overland is the 14th airline to start flights to the country, and will be supported by the government and people of Togo. Nigeria’s Ambassador to the Republic of Benin, Kayode Oguntuase, said the arrival of Overland signaled the beginning of exploring the regional markets in West Africa, adding that it would facilitate trade between the countries involved. “Overland is coming at a very good time because there is a gap in air transportation. The roads are so bad that people avoid going by road. With this development, we can make 25 minutes journey from Nigeria to Cotonou and vice-versa. We are encouraged that Overland is here and we assure the airline that this land will be a rewarding one,” he said.