Two Senators yesterday defended the integrity of the eighth Senate against the barrage of criticisms from Nigerians. Senators Isah Misau (Bauchi Central) and Rafiu Ibrahim (Kwara South) in a statement also decried what they described as making Senate President Bukla Saraki the issue by the All Progressives Congress (APC). In a statement, the senators who defected from the APC to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), queried whether the APC was “being fair to Nigeria by allegedly focusing on one individual and making him the subject of all discussions.” “We abide by the principle of collective responsibility. This Eighth Senate under Saraki has done well. It has set a standard that the legislature should not be an appendage of the executive. It is an independent arm of government. Both arms need to extend the hands of fellowship to each other and the duty to work for co-operation does not lie on just one of them.” They added: “We are surprised that all the decisions that the Senate took as an institution is now blamed on Saraki. Are we also going to give the credit of all the achievements of the Senate to Saraki as well? “The laws that have been signed by the  President and which led to the World Bank improving the rating of Nigeria in the Ease of Doing Business Report, the Petroleum Industry Governance Bills which broke the jinx of over 14 years on the law, the progressive constitution amendment bills, the five anti-corruption laws, and many others, as well as the fact that the 8th Senate has done better than the previous ones in terms of number of bills passed, the petitions successfully treated and the various interventions: will all these be credited to Saraki  and not the entire Senate?” ”We will however warn the APC that they will meet a match in those of us in PDP if they try to foment trouble in the Senate whenever we resume. “They have made many attempts to subvert this Senate, including stealing of our mace, brutalizing of members of staff of the Senate, invasion of the Senate complex with hooded and masked security agents, refusal to sign important bills, using security agents and anti-corruption agencies to intimidate members and the leadership as well as initiating malicious prosecution against members.”