Five persons have been arrested by the Police in Anambra State following alleged kidnap of four children in various parts of Umunze community in Orumba South council area of the state. The suspects, reportedly met their waterloo after alleged rape of a woman said to be mentally unstable and abducting her 3-year old baby boy at Oye Ihite market. One of the suspects, was said to have lured the victim and her little baby, Ifeanyichukwu Obiukwu with snacks with a promise to buy rice and wrapper for her. Narrating her ordeal, the woman who gave her name as Obiuwanne, from Amazu-Ikpaocha, Arondizuogu in Imo state, said they were conveyed on two motorcycles into a bush were she was raped and dumped, before escaping with her baby. Corroborating the report, a relation to the woman, Mr Marthin Okoro, said he reported the matter to the commander of the Vigilante in the area. “As soon as my niece was brought back home by a neighbor and narrated her ordeal, I immediately contacted the Commander of Umunze Vigilantee Group, Jerry Ibeh, who quickly organized a search for the missing child,” he said. President General of the community, Mr John Akanyionu, who confirmed the incident, said the community had formed a Youth Vigilantee to further strengthen the existing one to fish out perpetrators of the acts. The Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Haruna Muhammed, confirmed the incident, saying the victims were rescued from the suspects at at about 8.30am following intelligence report. He gave the names of the suspects as Emeka Nnorue (44) and Eberechi Onyeghara (14) from Imo state, Ekene Obodoako (27) from Ebonyi state, and Chika Obi (28) from Anambra state. Mohammed assured that the suspects would be brought to justice after investigations were concluded. He urged parents whose children were either stolen or missing to report at the State CIID Awka for identification of the already found children. “The command will continue to serve and protect all citizens with integrity and in accordance with internationally acceptable best practices,” he assured.