…Buhari may cough out N55 million for Presidential form Confusion now trails Thursday resolution of the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) over the mode of primary to be adopted for the selection of candidates for the forth coming general election, as the party has retracted its earlier statement on the use of indirect primary. While the party told Nigerians after the meeting on Thursday that indirect primaries was to be adopted for all categories of offices except the Presidential primary, it announced on Friday that indirect primary was to be adopted for all the primaries. Acting National Publicity Secretary, Yekini Nabena told newsmen that the NEC actually resolved to use direct primary for all primary election, while states wishing to use indirect primary should hold a stakeholders meeting and agree on it. He said “the 30th August, 2018 resolution of the All Progressives Congress (APC) National Executive Committee (NEC) on the mode of Primary Election has been subject to inference and misleading interpretations. As an update to the earlier released statement, we wish to make the following clarifications on NEC’s resolutions on Mode of Primary Election: ” Primary elections into all elective offices shall be by Direct Primaries. ” NEC resolved to adopt Direct Primaries for the nomination of the Presidential candidate and all other Primaries. ” The Party’s constitution though provides for Indirect Election and Consensus, however, the use of Indirect Primaries is conditional and dependent on logistic impediments; peculiarities and need of a given State that makes it unable to use Direct Primaries. ” The State Executive Committee (SEC) shall in consultation with aspirants and other critical stakeholders of the Party in a given State forward for the consideration and approval by the National Working Committee (NWC), if Indirect Primaries is to be adopted. The adopted mode shall now be applied to all categories of the Party’s Primary Elections i.e. State Assembly, Senate, House of Representatives and for the Governorship Elections. ” The request for Indirect Primaries must be signed by majority of the State Executive Committee and critical stakeholders in attendance at the meeting where such resolution is reached.” He stated further that “Direct Primaries will among others ensure fairness; create a level playing ground for contestants; eliminate corrupt tendencies usually associated with the delegates system and ultimately ensure full participation of party members at all levels.” Plateau state Governor Simon Lalong and his Kogi state counterpart, Yahaya Bello had told newsmen on Thursday that the party’s NEC resolved to use direct primary only for the presidential primary, while states wishing to use direct primary should apply to the National Working Committee of the party with the approval of majority of their stakeholders and the state working committee. 