The country’s many security challenges are surmountable, says Senator Saidu Mohammed Dansadau. In his paper titled: Farmers/herders’ clashes, banditry and national security, the former senator from Zamfara State puts the spate of killings across the land in perspective and proffers enduring solutions. At a Forum of Northern and Southern Leaders which held recently, I was invited by the organising committee to make a presentation on the causes and solutions to the spate of killings in Nigeria. My presentation was to last between 10 to 15 minutes. Unfortunately, when I was called up to speak, I was informed that I had one minute to make the presentation as the organisers were pressed for time. I had to rearrange my thoughts within that one minute and as I started laying out the bare outlines of my thoughts, I was told my time was up. The result was that what I intended to put out, starting from a historical point about national security and then do an analysis of the culture of the Fulani ethnic group, had the effect of portraying me as denigrating my brothers of Fulani extraction. That was not my intention. I thought that if I had just a little more room to waggle, I would have proceeded to the strengths of the tribal group from which we would draw out solutions to the spate of killings.  My aim was to put the spate of killings in Nigeria today in the proper historical perspectives while proffering enduring solutions to the menace, giving my insights into what is going on in Zamfara State. After the event, a number of young Fulani compatriots met me as I walked out of the hall and, expectedly, did not have kind words for me. I understand and I apologised. The little space given to me by the organisers did not grant me the room to say what I wanted to say and I crave this space to try a dispassionate discussion of the causes of the rampant killings in the country today and proffer, what I consider, the best measures to tackle the problem. This, in the main, was what I had prepared to say at the summit for which time became an inhibitor. For a proper understating, a historical excursion is necessary. And it is important to point out that because herdsmen are widely believed to be mainly of Fulani stock, a discussion of the culture and world view of this ethnic group will be made. I believe that it is in the interest of the public that we have this discussion for a fuller understanding of the problems that assail us as a nation. While it is conceded that the actions of a few misguided persons whose intent do not conduce to the health of the society cannot be a complete basis for a discussion that affect the whole, a general pattern of behaviour can be gleaned, however, from the actions of the few. This is not in the least intended as a referendum on the culture and traditions of the Fulani, but because, rightly or wrongly, the ethnic group has featured rather prominently in the discussions about the spiral of killings, whether as a group, or by a component part of it, or hijacked by a criminal syndicate unknown or in dissonance with the objectives of the group, it is important to understand the ethnic dimensions of the phenomenon.  Causes of armed banditry  The factors responsible for the current spate of killings, cattle rustling, armed robbery, kidnappings, raping and maiming of innocent citizens in rural areas are multifaceted as they are multidimensional. Banditry, at least in the colours we now see it as typified by the killings in Zamfara, began following the depleting of Fulani-owned herds of cattle. Initially, this depletion was consequent upon recurring payment of large sums of money for the settlement of cases to the police to secure the bail of children or siblings of herdsmen, who, while herding cattle, were involved in clashes with farmers or, in clashes among themselves. The native courts and the police realised the aversion to detention or imprisonment by the Fulani and capitalised on this to threaten detention or imprisonment at the slightest sign of disagreements in order to extort. This aversion itself is a result of the cultural belief that being deprived of the freedom to move about, any kind of imprisonment or detention, attracts calamity to the family. It is a belief steeped in culture. The belief in most Hausa communities is that this extortion by native authorities and police, exploiting the aversion to detention, was the immediate cause of cattle rustling. The Fulani peasants lost their herds by means of the factors specified above, and also by their contact with modernity’s social interactions. It is believed that for this category of peasants, having had their flocks depleted trying to save their kith and kin from police and court exploitation, decided that no other ethnic group, especially the kado  (derogatory word for Hausa and other non fulani blacks) would keep herds of cattle while theirs have been unfairly deprived. The next phase was the recruitment of informants who gave them information as to Hausa communities and families that own cattle for them to rustle. They bribed traditional rulers and the police with stolen cattle or money from the proceeds of the sale of same. Local butchers, Hausa, Fulani, and other ethnic stock, got involved because the cattle were sold at give-away prices, like most stolen items on sale. Unemployed Hausa youths in the villages got involved and became emissaries to buy essential commodities such as drugs, food items, petrol, drinks, intoxicants and repairs of their motorcycles. They are paid generous sums of money. Paramedical staff that go to the bush to treat the injured were paid in similar proportion. Among the informants in Zamfara State are traditional rulers’ guards (dogarai), and some unpatriotic staff of security agencies. Some of these informants, themselves, have become, not only peripheral participants and collaborators, but also directly partake in sundry criminal activities. A very intelligent, informed and shrewd race, the Fulani sometimes blur the line between bravery and belligerence. He constantly adjusts his plans and strategies to adapt to the times, different circumstances and the environment while his espionage capabilities are at a high level, usually, unanticipated for the level of his peasantry. That makes him difficult to fight and an extremely dangerous enemy. The level of kinship of the Fulani is second to none. It permeates every fibre of their lives. Such strong brotherhood may have given rise to the bond of community and each and every member has the backing of the other. A Fulani man can give all of himself for the survival of his brother or family member. His selfless nature can be attested to by the simple example that when his brother or cattle is sick or hungry as himself, he will attend to the hunger or illness of the other before himself. To illustrate the last point, I recall a story told us, as students of the Sokoto College of Education in the 70s by the late DanMasanin Kano, Alhaji Yusuf Maitama Sule of blessed memory, when he delivered a lecture on the attributes of good leadership. Maitama Sule cited Shehu Usman Danfodio’s (RA) inaugral address to his Sixteen Flag Bearers the day he gave them the “Mandate Flags”. Emerging to deliver his address, the Sheik simply said: “Return to your domains; your areas of jurisdiction, and emulate a typical Fulani cattle rearer. I wish you success. You can be on your way now. Good bye.” He turned away, taking leave of them. One of his disciples, sensing confusion among the flag bearers said to the Sheik that they did not understand the message. Shehu Usman (RA) then explained: Have you not observed that when a Fulani cattle rearer is hungry and his cow, which he has direct responsibility over, is also hungry, he does his utmost best  to provide food for the cow before himself or when he is sick and one of his herds is sick that he treats the animal before himself? Haven’t you observed that a 13-year old Fulani child or boy commanding more than one hundred herds of cattle take them to the bush for grazing? Are you not marvelled at the bond that exists between them that they obey his simple calls to them? Haven’t you observed that when a typical Fulani sells one out of his herds to the butcher, the butcher finds it extremely difficult to take it home because of the attachment of the cow to the herder and the butcher has to force the animal home with strain? I therefore charge to treat your subjets – the governed – in the manner the typical Fulani cattle rearer treats his cattle. That will guarantee the obedience and earn you the respect of your subjects and guarantee the prevalence of peace and tranquility in your domains. If you treat your subjects in the manner butchers treat animals, you will not earn the respect of the people you govern.  Looking back to move forward  A recent history will help illuminate the context of our discourse and help in the search for solution. The 2001 herdsmen/farmers clashes in Plateau State which led former President Olusegun Obasanjo to declare a state of emergency in the state started following a clash whereupon indigenes killed 500 herds of cattle in retaliation. The Fulani who were affected by this onslaught, it was said, sent “goron gayyata”, a SOS of existential proportions, and invited their kith and kin from within Nigeria and other parts of Africa to save them from extinction by the “kado” i.e. indigenes. They all came and the Plateau attack happened. The consequence was catastrophic. Many of the visiting attackers made a lot of material gains and went back home, scot free. Some remained in Nigeria, having realised that Nigeria is a criminal-free zone where crimes hardly attract the proportionate sanctions. Such illegal aliens remained in Nigeria and made a career of criminality, making remittances to their home countries in the manner citizens of any country in the Diaspora make remittances to their home countries. This factor explains the convergence of criminals from West African countries and beyond in Nigeria. It has become a business for them. In addition, the increasing dimension of unemployment, poverty, hunger and the lifestyle of Nigerian elite which combine to frustrate unemployed youths and tempt them into the league of crimes terrorising citizens (murder, kidnap, abductions, rape, maiming) to make money and live luxurious lives like the childten of the elite they see around them, is another factor behind the clashes. One other factor that is responsible for the upsurge of criminalities and insecurity is that military commanders and other security agencies deployed to affected areas rarely consult community leaders before embarking on their operations. They mainly consult government bureaucracy who often times are complicit in the phenomenum. The Zamfara tales of horror is one example. The local hunters, civilian JTF, Yansakai, or other vigilance groups are, most of the times, arrested and detained when they are in the best position to provide assistance for the successful military operations in view of their knowledge of the local terrain and other extraneous expertise they have acquired for a successful fight against criminals. The most dangerous trend that compounded the phenomenon is the religous and ethnic sentiments Nigerians attach to these killings. It is most unfortunate that in this era of civilisation, advanced science and technology, Nigeria has lost respect for the sanctity of human life. Reactions to killings are informed by religious, ethnic and other sentimenatal considerations. One other factor is the absence of oversight on the part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Funds released by the government for military operations to confront this menace rarely reach the desired destination to warrant success. The government appears more interested in telling Nigerians how much it spends on security rather than tracking the success attained. The PMB government lacks effective monitoring system to ensure the attainment of value for funds spent. If something is not done urgently, Nigeria is at the risk of these criminal elements taking control of areas and structures within the country.  Way forward  President Buhari should put an effective monitoring strategy that may comprise trusted and honest security personel and some administrative cadre personnel to ensure that all funds released for military operation are prudently and efficiently utilised for the purpose they are meant for.