…Suspects deny allegation  The Lagos State Police Command Monday paraded 57 young men arrested for alleged homosexuality. They were arrested at the wee hours of Sunday at Kelly Ann Hotel/ Event Centre located at 3-7, Adenrele Street, Egbeda during an alleged initiation into a Gay Club. But some of the suspects who spoke to reporters, denied being homosexuals, insisting they were at the hotel for different purposes including wedding, trading and leisure, among others. Among those arrested were Prince Collins, 23; Emmanuel Odiza, 25; Ola Rotimi; Miracle Onyeka; Wole Ojo, 24; Daniel Sukari; Wealth Olasunkanmi, 25, and one James. Parading the suspects, Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said the command received intelligence around 12:30am on Sunday that some young men will be initiated into Homosexuals’ Club between 1am and 2am at Kelly Ann Hotel/ Event Centre. He said the action contravened Section 1(1) of the Same Sex Marriage Act, 2014, adding that it was based on the information that the Divisional Police Officers (DPOs) in charge of Shasha and Idimu stormed the location around 2am. “On arrival, young men numbering about 80 were met in a hall taking different types of drinks including banned substances like Tramadol, Shisha laced with substances suspected to be Marijuana, etc. “As soon as they sighted the police, they ran into different directions but the team arrested 57 of them. Investigation into the case is ongoing.” Collins said he was a food vendor in front of the hotel, adding that he was arrested where he plied his trade. “I sell food in front of the hotel. When police came they said I am under arrest and I followed them as a law abiding citizen. There were many women in and outside the hotel but they were not arrested. I am innocent,” said Collins. Odiza said he was at the hotel to attend a birthday party, claiming he knew nothing about the gay club initiation. Rotimi, a student, said he was also at the hotel for a birthday party, wondering why the police did not arrest women who were there. Onyeka said he was arrested beside his car, which he used for cab services on the side. “I work with AZ Apapa but I also use my car for taxi to get small money. I was arrested just by the side of my car near Barracks Bus Stop. I am married with children. I am innocent. Ojo said he was drinking at the hotel’s bar when he was picked up. Sukari said: “I stay in Rivers State but came to Lagos for a beauty pageant, Mr Tourism at Lekki. I left there around 6pm. I was heading to Egbeda to lodge in the hotel because I do not stay in Lagos. Because of the closure of Third Mainland Bridge, there was a heavy traffic, so I got to the hotel very late. “I was about to lodge when the police team came in. I was asked to lie down which I obeyed because I felt I have done nothing wrong.” James said he was at the hotel to perform a dance, adding that that was how he earned his living. Olasunkanmi said he was at the hotel for a birthday party, adding that he was invited by a friend, Muyiwa. “I went for a birthday party. There were many males and females there. Even Muyiwa that invited me was not arrested. It was a raid. I did nothing wrong. I was piping Shisha, which isn’t a crime. I did not add anything in the Shisha. There was no initiation going on. I think they found the Tramadol in someone’s pocket.”