The President Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), Uche Olowu has advised banks to deepen their digital banking operations to meet customers’ increasing demand for digital payment, Olowu said the institute is preparing its members for the digital revolution sweeping through industries. He spoke during the induction of new members into the institute in Lagos. He said there was need to prepare bankers in terms of the skill set that are required in the current technology age. He added that Nigeria could achieve greater strides in the banking sector should priority be given to the sustainability of an enabling environment. “Banking is all about wealth creation. We are equipping the professionals that can handle intermediation properly and make a robust financial service, create wealth and make people access digital financial product. Our desire is to up the capacity of our members. So basically, we are preparing them for tomorrow today. “We are making intentional efforts to bridge skills gaps. We have inducted 784 graduates.  We have programmes to make our members financial professionals in enterprise risk management, resources and technology, strategy and relations, and human resources because the resource of the 21st are those that are combining soft skills with cognitive skills. The Group Chief Human Resources Officer, Dangote Industries Limited, Usen Udoh urged the CIBN graduates to infuse ingenuity with the conduct of their professional practice. He said the rapid evolving of the digital revolution should not be viewed as mere disruption but an opportunity to leverage and develop innovative solutions suitable for the challenges confronting the Nigerian banking space. The guest speaker addressing the theme ‘The 21st Century Professional: Vital Skill Sets for Success’, said although skills gap continues to be an issue in the sector, the new crop of professionals can inculcate the art collaboration with others coupled with the knowledge disseminated by the CIBN.   