Who owns a large parcel of land at Sangotedo in Lekki-Ajah, Lagos State, which is a subject of dispute between a family and a developer? The Oyemade Royal family of Sangotedo is laying claim to the land, which it accused the developer, Kelechukwu Mbagwu, of grabbing from it. But Mbagwu denied the allegation. Addressing reporters yesterday during the family’s protest in Oyetubo Jokotade Estate in Sangotedo, its lawyer, Tunde Popoola, asked that Mbagwu be brought to justice. The protesters carried placards with inscriptions, such as: “How can an individual take laws into his hands?”; “Justice must be done”; “Kelechukwu Mbagwu is lawless”; “Kelechukwu Mbagwu is a land grabber”. They were accompanied by the family head (Olori Ebi), Mr. Tajudeen Ajenifuja; the heads of the three houses in the royal family, Alhaja Simirat Adenike Hassan (for Oyetubo House); Mr. Biliaminu Yekeen (Banjoko House) and Alhaja Ganiat Balogun (Okunade House). Others are: the Baale, Alhaji Jamiu King, of Oyemade family. According to Popoola, from August 19; 20, Mbagwu allegedly moved into the said land with his boys, gun wielding men of the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) and bulldozers and levelled buildings that were under construction. “After that act, he stationed armed Mobile policemen on the property who started shooting indiscriminately at the approach of any person and prevented the family members and owners of the buildings who came the following day to assess the damage done”. Popoola said it took a petition from the family to the Area “J” Command of the police in Ajah to get the Mobile policemen off from the property. “Kelechukwu invaded the parcel of land with a bulldozer and demolished all the existing structures. There was no order of court authorising him to demolish the property in the midnight. He took laws into his hands without any appropriate court order; the level of lawlessness is alarming and unprecedented. “The Oyemade family demands justice, Kelechukwu must be brought to book and we will not rest until Kelechukwu is brought to book,” he said. Popoola said the family gave Mbagwu, CMB Building Maintenance and Investment Company Ltd. Managing Director, some hectares of land in March 2003 on which he built the Pearl Garden Estate. “But he has since gone beyond that parcel of land to be taking possesion of the family land illegally and selling without reference to the owners”, he said. Ajenifuja, the Olori-ebi General, said land grabbers were not doing the public any good because “they deny owners the right to their property and subject them to penury”. He said: “All we want in this matter is justice, we want the government to assist us to get justice”. A property owner, Chima Duru, said he had spent over N5million on his property before it was demolished. His wife, he said, collapsed and was admitted in hospital when she heard about the demolition. Speaking on Mbagwu’s behalf, his lawyer, Alexander Okpako said: “At no time did CMB demolish anything on the said land.” CMB , he said, had the tittle to the land. “The family has been trying to rescue the land from CMB and they have been on it for some years now and in doing that they employ some tricks, they send some landgrabbers to demolish properties, they then run to police to say CMB has demolished their property. They have been harassing CMB with police on the land,” he said. Okpako said there were about three to four cases on the matter in court, adding, CMB has handed over the matter to the court, both parties have joined issues in court. “But because of desperation to possess the land, they commit atrocities and go to the police to say it is CMB,” he claimed.