ALL is set for the internment of Rub-a-dub master, Ras Kimono, who died on June 10, 2018. To make the burial rites befitting of a music legend, the Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON) is putting together, a red-carpet tribute night at the magnificent COSON House, Ikeja, on Wednesday, August 22,kick-starting a week-long funeral programme that will end with theinternment of the deceased in his home town, Oniocha Olona, Delta State, on Saturday, August 25, 2018. According to the Head of Public Affairs of COSON, Mr. Chibueze Okereke, the red-carpet and tribute night will be strictly by invitation. “We know that people from all walks of life would wish to attend this big event especially as the sleek tribute night is being personally produced by the COSON Chairman, Chief Tony Okoroji, Nigeria’s undisputed master of special events. “Unfortunately, we cannot accommodate everyone so if you get the IV, please honour the event because it means that you belong to a select group. Members of the Kimono family have met several times with our chairman over the tribute night and I have no doubt that it will betalk of the town.” Also speaking about the tribute night in honour of the great Ras Kimono, General Manager of COSON, Mr. Chinedu Chukwuji said, “Ras Kimono was not just a COSON member, he was a 100 per cent committed COSON member, totally dedicated to the COSON cause. As a hyper creative person, he fought against anything that could destroy COSON as he saw the organization as a watershed development in our country and an important legacy for the Nigerian creative industry. No one should forget that until he passed on, Ras Kimono was a key member of the COSON board and stood shoulder-to-shoulder with our Chairman, Chief Tony Okoroji through every challenge. Chief Okoroji was one of the last persons Kimono spoke to on his sick bed, before he passed on. “The COSON board he left behind has held a special meeting in his honour and has instructed that the magnificent COSON House that Kimono contributed to building must host a memorable event in his honour to celebrate this one of a kind Nigerian artiste as he sets out on his last journey out of Lagos. All hands are on deck at COSON, the organisation he loved with all his heart, to ensure that Kimono is buried like the king that he was,” he said.