The Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) has raised an alarm over imminent collapse of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso. The union accused the two-owner state, Oyo and Osun, of not funding the university. At a press conference in Osogbo, Osun State capital, the Zonal Coordinator, Ibadan Zone of ASUU, Dr. Ade Adejumo, if the university would not cease to exist urgent and serious steps must be taken to rescue the institution. Expressing sadness over inadequate funding of the university by the two states, he lamented that the action of the Oyo and Osun governments has showed that they want the management of the institution to source for fund to run the institution. He maintained that increasing tuition fee will definitely force poor students out of the school and the implication is that they would be forced into prostitution, armed robbery and other crimes. He said: “We are currently on two weeks warning strike. We are calling attention to the fact that LAUTECH is on the brink of final disintegration. “We are not so much concerned about almost 10 months arrears, promotion arrears, we are concerned about non-funding of the University. It is no longer inadequate funding, it is non-funding.” The union leader, who noted that the Memorandum of Action (MoA) the two owner states signed before the union’s last strike was called off has not been respected by the government. He alleged that the governors of the two states have turned their back on the university According to the union “Many lecturers have left while many have retired. And there has not been replacement for those who have left, therefore, making the institution understaffed. “So, we are calling on the governors of Oyo and Osun to let the general public know if they are tired and could no longer fund the university. The two governors are encouraging criminalities by insisting that they survive on Internally Generated Revenue (IGR). “They should come out and disclose their plans for LAUTECH. If they want to liquidate the university they should be bold enough to tell the whole world that they want to do so.”