There was chaos yesterday in Odo Oro, a community in Ikole Local Government Area of Ekiti State, when a man suspected to be mentally deranged stabbed the monarch to death. The Onise of Odo Oro, Oba Gbadebo Ogunsakin, was allegedly attacked by the “madman” in his palace in broad daylight. The town is currently mourning the demise of their traditional ruler. The residents gathered in groups yesterday to discuss the monarch’s killing. The suspected lunatic reportedly stabbed Oba Ogunsakin when the monarch wanted to leave the palace in his car. A source told The Nation that rituals were conducted last night to appease the gods for the incident. A formal announcement of Oba Ogunsakin’s transition is expected to be made by the state government as soon the rites of passage are concluded. Attempts to speak with the community’s chiefs proved abortive. Many of them were said to be in an emergency meeting on the burial rites for the late monarch. Oba Ogunsakin’s death sparked outrage among the community’s youths who stormed the house of the suspect’s parents. The youths reportedly demolished the house in protest against the alleged regicide. A manhunt has reportedly been launched for the suspect. The major road linking the community with other towns has been barricaded by the irate youths. The incident forced a diversion of traffic by motorists going to Itapaji, Iyemero, Ayebode, Ayedun, Omuo, Lokoja and Abuja. A market in nearby Ikole town, which also serves Odo Oro, was deserted. Many buyers and sellers from nearby communities had to run for safety when the news of the regicide broke. A resident, Henry Olu, said the suspect, whose name was given as Kunle, is from the royal family of the slain monarch. He said the suspect was earlier seen by some chiefs before the traditional council meeting sitting on the throne of his victim before he was chased away. A source revealed that the royal father was attacked immediately he finished the council meeting and attempted to enter his official car to go to his private home. Another source said: “All we heard was a cry for help from the traditional ruler’s driver shortly after the council’s meeting. “On getting there, we saw our traditional ruler in a pool of blood: Kunle had stabbed him in the chest. “We tried rushing him to the hospital, but Oba Ogunsakin gave up the ghost.” Police spokesperson Caleb Ikechukwu, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), confirmed the incident. He added that the police were combing the town to ascertain the whereabouts of the suspect. Ikechukwu said: “It is true the incidenct actually happened and policemen have swung into action. “The person alleged is an unsound mind, and he actually escaped into the bush after committing the crime. But our men are combing the bush to fetch the suspect out. “All I can say for now is that the suspect is within reach and will be put to custody.”