The Federal Government is determined to achieve food security. It plans to revive 20 fertiliser blending plants this year. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo says the revival of 11 of the plants is saving the country $200 million yearly. The Federal Government is counting the gains of its investments in the reactivation of fertilizer blending plants that were hitherto moribund. The revitalisation of plants had saved the country over $200 million dollars annually in foreign exchange. Vice President Osinbajo, who broke in his keynote address at the 17th Joint Planning Board and National Council on Development Panning meeting in Abeokuta, said the reactivation of the plants had also saved the government over N60 billion in budgetary provisions for fertiliser subsidies. Prof Osinbajo was represented by Budget & National Planning Minister Udo Udoma Udoma at the meeting organised by the Federal Ministry of Budget & National Planning in conjunction with the Ogun State government. The programme has as its theme: “Accelerating the implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP): The role of stakeholders.” Osinbajo noted that the administration, under President Muhammadu Buhari’s watch, was proud of the successes recorded in the agricultural sector. The Federal Government is relying on the agriculture and solid mineral sectors to diversify the economy from oil. According to the vice president, the development made it possible for the purchase of fertiliser at prices up to 30 per cent cheaper. Besides, the country import less rice than it did few years ago, he said. The vice president described the ERGP as a departure from other plans introduced by previous administrations, because it contained clearly defined objectives, priorities and targets. He said: “Indeed, I am glad to note the partnerships that some states like Kebbi and Lagos have entered into in a bid to support the agricultural development and food security objective of the ERGP. “I am aware that the National Committee on Export Promotion is implementing a plan to enhance export promotion and economic diversification in line with the Zero Oil Plan (ZOP) initiative. “We have equally budgeted N44.2 billion in the 2018 Budget for the establishment of Special Economic Zones in the country six geo-political zones to drive local manufacturing and exports. “We are also paying close attention to the Mining sector by reinforcing the Mining Regulatory Agency. About N644 million has been voted for this in the 2018 Budget. “We are ready to set up a National Gold Purchase Scheme. The Centre Bank of Nigeria (CBN) is also advancing discussions on the modalities for gold purchase toward enhancing liquidity in the sector.” Osinbajo reiterated the present administration’s resolve to continue to promote good governance, saying that it was an important enabler of economic growth and development. The vice president noted that the government was institutionalising reforms that focused on intensifying efforts to detect diversion of public resources to private wealth, and punishing culpable institutions and individuals. His words: “In addition to recovery of huge sums looted by unpatriotic Nigerians and properties acquired with ill-gotten monies, over N3 trillion has been brought into the Treasury Single Account (TSA) since June 2015. “The accounts of revenue generating agencies are being audited to ensure full compliance with statutory and legal provisions on the generation and remittance of revenues to government.” Commending the programme organisers, Governor Ibikunle Amosun said the initiative would go a long way in boosting the economy. He lauded the President for his timely restructuring of the economy. “Amosun said: “The ERGP, launched in 2017 to chart a course for the Nigerian economy is a laudable initiative that must be sustained and built upon. We must continue to deepen the conversation on development across all tiers of government.” There is a target by three players in fertiliser production to hit 4.9 metric tons production capacity before the end of the year. The three players are: Notore Chemical Industries Plc, Dangote Fertiliser Ltd and Indorama Eleme Fertilizer & Chemicals Limited (IEFCL). The Notore plant, with capacity to produce 0.5 metric tons per annum (mtpa) is located in Onne, Rivers State; Dangote Fertiliser Ltd, located within the Lekki Free Trade Zone (LFTZ) in Lagos, has three mtpa capacity and Indorama Eleme Fertiliser & Chemicals Limited, based in Eleme, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, has 1.4mtpa.  Agency set to revamp 20 plants  There was a plan by the Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA to reactivate 20 fertiliser blending plants by next month. As at the last count, the authority has revamped 11 plants this year. The revitalised plants deliver six million bags of fertiliser at 30 per cent below market prices. The authority restated its determination to implement President Buhari’s initiative to boost farming output and reduce the economy’s dependence on oil. A report by the NSIA shows that the reactivated plants have halted government subsidies and created about 50,000 jobs, thereby saving the government N50 billion (about $139 million) in would-be subsidies this year. NSIA’ Managing Director Uche Orji disclosed that the authority plans to rehabilitate the remaining nine plants within a year. He put the government’s contribution at $1.5 billion, with the rest including funds owned by the institution and those managed for several government agencies. “At the moment, agriculture is our number one area of investment,” Orji said. The investment agency has been seeking further growth of the Sovereign Wealth Fund (SWF) which stood at $2 billion in September last year through agriculture. Under the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (FPI), the Federal Government has approved six blending plants for fertiliser production this year. Three of the plants have received full approval and are already receiving raw materials for blending of the multi-nutrient NPK fertilisers, the other three await final approval, having already been given provisional approvals by the office of the National Security Adviser. It was gathered that when the six new plants all come on stream, it would bring the total number of fertilizer blending plants operating in the country to 17, up from five as at 2016. The three blending plants will also add a total of 1.8 million metric tonnes in terms of capacity to the country’s growing fertiliser blending industry. The three approved plants and on stream include: Waccot Fertiliser and Chemicals Ltd Auchi, Edo State; Sora Ltd Makurdi, Benue State; Citizen Fertiliser and Chemicals Ltd Kano. Those granted provisional approval are Green Technologies, Abak, Akwa Ibom State and the two others located in Zamfara and Gombe states have not been identified. The Executive Secretary of the Fertiliser Producers & Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN), Rabiu Kwa, described the three new blending plants as an indication of the preparedness of the Federal Government to sustain the gains already made in the PFI. The initiative, according to him, has lifted the country from an import-dependent nation to one that produces high quality fertiliser. Kwa said FEPSAN members are fully in league with the Federal Government’s drive to provide the inputs needed by farmers to enhance agricultural productivity, expressing the optimism that the sincerity of purpose with which the government had implemented the PFI programme, the country was already on the right path towards food security. 