The alleged threat of breaking into the Senate chamber by some senators as claimed by the caucus of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the House of Representatives failed to materialize yesterday. The Deputy Minority leader of the House, Chkukwuka Onyema, with about 10 members at a press briefing on Wednesday evening vowed to keep vigil on the Senate chamber to prevent the senators from forceful entrance into the chamber with a view of snatching the mace. According to Onyema, the snatching of the mace was to be followed by reconvene of the senate that will eventually lead the impeachment of Senate President Bukola Saraki, who recently decamped from the All Progressives Congress (APC) On Wednesday evening, Onyema said: “The aim of their invasion while other senators are on recess is to come and sit illegally when everybody is on recess to impeach the senate president. “We also have it on good authority that they are planning to come back this night and tomorrow morning aided by security forces; our own security forces whose job is to protect the lives of Nigerians. “They are the ones leading these dissident senators to come and truncate our democracy. We might think they want to take over the senate; that’s not what they want to do. “They want to truncate this democracy of ours. But we the PDP caucus have decided to stay here to keep vigil and wait to s what’s going to happen tonight and tomorrow night”. “We also have some information that some policemen have arrived. We want to find out what they are doing here,” he added. However, the situation at the National Assembly and the lobby of the White yesterday did not suggest any plan to cause a breakdown of law and order within the complex. Workers were seen going about their duties without apprehension while a detachment of a   mobile police force said to have been an accomplice of the senators was nowhere to be seen. The caucus members that also vowed to keep vigil over the senate chamber could not be seen around the lobby of the White House till the time of compilation of this report. When The Nation put a call through to the Deputy Minority Leader Onyema to shed light on the latest development on the night vigil, he replied saying, he was unavailable for the moment, “I am sorry my brother, as you can hear noises from the background, I have some people with me. We are into a very serious discussion. But you can call me back later when I am done with the meeting”. Calls to other members of the causes were also not returned.