Former British light heavyweight, World Boxing Association (WBA) Inter-Continental light heavyweight title and Commonwealth light heavyweight champion, Peter Oboh has advised athletes to have backup plans that would sustain them once they retire from active sports. Speaking at the launching of a skill acquisition project by the Mabel Oboh Centre for Save Our Stars (MOCSOS), the retired pugilist stated that making money while in active sports was easier than investing the money in a beneficial way for the athlete after retirement. He regretted it was heart-wrenching to see athletes who made enormous money while active, living in penury few years after quitting. “I was in the sport for so long to know that most athletes do not have a plan to fall back on. Once they retire, their lives take a dip and most boxers who earned fantastically are today poor.” He also commended the late Brai Ayonote for his passion for boxing development in the country, while noting that the camps he attended under later boxing administrators, helped shape his professional career. “I was a beneficiary of some of the best training under late Brai Ayonote. At a point, we were in camp for nine months where I acquired many of the skills that helped shape my professional career. However, it is sad that we could not win a medal in boxing. I hope the government will come up with policies that will help reverse the trend,” Oboh added. Oboh stated that programmes put up by MOCSOS would go a long way in helping athletes/entertainers get support whenever they are in need. MOCSOS founder and Chief executive officer, Mabel Oboh said that the skill acquisition programme would help entertainers and athletes get training in other fields that would be useful to them in future. “Our desire is to see that the welfare of our former stars is paramount. We don’t want to see anyone dying from an illness that is preventable and curable. We also do not want the show to stop for our stars once they quit the scene that is why we are calling on them to put in for this programme and I am sure they will not regret it,” Mabel added.