Some medical experts in Bayelsa on Friday advised pregnant women to key into the Safe Motherhood Campaign Initiative of the State Government to tackle infant and maternal mortality rate.  Dr Ebiakpo Agbedi, Director of Planning, Research and Statistics in the state Primary Health Care Board, gave the advice during an orientation programme in Yenagoa. Agbedi said that the programme was organised by the state Ministry of Health for members of the Sensitisation Committee on Safe Motherhood. He explained that the essence of the Safe Motherhood Initiative was to promote good health of mother and child across the communities. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that the Bayelsa Government had on July 31 launched its Safe Motherhood Initiative. “The pregnant women benefits from the programme include free ante-natal care; enrolees of the safe mother initiative will get free insecticide treated mosquito nets, HIV/AIDS screening, tetanus injection and routine immunisation.  “Other benefits include free diagnostic tests, a monthly incentive of N3,000 from the point of registration into the programme which will last for two months after delivery,’’ Agbedi said. Mrs Happiness Mass, Director, Reproductive Health in the ministry, also advised pregnant women on the importance of the initiative programme. Mass said some of the reasons for the high infant and maternal mortality rate include infection of the newborn. She said that the infection occurs especially around the stump of the umbilical cord and excessive bleeding during child birth. She added that the ministry was collaborating with relevant stakeholders to adopt a flexible approach to the routine immunisation of children. Dr Ebikapaye Okoyen, the Programme Manager, Saving One Million Lives for Result, an NGO, said other benefits of enrolees in the programme include a N2,000 package at point of registration. Okoyen added that a delivery kit after child birth was also included among other items. Mr Chris Odi, the Chairman of the Sensitisation Committee, said the committee would work hard to spread the safe motherhood message, using the local dialects of the people for effect.