•Calls for enlistment of blue chip firms at capital market The non-availability of foreign index bond is impeding the desired growth of pension fund assets, the Acting Director-General, National Pension Commission (PenCom), Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar, has said. The Acting DG, who was represented by the Head, Corporate Strategy and Research Department, Dr. Farouk Aminu, spoke at the just- concluded Insurance and Pension 2018 Conference held in Lagos, saying the fund has grown to over N8.2 trillion. She believes that pension fund would have grown, if there were better instruments to invest the fund. According to her, about 200 companies listed at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), only 60 qualify for pension fund investment. Aminu said the Commission is not able to allow investment of the fund at the capital market, noting that its hands are tied. He called for the enlistment of blue chip firms, including Chevron, Mobile, Shell, MTN Nigeria, and Glo, at the capital market to allow foreign index bond to be available in the country. He said the Commission was concerned that if there were better instruments, the return on investment to the fund owned by contributors and retirees under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) will be more. Aminu added: “If there were better instruments, I believe the pension asset would have overshoot. The return on investment of pension fund was 16 per cent and inflation was above 15 per cent. Unfortunately, this is the reflection of the entire financial system in the country. If you look at the NSE, there are just 200 companies listed on the exchange and if we have to go by our stringent regulation, only about 60 of them qualify for pension fund investment. So, the money is big when compared with the companies that are qualified to access it. “Also, we are yet to have an index bond in the country, whether regulatory index or any other index bond. The Commission has been pushing for such bonds to be issued in the market so that the pension asset can be invested on such instruments. Unfortunately, we don’t have that yet. Yes, we have 70 per cent of the fund invested in Federal Government Securities but this is nothing. This is because we have only seen 16 per cent return on the FG securities and up to 18 per cent in 2016. “Recently, there is the push for the fund to go into the telecom industry but unfortunately, we are unable to do so. If there are companies like MTN, Glo among others listed at the capital market, then we would have been able to invest in these kinds of companies. Unfortunately, that is a reality in the country and I hope that we would have better instruments.” He cited former South African President, the late Nelson Mandela, who, in a bid to empower blacks urged foreign companies to sell their shares to black citizens, noting that this could be done in Nigeria to make the blue chip companies list their shares at the capital market. He observed that MTN and Glo are not listed at the capital market. “If these companies can list at the capital market it will give opportunities for Nigerians to invest in the companies. Sectors like banking, insurance, and pension will also benefit from such development,” he added.