WHAT  are the causes of  male infertility? Experts in Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) have attributed the problem to bad sperm, abnormal sperm, and weak sperm. Infertility is a condition of the reproductive system that prevents  conception. Though there are no figures, the experts believe the number of men with low sperm count is on the increase. Besides, they say, most male infertility cases are due to either low sperm count or poor sperm quality or both. According to Dr Abayomi Ajayi of Nordica Fertility, men are finding it difficult to make babies because they suffer from declining testosterone levels. He explained that high doses of estrogen given for treatment of prostatic cancer or modulation of reproductive function, for instance, not only reduce testosterone secretion, but also interact with the liver, changing the secretion of various plasma proteins and causing side effects. Environmental and lifestyle factors are more responsible for the downward trend of sperm counts globally.There are many things in the environment causing what is described as oestrogenisation of men. Things, such as paint, heavy metal poisoning (like lead, mercury, antimony), and exposure to petroland even insecticides can affect sperm health. People working in the fuel stations and those with unhealthy habits like smoking could suffer from low sperm counts. According to him, sperm motility is the sperm’s ability to move. If movement is slow, not in a straight line, or both, the sperm will not be able to fertilise an egg because it would not be able to invade the cervical mucous or penetrate the hard outer shell of the egg. To impregnate a woman, a man must have sperm count of at least 15 million and have sperm motility (movement) of more than 60 percent. Below 30 percent sperm motility is undesirable. Also, a man is most likely to be fertile when more than 12 percent of the sperm has a normal shape and structure. He also likely to be fertile when fewer than nine percent of the sperm has normal appearance. The morphology or the shape and structure of the sperm, is sometimes considered more important than the sperm count or sperm motility in determining potential fertility. An abnormally shaped sperm cannot fertilise an egg. At least, 60 percent of the sperm should be normal in size and shape for adequate fertility. The perfect structure of healthy sperm is an oval head and long tail. Abnormally shaped sperm may include some variations ranging from a very large round head, an extremely small pinpoint head, a tapered head, a crooked head, two heads and a tail with kinks and curls. Essentially, quality of sperm is determined by its motility and its morphology. The quality of the sperm is often more significant than the count of the sperm. A co-pioneer of IVF treatment in Nigeria, and a professor of reproductive endocrinology, Prof Oladapo Ashiru said up to one-fifth of men find themselves with a low sperm count, which is defined as having fewer than 15 million sperm per millilitre of semen. Ashiru, who is the Managing Director/CEO of Medical Art Centre, Maryland, Lagos, said infertility is the inability of a couple to have their biological baby after two years of living together. But in some couples, they are advised to come before two years, especially those that are of age. ‘’A woman who got married at 35 and above is advised to come at least for six months ovulation monitoring, and assessment, with the husband who finds it difficult to have a baby. In our society, infertility puts a lot of pressure on people because of the way paternity is viewed. “Mothers pressure, the families’ pressure, wanting the wife to have a baby immediately after wedding, because as a woman, you are supposed to be pregnant. But these people don’t know that there are some male factors that can cause infertility. Everybody is focused on the woman and the society sees that pressure on the woman as the cause of the infertility. “In our society, we have noticed that men have issues with low sperm count, which is having fewer than 15 million sperm per millilitre of semen. We do sperm analysis for men, test the women, do the men pelvic test, access both of them. Low sperm fewer than 15 million sperm per millilitre of semen, might not be able to get a woman pregnant. In women, we look at the ovulation factors. Some women do not ovulate and also have tube issues. Tube issue is the fallopian tube, which transports the egg from the ovary that is not open. There are things that can cause a tube to be closed. “Today, we have Pelvic Allison infection, sexually transmitted infections, such as gonorrhea, and clamedia and once they get there, they cause obstructions so the egg and sperm will not meet for the women to conceive. The diagnosis of male infertility is not the end of the road for the couple. We encourage both partners to seek treatment together,”  Ashiru added. Lagos State Commissioner for Health, Dr Jide Idris said: “Male infertility as a factor in infertility can be tackled through advocacy, enlightenment, and sensitisation. A lot of myths are based on perception, which most times may be wrong. I will educate at this time that any couple having issues with infertility should walk into government hospitals where there are qualified specialists to examine them, and stop relying on rumours, assumptions that the women are responsible totally for the condition. “The specialists in infertility treatment based their findings on scientific facts. And emerging facts are revealing the underlying causes for infertility are traceable to the men themselves. Education and counselling are essential to tackle these. So, I encourage men to do go to the hospital with their wives to be jointly screened, and treated,” Idris said. 