Professor Charles Ayo, a former vice-chancellor of Covenant University, Ota, Ogun State used his address at the convocation of Crawford University, Igbesa, Ogun State recently to appeal to Nigerians to patronise Nigerian universities. In the address, he revealed that Nigeria loses a minimum of N1 trillion to education tourism with about 75,000 Nigerians currently studying in Ghana, Benin Republic and Egypt. This is against the backdrop of the under-funding of the university system by successive governments in Nigeria. This, no doubt, has over the years denied the nation’s ivory towers of the deserved rating and respect accorded it in the early ’70s to the early ’90s when faculties and foreign students found solace in travelling to different parts of the country for their studies. Education tourism – the marketing and sale of a product or service which main purpose is to disseminate knowledge – has indeed come to stay, unless something radically changes in our system.  It involves the collection of knowledge, both local and specialised, from which a well-defined product is created, which is then developed and marketed. Even the most casual observer would have noticed the series of education fair taking place regularly because Nigeria is now one huge ‘untapped market’ for education tourists. A data I came across said Nigerians spend an average of $500 million annually on European and American universities, which represents about 70 per cent of the total allocation to all federal universities. In the United Kingdom, over 40,000 students are said to be undertaking various courses there. Ian Stewart, a former member of the British parliament, was quoted by a British Council Report saying the number of Nigerian students studying in British universities will reach 30, 000 and would constitute seven per cent of the entire university student population in the United Kingdom by the end of last year. Stewart went on to say that this is significant and Britain should make the most of the opportunity. The report said: “Calculations are based on a number of factors including the poor quality of Nigerian universities and the rapid growth in the number of families that can afford to send a child overseas to study.” Sadly, everyone knows that Nigeria has the wherewithal and human capital base to create at least a few decent and qualitative universities; but for some inexplicable reasons we just cannot, so why would others not cash in on this. Britain, for one knows this and they did their thorough home work. They knew that the growth and prominence of both tourism and education as key industries over the past few decades has led to growing recognition of these sectors from both an economic and social perspective. It may also be argued that developments in the tourism industry during this time, allied to changes in education, have seen the convergence of these two industries. Education increasingly enables or facilitates travel mobility and learning has become an important part of the contemporary tourist experience. In this unprecedented global economic time, the Tourism Alliance – comprising 50 tourism industry organisations that together represent some 200,000 businesses of all sizes throughout the UK – highlighted the fact that the UK will be faced with two crucial issues: ‘maintaining employment and generating sustainable economic growth’. This proclamation comes at the same time as the Government’s Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS) published its higher education blueprint document – Higher Ambitions. This was the time most European countries were passing through difficult economic times with unemployment rate soaring. This framework for universities acknowledges that higher education has been a success story and sets out the important role universities must play in securing the country’s economic recovery and long-term prosperity. For instance, total spending by international students on all types of course in the UK was estimated to be a whopping £14 billion with the potential to grow to £21 billion by 2020. The industry is seen as one of the keys for rebuilding the UK economy and for generating employment, especially where it is most needed such as in rural communities or among young school-leavers. In 2012, non-EU students paid £3.2 billion in tuition fees to UK universities. The off-campus expenditure of all non-UK students attending UK universities in 2012 was estimated to be £4.9 billion. Higher education thus made a key contribution to UK business tourism. Personal (off-campus) expenditure of international business and recreational visitors to UK universities was estimated conservatively to be just over £136 million. In 2011, inbound tourism revenue grew at over 5 times the rate of the economy as a whole while it is estimated that domestic tourism revenue ended the year 14% higher than 2010. In total, this is additional expenditure in the sector of £3.8bn – enough to generate 76,000 new jobs in 2011 alone! Did you get that? We were instrumental in creating jobs for British citizens while we have millions roaming our streets in search of elusive jobs. The British are very smart; they know that as the global landscape changes more students would travel and study abroad, boosting their tourist industries. Not only will friends and family come to visit them while studying, but students are likely to spread the news of their positive tourism experience to other travelers and return for future visits. In essence, they become “brand ambassadors” for Britain to the detriment of their home country. Is it only Britain that is cashing in on our woes? Certainly not, Ghanaians must be jubilating wildly for failure to get our act together. A former chairman, committee of pro-chancellors of Nigeria, Dr. Wale Babalakin, first alerted the nation in 2014 to the fact that over N160bn annually is expended by Nigerian parents to educate their wards in Ghana; this he said, is higher than what our government votes annually for education. With over 75, 000 Nigerians studying in universities in Ghana for 2012, the Ghanaians would simply not believe their luck. This figure is bound to soar with revelation that millions of Nigerian youths who sat for the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination each year won’t gain admission due to lack of carrying capacities in our varsities. A more desolate picture of the status of the education sector emerges when we factor in the fact that a substantial percentage often scores less than 200 in the UTME. In other words, there is both a crisis of quality and a quantitative shortage of facilities bedeviling the once world-class system of Nigerian education and opening the floodgate for other nations to swoop on us like vultures feasting on a decomposing animal. You think it is only the Ghanaians that are cashing in? Wrong, you only need to travel to Benin Republic and Togo to realise that universities are set up basically for Nigerians with full-fledged faculty members from Nigeria. The obverse side of education tourism is the exposure of impressionable Nigerian youths to other countries and cultures which often comes with a price tag which includes their being taken advantage of by unscrupulous operators.  There are reports on how unethical private university owners in Ghana exploit Nigerian students, sometimes by issuing certificates in the name of an established university and transcripts in the name of another virtually unknown private university. Don’t get me wrong, studying abroad undoubtedly has its own merits, including opportunity to attend top-class universities in different cultural settings and, of course, brighter international career opportunities, but what about our home front? Unfortunately, much of the resources of the universities, which should have been used to rectify these anomalies end up as recurrent expenditure – payment of salaries and spending on non-capital projects. The precarious situation is ever bogged down by poor funding as well as ill-conceived, inconsistent and outright failure of government policies. For instance, the 2018 budget’s allocation of N605.8 billion to education is a mere 7.07% of the entire budget.