…Many schools believe HIV is not real- Edo Govt  Nigeria’s HIV epidemic affects all population groups and geographic areas of the country. Consequently, February 2015, the Federal Government signed into law the HIV/AIDS anti-discrimination bill to protect the rights and dignity of people living with HIV. Thus, making it illegal to discriminate against people based on their HIV status. In this third edition of the five-part investigative series on HIV across seven states in Nigeria- Ogun, Lagos, Edo, Delta, Imo, Benue and the Federal Capital Territory Abuja, TOBORE OVUORIE, reveals children of school age living with the virus are overlooked when populations disproportionately impacted by the epidemic are assessed. These kids, the investigation discloses, are not only stigmatised and discriminated against by the society but are denied their human rights to educational opportunities.  “If my child is having HIV, there is no need of attending school. I will have to withdraw the child from the school….” The above was said by Mr. Ehigiator Nosakhare, a taxi driver in Benin city, Edo state. He wasn’t talking about his son. He was only asked if his child were living with HIV, would he disclose the status to the school authority? He thinks letting her go to school with the virus residing in her is risky. He would protect others- the school community, by keeping her at home. Questioned about her right to education, he said she will school at home. He would get her a home teacher.  Mr. Nosakhare is not the only father with this mindset. Some parents out of the numerous I have interviewed across several states for this series on HIV, share same sentiment. “I won’t allow her go to school if she tests positive to HIV. She will be at home. If contracting it was not of her making (through sex), I will look for solution for her. I am sure there are herbs that will help her. It would be combined with whatever we are given at the hospital.” This is a plumber popularly known as Baba Tosin. He lives in Ekpoma, the part of Edo state which hosts the Ambrose Alli University. Baba Tosin says if the daughter contracts it through sex, he will abandon her for sometime after being withdrawn from school. This is to teach her a lesson. Then, “will look for solution for her.” His belief? A combination of herbs and visits to the hospital, he thinks, is the surest way to keep the daughter alive. “When she is alright, I will enroll her as an apprentice to a tailor. That is the price to be paid for being wayward and contracting HIV in the process. At least, there’s good money in sewing business,” he says in a combination of stammering English, fluent Yoruba and pidgin. Asked if it were his son who tests positive, what will he do? “It is mostly females who contract it,” he retorts. “Boys don’t prostitute themselves like girls do.”   FATHERS WHO WANT TO WITHDRAW HIV POSITIVE DAUGHTERS FROM SCHOOL HAVE WRONG MENTALITY! But the Executive Director of the Edo State Agency for the Control of AIDS (Edo SACA), Mrs. Florence Oyakhilome-Edemode, Saturday August 18th, 2018 told me parents like Mr. Nosakhare, Baba Tosin and Mr. Osayimwense have “wrong mentality”. Mr. Osayimwense, a business man, whom I would later talk and write about in this story, said HIV will not spread in schools if girls living with the virus don’t prostitute themselves. “When she knows fully well that she is such a person, if she can keep herself, she cannot spread it,” were a part of his words. Appalled by the thoughts of withdrawing from school, kids who test positive to the virus, Mrs. Oyakhilome-Edemode retorted “What will he do if the child tests positive to HIV? He will kill the child?…Wrong mentality! To me, that is a wrong mentality. The child he is saying should study at home, living together, studying together cannot resort to other persons contracting HIV. “There are ways by which HIV can be contracted. And no study have revealed that staying together in a classroom, eating together or playing together as children will spread HIV. If what I have told you now cannot spread HIV, why on earth will I withdraw my child (from school) because my child has tested positive to the virus?” The Edo SACA helms-woman said such kids are to be watched and educated. If still an underage, it may require disclosure but this will depend on how knowledgeable the school authority is on HIV. She stressed the need for certainty that those who manage the schools are sound; they are of sound mind and know what HIV is really about. “But if they are not, because awareness is still not that much, there is still a lot of stigmatization and discrimination against persons living with the virus, that I know. In view of that, I may not disclose to the authority,” she added. She decried the HIV awareness level of educational institutions in the country saying “not many schools believe that it is a problem. So many people still say God forbid! The denial syndrome is still in so many people. Even with their level of education.”   HIGH PREVALENCE RATE: EDO STATE BEATS NIGERIA! Nigeria’s Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, August 2017, said of the over 173,660 persons living with HIV/AIDS in Edo state, only 25,730 have access to antiretroviral treatment. He decried the high rate of people living with the virus in the state and the low rate of people that have access to care and treatment. According to him, the figure shows that there is still a wide gap between those who require care and treatment and those who can access it in the state. Presently Edo state has a high prevalence rate of 4.1 percent of her population living with the virus. This is higher than the national prevalence rate of 3.4 percent. The state government, June 25th 2018, expressed concern over this. The Edo state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, had expressed the state government’s commitment at curbing the HIV menace. He said that his administration was committed to strengthening health systems to allow for effective management of diseases which include HIV/AIDs. “It is important that we contain HIV, but there are some key things we need to do. We need laboratories and the right management models to make it work,” he had said. The National Agency for the Control of AIDS (NACA) and the Joint United Nations Programme on HIV and AIDS (UNAIDS) in a joint spectrum estimates which commenced in 2017 say 14,770 children between the ages of zero to 14 are living with the virus, while 41.28 percent of them are covered in the ART scheme in Edo state. The survey indicates the state as having 11,024 new HIV infections. Unfortunately, children of school age are a part of the state’s high prevalence rate.  ***  OUR KIDS CAN’T BE IN SAME SPACE WITH HIV POSITIVE CHILDREN! Just like Lagos  and Ogun states,  parents in Edo state are against their children remaining friends, classmates or sharing space with any child who tests positive to the virus. Ironically, majority of them interviewed in the state said they wouldn’t disclose their kids’ status to school authorities if they were living with HIV. For instance, Mr. Nosakhare said he will withdraw his child from the school because he fears spread of the disease since kids are very innocent and ignorant. When told HIV cannot be contracted through body contact, he answered “I understand. But it’s because of the sharp objects. If assuming they are a little bit matured, it is a different case. Children, they can play with anything they want. They don’t know what is a sharp object or not. They can play with anything razor, nail. It’s very risky.” Asked if that isn’t stigmatization and a reason people who are HIV positive feel ashamed to disclose their status, he replied “hmmmn, I don’t think so.”   Mrs. Omolara Oladipupo, a hairstylist, says she will ban her child from having anything to do with a friend living with HIV. “If I hear that my child’s friend has HIV, I can tell my child that don’t play with that girl because HIV is not good for the body.” She wouldn’t allow her child remain in the school if the classmate tests positive to the virus. This, she believes is the surest way to stop her daughter from remaining friends with the infected child. But when I asked should the table turn around, would she inform the school authorities about her child’s HIV status while scouting for admission, she was emphatic with her “No! No.” I asked why. She said “I will keep that secret in my mind. Because if I tell the headmaster or headmistress, they will not allow my child to enter that school.”   Mr. Osayimwense thinks no parent will openly admit to his or her child having a medical condition such as HIV and epilepsy. He wouldn’t as well. Asked if he doesn’t think keeping the child’s status a secret from the school could endanger other kids, he answered “… if that child is a female child, if she continues prostituting, she can spread it. When she knows fully well that she is such a person, if she can keep herself, she cannot spread it.” Asked if the child is diagnosed with the virus when already in the school, will he still tell the school? He was categorical “the school authority, because we are Nigerians, instead of them to go for solution, they can ask the child to leave the school; which is not good. It’s not proper. “Instead of them (school authority) looking for solution for that child, they will find ways for that child to leave the school. So, with that, the parents will not disclose the health status of their children because we are Nigerians.”   Eunice Umogbai, a trader at Uselu market, Benin city will advise her son not to go anywhere close to the girl. Like other parents interviewed, she already took the stand that a classmate who tests positive to HIV must be a female. However, asked if she would disclose it to the school if it were her son who is with the virus, she replied “I no go tell school…..I no go tell school. How I go tell school my problem?”   For the young lady who wants to be known only by her first name; Mercy, she said “No, I will not tell the school because she is in the school already and I don’t know if she has done something that made another person to contract it. “So, telling the school is like you are implicating yourself. You are bringing yourself out. So that people that were moving with her before, all of them will now be running to laboratory to go and test themselves.”   Darlington Agama, a political scientist and administrator, first expressed shock when asked what he will do if he discovers his child’s classmate is living with HIV. Then gained his voice and said “I will go to their school to find out the safety precautionary measures the school has in place to protect other children, since the school is aware that one of the children there is HIV positive. Then if I am satisfied, I can leave my child there. If I am not, I will withdraw my child.” He however shares a different view from other parents who wouldn’t disclose their kids’ HIV status to school authorities. Mr. Aghama said doing otherwise will endanger other children in the school. “HIV can be managed. So, by not disclosing it, I am going to put several other children in danger which is not good at all,” he stated.   PARENTS DISCRIMINATING AGAINST CHILDREN WITH HIV ARE IGNORANT! Mrs. Oyakhilome-Edemode said parents who don’t want their children around kids living with HIV are ignorant. Then, she queried “how are they sure that the schools their children are now; the classes, are all the children HIV free? Do they know that? “The teachers teaching them, do they know their status? Myself talking to you, do you know my status? Do I know your status? They are just trying to bring sentiment into it. The children’s schools, have they tested all the children in their child’s class and know that they are HIV free?” She unplugged many parents’ fears that their children may contract the virus should the infected child get injured while they are playing. She said except there is direct contact and exchange of fluid, such as blood, HIV cannot be spread. Giving an example of a child sustaining an injury while playing with a razor blade, she queried “You mean the other child immediately too will sustain injury with a razor blade?” She called on parents to analyze situations holistically and reasonably to avoid discriminatory actions.   SCHOOL AUTHORITIES: WE ACCEPT AND ADMIT KIDS WITH DISCLOSED HIV STATUS Proprietors, proprietresses, principals, headmasters and headmistresses of all eight schools where admission inquiries were made while undercover in Edo state agreed to admit my daughter supposedly living with HIV. The schools were randomly chosen. The proprietress of Banmec Academy was glad about the disclosure. She said parents don’t do that. Her secretary who was the first point of contact even promised that teachers will not be told about the child’s status. “Let me just be truthful with you because my secretary told me about the girl. The truth is this, it is probably because you are enlightened that’s why you can share. Normally, people don’t even share,” the proprietress started the discussion. She continued “And we don’t even do blood work here to know a particular child’s status or anything. But it’s a good thing you told us…the child is not rough right? “No.” “It’s a good thing you shared. The person who sits down next to you in the bus, in the taxi, in the church, wherever you go, you don’t even know their health status.” “You are right ma.” “It is good we know as school authorities but it’s not something we would divulge and start making a case out of…it’s because you are enlightened, there are people that don’t share. They won’t share it…we are all living by the mercy of God. The market where we buy stuffs, we don’t know their health status…” she reeled on.  Head teachers, headmistresses, headmasters and principals of the other seven schools are also waiting to welcome my supposed daughter living with HIV by September 10th when most of them would resume the new academic session. They were full of praises over the disclosure saying parents don’t reveal their children’s HIV status. The schools respectively promised to keep her status a secret. For instance, at High Tower School, only the class teacher would be informed so she can ensure the child doesn’t play with sharp objects. “…I suggest the child start with us during this holiday lesson so that we can get used to each other. Then, what I will do is when she starts, let me know her particularly, “That is why we are telling the school.” “I will only discuss it with the class aunty. Only the class aunty. So that she will put her eyes on the kids just to prevent it (from spreading),” she continued calmly. “And this time, I will not allow whether parents or any other person to know; it’s only the school authority or the class aunty that will be aware of it in order to prevent use of sharp objects…”  The other six schools, a combination of primary and secondary schools include: Direct modern academy; Heaven bound christian school; Passover group of school; Continental school; Digital excellent academy and King of kings preparatory school.  “SCHOOL AUTHORITIES NOT TELLING THE TRUTH, WILL STIGMATIZE HIV POSITIVE KIDS!” In a survey carried out among primary and secondary school teachers in Edo state between April and August 2018, over half of the respondents who filled my questionnaires noted that parents should never inform school authorities about their children’s HIV status. Respondents were 56 males and 34 females. They are resident and randomly sampled in Benin city, Ekpoma and Auchi. Majority of the reasons given is that it is the same school authorities that will divulge the information, while the kids will end up being stigmatized within and outside the school. Many of the teachers filled that their bosses claiming parents can disclose their children’s status to them and the information will be safe, are just being politically correct.  “It is all Nigerian stories!” Mrs. Olufunke Omorodion (not real name), a teacher with Idia College Benin city, gave as part of her reasons in the survey. Other teachers said Nigeria is not yet matured for such “free and easy talks about one’s HIV status, how much more that of children within school communities.” All teachers surveyed said schools in Edo state are not HIV-aware. In the distributed paper questionnaires, all 80 respondents ticked ‘We do not have HIV education in the school where I teach.’ Also, they all ticked ‘HIV is not taught as a subject in the school where I teach.’ Again, 100 percent of the respondents to my questionnaire ticked ‘We do not have HIV extracurricular activities in the school where I teach.’ None of the surveyed teachers agreed that the schools where they teach have HIV education clubs.  YES! SCHOOL AUTHORITIES NOT HONEST WITH THEIR HIV ACCEPTANCE When I contacted the Edo SACA helms-woman over the teachers’ claims, she said “Of course! Yes, I believe that. I believe that too. That was why I told you depending on the school, what I see in them. If I know that the level of awareness is high, I can think of doing such (disclosing her child’s HIV status).” But if the opposite were the case, she wouldn’t dare disclose because “The stigmatization and discrimination will begin from them (the school authorities).”   Mrs. Jane Nwagbuo, is the Executive Director of Jane Edwin Foundation Edo state, which caters to the literacy and developmental well-being of girls in rural and urban parts of the state. Mrs. Nwagbuo is sad about the whole development. “It is stigma. I don’t really like this stigma thing because in Nigeria, when you tell them you are HIV positive, the next thing you know is that everybody will start looking at you with one kind eye.  “Even people will not try to come in close contact with you. So, I think the school authorities should not do so to the children. Even if the school is well sensitized, there is no how somebody from their class wouldn’t know.” She recommended a non-disclosure-to-a-third-party agreement between parents and school authorities. She said rather than stigmatize kids living with the virus, they should be assisted in regularly taking their antiretroviral medications. “I don’t think it is worth stigmatizing. The stigma is just too much,” she lamented.   USE CONDOMS AND PRAY ALWAYS Prophet Sunday Omoduyilemi, Founder of the Holy Revelation Church of Zion Worldwide, warns everyone must be careful with their deeds as HIV is not contracted through sex alone. He called on all Nigerians to be prayerful because no one can protect himself except God. Also known as Baba Ifihan (the father who sees visions), Prophet Omoduyilemi advised the use of condoms. “There is condom. If you want to have anything (intercourse) with anybody, use your condom. And before having intimacy with anyone, tell the person to get tested so that you can be free to do whatever you want to do,” he said. He admitted there is financial difficulty in the country, thus, many persons cannot buy clippers of there own, thereby using public clippers at the barbing saloon. To prevent contracting the virus at the saloon, he recommended a more prayerful lifestyle. To persons already living with HIV, Prophet Omoduyilemi has this message: “Anybody that has it already, my own is that don’t think too much. It is a sickness’ It can go. Don’t keep quiet. Tell people about your problems (HIV status). From there, you can see someone God can use to save you. “I know someone that has HIV, and now they are telling me God is in control. There is solution for HIV.” What happens, according to Baba Ifihan, is that persons living with the virus think too much and panic over it. This, he said, often leads to their untimely deaths. He enjoined people who test positive to the virus to be happy at all times. He believes by being happy always, the virus will leave such persons’ bodies. “Anybody that has it, don’t over think. Don’t look that this is the end of life. No. it is not the end. You can still be saved. Be happy. Be prayerful. Be taking your medication,” he added.   HIV CANNOT BE CURED THROUGH BEING HAPPY Mr. Omilaju Ipoade, Programmes Manager, humanitarian and resilience, Actionaids, Nigeria, said Prophet Omoduyilemi’s claim of HIV healing through being happy often, is a function of his belief and faith. Mr. Ipoade likened faith and reality to two parallel lines which never meet. He said Prophet Omoduyilemi is living in denial and far from reality. Nigerians, he said, are very religious people, reason such assertions thrive. However, he stressed that HIV at the moment has no cure but can be properly managed.   MORE ENLIGHTENMENT NEEDED ON HIV Mrs. Jane Nwagbuo called for more HIV awareness creation in the country. “I think people generally need to be enlightened. I think most of the problem is that they just see it as a death sentence. “If they are well enlightened, I think they will see it as no big deal and will encourage and be supportive to their children. But I think those in the rural communities need to be reached concerning enlightenment and awareness.” She opined parents should disclose their children’s HIV status but the school authorities must be HIV-aware for such talks to be safe and successful. “I still feel the schools need to be reached as well. They need to be sensitized because most of them, they could be educated but in that area (HIV education) they could still be novice. I believe when the schools and the parents are reached, as well as the society, it would go a long way,” she said.   EVERYONE SHOULD KNOW THEIR HIV STATUS “Problem identified is half solved. Knowing that there is a child that is infected, what we do is not to show the child sympathy, rather, we empathize with this child. “In empathizing with the child, help the child to live a meaningful life. Help the child to access his or her antiretroviral to increase adherence. Because if the child continues taking his or her medications, there will be no immune drop; the immunity will be steady,” are part of the Edo SACA helms-woman’s message to Nigerians. She emphasized children who test positive to the virus need encouragement, not sympathy as the latter could unknowingly lead to stigmatization. She stressed the need for everyone to know their HIV status and called on all students, teachers and school authorities to get tested for the virus. “We all should know our status. We should encourage our wards, our church members, our club members, our family members, to know their status,” she concluded.   This story was produced with support from Code For Africa and her Naija Data Ladies Fellowship Programme.