THE events of the past few weeks in Nigeria’s political environment bear the imprint of a ruling class that has failed to learn from history. It is reminiscent of the events preceding the 2015 General Election in the country when the then ruling People’s Democratic Party (PDP) suffered a lot of casualty. Now, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has in a space of less than two weeks lost many key politicians elected on its platform to the major opposition PDP. But just as many thought this political hemorrhage would continue along that line, some key politicians have now began to defect from the PDP to the APC, a development that has left many watchers confounded. In 2013, in what many political analysts called an earthquake, five aggrieved governors of the PDP, in one fell swoop, joined the then newly-formed APC after staging a walkout on the PDP National Convention in Abuja. Governors Rabiu Kwankwaso of Kano, Aliyu Wamakko of Sokoto, Abdulfatah Ahmed of Kwara, Murtala Nyako of Adamawa, and Rotimi Amaechi of Rivers States were soon joined by the current Senate President, Bukola Saraki, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, Abubakar Baraje, a former Acting National Chairman of PDP, Sam Sam Jaja, a former PDP Deputy National Chairman, among many others. Consequently, most of the House of Representatives members and senators from the states of the defecting governors also joined the APC. It was a deadly blow that the PDP is yet to recover from. The first notable politician to defect in the ongoing unfolding episode was former Vice President Atiku Abubakar, who, earlier in the year announced his withdrawal from APC. Alhaji Atiku ended up returning to the major opposition PDP. This is the third time that the former Vice President has returned to the party after defecting to other parties. He was a founding member of the PDP in 1998. However, Carpet-Crossing is not a new phenomenon in Nigerian politics. It is a practice that has been with us since the First Republic in the decade leading to independence of the country. The first recorded incident of carpet-crossing was in 1951 in the defunct Western Region House of Assembly when several members of the now defunct National Counsel of Nigeria and Cameroon (NCNC), led by Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe, popularly known as the Great Zik of Africa, overnight decamped to the old Action Group (AG), led by the Great Sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, to deny Zik, the crucial majority in the Western Region House of Assembly, which led to the AG forming the Government in the defunct region and Dr. Azikiwe beating a tactical retreat for relevance home to his native Eastern Region to form the ruling government. It is instructive to note that this singular political event, according to political historians, is the root of tribal politics in Nigeria. Many still hold the view that it led to permanent mistrust, not only between the two great and illustrious nationalists, Awolowo and Azikiwe, but even amongst their kinsmen which they say still persists. Prior to that cross carpeting in the then Western Region, all tribes lived and related in the area as one loving Nigerian people.  It was a mini Nigeria where things worked. But the introduction of tribal politics destroyed all that. As negative and counter-productive that experience was, it was still not as banal and pedestrian as the current approach of the political class which has even deteriorated to merchandising and clear negotiations, hinged on selfish interest. Reports of financial inducement amidst these flurry of defections is a development that portray many politicians in this clime as fundamentally lacking in integrity and character. If anyone must cross carpet, it should be because of what his people stand to gain and for the greater good of all, not for pecuniary, narrow or banal interests. Defections should be on grounds of what constituents will get and this should be the issue guiding actions, discussions and negotiations. So, as Nigerians analyse or view these defections they should see it against the backdrop of what will benefit them and not the selfish politicians. One fundamental ingredient of democracy is the ideological base. The current pattern of defections lacks this very important element and therefore a threat to our democracy. People must be known for what they stand for and what they represent. This vital plant is now obviously lacking. Therefore, the current mercantile dimension should be condemned by all. Such practices should be jettisoned or our politics will pay dearly for this infraction. On their part, journalists should strive to abide by the high ethics of the profession and good moral conduct to safeguard the nation’s democracy. They should not lose their sense of clear perception amidst the current rising political intrigues and tensions in the country. As the 2019 polls get closer, more of these unwholesome intrigues would occur, but journalists must see these moves for what they really are and not be carried away. They should always remember their responsibility of transmitting only healthy information to the public. Journalists must not forget  that the  survival of Nigeria’s Democracy rested largely on their reportage and therefore should always be above board. More importantly, the leadership of political parties must to be wary of these defection moves by desperate politicians. Most of these defections are dangerous and may be cancerous to the party. Parities should be built on a strong foundation of discipline and anti-corruption which should not be undermined by the feeling of ‘all comers affair.’ Party leaders must always resist the temptation of building their structures around individuals. The time to check this ugly trend is now! 