A crowd of sympathisers gathered as the popular Music House, owned by music artiste, Yinka Ayefele was brought down by bulldozer in Ibadan, Oyo State in the early hours of Sunday. Ayefele had cried out last week, of the intention of the Governor Abiola Ajimobi-led government to demolish the building, citing political motive as reason. But the Oyo State government revisited a long time decision to remove the building which houses the popular Fresh FM studio, saying it was responsible for three accidents that occurred on the road in the last nine months. Sympathisers cried and cursed as the property, estimated to cost over N800m was brought down. The Oyo State government had on Wednesday explained that the demolition notice to Music House, Fresh Fm 105.9, Ibadan was not based on sentiments or witch-hunting, saying that contravention notices were served to different organisations in the state since June 14, 2017 including all radio stations in the state. The government in a statement by the State Commissioner for Information, Culture and Tourism, Mr. Toye Arulogun said that the state government observed that property owners in the state are deviating from the originally approved building plans without seeking physical planning approvals from the Oyo State Bureau of Physical Planning and Development Control. Arulogun stated that the decision of the state government to demand for the building approved plan was not peculiar to Music House, Fresh Fm as several companies and institutiuons such as University of Ibadan, Kola Daisi University, University College Hospital, banks and radio stations in the state were asked to provide their Planning approval, saying that the government recently demolished several banks ATM extension and some local government structures in the state. The government’s spokesman said that the letter to Fresh Fm was received by one Bamiduro Aderonke and a reminder letter dated August 18, 2017 was sent to the radio station to again request for the planning approval/permit for the Radio Station in line with the Oyo State Physical and Development Control laws in which the radio station was expected to forward the approved Building plan to the Bureau within seven days, noting that a copy of the letter was received by Adebisi Akinfunmi on August 21, 2017. Arulogun said that the submitted building approval was actually meant for an office complex and not a radio station, thereby contravening the Oyo State Physical Planning and Development Control laws, sections 30, 31 and 32 of the Oyo State Physical Planning and Urban Development Law of 2012, stating that the submitted approval from Music House deviated from the approved plan which effect makes the approval null and void because deceitful information was given to the approving authority and also deviation from the approval granted both in construction and use. He added that a physical inspection was carried out on June 25, 2018 to ascertain the extent of the deviation from the approval where it was discovered that apart from the change in use of the building, spatial standards in terms of setback, airspace and parking spaces were found to be grossly inadequate. The Commissioner said that a letter was sent to Music house on June 29, 2018 to submit a fresh building plan application that will reflect the existing structures on site, noting that the radio house deliberately ignored the letter as there was no response from their end till date. He said that the deviant posture of the radio station prompted the Bureau to serve a three day Demolition Notice on August 13, 2018 which expired on August 15, 2018. However, the station is back on air from its backup facility. The incident was a calamity for the wheel chair singer who lost both legs in a ghastly auto crash 21 years ago on December 12, 1997.