Fifty-FOUR girls,, who completed a two-week technology camp by the Women’s Technology Empowerment Centre (W.TEC) last Saturday, were excited about the technology skills they had gained to develop Apps, create 3d models, design websites and fancy bags, and engage in self-defence. The girls also learnt about Artificial Intelligence, Python programming, HTML, software design, digital music production using RCube, internet safety and security, building renewable solar energy collectors, and chemistry during the camp tagged, She Creates. The participants, made up of secondary school pupils in JSS2-SS2 classes, who camped at Laureates College, Mafoluku, Lagos also went on two field trips to technology firms, Andela and Asteven Solar during the 11th edition of the residential camp. At the closing ceremony, the girls aged 11-17 shared snippets of their camp experience with parents and guests gathered at school the hall.  Their presentations, particularly the self-defense by Adeniyi Benaiah, Taiye Rueben and Kehinde Rueben; HTML by Teniola Shosanya; 3D Design by Folademilade Oyeleke; and Poetry presentation by Aishat Abdulmajeed, attracted huge applause from the audience. In his goodwill message, Mr Joseph Baiyekusi, representative of Hadassah STEM (Science, Technology Engineering and Mathematics), which sponsored 21 girls for the camp, urged the pupils to be innovative and build on the skills they had learnt.  He shared stories of people who had excelled in the IT world. “Everything that is happening on earth is technology driven. We need our girls to be IT/STEM compliant. New ideas can come up that can earn you billions.  One day, it was announced that Facebook lost $17 billion; the next day WhatsApp introduced a new product that would earn the company more money. With WhatsApp, you can make conference video calls. So, who says you girls are not the future billionaires?  Whatever foundation, training you have got in here, build on it. In the next Technovation competition the winners should come from W.TEC,” he said. W.TC Executive Director, Mrs Oreoluwa Lesi, urged the girls to continuing using technology regardless of what field of career they pursue.   She said with technology, they could embrace flexible careers that could allow them work from home. Over the years, she told The Nation in an interview that the camp had grown in leaps and bounds and was positively impacting the alumnae. “We had 54 participants this year.  It was an organic growth. We started with 15 in the first camp, then grew to 30, then 40. This year we target 45 but demand was more. The fact we have more participants for the camps is good. “We follow up with our alumnae.  Almost 40 per cent are studying courses related to STEM; some others working with technology in one way or the other. We tell them after camp they should go back to impact their communities.  We have a testimony where a school’s computer science teacher told us that a participant helped to set up their computer laboratory after attending our camp,” she said. Highlight of the event was the presentation of prizes to girls who distinguished themselves in their character, group and individual projects during the camp. The Overall Winner’s Prize, Miss W.TEC, for the girl who was best in academics, team work, and behaviour, went to Miss Chisom Ude for her steadfastness throughout the camp. The camp was sponsored by Google, Oracle Academy, Swift Networks Ltd and Laureates College, among others. 