Aveon Offshore has raised its reputation to a new height, as it partners APL/NOV to launch an Egina Olt- Buoy. The delivery ceremony, which took place at Aveon fabrication yard, Rumuolumeni, Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, was attended by key players in the Nigerian oil and gas industry, which included the workers and management of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) and the Executive Secretary of NCDMB, Engr. Simbi Wabote. The Chairman of Aveon Offshore, Tein George, said executing the project required a lot of time and manpower, adding that the brand was proud to have completed the project at the scheduled time. He added: “We at Aveon Offshore strive for excellence by delivering top notch services within defined project timeline. We are a proudly safety conscious company and our safety record, which remains uncompromised regardless of the nature of the project we take on and our work, is fully compliant with local content requirements and the recently-concluded construction of this Egina Olt- Buoy is not an exception.” The project, which is a joint effort of the National Oilwell Varco and Aveon offshore, has been proved to be safe for use after validating test-runs. John Borres Sannaes expressed NOV’s satisfaction working with Aveon Offshore through the course of the project. “Before we decided to work with Aveon Offshore, we had a clear understanding of their high standard and their attention to details. So, the decision to work with them on this project was so easy. The engineers engaged in the execution of this project are some of the best around. That was because we wanted the best quality and we wanted to scale through every QC test without any concern,” he said. Aveon Offshore remains one of the best oil-servicing firms in the country, with a focus on total client satisfaction that is achieved through the provision of products and services of top-most quality, which is delivered through an unyielding firmness on safety and environmental principle, which has remained second to none. 