As Sallah is being celebrated today, President Muhammadu Buhari leads others in preaching peace, love and tolerance to Muslim faithful, report Ozeigbe Okoeki, Odunayo Ogunmola, Okungbowa Aiwere, Damisi Ojo, Kolade Adeyemi and Chris Oji. •Ambode, Aregbesola, Dakwambo, others preach peace President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to rise above personal, group, sectarian and other interests in the country. He urged them to promote harmony and tolerance in dealing with one another at all times. This President’s Eid-el-Kabir message according to Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, quoted him as urging Muslims to use the occasion for sober reflection and self-examination, and strive to be good ambassadors of their religion by upholding high moral values He reminded Muslims that this felicitous occasion of Eid-ul-Adha is a remembrance of the submission of Prophet Ibrahim Allaihis-Salam to Allah, his Creator, by which he taught the world the value of sacrifice in relating with one another, and when it comes to nation-building. He said “We must sacrifice for others and remember always those who are less fortunate than ourselves,” the President declared. President Buhari explained that religion is a major factor in influencing human behaviour towards good conduct and actions. Heexpressed regret that selfishness, greed and corruption had overwhelmed human souls to the extent that people abandon their religious beliefs in pursuit of their greed. The President stressed that fighting corruption is a task that must be done in order to protect the larger interests of the ordinary Nigerians who are the worst victims of diseases, poverty, malnutrition and other afflictions. He said surrendering to corruption is not an option because it destroys society and progress of nations. “Even if some people hate you for fighting corruption, you should not chicken out from the task as a leader because doing so is a betrayal of public trust.” the President added On the economic challenges facing Nigerians, the President reassured that such are temporary because the welfare of the people is the main thrust of the change agenda of the administration. President Buhari cited the many initiatives unfolded by the administration under the Social Investment Programme (SIP) among which was the decision to distribute recovered stolen funds to the poor against the past practices of re-looting such funds by some people in authority. The President arrived I his hometown Daura yesterday. He arrived at the Umaru Musa Yar’Adua International Airport aboad the Presidential jet at the airport at about 5.51p.m. Katsina state Governor Aminu Masari and Minister of State (Aviation) Hadi Sirika were among those at the airport to welcome the President. The President was conveyed from there to Daura by a presidential chopper. The President has been observing Eid-el Kabir at his country home in the last three years of his presidency. The Senate President Bukola Saraki, House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara and Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu also urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of brotherhood and peaceful coexistence. In separate Eid el Kabir messages, Saraki enjoined Nigerians to increase their efforts in charitable endeavours, perseverance and spiritual intercession for the nation. The Senate President urged Nigerians to further devote their prayers at the Eid praying grounds to the call on Allah to restore peace in all parts of the country, strengthen the unity and rebuild the economy. Saraki also congratulated Muslims on the celebration of the 2018 Eid el-Kabir festival and described the special occasion as “a period that honours the willingness of Prophet Ibrahim to sacrifice his son to show submission to Allah’s command”. Dogara, enjoined the Muslim Ummah and Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, love and tolerance for the peace, unity and progress of the country. “While rejoicing with our Muslim brothers on this auspicious occasion of  Eid el-Kabir Sallah celebration, which symbolises sacrifice and obedience,  I wish to enjoin all people of goodwill to be steadfast in love for one another and demonstrate renewed commitment to the Nigerian project in order to make our society ideal for all and towards the fulfillment of the country’s great potentials”. “I also urge our religious leaders to take advantage of the season and preach peace, unity and tolerance among the diverse people, especially now that the country is at  critical political crossroads, with the electioneering process gaining momentum as the 2019 general elections draw nearer”. “On our part as lawmakers, we will continue to pursue people-oriented legislations and initiate reforms and legislative interventions that will guarantee peace and stability in the polity and the nation as a whole as well as improve the living conditions of the citizens”. Ekweremadu said: “The Eid-el Kabir presents yet another opportunity for the Muslim Umah and indeed all Nigerians to reflect soberly on state of the nation and pray for Nigeria’s future and peaceful elections. “Importantly, Nigeria is certainly in need of both attitudinal change and divine intervention as the country prepares for the 2019 general elections. Whereas the extensive electoral reforms carried out by the National Assembly manifested in visible improvements in the quality of the 2011 and 2015 general elections, subsequent elections have been gravely marred by excessive violence, vote buying, and other outrageous manipulations that threaten our democracy. “From the Bayelsa Governorship election to the recent bye-elections in Kogi and Rivers States, among others, the nation has witnessed intolerable levels of impunity, violence, excessive abuse and manipulation of vital institutions of democracy, which signal grave turbulence ahead of 2019”. ‘Embrace love,unity, sacrifice’ In Lagos, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode urged Muslims to live in love and unity. In his Sallah message,Ambode said the period of the celebration was a clarion call for Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of the season such as selfless service to God and humanity, sacrifice and sincere commitment to righteous conducts in their private and public life. “The significance of the season should be beyond feasting, adding that as Muslims prepare to offer animal sacrifice in the prescribed days of the festival, the real essence should be to encourage piety, self-discipline and sacrifice”, Ambode admonished faithful. The governor called on all Nigerians to exhibit these virtues for the good of the country and shun any act capable of heating up the polity or causing distrust among various ethnic groups in the country. His words: “As we celebrate this auspicious occasion, let us renew our faith in our nation and implore the Almighty God to restore to us those values that place high premium on human life, love of neighbour and sharing even as we ventilate our faith in the unity of our dear country. “This period requires more patience, fortitude, tolerance, endurance, patriotism and a greater willingness to make personal sacrifices for the good of all.” Fayemi urges peaceful co-existence Ekiti State governor-elect Kayode Fayemi felicitated with Muslims in the country. Dr. Fayemi urged the Muslims Ummah to uphold the lessons of love, loyalty and sacrifice which is the foundation of the festival, during and after the festivities. In a goodwill message, the governor-elect said: “The Eid-el-Kabir festival offers the opportunity for sober reflection and spiritual renewal which Allah demands from the faithful. “The Muslim faithful and adherents of other faiths in the country should make peaceful coexistence their watchword and work together for a more peaceful and prosperous Nigeria. “Nigerians need to imbibe the lessons of commitment, dedication and obedience to higher authority as demonstrated in Prophet Ibraheem’s willingness to sacrifice his son in deference to the will of God, which Eid-el-Kabir commemorates. “It is only through the love for one another and commitment to peace, security and stability that the country can progress towards the fulfilment of its great potentials as a nation.” Kalu sues for unity among Nigerians Former Abia State Governor of Abia State and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC)Orji Kalu  urged leaders across the country to use their positions  to advocate peaceful co-existence among Nigerians regardless of ethnic, religious and political divides. According to him, Nigerians should embrace patriotism, selflessness and discipline in their pursuits for the sake of rebuilding the nation. Stressing that Nigeria is better off as an indivisible and united entity, he urged the political class not to use sentiments to polarise the country. Kalu said in a statement: “I congratulate our Muslim brothers and sisters on the occasion of Eid-el Kabir. It is a special season and it calls for special prayers for the country. “We should use this opportunity to appraise ourselves as individuals and as a people. We should exhibit piety, selflessness, patriotism and service to humanity in our activities as enshrined in the Holy Quran. “Let us respect other people’s religious beliefs and by so doing, there will be no rift in the society. Nigeria remains a blessed nation owing to its diversity in religion and ethnicity.” Atiku preaches love, tolerance Former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar advised Muslims to take the center stage in promoting and spreading love among fellow Nigerians to consolidate unity. He said religion should be used as a means to advance the cause of love amongst the people. According to him, diversity cannot be the cause of Nigeria’s problems.He blamed the attitude of Nigerians towards one another. He said: “The common interests that unite Nigerians are by far stronger than those petty factors that divide us. “Intolerance, extremism and bigotry, if unchecked, could threaten peace and unity in any country.” He identified peace and unity as the greatest assets that should not be taken for granted, adding that interfaith dialogue would not go far enough if bigotry is allowed to defeat human reason and wisdom. The former vice president noted that all religions preach love of mankind, and urged Muslims to promote the beauty of their faith through positive personal conducts. Aregbesola to faithful: imbibe forgiving spirit Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola urged the Muslim faithful to uphold their obedience to Allah in the spirit of forgiveness for one another. In a goodwill message, Aregbesola described Islam as a religion that upholds the spirit of love, peace and charity and preach harmonious living relationship with other religions adherents. He commended the Muslim community in Osun for supporting his administration and for being good citizens. The governor urged Muslims to expand the spiritual benefits of Sallah by ensuring and promoting peaceful co-existence with each other and people of other faiths and shun violence and religious conflicts in whatever form they may manifest. He enjoined Muslims to pray for and conduct themselves peacefully before during and after the September 22, governorship election coming up in the state, noting that it is only Allah who enthrones and anyone who wants to forcefully enthrone himself can only do so in vain. He advised the faithful to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice which Prophets Ibrahim and his son, Ismaeel, exemplified, an occasion which is being commemorated yearly, thousands of years since. The message reads: “Let me congratulate all Muslim on the occasion of this year’s Eid-el-Kabir festival. “I want you to use the occasion of the festival to demonstrate that the world is united by our common humanity. “You have demonstrated that you are patriotic Nigerians with your peaceful conduct, obedience to the laws of the land and invaluable contribution to development of our country. “You should continue to pray fervently for those things that would promote unity of the country, and pray against things that threaten the existence of Nigeria.” Dankwambo: truth exalts a nation Gombe State Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo has joined Muslims in celebrating Eid-el-Kabir. He said: “As we celebrate Eid-el-Kabir, citizens must be reminded of the need to celebrate with love for one another and for our country. I must also say this: as the Holy Books teach us that only truth exalts a nation, only sacrifice by the people can sustain the nation on the path of unity, peace, progress and prosperity. Today is a day for sober reflection, especially as a result of the challenges facing Nigeria as a nation and the harrowing personal experience of the majority of citizens.” Submit to Allah’s will, Ahmed urges Muslims Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed urged Muslims  to imbibe the lessons of total submission and obedience to the will of Almighty Allah and promote the principle of being one another’s keepers. The governor emphasised the need to devote oneself to the services of the supreme being and pray for the unity, peace, progress and stability of the country He said: “Let’s guide against hate speech, thuggery and violence but imbibe lessons of the season and pray for a free, fair and credible elections in 2019 and beyond.” Dr. Ahmed expressed his gratitude to the people of the state for their supports and prayers over the years and renewed his commitment to bequeathing a worthy legacy for his successor. “We shall take our projects to fruition levels”, the governor said. Okowa urges prayers for leaders Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa urged Nigerians to put aside their religious and political differences to build a united country. He urged Muslims to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of sacrifice exemplified by the prophet. Okowa, in a Sallah message said Eid-el-Kabir was a season of love, peace, togetherness and sacrifice. Okowa said: “I enjoin you to use the period to uphold the spiritual benefit of the celebration by extending a hand of friendship and solidarity across all divides and imbibing the spirit of sacrifice and obedience to the higher authority as exemplified by Prophet Ibrahim and upheld by Prophet Muhammed. “This is an opportunity for us to reflect and pray for our nation; and for all those in leadership positions so that God in his infinite mercy will continue to guide them as they steer the affairs of the country.” He assured the people of Delta State that the state government would work with security agencies to ensure that all citizens celebrate the Sallah in peace and harmony. Akeredolu: celebrate with fear of God Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu believed that the annual festival, which symbolises sacrifice and peace, will be celebrated by the Muslims with the fear of God and continued service to humanity and love of one another. He urged them to be moderate in their activities as they peacefully visit various places of interest to celebrate the much-cherished festival. The governor noted that as they go to the Prayer Ground for supplication to the Almighty, they should as usual, pray for the leadership of the state and the country in general. ‘Emulate Mohammed’ Rivers State Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike urged Muslims to emulate the Holy Prophet Mohammed by imbibing the ideals of sacrifice exemplified by the Prophet. Wike described Eid-el-Kabir as a season of love, peace, togetherness and sacrifice. He urged Nigerians to embrace religious tolerance which will promote peace across the country and enhance national development. He assured the people of Rivers State that the state government will work with the  security  agencies  to ensure that all citizens celebrate  the Sallah  in peace and harmony. He congratulated the Muslim community in the Southsouth state  on the Sallah celebration, assuring  them that his administration  will continue  to  partner with  them to move the state forward. Ganduje urges Muslims on sacrifice Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje urged Muslims to imbibe the values of sacrifice, love and keep fostering unity as they join their counterparts globally to celebrate this year’s Eid-el-Kabir celebrations. Ganduje also cautioned religious and political leaders against hate campaigns, incitement or fanning embers of disunity in this period of heightened political activity in the country. In his Sallah message, Ganduje said the period of the celebration was a clarion call for Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of the season such as selfless service to God and humanity, sacrifice and sincere commitment to righteous conducts in their private and public life. He explained that the significance of the season should be beyond the festivities, adding that the real essence was not in the meat or the blood of the animal but to encourage piety, self-discipline and sacrifice. The governor called on all Nigerians to exhibit these values for the good of the country, stressing the need for constructive criticisms for improved governance, which he said, must be separated from incitements in order to move forward. Ugwuanyi calls for prayers, sustained peace Enugu State Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi urged Muslems  to continue to uphold and promote the core values of Islam for the sustenance of peace, unity and progress of the country. Ugwuanyi, who felicitated with President Muhammadu Buhari and other Muslim faithful, also wished them the guidance and blessings of Allah, calling on all Nigerians to continue to supplicate for the progress of the country, through good deeds, sacrifice and abiding faith in God. He noted: “The ultimate goal remains our collective ability to live in peace and harmony, to cherish one another irrespective of religious, ethnic and political differences, for sustainable development of the nation”.