A one-time Registrar of the Lagos State University (LASU), Mr Owolabi Amisu, died yesterday morning while preparing for the Eid-el-Fitri prayers, according to his eldest daughter, Joke. Amisu was registrar from 1998 until 2004. A native of Epe in Lagos State, Amisu died at the age of 71, according to the family. Grieving over the father’s death, Joke told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that it was “very disheartening and shocking.” She said he was not sick until he passed on suddenly. “My daddy woke up sound and healthy early this morning to prepare for Eid-el-Fitri prayers. “Not until 8.00 am that he complained of a slight headache and we immediately rushed him to Epe General Hospital for treatment. “But he could not survive it as he gave up the ghost at 9am,” she said. Condolences poured in for the family of the late LASU Registrar. A Lagos State lawmaker, Mr Segun Olulade, described him as a knowledgeable and intelligent man. According to him, Amisu had identified some societal problems and proffered corrective measures. “Amisu will be sorely missed by all in Epe division because he always put his deep knowledge and understanding of academics at the disposal of people. “I am deeply saddened by the death of the former registrar. But as a believer, we must take every occurrence as the will of God. “I condole with his immediate family, the Muslim community and Epe,” Olulade told NAN in Epe. He urged youths in the area to emulate his exemplary life style. Chairman, Eredo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Mr Adeniyi Saliu, expressed sadness over Amisu’s death, describing it as a great loss to Epe, Eredo community and the academia. “He will be remembered for his boldness, courageous stance and wealth of knowledge which marked him out in the present day Nigeria,” he said. Also, Mrs Aderonke Ige, the immediate past Registrar, Lagos State Polytechnic, said: “His death is shocking to me because I talked to him virtually every day. “I did not expect him to leave us so soon. I will miss him greatly and his wealth of knowledge. “He was well known in the academic environment as an intelligent and courageous man.”