Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Tuesday condemned the siege by operatives of the Department of Security Service (DSS) on the National Assembly. Operatives of the DSS had on Tuesday morning blocked the National Assembly entrance  barring anyone from going into the complex. The lawmakers were later allowed into the chamber, while journalists and other staff of  the National Assembly were barred from the entering. Atiku, in a statement posted on his official and verified Facebook page, said the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, guarantees both the independence of the legislature and separation of powers.. He said: “The attention of former Vice President of Nigeria, Atiku Abubakar, has been drawn to an illegal and undemocratic attempt by fascist forces to break into the National Assembly for the purpose of furthering the agenda to force a change in the Nigerian Senate’s leadership. “Atiku Abubakar completely condemns this atrocity and calls on all those involved to put Nigeria first and abandon this madness. “The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as amended, guarantees both the independence of the legislature and separation of powers. Nigeria is a democracy not a military dictatorship and we the people will never return to tyranny. “Atiku Abubakar calls on President Muhammadu Buhari and Acting President Yemi Osinbajo to stop hiding behind one finger and live up to their responsibility of upholding the constitution and law and order, which they swore to on May 29, 2015. “We warned that if what occurred in Benue last week was not checked on time, it would escalate to the federal level. Today we are seeing that warning in play.” “The acting President, being himself a Professor of Law, ought to know that setting such a precedent is an invitation to anarchy. “There are better uses for our security forces at this time than to lay siege to our citadels of democracy. Our people are languishing in the midst of unprecedented insecurity and nationwide killings. To thus deploy our security forces in this present manner whilst Nigerians face these challenges is an abdication of responsibility to say the least. “All Nigerians should be watchful and mobilised to defend democracy. We must remember that ‘eternal vigilance is the price of liberty.”