The late United States Senator John McCain demostrated a commitment to a safer world, wife of Senate President Mrs. Toyin Saraki has said. In a condolence letter to Mrs Cindy McCain, widow of the late  Senator,  Mrs  Saraki said: “The tributes that have been paid to Senator McCain have come from around the globe and from across the political spectrum. Although your husband’s bravery and statesmanship are legendary, each time I read a fresh account it gives me cause to pause and reflect further on his life and his legacy.” “Senator McCain’s article “Memo to Congress: Don’t Cut Foreign Aid,” jointly written with Senator Tim Kaine, a Democratic Senator from Virginia, demonstrated his commitment to a safe world in which every man, woman and child could be free, happy and healthy. He wrote: Today, 80 percent of our assistance provides relief and promotes stability in conflict zones and states on the verge of collapse. There are U.S. Agency for International Development programs in many of the countries most plagued by terrorism, including Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria, Mali, Yemen and Somalia. We’re saving lives and creating partners to help address the instability that produces the threats our military risks life and limb to fight.” “In doing so, Senator McCain drew upon his deep understanding of the link between health, development and security. As we seek to respect and build on his legacy, I hope that this will be one of the cornerstones of that understanding.” “At this sad time, I would like to also pay tribute to your own leadership – not only in support of your husband, but as a philanthropist, advocate and change-maker yourself. Your decades of service in the development sphere have touched many lives, and as an advocate for women myself, I salute in particular your commitment to CARE and its work to fight poverty and its focus on doing so for women” “My thoughts and prayers are with you, your family and your husband. May we all learn much and act in the light of his life.” Wellbeing Foundation is an NGO which focuses on child and maternal healthcare, and Mrs Ojora Saraki is a Global Ambassador for the World Health Organisation, WHO, in this regard.