The All Progressives Congress (APC) penultimate week went through another acid test in the run-up to the 2019 general elections. This time around it took place at the Senate and House of Representatives plenary sessions, where some lawmakers defected from the ruling APC. While 14 senators were said to have defected from the APC, 37 APC members in the House of Representatives were also reportedly defected to other political parties. This cross-carpeting coupled with the exit and creation of the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC), some Nigerians believed that the end was near for the ruling party. But the National Chairman of the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, was of the opinion that those leaving the party didn’t really believe in the ideals of the party in the first place. Like weeding out fifth columnists from the party, he believed that it was more dangerous for enemies of the party to remain and continue to camouflage as true and patriotic members of the APC. In a chat with State House correspondents, he said, “I insist that I will not miss sleep one minute over mercenary activities. “I had said and I want to repeat, this business of governance must be driven by men and women of honour. If the only motivation is personal interest, what is in it for me, what have I gained, how many people have done xyz for, if that is the basis, the earlier those in this business of personal gains, the earlier they return to where they belong the better. “This party that I am privileged to chair is not worried at all, we are not disturbed, I am not going to miss my sleep and we will go into the campaign. “Check the electoral results, you will find that a lot claimed to have decamped on a good day the vote they got that made them members of the Senate, our President got much more votes in their constituency. So, we are not fooled at all. “The thing going on is that you have a lot of so-called big masquerades with very little or no electoral value. I have tried my best which I think I needed to do to give people comfort, those who claimed to be aggrieved. “But those who have other hidden agenda that are not negotiable, I am not going to be able to appease anyone who expects x-level of return and the system is not delivering it, in terms of personal return. I can’t solve that. “But those who felt that in terms of within the management of the party they have issues, those ones are on the table; it can be dealt with. But those who have issues under the table they are beyond me. “But let me assure you, I am so happy that over time that water will find its level. Because, if you remember what I said the day I formally declared my interest to contest, I had said, to be a progressive party means we must be clear that it cannot be a party for everyone. “We have to be sure that you subscribed to the values and ideals of a progressive party.  If indeed you belong to the extreme right, and you mistakenly find yourself in a progressive party, obviously that is not where you belong. “As soon as you realise that you can’t adjust to the requirement of progressives, which is people driven, people-based, people-oriented and you choose to return to the right wing where you know what the name of the game was, share the money, it is your choice. “But I need to remind you, I am not a poor student of struggle, I am not a professor of struggle, I am a product of struggle, I know what I am talking about. Very soon Nigerians will go to the polls and we will see who will deliver what in his constituency. “This is a thing that in the morning you will have breakfast with me, in the afternoon you are having lunch with python and in the evening you are having sugarcane with some other forces, I think in the interest of our nation we need to simplify these issues before the electorates. Because, the confusion is that you have coalition of people whose ideas are not compatible.” Oshiomhole added “To be very honest with you, it is better you formalize where you belong and be properly identified by your father’s name than purporting to bear my name and you are working for my opponent. “Every observer particularly the elite core of the Nigerian media that is represented in the State House, you know that it there has been opposition to this APC government, that opposition has come within the ranks of members of the APC, some in the National Assembly,” he said. President Muhammadu Buhari’s social media aide, Mrs. Lauretta Onochie, also believed that the exit of the former APC members is good for the party as it was losing some bad fat. On her Twitter handle, she said “As with an obese person who has struggled with weight issues all his life, APC has lost some bad fat. “APC is now healthier and better for the Party APC, and the nation. The fear of Adams Oshiomhole is the beginning of wisdom,” she stated. The President also wished those who decamped from the party best of luck in their future endeavours. Stressing that the APC had done its best to stop the defections, Buhari said, “As the saying goes, all politics is local. We understand that some of the distinguished and honourable lawmakers have issues with their home states, especially on zoning which bars some of them from seeking another term in their constituencies.” But Buhari’s core loyalists from the Senate last week Wednesday night stormed the Presidential Villa to show their solidarity to the President. A total of 42 members of the APC caucus in the Senate pledged their continued loyalty to the party and the President. The Senate Leader, Ahmed Lawan, who led the delegation said, “We have come to pay a courtesy call on our leader, the President of this country and them inform him about what happened yesterday in the Senate and indeed the National Assembly; the defection by some of our colleagues from the APC to the Peoples Democratic Party, the PDP and various political parties. We informed the President of how we stand in the Senate. “As at today, the APC caucus in the Senate is 53 in number, followed by the largest minority party the PDP with 48 Senators and then the ADC with 2 Senators, APGA has 2 Senators. We have 2 vacant seats which were occupied by APC Senators who are late now.” While the real and remaining APC members in the party will continue to pray that all the enemies of the party are completely shown the way out, it is hoped that subsequent cross carpeting will not heat up the polity. Everything should be done to ensure peaceful and violence-free 2019 elections.