A non-governmental organisation (NGO), the Girl Effect, has launched an initiative to transform the lives of the girl child in Nigeria. It said the initiative known as “Girls Connect.” would empower the girl-child to eliminate poverty, promote good health and their wellbeing. Deputy Country Director of the Girl Effect, Mrs Hadeezah Haruna-Usie, told newsmen in Bénin City that the initiative was capable of driving the economic growth and reduce inequalities in females. Haruna-Usie said the initiative would be driven by an innovative Interactive Voice Response (IVR), mobile service for girls. She noted that the mission aimed to reach as many girls as possible with the campaign and receive more than one million calls. According to her, “It is a pioneering partnership founded by Girl Effect Nigeria, a creative non-profit that uses media and mobile technology to empower girls, and the iSON group, one of Africa’s leading IT and ITeS companies. “The Girls Connect programme uses compelling stories to reach young women from across a broad spectrum of Nigeria society through the kind of voice recognition software that a bank might otherwise use to address consumer queries. “However, unlike the bank, the point of Girls Connect is to create an immersive world for girls which anonymously answer their queries about growing up in challenging circumstances, on their own terms, free from any fear of judgement. “We want to be able to give millions of girls in Nigeria the chance to be connected, informed and empowered to make decisions in their lives,” she stated. Wife of Edo State Governor, Mrs Betsy Obaseki, who was represented by the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Mrs Magdalene Ohenhen, said the state government would support the programme since the Initiative seems to address the areas bordering on challenges of most girl-child. “We have several vulnerable girls with these issues but have no one to talk to,  it rather,  bottle things up. With this initiative, they can speak freely without being afraid of stigmitisation,” she said. Similarly, 9mobile said it would partner with the Initiative to make Nigeria society heathier, safer, and more productive.