MANY of this generation may not be familiar with the name Uzodinma Okpechi. Quiet and unassuming, but beneath this mien is an artistic rascality that is traceable to his legacy in the cinematography and music video production of ‘African Queen’ by 2Face, ‘I Go Chop Your Dollar’ by Nkem Owoh and ‘Oruka’ by Sunny Neji . Today, Okpechi, who was the producer of award-wining 2000 Nollywood movie, ‘Battle of love’ and co-producer/Assistant Director of ‘Blood of Jesus’ (2001) returns with KAMSI, a big budget thriller which fans and industry stakeholders alike are eagerly waiting for. The work is billed for release on November 23, 2018. Okpechi who is critical of some of the creative low-ends in Nollywood may be ahead of critics in this anticipated film of 2018. He says: “Doing it right can never be compromised by me. I love it and I preach it. Reason I went back after first cut and I noticed that some scenes can be better. I live it.” It is not certain what Okpechi had in mind from pre to post production, as the industry is hungry, not just for commercially successful filmmakers, but for highly imaginative creatives with camera story-telling skills. If the audacity of the prolific director is anything to go by, KAMSI may just not be far from target. “I have always been an advocate of both,” he says of commercial and arty films. “I will never support shooting a movie solely for the arts, except of course, it’s a funded movie or a grant and I have to adhere to certain submissions.” KAMSI is another Nollyfund project, not some Project-ACT grant, which further explains why there must be return on investment. However, Okpechi’s thoughts might align with those who desire a Nigerian film for the Oscars as the borders move closer; considering the possible input of Nigerians like filmmaker Femi Odugbemi and actress Omotola Jalade-Ekeinde who are now voting members of the academy. Recall that the ‘African Queen’ video recorded international recognition with the likes of MOBO and BET awards among others with and Okpechi in the spotlight.