The Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar on Wednesday said that the series of defections from the All Progressives Congress (APC) would not affect the fortune of the ruling party in the 2019 election. Among the recent defections were two Senators from Bauchi State, including Senators Sulaiman Mohammed Nazif and Isa Misau that defected to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Abubakar, spoke with State House correspondents after meeting President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He explained that the result recorded during the election in the congresses conducted in the various states was an indication that the APC would not suffer defeat in the forthcoming general election. He said “I don’t want to boast but you know election is local, some people want to come to Abuja and play to the gallery, I am talking about the defectors. My answer is the congresses in Bauchi state along with other states in the APC and in many states that parallel congresses were conducted, because some members of the party were in opposition to the governors who were strong enough this parallel congresses, in Bauchi state, there was no single parallel congress that was conducted. “Secondly the August 11 election took place, the APC won resoundingly. Let me tell you that all of those people who decamped including these two senators rallied round and spent a lot of money in order to defeat the APC in the election but the results like I said is out in the public and we have won resoundingly, so I am sure the result of 2919 elections are not going to be any different”, he added. Abubakar also said that he was in the Villa to brief the President on the recent senatorial by-election conducted in his state. He said, “This is the first opportunity I have had since the election of 11th August to brief Mr. President because when the election took place, the President was away on short leave abroad and I just came in today to brief him adequately about what transpired in Bauchi. “The results are out in the public and the APC won resoundingly in the election and I have told him that we have learnt a lot of lessons from the the election. For example, close to 200,000 votes were cancelled. This is an eye opener for us that we have to work very very hard and train agents very well to be able to safeguard this kind of situation” Abubakar said.