Following former Governor Godswill Akpabio’s defection to All Progressives Congress, the stage is set for the final showdown in Akwa Ibom State between him and Governor Udom Emmanuel of the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, reports on the fresh riddles the development has exposed in the two parties ahead 2019 A DURING the 2015 General Elections, the then outgoing Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Godswill Akpabio, was the pillar upon which Governor Udom Emmanuel stood as he flew the flag of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to victory. Today, as the two political leaders prepare for the 2019 elections, they would be on the opposing sides as Akpabio, who defected to All Progressives Congress (APC) on Wednesday this week, would be leading another candidate (the APC candidate) to confront Emmanuel in the governorship and the other elections in the state. The Nation investigation confirms that the battle for the soul of Akwa Ibom State between the erstwhile political associates began over two years before this week’s defection. Although the intrigues could be traced to early 2016, it is instructive that by October 2017, when it was first publicly disclosed that the former political associates were poised to go their separate ways, the revelation was vehemently denied by both parties. But the events that followed the denials have consistently confirmed that they will eventually be on the opposing sides during the 2019 elections. What was not clear until this week however, was how they will eventually bid good-bye to each other? Their parting of ways finally climaxed this week when Akpabio not only resigned his plum position as Senate Minority Leader on the ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) but also defected to All Progressives Congress (APC). Considering the huge political influence Akpabio, who was a two term governor of the state, still enjoys, vis-à-vis the power of incumbency Emmanuel currently wields, there is no doubt today that the battle for the soul of Akwa Ibom in 2019 would be titanic, as the two erstwhile associates strategise how to smile last after the final showdown. As far back as October last year, we reported here that there was a carefully hidden battle between Emmanuel and Akpabio for the control of the PDP machinery in the state in preparation for the 2019 governorship election. It was observed then that the rivalry could be traced back to 2016 when some insiders alleged that the cabinet reshuffle Emmanuel initiated was the beginning of his bid to be his own man. After the sudden dissolution of the state’s executive council that year, some affected officials alleged that the governor’s ultimate aim was to take over control of the political soul of the state from his predecessor, Akpabio, whose influence still loomed large. As was later revealed, supporters of Akpabio did not take kindly to Emmanuel’s moves to allegedly diminish his political benefactor in order to mount the political leadership of the South-south state. Although that move could be identified as the beginning of the ongoing political re-engineering in Akwa Ibom State, an insider source close to Akpabio told The Nation that if the governor succeeded to gain relative control of his government through cabinet reshuffles and sacking of Akpabio’s loyalists, the same may not be said of his influence in the state chapter of PDP, as, according to him, “Akpabio, though a senator, remained in firm control of the party machinery in the state.” Two years after that assessment, the battle has become even more deep-rooted as Akpabio has been named by the APC’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, as the party’s leader in the state. Keen observers of Akwa Ibom State politics say “the likely implication of this appointment will be most intriguing in APC, which has many leaders that have for long been on the opposing side against their new leader and his erstwhile political godson, Emmanuel. It will also be interesting to see how the development will impact on the ruling PDP, which is deeply divided as a result of the long suppressed rivalry between Akpabio and Emmanuel. It is within this complexity that the dominant colour of Akwa Ibom 2019 elections could be appreciated. For example, given this development, it seems certain that there is nothing to hide anymore; the erstwhile political associates, who have been playing hide and seek game over their political relationship, are now clear rivals in search of political control of Akwa Ibom State and are likely to employ any factor in their advantage to win the coveted crowns. Considering that each of the leading actors are likely to first defend his personal ego and political relevance, observers say Akwa Ibom State promises to be a major battle ground in 2019. Ripples over Emmanuel’s Governorship ticket One critical issue that has been of concern to PDP members in the state, and which a chieftain, Mr. Samson Etukudoh, told The Nation was primarily responsible for the parting of ways of Emmanuel and Akpabio, is the issue of Emmanuel’s re-election ticket in PDP. Loyalists of the governor in the party could not understand why some elements in the party would mute the idea of denying the governor of the party’s ticket, considering that his zone has not concluded its eight year tenure. The resultant disagreement finally pitched Akpabio’s supporters and Emmanuel’s loyalists in the state PDP towards the tail end of Akpabio’s stay in the party. At the peak of the disagreement, dissatisfied Akpabio loyalists, openly demanded that Governor Emmanuel be denied the party’s ticket in 2019 even as they alleged poor performance and deliberate efforts, on the part of the governor and his associates, to exclude Akpabio’s close associates in the running of the state and Emmanuel’s deliberate ploy to discredit Akpabio. “This is the root cause of the occasional verbal exchanges notwithstanding the public denials on both sides,” an Akpabio’s loyalist had told The Nation few months before the defection of the former Minority Leader. As at the time of the disclosure, both parties were still denying allegation of rivalry and possible face-off. But we recall that the allegation of rivalry between Akpabio and Emmanuel actually gained currency at the peak of the leadership crisis in PDP at the national level, when it was observed that Emmanuel and Akpabio essentially belonged to different camps in the PDP leadership saga. But the disagreement notwithstanding, The Nation learnt that one of the factors Emmanuel still had going for him was the zoning factor which favours another four years for his zone. When, at the peak of their disagreement, Akpabio came out to endorse Emmanuel for a return PDP ticket, informed observers said the senator must have done so in respect of the zoning factor. It would be recalled that at the return of democracy in 1999, PDP leaders in the state adopted a rotation principle in the party for the governorship position. The idea is to rotate it across the three senatorial districts of Uyo, Ikot-Ekpene and Eket. Uyo had taken its turn for eight years with Obong Victor Attah (1999 to 2007); Ikot-Ekpene Senatorial Zone which produced Akpabio, took its turn (2007 to 2015), handing over to Emmanuel from Eket Senatorial District. So, “the bigger picture, which may have forced Akpabio to support Emmanuel’s return ticket, is the need to allow the zone to complete its two terms of eight years like others in the interest of justice, equity and fair play,” a source said. Now that Akpabio has changed party, there is concern in PDP that he may support the candidature of another candidate from Eket zone as a way of contending Emmanuel’s claim based on the zoning policy. Can Akpabio resolve the riddles in APC? In APC, the immediate and likely long-term effects of the defection are even more interesting. It would be recalled that most of the outstanding leaders of APC in the state before Akpabio’s defection were former associates of Akpabio who also defected from PDP and more importantly, most of them had blamed Akpabio’s alleged high handedness in PDP when they defected. Such leaders include Nsima Ekere, who served as Deputy Governor under Akpabio, Umana Umana, who served as the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) under Akpabio but was removed from the plum position to create room for the emergence of Emmanuel; Alloyus Etuk, Senator James Akpadonuedehe and Chief Don Etiebet, the former Minister of Petroleum, who until now was considered by some as the most respected elder and likely patron of the party in the state. With the defection and declaration of Akpabio as the new APC leader in the state, the question is how these estranged political associates would be reconciled and how far they would be willing to work under Akpabio? Also, it is important to recall that even before the current development, there was at a time fear in the state’s APC that the face-off between former governorship candidate of the party, Obong Umana Okon Umana, and former Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Senator John James Akpan Udo-Edehe, may worsen the fortunes of the party in the state ahead 2019 elections. The face-off between the two may be traced generally to the day Umana defected to APC and was projected by his supporters as the new leader of the party in the state. Prior to the defection of Umana, who emerged the party’s governorship candidate in the 2015 election, Udo-Edehe, a former governorship candidate of Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) in Akwa Ibom, was, according to his supporters, “a major financier and leader of APC in the state.” So, the emergence of Umana as the flagbearer of the party, according to Madam Edith Akpan, a Woman Leader in Eket, “naturally sparked off a dangerous personality clash in the state chapter of the party. Until our national leaders reconcile the two leaders, PDP will continue to enjoy more advantages over us here in Akwa Ibom. This struggle for supremacy between Obong Umana and Senator Udo-Edehe will, if not settled once and for all, kill APC here. If you do not know, the two politicians have large supporters and the resources to maintain them. Where do you think this will leave the party in 2019,” she querried. We had reported then that the root cause of the disagreement between the so-called Umana and Udo-Edehe’s factions may be governorship aspirations. While it was alleged that Umana, who flew the APC flag in 2015 but lost to PDP’s Emmanuel, has fully taken over the leadership of the party in the state and may be poised to determine who will fly the flag in 2019, Udo-Edehe’s loyalists, who still feel short-changed in 2015, said he is determined to fly the APC flag in Akwa Ibom in 2019 and does not see the possibility of Umana’s supporters and the current State Party Executive Council endorsing his candidacy. In fact, one of them told The Nation then that Umana’s loyalists in the state APC Exco were working on a grand plan to convince Mr. Nsima Udo Ekere, the Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), to fly the party’s flag in 2019.  This resolve, according to the source, accounts for the determination of Udo-Edehe’s group to fight back for the soul of the party now before it becomes too late. He said the party would have done better in 2015 but for the intrigues that threw up Umana at the last minute and have therefore sworn never to allow a repeat of the development. “We cannot allow a repeat of the 2015 mistake. Some people made the necessary sacrifices at the inception and so we cannot continue to push such people aside because the super-rich want to reap where another person had sown. I think that is the primary issue under contention in the political rivalry in Akwa Ibom APC. In plain language, I think the issue today is that Udo-Edehe wants to contest as the governorship candidate of APC, a party he labored so much to build here but some money bags in collaboration with the so-called State Executive Council of APC again want to bring another candidate.” Senator Udo-Edehe himself confirmed his interest to contest for the governorship seat in 2019 soon after he led his supporters to invade the APC state secretariat in Uyo after his expulsion from the party by the State Executive Council. With the emergence of Akpabio as the new leader, there is great fear in all camps, that except he adopts a reconciliatory approach, a fresh round of intrigues may soon commence in the state APC, as the party prepares to produce its governorship candidate for 2019. The interests are as numerous as they are explosive. Of special concern to all keen observers today is how the former governor will go about reuniting with his estranged associates who are now in the same boat with him. That reconciliation will also go a long way in determining how far APC will harness its high profile membership in the power battle against the incumbent governor and the ruling party, PDP.