National Youth Service Corps, (NYSC) Director-General, Brig.-Gen. Sulaiman Kazaure, has warned corps members against embarking on unauthorised journeys that could put their lives in danger. Kazaure said it is an offence for any corps member to travel out of camp or places of primary assignment without permission. The NYSC DG spoke at the Ekiti State Permanent Orientation Camp, Ise/Emure in Ise/Orun Local Government Area, when he visited to educate corps members on the dangers of treating their health and security with levity. According to him, the rule of the agency was being ignored in a manner that suggested that authorities had abdicated their roles of looking after the wellbeing and welfare of the corps members. “You all have to avoid night journeys and other unnecessary journeys for that matter. “Remember that before you embark on any journey, the need arises that you first inform your immediate supervisors and obtain necessary permit. “A graduate is expected by the society to be above board. I therefore want you to please join hands with me to ensure that the tragic incident in Taraba is the very last of such,” he said. Kazaure regretted the death of nine corps members in Taraba last week, describing it as huge loss to him, and the nation in general. The DG, who disclosed that he underwent the mandatory one-year national service over 30 years ago, with graduates as children said he was saddened by incident. Kazaure called for a minute of silence to honour corps members who lost their lives. He advised the corps members to respect the culture and tradition of their host communities. He advised a section of Nigerians accusing the NYSC of negligence to know that the standing rules banning youth corps members from unauthorised journeys are more implementable when they are in orientation camp, than when serving in places of primary assignment where they are treated as independent adults. Kazaure said any corps member  was free to call his phone number, 07042542779, in case of any emergency they felt their immediate supervisors could not handle. He warned them, particularly the females, to avoid dressing irresponsibly and keep away from sharp practices, such as engaging in Internet fraud. In her welcome address, the new NYSC State Director, Mrs. Aniefiok Okpongete, told the DG that a total of 1,809 corps members (1,109 males and 700 females) were currently registered in the state. However, she said 187 among them (149 females and 38 males) had been advised to leave camp on account of being pregnant, nursing mothers or facing critical health challenges.