By next month, the new five stars Bénin Central Hospital will be two years old. It was built by the administration of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and commissioned by President Mohammadu Buhari. The building of the new hospital was conceptualized in 2010 after the death of Oshiomhole’s wife, Clara. Oshiomhole promised to build a well-equipped hospital to end medical tourism in Nigeria and also a place where diseases like cancer could be screened and diagnosed early in memory of his late wife who died of cancer. Today, the 200-bed space hospital is fitted with the latest technology in health care delivery. There are fears that the equipment installed in the hospital may rot away if the hospital is not put into use within one year. The hospital has two ambulance bases in the acute and urgent wards. Each of the wards at the emergency space has ten bed space. There are two mini-surgical theatre and a major surgical theatre in the hospital. The beds in the burnt section are fitted with massage relief to prevent patients from having bed sores. In line with his promise, former Governor Oshiomhole ensured that a mammography, equipment used for diagnosing and locating tumors of the breast otherwise known as breast cancer, is installed in the hospital. One important feature about the mammography is that it could remove a lump from inside the breast thus preventing cancer at an early stage. There are also wards for VIP patients for those that could pay for its services. However, residents in the state are not happy that the hospital has not opened its doors for business.  Last Monday, some civil rights groups under the auspices of Talakawa Parliament launched ‘Operation Open the New hospital’ by staging a protest in front of the complex Leader of the prótesters, Comrade Anthony Omoregie, said they were demanding opening of the new hospital. He said it was a slap on Edo people for an hospital to be commissioned and put under lock and key “It seems we are playing politics with our lives. This hospital is now a place where girls take selfie and upload to social media. We want this hospital to be open.” The firm, Vamed Engineering, that was responsible for supplying and installing equipment at the new five star Bénin Central hospital said the equipment have two years life span it they were not put into use. It absolved itself as being responsible for the delay in the opening of the hospital to the general public. Site Engineer of the Vamed, Anthony Azodo, told newsmen that contrary to people’s opinion that there are no equipment inside the hospital, all equipment and office furniture have been supplied and installed to full capacity. Anthony explained that the hospital was not fully equipped as at the time it was commissioned because of the sudden rise in the price of dollar and debunked allegation by the opposition Peoples Democratic Party that equipment in the new hospital were brought in from the Stella Obasanjo Children and Women Hospital built by Chief Lucky Igbinedion. He said all is set for the hospital to open for business but the firm is waiting for Governor Godwin Obaseki to send in personnel for training on how to handle the equipment. Warning that the equipment have a duration of two years to wear out if not put into use, Anthony said he performed functional check on the equipment to ensure the machines are still in good state. According to him, “You can see for yourself, the whole place have been equipped. They are waiting for personnel that will use them. We have written several memos to the Edo State Government to get personnel to handle various machines. “We are still waiting for them to be trained. You have seen the equipment in their numbers. Most of you checked your blood pressure with them. People are saying things for their selfish interest. “The equipment came in batches. Majority of them were installed last year and early this year we installed the rest. 100 percent of the equipment have been installed as we have in the bill of quantity.” “Once the users are ready, we do the training and start maintenance because we have maintenance agreement with the State Government. Once the government respond, we start. We have submitted letters to them. We just received state auditors to take inventory. “Each of the machines have schedule for them. It will take a maximum of one week to train personnel that will handle them. The expatriates were on ground. They waited but their visas expired so they returned to their country. Some of the equipment that are not hear will be supplied in the third phase subject to additional fund.” Governor Obaseki had last year said the state government lacked the capacity to run the new hospital as his focus is to retool all primary health care centers across the state manned by qualified personnel. On the new five star hospital, Obaseki said, “My concern is that given what we have design, the equipment we have purchased, we do not have the capacity to run the new Five Star hospital. If we run it the way we run our other hospitals, that thing will not be there in the next two years.  “Our plan is to look for private partner who understands how to run hospital, who has done it in other parts of the world to come and run that hospital. They will ensure they maintain it and provide the kind of care we want. “When we conceived the hospital after the death of Clara Oshiomhole, it was supposed to take care of some diseases like cancers, renal failure, cardiac failure and all the kind of challenges people go to India for. It does make sense that in order to make people who go abroad get cured here with same quality. Key to that is nursing care. We don’t have a nursing school. We are working with our partners to re-establish our Nursing and Midwifery school not on local standard but on international standards. By the time you finish there, you can work in any hospital in the world.”