Nigeria’s bilateral trade relationship with the United Kingdom (UK) Nigeria is said to be worth £4.2 billion per annum. Britain’s Minister for Africa, Harriet Baldwin, made this disclosure on the sidelines of the recent visit by the British Prime Minister, Theresa May to Nigeria. Harriet Baldwin who praised the trade relations between Britain and Nigeria, added that more business partnerships would be announced during and after the Prime Minister’s visit to Nigeria. She noted that Britain was “already partnering with Nigeria in the area of green financing with other partnerships with the Nigerian Government expected to create over 100,000 jobs in the country. The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, on her part advised investors from the United Kingdom to take advantage of the improved business environment in Nigeria to invest in key sectors of the economy. The Minister stated that the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari had taken a bold step in creating an enabling business environment for attracting investments, through the establishment of the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC). She expressed the commitment of the Government to further improve on the business environment and sustain existing reforms to consolidate the gains of the economy through the deepening of the subnational Ease of Doing Business project. According to her, “there are lots of business opportunities in Nigeria and the Government is addressing assiduously the impediments to ease of doing business in Nigeria. She added that “this will make it easier for businesses to grow and contribute to sustainable economic activity in the country as well as create jobs.” The finance minister also canvassed the need for the deepening of the Nigerian capital market with specific products that can be channeled towards infrastructure financing. This, according to her, will ensure the capital market plays a pivotal role in stimulating the economy. According to her, “we can’t have enough capital to finance infrastructure development. Deepening the capital market is key to the funding of infrastructure in Nigeria.” 