Older Nigerian football followers would easily remember Celestine Babayaro, the elegant left back that shone like the neon light in the dark for the Super Eagles in the 1990s. Babayaro was so good in his defensive position combined with attacking proclivity at his first European club, Anderlecht, that he was twice rewarded with the 1995 and 1996 Belgian Young Professional of the Year as well as the 1996 Ebony Shoe Award (an award given annually to the best African or a player of African origin in the Belgian Pro League).He later played with great élan in the English Premier League with both Chelsea and Newcastle before retirement in 2008. Ten years on, the good news is the emergence of a new fashion of Celestine Babayaro in the mould of fleet-footed Mustapha Abdullahi, the Nigerian youth international currently attached to Bulgarian Professional League side, Lokomotiv Plovdiv. “I love being happy; and playing football makes me happy,” stated Mustapha, a keen admirer of Brazil and Real Madrid left-back, Marcelo, in a lively interview with The Nation. Mustapha plays football wearing his toothpaste smile and was an integral part of the national Under-17 team, the Golden Eaglets that won the FIFA World Cup in 2013 though he only featured in the African qualifiers and pre-Mundial tournament in Morocco. He equally wrought gold three years ago with the Flying Eagles in the U-20 African Nations Cup in Senegal and featured in the 2015 FIFA U-20 World Cup in New Zealand. “I’m happy whether I’m playing or for instance watching Marcelo because he inspires me,” offered the 22-year-old. “I want to be an example as a left back in Nigerian national team. Some of my team mates here call me with (Celestine) Babayaro but I want to do more than him for Nigeria. “My strong points as a left back? I love to join the attack at every given opportunity because I’m strong on the ball and my coach sometimes uses me on the left wing because I’m can be so fast.” At every opportunity, Mustapha conjures the image of his Brazilian idol (Marcelo) with his electrifying running with the ball glued to his sweet left leg so much so a recent video of a goal he orchestrated in an attacking blitz for Lokomotiv Plovdiv against Cherno More of Varna in a Bulgarian domestic game elicited almost 300 likes and 100 comments on a social network platform. “I enjoy the way I play especially when I get the opportunity to join the attack and assist in my team scoring goals. I was so excited with the assist I had against Cherno More of Varna,” he said with a cheerful purr. “My club is doing well (in the Bulgarian Pro League) despite the fact that we didn’t make the Europa qualification from the last season. We are focusing more on the league. “It is amazing playing in Europe and I’m getting new experience day-by-day and learning from trainings and matches. “Yes, it’s true that the wish of every young player is to be with big clubs in France, England or Spain but I’m happy here in Bulgaria because Lokomotiv Plovdiv was the club that had the interest in me and I’m happy being here.” Already, he has a contact with Lokomotiv Plovdiv till June 2021 after he was signed from Wikki Tourists on a two-and-a-half-year deal. Yet, Musty, as he’s fondly called by friends, is not oblivious about the challenges ahead of him, adding that Lokomotiv Plovdiv would in the meantime be a stepping stone to greater things for obvious reasons. He continued: “My ultimate target is to move forward (from Lokomotiv Plovdiv). We have issues to play games because only three foreigners can be in the team in any official game but I’m happy because it’s a step to go to somewhere else in the future. “I have two years contract with my club; and I have other Africans in the team. Yes, I have Steven Eze and also Musa Muhammed, my national team captain in the U17 and U20, who came here on loan. Musa is like a family member to me because we have been together for many years. “But I’m with Eze every time on and off the pitch; he’s a very good person. It was sad he did not make the Russia 2018 World Cup squad with the Super Eagles but he still has the chance to play for the senior national team in future.” Mustapha equally admitted his international future holds so much promise with many of his contemporaries including Musa, Wilfred Ndidi, Kelechi Iheanacho and Francis Uzoho already blooded for the Super Eagles. He explained: “It wasn’t my fault for not making it (the national U17  squad for the 2013 World Cup); but I kept motivating myself with hard work and positively inside until I found myself with the U20 squad that won the African championship in Senegal and also went to the U20 World Cup in New Zealand. “They (former teammates with Super Eagles) deserve to play for the Super Eagles because they have been playing in Europe for some years. But trust me, I’ll never give up and would also join them soon when given a chance.”   STRAIGHT TALK WITH MUSTAPHA When is Musty settling down with a wife? Hahaha. Settling down with a wife is something planned from the Almighty God, so when it’s time it’s surely going to happen any day, anytime as much as we are all alive. Have you met a girl of your dreams? Hopefully. What will you be looking out for in a woman? A woman who can be there for me in very hard times and good times. A woman who can stand by my side; woman who we can build a strong empire together. What’s your choice, a Nigerian or foreigner? For me, a woman is woman; all what I want is a woman with a good heart. What can make you cry? It’s very hard for me to cry. I can only be silent even if I’m troubled or angry. Apart from football, what other things make you happy? When I see myself doing more than others, it makes me happy. Tell us about your immediate family and how have they supported your career My family love me and they always wish me good, especially my mother. You smile a lot, what’s the secret? Yes, I always like to smile because naturally that’s how I was born and I was told by my mother when I asked her about it. What are the things you love? I love to see myself in a good dress always but it’s not to impress anyone or get unnecessaryattention. What are the things you hate? I hate to see someone suffering. I hate to see someone who could help but refuses to help. I hate to lose game even in training. What other things would you like to share with our readers? I would like to say let’s join hands to support each other and live in peace. To stop all the violence and crimes in the global world and especially in Nigeria. Will you consider politics after your football career? No, not at all. I have no interest in politics.