President Muhammadu Buhari has congratulated Ambassador Abdullahi Ibrahim Atta on his 90th birthday anniversary. He also felicitated with former Plateau and Katsina states governor Maj. Gen. Lawrence Onoja, who turns 70 today. The President, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity Garba Shehu, joined family, friends and well-wishers in thanking the Almighty God for his continued benevolence, strength and never-failing care to Atta in the past decades of a remarkable life of service and dedication to humanity. He saluted Ambassador Atta’s service to the nation during his career in the foreign and public service, where he distinguished himself, with courage, in the work of reconciliation, conflict prevention, justice and peace around the world. As family, friends, former colleagues and well-wishers gather to celebrate the nonagenarian’s lifetime and achievements, the President reminded them, the young and old alike, of their responsibility to give the nation hope for the future. Buhari prayed that Ambassador Atta will enjoy more years of health and continue to be an inspiration to the upcoming generation on discipline, hard work and patriotism. In another statement by his Media Adviser Debo Adesina,  the President sent warm greetings to the family, friends and former professional colleagues of Onoja on his birthday, recognising the many years of hard work and sacrifice to the nation as he served in strategic positions in the army and governor of two states. He extolled Onoja’s sense of patriotism and relentless effort in contributing to the growth of the nation by accepting to serve on the board of the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria and the National Institute of Sports, and consistently remaining active in the political sphere. At he turns 70, Buhari believed Onoja’s keen appetite for knowledge, which saw him earning a doctorate in International Law and Diplomacy, and the wisdom that comes with age, will be further translated into serving the country he loves so much. The President prayed that the almighty God will bless Onoja with longer life and strength to keep contributing to the growth of the nation.    