…says Its time for youths to have positive mindset about politics As the nation prepares for the 2019 general elections, the youth wing of the Lagos State Chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has unveiled a leadership conference to change the mindset of the youths to politics and governance. APC Youth Leader in the State, Mr Omotayo Sanyaolu, in a statement yesterday, said the leadership conference was part of activities lined up to celebrate the International Youth Day slated for August 12, 2018. He said the conference, with the theme, “Youths As Catalyst In National Development,” will take place on August 12, 2018 at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium in Alausa, Ikeja by 11am prompt, adding that the principal objective of the programme was to equip youths with basic leadership skills as the country is set for a crucial electioneering process in 2019. According to Sanyaolu, “For us in the Lagos APC, we believe that it is time for the youths to have positive mindset about politics and governance and that is the main idea behind the conference. We have lined up great speakers across broad spectrum of the polity to share ideas and experiences with the youths with the focus to arouse their interest and participation in the political process. “This is a programme to mark the International Youth Day which falls on the 12th of August and we just decided to bring the youths together through a leadership conference to change their orientation to politics as well as their mindset to how the political terrain and arena looks like. “By the conference, we are also telling the youths of our readiness to give them a sense of belonging in the scheme of affairs,” Sanyaolu said. He added that about 3,000 youths drawn from tertiary, political and religious institutions as well as the civil society organizations in the State, among others are expected to participate at the conference. Speakers listed to address the conference include a Special Representative to the United Nations and strong advocate of the ‘Not Too Young To Run’ Campaign in Africa, Dayo Israel; social entrepreneur and human development expert, Toyosi Akerele-Ogunsiji; young eloquent politician and another strong advocate of ‘Not Too Young To Run’ Campaign, Temitope Adewale and vibrant members of Lagos State House of Assembly – Jimi Lai Mohammed and Moji Lawal Meranda. Others are Chairman of Agboyi-Ketu Local Council Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State, Mayor Dele Oshinowo; and Chairman of Igbogbo-Baiyeku LCDA, Hon Sesan Daini, while the Lagos State Commissioner for Youth and Social Development, Hon Agboola Dabiri is to serve as Chief Host.