Some families in a community in Eti-Osa East Local Council Development Area of Lagos State have lamented the destruction of their properties by unknown people. The families claimed that the assailants came with policemen two weeks ago to dislodge them from their land. They said five persons, including two men, two women and a child were injured During a protest on Saturday at Idi-Obi Egan Village, the families appealed to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to investigate the assault. The families’ spokespersons, Alade Rufai Ifamoluwa and Alhaji Kolawole Amode, described the attacks as “callous.” Ifamoluwa said the assailants destroyed their forefathers’ graves and symbol of their deities. “They destroyed the perimeter fencing, entered our land and demolished our houses. They did not even spare our shrines.  I have been arrested twice and taken to Ikoyi prison before my people came to bail me and others. After that, they still used policemen to threaten us. This land remains our source of livelihood. The people also destroyed the equipment I used for my business here,” he said. The families, Amode said, had sacrificed and did not deserve the assault. He said: “We are all begging Governor Ambode to help us by looking into what is happening to us here in our community. As far back as 500 years, our forefathers lived here and there was no problem but since two years ago, we began to have issues with our land. We have lost 400 hectares of the land to the state government out of 500 hectares since year 2000. The remaining 100 hectares is what the government left for us, yet we are being disturbed by some faceless groups, that are dropping the name of the government to foment crisis. “They came with mobile policemen and task force officers, they drove our wives and children, who are living here away, broken our homes. So we don’t know what to do again. We are begging Lagos State Government under Governor Ambode to help us to protect our land so that we can have rest of mind. “We want government to help us call some developers working on our land to leave, because they are selling the land to other people.” Amode said he and his brother were detained at Ikoyi Prison on two occasions because of the issue. Imam Mustapha Adeniyi, who bought one hectare of land from the family, said some people working on his site were injured during the attack. “I learnt they came with harmful objects to destroy things here.  This is one of my workers, who were wounded that day. I was on my way when I was told not to come here, else I would be wounded. I bought the land from Ifamoluwa family and I have almost one hectare of land, which belongs to me and my elder brothers in London. I am using this opportunity to beg the government to see to this issue.  I learnt that the government said they don’t have anything to do with the destruction, and that is why they should investigate the matter,” he said.