A total of 20 secondary schools have been invited to the maiden Government College Ughelli (GCU) Relays scheduled to hold on Saturday, 17th November, at the ultra-modern tartan tracks of Government College Ughelli in Delta State. GCU Relays, an initiative of Government College Ughelli Old Boys Association (GCUOBA Worldwide), is an intercollegiate invitational athletics competition that will feature 100m, 200m, 4x100m relays and 4x400m relays for boys and girls. Some of the schools invited are Kings College, Lagos; St.Gregory’s College, Obalende- Lagos; Igbobi College, Yaba-Lagos; Government College, Ibadan; Edo College, Benin-City; Federal Government College, Warri; Hessey College, Warri; Urhobo College, Effurun; St. Patrick’s College, Asaba; Orogun Grammar School, Orogun; Government College, Umuahia; Queens College, Lagos; Idia College, Benin-City; Baptist Girls School, Agbor; Oharisi College, Afisere-Ughelli; Anglican Girls Grammar School, Ughelli; St. Theresa’s College, Ughelli; James Welch Grammar School, Emevor and Anglican Girls Grammar School, Asaba. All participants expected to arrive for the one-day competition on Friday, 16th November and depart on Sunday, 18th November, 2018. Speaking at a press conference announcing the competition in Lagos, GCUOBA Secretary General, Roy Odoko said that after carrying out due diligence, GCUOBA plans to use the GCU Relays as a vehicle to accelerate the development of schools sports and by extension the restoration of healthy sports rivalry among secondary schools nationwide as it was in the time past with long term goal of enhancing sports development, unity and progress of Nigeria. A member of the GCU Relays planning committee, Ejiro Omonode said a maximum of fifteen athletes shall represent each college, while all the 300 participating athletes shall be accommodated and given free meals throughout the duration of the competition. He called on individuals and corporate organization to partner with GCUOBA in the development of secondary school sports. “The GCU Relays is essentially about getting back the glory days of athletics with schools sports. Also, we have been fortunate to have a modern track put together by  Shell Petroleum Development Company and for us, such facilities should not be meant for only local inter house sports. We should expose it to the rest of the country and that is why we are inviting schools, especially schools that we shared traditional relationship with over the years; the government colleges, the federal government colleges and some of those elite schools of the past. “The door is open for individuals and corporate organizations to partner with us, support can not be too much. Brands are attracted to properties that are highly of quality and attraction and so we expect that as we make progress, the brands will come in their droves,” Omonode said. Also present at the press conference are President, GCUOBA, Lagos State Branch, Col. David Binitie (rtd) and National Publicity Secretary of GCUOBA, Stephen Ighofose.