Months of speculations on Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal’s  political fortune yesterday ended with his return to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). He announced the expected decision at a solidarity rally organised by his supporters across the state’s 23 local government areas. Tambuwal told the rally: “This is not a decision that I have made lightly, but after extensive consultations with all the important stakeholders that we have come to the decision to pitch our political tent elsewhere. “However, the decision of our people and associates had become our total priority; it is the reason for the leadership we are yearning for. “As such, we have left the APC for the PDP in order to ensure that the masses’ needs in the areas of health, security, among others, are fully prioritised.” In 2014, Tambuwal as House of Representatives Speaker on the eve of the general elections left the PDP for the APC, a coalition of parties, which took power from President Goodluck Jonathan. He added: “ Let me at this juncture state emphatically that I return to the PDP with a clear conscience today,  because the party has learnt some bitter lessons and noted what mistakes it must avoid in the future. It is now a repositioned and forward looking political party to which I now pledge loyalty, in my resolve to contribute towards improving the lives of Nigerians and expanding opportunities for the youths.” Eighteen members of the House of Assembly defected along with the governor. Others who publicly denounced their membership of the APC at the rally for the PDP are: the House Speaker and his deputy, Alhaji Abdullahi Miagwandu, Muhammadu Arzika Tureta, Bello Kofar Marke, Mukhtari Maigona, Usman Danmadamin Isa, Dahiru Yusuf Yabo,  Isah Bajini Galadanci, Bello Suleiman, Sahabi Tungar Kwangi, Alhaji Muhammadu Dangoggo, Muazu Zabira, among other notable APC members believed to be close to Senator Aliyu Wamakko. Declaring his new political platform before a tumultous crowd in Sokoto, Tambuwal, who explained his defection to the main opposition PDP, said “good governance, viz-a-viz economic wellbeing of our people remain the major reasons for my action today”. He noted that” information from National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows that over nine million jobs have been lost in the last three years, since the APC government came into office.” “This journey is set to collectively rid the state and country of the immeasurable negative trend of events that have characterised every facet of our lives as citizens,” Tambuwal said, adding: “We are in dire need to advance the state to its place of glory. We have to fine tune a new political direction to salvage our common collective interests.” Tambuwal spoke of wide consultations with relevant stakeholders across the state, adding that” I don’t personalise politics and therefore will ask you to suggest a party”. “In line with the best tradition in any major political decision, especially by a serving elected governor, I have widely painstakingly consulted far and wide, if the present political platform is a viable vehicle for achieving the aspiration of our people. “It is because I am convinced that no nation can thrive while there is inequity and bad governance; because I am saddened by the fact that lethargy, incompetence and sustained  denial of obvious leadership missteps have become the major raw materials with which the Nigerian state is being run today.” The governor threw to the big crowd the option of suggesting which party to defect to. The excited gathering screamed “PDP!” He replied: “I will go with you.” The crowd rented the air with slogans “Sai Mutawalle” According to the former Speaker of the House of Representatives, “Nigeria needs competent hands to drive the cause for capable administration that will advance its overall interest to prosperity”.