The authentic mogajis in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, have expressed optimism that the crisis between the Olubadan, Oba Saliu Olatunji, and some of his high chiefs over their controversial beaded crowns will soon be resolved. This followed the recent truce brokered by former Governor Rashidi Ladoja. The former governor, who is the only Ibadan high chief who the rejected government’s beaded crown, had challenged and won at the State High Court the controversial elevation of Ibadan high chiefs to beaded crown-wearing obas. The state government has since appealed the High Court judgment, which nullified the Review of the 1957 Ibadan Chieftaincy Declaration. In a statement yesterday in Ibadan, the spokesman of the authentic mogajis, Chief Wale Oladoja, said the mogajis and other true sons and daughters of the city received the news of the truce with excitement. The statement said the reconciliation kick-started by the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) with the support of elder statesman, Dr. Lekan Are, had borne worthy fruits. Oladoja, who is a former Director of Odu’a Investment Company Limited, hailed Oba Adetunji for his abiding faith in the tradition and unwavering stance since August, last year, when the state government elevated the high chiefs and some baales to crown-wearing and coronet-bearing kings. The authentic mogajis also hailed the concerned high chiefs for retracing their steps and allowing amicable resolution of the crisis, especially the Otun Olubadan, High Chief Lekan Balogun; High Chief Eddy Oyewole and High Chief Abiodun Kola Daisi, who were elevated to crown-wearing status by the government. Oladoja recalled that last year’s coronation of the high chiefs and baales had further reinforced the mogajis’ belief that leading traditional rulers, like Ibadan high chiefs, who are the custodians of the 11 local government areas in Ibadan, should not dabble in partisan politics because of their standings in the society. On next year’s general elections, the mogajis urged the concerned chiefs to exercise restraints on political issues. They noted that as family heads, who daily witness how the mass of their people yearn for greater democratic dividends, they would work with well-spirited candidate to engender good governance in line with the dream of the founding fathers of Ibadan and other parts of the state.