President/Vice Chancellor, Babcock University, Ilishan Remo, Prof Ademola Tayo, has called on countries to take urgent steps to address climate change in Africa. He spoke at the second Babcock University International Model United Nations (BIMUN) Conference, which had as theme, ‘ Addressing Climate Change-Induced conflict: A roadmap for achieving the Sustainable Development Goals’. Tayo noted that the world has continued to experience rising sea levels, extreme weather conditions and increased concentrations of greenhouse gases. “The Africa continent is at the receiving end and suffers adverse effects of the backlash of climate change. This is even more important when situated within the context of environmental conflicts. Such conflicts have devastated Africa and also generated a mass of internally displaced persons and a stream of environmental refugees. “Achieving any meaningful development within this condition would be an effort in futility. This has not allowed Africa as a continent to translate the vast natural and human resources nature has bestowed upon her into any reasonable benefit for her teeming populations. This underscores the need for urgent and accelerated action by countries to address the phenomenon,” he said. Savannah Centre for Diplomacy, Democracy and Development (SCDDD), Founder/Chairman, Prof Ibrahim Gambari, said increase in climate change-induced conflicts was a threat to humanity. According to him, climate change requires global action to deal with. “It also requires collaboration among different stakeholders across several countries and must involve everyone. As climate change is being addressed we will inevitably be addressing all the goals for sustainable development since climate influences a great deal of almost everything in this world. When season changes; our predominant occupations change, our consumption changes, our mode of dressing changes and even our natural environment changes. This means that developing strategies to address climate change and its induced-conflicts is as well a roadmap to achieving sustainable development goals.’’ A History teacher in the university, Prof Emeretus Omolewa, called for dialogue. “Each nation must strive to strong, self-reliant and independent to be able to influence changes.” He called on youths to be involved in the development of the nation, noting that they should not be after their own interest, but they should be after the interest of others. Speaking on organising the MUN, Tayo said the faith-based university sees the conference as an opportunity to provide a platform for participants to network and enrich their experiences. “This second edition of the conference is an affirmation of our commitment to making BIMUN an integral and regular part of our tradition as a university. With God on our side, we shall work towards making Babcock a reference point in Africa for the MUN programme.