WEST  African Seasoning CompanyLimited (WASCO), makers of AJI-NO-MOTO seasoning products, has reiterated its commitment to healthy living, stating that the product is good  for consumption. Speaking at the factory tour and unveiling of popular comedienne, Helen Paul (aka Tatafo) and professional chef, Miyonse Amosu as ambassadors for AJI-NO-MOTO® Umami seasoning, Managing Director of the company, Mr. Junichi Niki reaffirmed that the duo will be the new face of the brand connecting with consumers and deepening public awareness on the benefits of the brand. He said in Nigeria, WASCO will continually and significantly contribute to promotion of good health and good culinary practice for healthy living of all families through the provision of nutritional seasoning products and other products of high quality to our consumers. Niki  said: “MSG, based on scientific findings, is 100 percent safe for consumption. For over a century now, MSG has been used to add Umami, the fifth basic taste, that enhances taste and make dishes more delicious since it was discovered in 1909. MSG is present in most natural foods such as meat, seafood, vegetable, cheese and milk. Umami is a universal taste.” “As a food company, we have been in Nigeria since 1991 distributing nationwide. Over the years, we have grown especially in the Northern area and so we want to renew our strength in the Southern areas of Nigeria to complement our efforts in the North,’’ he added. Head of Marketing at Ajinomoto  Isa Hassan Shallangwa spoke on the global consumption of AJI-NO-MOTO Umami seasoning. “According to the Longman dictionary, Umami is having a strong pleasant taste that is not sweet, sour, salty, or bitter, especially like the tastes found in meat, strong cheese and tomato. Umami taste is a member of the five basic tastes (alongside with sweetness, sourness, saltiness and bitterness”. He further said: ‘’The safety of umami substance has been approved by authorities all over the world such as in the USA, EU, Australia, Japan, and also by NAFDAC/Nigeria. AJI-NO-MOTO is produced through a natural fermentation process of sugar molasses which are obtained from plants such as sugar cane. The benefit of AJI-NO-MOTO Umami seasoning includes enhancing and promoting the deliciousness of our meals, it is economical, it reduces salt intake and it is rich in glutamate one of the free amino acids.  Almost all seasoning contains MSG.” AJI-NO-MOTO® is the first MSG seasoning produced since 1909. It is also the number one brand of Monosodium Glutamate (Umami Substance). Glutamate is also abundant in our traditional fermented condiments like iru, ogiri, daddawa. Umami is a universal taste. AJI-NO-MOTO has been selling for over hundred years and now sells in about one hundred countries and regions.