Nwabueze Onwuneme is the leader of the foremost pro-President Muhammadu Buhari group in the Southeast, the Buhari Southeast Youth Movement (BUSEYM) and a chieftain of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Abia State. In this brief chat, he told Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, about his ambition to represent his people, the Ohuhu clan, at Abia State House of Assembly come 2019. He also discusses his ties with the first Premier of Eastern Nigeria, Dr. Michael Okpara, his vision to build on Okpara’s legacy and other national issues. Excerpts JUST recently you declared your desire to represent Umuahia North State Constituency in Abia State House of Assembly, what is your vision for your people and your chances to win the election? My vision is borne out of the desire to ensure socio-economic emancipation of my people, taking advantage of our God-given potentials and agricultural resources which are in abundance in our place but have been left unexplored and ineffective due to ineffective representation in the past. My chances, by the grace of God, are quite high given my antecedents and the good reward system of my constituents who are highly enlightened and greatly independent of elitist opinions or propaganda. My constituents are quite politically aware. My chances are high also because, amongst other contestants, I am the only one who has, in the past, impacted on the lives of our people infrastructural and socio-economic wise. The history book is there to vindicate that I am the first Ohuhu son who openly did the first empowerment programme in the constituency while not vying for any elective post as can be seen in the trend where politicians do that for the sake of getting the people’s votes. Another factor is the fact that I am practically the only aspirant whose candidature is not influenced by external forces but is solely dependent on the support of the people. My people are aware that this, in turn, makes me totally and only answerable and accountable to my constituents unlike in the past where our collective benefits are domiciled in the homes of one or two individuals. The general notion out there is that APC is not strong in Abia State, so don’t you think that would affect your chances in the state legislative election and even that of your party in the governorship? That’s not the notion of the populace; it could only be the impression created by the Peoples Democratic Party in the state and let me tell you, that impression is being created by the ruling party in the state because the party is scared stiff of the imminent defeat staring it in the face. PDP leaders in the state and the government officials know that PDP would loss in 2019 in Abia State because of their lack of performance and non-payment of salaries and pensions. You also know that the PDP stock-in-trade is lies and propaganda. This was greatly exposed recently when the present governor’s alter ego and the Governor of Ekitit State was given a bloody nose by the APC in the just concluded Ekiti State governorship election. The rejection of PDP here in Abia here would even be more total than what happened in Ekiti State because in Ekiti State, Governor Ayo Fayose at least completed one flyover bridge. Here in Abia, they are yet to complete one after more than three years in the saddle. The current Abia State Government has spent three years constructing drainage from Osisoma junction to Bata junction in Aba, a distance of not up to seven kilometers. If you take cognisance of their dismal performance, you will understand why the PDP in Abia State and the current government is so scared of the APC in the state. Besides PDP’s record of performance in the states it is governing currently, Abia APC today parades political juggernauts in the state. They include former Governor Orji Uzor-Kalu, Senator Chris Adighije, Senator Nkechi Nwogu, Elder G.O Onyemobi; Dr. Uche Ogah, Rt.Hon Martins Azubike, etc., to mention just a few and not to forget the strong grassroots’ hold of the APC in the state. All these and more, coupled with their dismissal performance will make the APC emerge victorious in the forth-coming election. Your constituency is that of the late former Premier of Eastern Nigeria, the Rt. Hon Michael Okpara, who till date, made some agricultural and developmental strides that are yet to be equaled by subsequent governments; wouldn’t that bar be rather too high for you? It may interest you to know that the two major farm settlements of the late Rt. Hon M.I Okpara, the Ulonna North and South settlements transverse my constituency and may I tell you that revitalisation of these settlements would be one of my major priorities as a legislator, representing this constituency. My duty would be to draw the attention of the Federal Government to it and thank God, the present government of President Muhammadu Buhari has made agriculture a major priority. APC is interested in the promotion of agriculture, a deliberate policy that is aimed at making common Nigerians almost self-sufficient. We believe that real development will start only when an average citizen can feed himself. Another advantage I have as an aspirant with this vision is that my father worked very closely with the late Rt. Hon Michael Okpara. As you can envisage, he has bequeathed to me the agricultural master plan. I am part of it and have been part of it from childhood. Already, I am working with some partners to improve and develop this grand vision, making use of modern dynamics and technology. Because agriculture is the mainstay of my people, I will strive to make it the catalyst in our effort at creating wealth for my people. You are the leader of Buhari Southeast Youth Movement (BUSEYM), a group that has been at the forefront of promotion of Buhari in the Southeast since 2015. The next presidential election is far approaching and the current defections have helped to set the tone. Given the perception that the president is anti-Igbo, how would your group, which for long has been championing his cause, help him to win Igbo votes? It’s most unfortunate that “Nigerian leaders” no longer play politics of ideology and service to the people but rather of selfish interest. Their problem is that President Buhari, unlike past leaders, would never open the nation’s vault to pacify them neither will the APC, under the leadership of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, be boxed into a corner to compromise or erode democratic principles of open and fair contest by promising automatic tickets; so at the end of the day, it’s all borne out of selfish interest and not the interest of the masses or the country and Nigerians are now very politically aware and wise and would do justice to all this during the next elections. On the issue of President Buhari being anti-Igbo; that propaganda has been killed by our group’s grassroots sensitisation where the developmental strides of the president in the zone are being practically brought to the attention of the youths and women of the zone. Our campaign that Buhari is not an Igbo hater is highly aided by the president’s giant strides in the zone, including but not limited to the second Niger Bridge; major roads like Enugu- Port-Harcourt and Enugu-Onitsha; ease of doing business in the wharfs which will favour the Igbo dominated import business, the feeding programmes in all the schools in the zone, SME’s incentives etc.. Make no mistake about it, Ndigbo today, most especially the youths and women, know the truth and will therefore massively vote for President Buhari in 2019.