Any moment from now, the parties will start naming their flag bearers for the general elections. The window of defections will remain open for aggrieved politicians to switch platforms until the electoral umpire drops the curtain on the submission of candidates’ names. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the impact of recent defections on by-elections in four states and the factors that will define the forthcoming nationwide elections.  Some factors that will shape 2019 elections  The National Assembly by-elections in four states have come and gone. The battle has been won and lost. But, can the outcome of the polls be a signpost for next year’s general elections. The by-elections were held in Cross River, Katsina, Bauchi and Kogi states to fill the seats that became vacant, following the demise of the legislators. Predictably, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) won in Cross River. But, the All Progressives Congress (APC) won in Katsina, Bauchi and Kogi. Ahead of the polls, the ruling APC and the opposition PDP flexed muscles. The PDP, still basking in the euphoria of defections from the APC, predicted doom for the ruling. Firing salvos at the APC, PDP leaders said the electoral misfortune awaiting the ruling party would underscore its poor performance. Reacting to the outburst, APC leaders said the result of the elections will shock the PDP to the marrow. The PDP candidate in Obudu Constituency, Cross River, Mrs. Abbey Ukpukpen, is the widow of the former lawmaker, Stephen Ukpukpen, who died in May. Her victory was a fitting tribute to the memory of her departed husband. Mrs. Ukpukpen’s victory, in part, confirmed that Cross River is still a PDP stronghold. But, it is a different story in other states. In Lokoja/Kogi Constituency, where the poll was conducted to fill the seat vacated by the late Umar Buba Jibrin, APC candidate Haruna Isah was elected to replace Jibrin in the House of Representatives. He polled 26,860 votes to defeat Bashir Abubakar of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), who got 14,845 votes. The exercise was not devoid of violence. “Thus”, according to the Returning Officer, Prof. Rotimi Ajayi, “19, 960 votes from 17 polling units-15 from Lokoja Local Government Area and two from Kogi Council-were cancelled”. In Katsina North Senatorial District, it was a great battle. Kano politician, Senator Rabiu Kwakwanso led the PDP campaign. The crowd was huge. The APC rally also sent a powerful message to the opposition. It was led by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN). At the close of poll, Ahmed Babba-Kaita, a member of the House of Representatives, became a senator-elect on the platform of the APC. He defeated his biological brother, Kabir Babba-Kaita of the PDP. The winner got 224,607. The defeated candidate, a retired custom officer, garnered 59,724 votes. Instructively, the APC defeated the PDP in all the 12 local governments that make up the district. President Muhammadu Buhari is from the district. He was neither around to campaign nor cast his ballot for Babba-Kaita, who won the crown. An excited former Katsina State House of Assembly Speaker Gwojo Gwojo attributed the victory to the voters’ faith in the President and the ruling party. The Katsina North seat became vacant, following the death of Senator Mustapha Bukar. The victory of the younger Kaita means that a new by-election must be held to fill his vacant position in the Green Chamber of the National Assembly. Eyes were also on the two main parties in Bauchi South Senatorial District. Prior to the poll, two senators – Isa Misau and Nazif Gamawa – had defected from the APC to the PDP. Many expected that House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara, who is said to be leaning towards the PDP, would spring a surprise. But, the result was contrary. While PDP won in Bogoro Local Government, Dass and Tafawa Balewa councils did not follow suit. The APC flag bearer, Lawan Gumau, triumphed over his PDP rival, Ladan Salihu. APC scored 119, 489 votes. PDP got 50, 256 votes. The former governor, Isa Yuguda, who ran on the platform of the Green Party of Nigeria (GPN) polled 33, 079, which confirmed his fading political influence. What do these scenarios portend for 2019? Defectors to the APC have argued that the ruling party has lost touch with Nigerians. But, the poll results may have proved them wrong. What was more striking, especially in Bauchi, Katsina and Kogi, was the wide margins. Was the poll outcome a confirmation of the president’s popularity? Or the potency of the APC and the formidability of its structures? Do the by-election results has a predictive value? If similar polls are held in Sokoto and Kwara states, will the results follow a similar pattern? Many observers believe that many factors will shape next year’s polls, which is a nationwide exercise. They include the politics of nominations and how post-primary crises are resolved, power of incumbency, the performance of the APC-led Federal Government and public perception of the government to the end. The campaign issues may remain the same – the economy, security, job creation, and anti-corruption battle. There are other interwoven variables that also matter in elections. These are the financial war chest of candidates and parties, the ability of the umpire to conduct a credible exercise, electoral security and voters’ participation. Exuding happiness, Secretary to Katsina State Government Mustapha Inuwa said the victory was a sign of success in 2019 elections. “The APC will emerge victorious in future elections because the landslide victories recorded in Bauchi and Kogi states are proofs of the party’s popularity among Nigerians,” Dr. Inuwa said. Southwest APC leader Pastor Bankole Oluwajana shares the same feelings. To him, the defection from APC will not affect its influence in its strongholds. “The people are with APC,” he said, adding that they are satisfied with the president’s performance. To Media and Publicity Presidential Adviser Femi Adesina, there is no cause for alarm. The President, he said, will not only win, but also with a wide margin. He said that while the vocal minority who consistently criticise the president are entitled to their voices, President Buhari is preparing for the 2019 with confidence. Adesina said: “Democracy is a game of numbers. There is a vocal minority that has been speaking. You think they are more than 10 million people. They have a voice. Look at what happened in Bauchi during the senatorial by-election. The women were voting and shouting Sai Baba. There are millions like that. A lot of people are with the president. On the social media, you may think the president is a goner. But, ordinary people think differently.” 