JUNE 2018 was a memorial month for many people. In Nigeria, June 12 was anointed the new DEMOCRACY DAY. June 13 was celebrated worldwide as BLOOD DAY (see the first part of these series). June 14, worldwide, was the ALBINISM DAY, during which the albino,that man or woman in any race who has no pigment in his or her skin, eyes and hair is presented to the rest of humanity as a normal human being, irrespective of genetic differences. And June 17?it was FATHERS DAY! I did not hear much said of fathers, though, except that, as we say in Yoruba Land, omo okunrin ti o ba gun esin obinrin maa kan li ese (the male child who rides on a woman horse would have a broken leg). By this saying, the Yoruba’s tend to consign the upbringing of girls to their mothers, and boys to their fathers. The reminder of this is that a boy brought up by a woman cannot be a man (i.e. the broken leg, on which, of course, he cannot walk smartly through hazards of earth-life). In other words, it is implied, however successful such man may be, he would remain emotionally imbalanced! It was believed then, and probably even now still, that such men would think and feel like women, almost denatured. And that informed why women were allowed to nurture their sons for only seven years, after which the boys were weaned off them to join their fathers on the farms or in whatever occupation they engage in. Today, I would like to give the floor to the albino.  The Albino  Unless the albino is an inwardly stable person; his or her life is most likely to be a tortuous, even devastating one. It takes more than guts for a woman to marry an albino for man as it is for a man to settle for one. Even among albinos, albino-albino marriages are rare. One albino who was interviewed in a Lagos radio programme on albinism day said he outclassed other candidates in a pre-employment test, but he was not given the job because it was thought the sight of him may jeopardise the corporate interest. In my early days in journalism that is in the 1970s, two of the contributors of the newspaper on which I worked, the Daily Times, were albinos. They were prolific writers. One of them died of skin cancer. I lost contact with the other in the 1980s. But, by the mid-seventies, I met another one in the university. He was an intelligent Catholic Reverend Father. He had a cleaner skin than the ones I met before then. This was probably because he had money to take care of his special skin challenges. In the course of my public advocacy to popularise alternative medicine and nutritional approach to health and wellness, I have met more albinos, and I have known joy when they incorporate suggestions I offer into their lifestyles, and these work wonders for them.  Albino Myths  The albino is enveloped by many myths in south-western Nigeria. One is that albino health is damaged by the consumption of table salt, and so, albinos avoid it. The impression this myths convey is the picture of an earthworm sprinkled with table salt. But this isn’t true; albinos are not that vegetable. Many of them consume table salt than many non-albinos. We cannot discountenance abstention, though, in conditions of hypertension and other disease-situations which demand that non-albino as well limit their dietary sodium intake. Another scientifically disproven myth is that albino babies are made when a man cohabits with a woman during her menstruation. There are transcendental imputations which are beyond the province of science. One of these is that albinism is punishment for theft from the court or temple of a deity in a previous earth-life. I have heard such suggested, as well, in the cases of “incurable disease” of karmaic origins. One of such concerns the priests of the sun god in the days of sun worship in Egypt. The priests were said to force stubborn unbelievers to look into the sun with their eyes wide open till they became blind. What do we expect, it is asked, if justice reigns in the universe and such perpetrators of such misdeeds are sent back to the earth after their passage, to reap the harvest of seed they once sowed. Another quick reminder of such karmaic friend, we are advised, is the execution modes in the courts of  Yoruba obas (Kings) of the days of yore, when the oba was a supreme ruler; next only to the deity. The Oba pronounced death sentence with the instruction that a spear be plunged into the eye of the condemned person until the spear emerge at the back of the head! If we have no faith in these assertions known, at least for now, to be beyond the capacity of science to verify, why are we not reminded easily, we are asked, by what befalls the Ogbanje or the Abiku, who traumatised their parent? The Ogbanje and Abiku may or may not be mere mythological conceptions. They may or may not be mere sickled cell diseased persons who died at their appointed tenures but are misconstrued to bekill-joy members of a principality or power centre in the cosmos who enjoy themselves by tormenting parents who have made children breeding their earth – project. The Igbos call them Ogbanjes,  the Yorubas, Abiku. And Abiku may recycle himself in a family about three or fourtimes before anyone suspects what is going on. He or she incarnates in a family. But first when the parents begin to know joy of parenthood through him or her, he or she defects, through death, to the principality, where resounding joy rings out over a mission accomplished. In yorubaland, the elders teach such souls a lesson by mutilating the bodies of Abikus or burning it. People given to astral life know it is possible for a departing soul still attached to the body to feel the paininflicted on that body. Such mutilation hardens the criminal soul for more devastating exploits next time. But when he or she re-incarnates, what do we find? The marks of these mutilations or burning appear on the corresponding parts of the body of the new baby.At this time, all efforts are made to disconnect that soul from the power centre or its earthly legion. This automatically leads us to the possibility of how an albino came by his or her body, like the rest of us. We know about the sperm from the man fertilising the egg in the woman, and often marvel at howthese resultant zygote grows into a humane body. We will never stop bowing before the majesty of the wisdom of the Almighty Creator. Everything which exists has an astral prototype. KillianSemyom has demonstrated that scientifically with his Kirhan photography. We have seen it demonstrated, also, in Psychic or astral surgery. When we scream in dreams and simultaneously scream in the physical, there are two dimensions to that event. So, when a man and a woman engage in the pro-creative act and, thereby, set off vibrations which form into a channel to souls wishing to incarnate, many event at the astral level begin to take shape. A baby may be set off to grow in the womb. A human soul to inhabit that growing body someday may be appointed to it to the exclusion of others under rightful conditions. At a certain time in the course of these event, the coming human soul connects with the would-be-mother and the baby forming in her womb with threads of radiations. These radiations present an astral prototype of that coming soul to the growing body. In that astral prototype are all the features that human souls would bear on earth this time around. They are the resultants of its previous earth-life and experiences outside the realm of the earth. It is after the astral prototype that the growing body develops. Even there are genetic semblances with the parent or great, great grand parents, it would be because they are all homogeneous souls or linked by Karma. Who knows if they were all one Sun god priests?  Signs of Albinism  The Albino is known by many signs, especially lack of pigmentation in the skin, eyes and hair. The pigmentation is given by melanin. This means albinos have no melanin or do not have enough of it. In the physical sense, Albinismis thus a congenital disorder.There are many types of albinism in humans, but these are not our concern. For the purpose of this column, it is sufficient to know that, in the skin, pigmentation may be totally or slightly absent or absent in patches. The loss of pigmentation expose the skin to oxidation by cosmic rays, as there is no filter for them, and this may cause cancer. The skin may be crumpled, burned or “cooked ” in the eyes, albinism may cause redness, poor vision day and night. Eye colour may also be violet, but it is generally blue. Vision is low or poor because of abnormal formation of the retina, and the connections of the eye and the brain which eye glasses cannot correct. Many of them have a vision acuity of 20/200 or less. The hair may present colours ranging from cream and yellow to reddish tinge, blonde, yellow or orange or even light brown. There are more signals coming from the albino eye. They may be crossed eyes, rapid eye movement, lazy eyes, photophobias, sensitivity to bright eyes and glares, short sightedness or astymatism. Poor development of the retina, the light sensitive part of the eye, misrouting of the optic nerve to the brain. In Nigeria, some of us make a mistake when we assume albinos exist among only Africans. No race, Asian, European or American is spared this congenital disorder. While among some it occurs in between one to 18,000 and one to 20,000 of the population, it may present in one to 3,000 of others. In some albinos, the skin is not completely “bleached”. Some African albinos have reddish skin. The impact on vision also varies from mild to worse.  Help For Albinos  In Nigeria, some albinos are too poor to help themselves cope well with their conditions. Some are ignorant, that is they do not have information on what to do. But, now, they are forming associations and linking in social media. The public relations officer of one of these associations told Radio Lagos that he always sought to help to cross the roads, wore protective eye glasses, used binoculars to view distant objects and magnifying glass to read. I would like to begin with photophobia, that is sensitivity to light. This is in varying degrees. It may be caused by nutritional deficiencies such as Vitamin A, Vitamin B-complex, carotenoids, especially, lutein and zeazanthin, zinc and essential fatty acids. Photophobia may be aggravated by migraine. This type responds to Riboflavine (Vitamin B2), which is best taken along with a good dosage of Vitamin B-complex. The albino has to watch out for such as Tetracyclin, anti-diabetic and anti-malarial medications. They sometimes cause photophobia. So are eye drops which dialate the pupil, such as in glaucoma. People who naturally have large pupils have a predisposition to photophobia as their eyes let into much light. As dry eyes also cause photophobia, Vitamin A supplements may help. It is better to take solublelised (water soluble) Vitamin A as this is tolerated by the body, the liver in particular, in large amounts. When supplementing with lutein and zeazanthin, it is advisable to include broad spectrum carotenoids as well. Lutein and zeazanthin are, like Beta carotene, members of the 600 or so plus carotenoid family. The carotenoids may be found plenty in marigold flowers which are now available commercially in powder form. Lutein and zeazanthinare commercially extracted from them from all sorts of eye care medicines. Zinc is ideal because, without it, Vitamin A may not be well absorbed or used by the eye. Alpha Lupoic Acid is important. It is an antioxidant  active in fat and fluid media, both of which are present in the eye. This brings us to the need for other anti-oxidants helpful to the eye such as grape seed extract, Vitamin E and Bilbery, which protected British pilots against the glare of bombs during the Second World War. Zinc is an anti-oxidant to consider for the skin, either as an ingredient in body creams. We should remember that zinc is a chief ingredient in calamine lotion which clears the mess of measles in the skin. Albino skin needs it, too. I will seriously also recommend Orange Peel Powder in the body and hair cream of albinos. It clears scars in some people and protects the skin against the sun’s ray, apart from thickening the hair, making it grow long and sturdy andpreventing dandruff. Back to the eyes. In a study, Stringham and                Hammond report to the journal of food science that visual performance improved and light sensitivity decreased in subjects who took Carotenoids (10 mg lutein and 2 mg zeazanthin) everyday. Lutein is found more in leafy, green vegetables, including, as often mentioned in this column, Kalie, spinach, Spirulina and carrots. Magnesium relaxes blood vessels in the eyes to, like Bilbery and Ginkgo biloba among their other benefits, improve blood circulation. As for the skin of the albino, we may add to the recipes already mentioned for it dietary supplements such as Silica, which is good for the skin, nail and hair for everyone. Broad-rimmed hats, not just face caps, are recommended. Dark clothing is good, as black repels light, thus preventing the skin from absorbing Ultraviolet (IUV) light.Skin screen massage oils are helpful. Many people talk about Red Raspberry oil this may be scarce in Nigeria. Coconut oil has tingesof vitamin E and plenty of Lauric acid which kills parasitic micro – organisms as proven in oral use for diarrhea in HIV/ AIDS . I have seen skin condition helped by peanut oil fortified with vitamin A. Super – oxide dismutase (SOD) oil is no push over. The same goes for neem (dogonyaro) oil. Flat seed oil may be smelly but may be a good ally dietarily. So is Udo’soil. When Awocado is in season, it may be used as skin and facial scrub 30 minutes before a bath. The oil is a friend of the skin. Do not throw banana peel away it can produce a good skin and serve as a face scrub as well. There must be a place for cam wood. Ditto Shea butter. My cream is made of Shea butter, coconut oil and orange peel powder. Another recipe is sesame oil, lavender oil (20 drop) and one teaspoonful of vitamin E oil Albinos should hot indulge in foodless foods. Those to avoid like a plague are refined carbohydrates, white sugar in all forms, fried foods, hydrogenated fat, trans fatty acids, processed food, preservatives, while flour food of all kind. Fruit and vegetables, especially those with high anti-oxidant content, are their best friends.