The Enugu State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) and Universal Learning Solutions (ULS) have partnered to deliver intensive training to teachers and dedicated government officials. The training, which opened Monday for 300 Primary One and 200 Primary Two teachers, will last till Wednesday, next week – running for three days each in Nsukka, Enugu and Agwu. It will expose the teachers to specialist literacy teaching practices called “synthetic phonics” in the Jolly Phonics methodology. The training will enable teachers to improve reading and writing skills of Primary 1 and Primary 2 pupils in public schools across the state. Synthetic phonics is mandated or recommended by some governments around the world because of the way that it provides children with the skills needed to read and write. ULS Projects Director Dr Louise Gittins said the Jolly Phonics literacy project was in its third year in Enugu State. “The Enugu State Jolly Phonics project is well embedded in the hearts and minds of Enugu teachers. The project is set to expand to reach more Enugu teachers in 2018,” Miss Maisie Hunt, ULS Literacy Project Officer, highlighted the support offered by Enugu SUBEB as being instrumental to in the success of the project. “We are delighted to be partnering with Enugu SUBEB to train, resource and mentor its teachers in Jolly Phonics. I would particularly like to thank the Chairman, Chief Ikeje Asogwa, Permanent Secretary,  Chief T Z Ogbodo and Director of School Services Mrs Grace Okoro for their wisdom, strength and initiative in inviting us to work in Enugu State. This project gives the children of Enugu State a brighter future”. ULS Chief Executive Officer, Mr Gary Foxcroft, praised the Universal Basic Education Commission (UBEC) for its support for the adoption of Jolly Phonics in government schools across the country. “UBEC has really recognised the tremendous impact that Jolly Phonics has been having on literacy levels in Nigeria’s government schools and has taken it on as one of their flagship programmes. This has helped us to initiate new projects across the country. Jolly Phonics will be in all 36 states, and FCT, by the end of this year. This is truly amazing and will help to improve the reading and writing abilities of over one million children over the next two years.”