AIR Peace has concluded plans to  kick off flights on some international routes it was designated on by Federal Government. The routes include: London, Houston, Dubai, Sharjah, Guangzhou-China, Mumbai and Johannesburg. The airline said flights would begin before the end of the third quarter of the year. Its Chairman, Allen Onyema, disclosed this when the carrier took delivery of its second Boeing 777 aircraft. Onyema said the motivation to begin international flights was to resolve challenges Nigerians and other African passengers go through in connecting flights to many parts of the world. Onyema said  the carrier’s international operations would boost the economy, create more jobs in the nation’s aviation and allied sectors and offer travellers an exceptional choice. “We are very happy we’ve taken delivery of another of our Boeing 777 aircraft in preparation for our international operations and we are looking at commencing operations on one of the routes before the last quarter of the year. “We believe that this will enable us create more employment opportunities for Nigerians because that is the reason we exist. We want to help curb the unemployment situation in the country.” The Air Peace boss confirmed that the airline received its first Boeing 777-200 aircraft in February, adding that two more of the aircraft type were being expected before the end of the year to boost the airline’s international operations. Onyema said the Federal Government had designated Air Peace to operate flights to London, Houston, Dubai, Sharjah, Guangzhou-China, Mumbai and Johannesburg. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of State for Aviation, Hadi Sirika for supporting airlines with the removal of value added tax and granting of waivers on aircraft spares. The new aircraft, a 320-seater Boeing 777-300 named “Ojochide” and marked 5N-BUU, was flown into the Murtala Mohammed International Airport, Lagos by Air Peace Chief Pilot, Capt. Victor Egonu and Senior First Officer Emmanuel Iwhiwhu. It touched down to a rousing welcome by staff of the carrier, aviation workers and water salute staged by men of Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) lenges of Nigerians, Africans and other travellers on the long-haul routes. Also, Capt. Egonu and Iwhiwhu, who flew in the aircraft, said it is state-of-the-art with high performance capacity. The B777-300 aircraft has 12 first class, 48 business class and 260 economy class seats.