Sultan of Sokoto Muhammed Sa’ad Abubakar yesterday urged Nigerians to vote wisely in next year’s general election. He warned against rigging, urging voters to resist electoral impunity. The Sultan spoke in Lagos at the First Stakeholders’ Dinner and Interactive Session of the Legacy Initiative International. Its theme was: “Inter-faith collaboration in nation building.” The event had in attendance Christian and Moslem religious leaders and traditional rulers. The Sultan, who was represented by his Special Assistant, the Sarkin Kudu Sokoto, Muazu S. Abubakar III, urged Nigeria to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) ready. “Eligible voters should use their PVC wisely. We think that the era of forceful abuse of the electoral process and intimidation is over,” he said. He prayed for the country to get its leadership choices right. “We pray that God in his infinite mercies should guide the aspirants and moreso the voters to choose wisely,” he said. Former External Affairs Minister Ike Nwachukwu said the elite failed Nigeria. “The elite has failed our country. We have had every opportunity to lead the people aright, but we have failed in doing so,” he said. He blamed it on ethnicity, religious divisions and unhealthy party politics. Senator Nwachukwu said Nigeria can still attain its potentials with the right leadership. “This is the time for all Nigerians to wake up to their responsibility of electing only those who will make the country better for you and your children. “Register and vote for people who care about Nigeria. There is no religion that preaches hatred. It’s all ‘Love your neighbour’. Let’s do that going forward,” Nwachukwu said. Legacy Initiative International Grand Patron Chief Kenny Martin said the time had come for failed leaders to be held accountable. According to him, leaders take Nigerians for a ride because there are no consequences for their actions. Martins said leaders of the two great faiths must put aside their doctrinal differences and close ranks to ensure good governance. “When the right persons occupy the seat of government, there will be national stability, accountability, progress, development and economic growth. “Then there will be foreign direct investment and more growth in national GDP. These are the things we desire for our country,” Martins said. He said the Legacy Initiative International seeks to enlist the support of religious leaders towards a greater Nigeria. “Our faith should be our uniting factor rather than a dividing one,” he added. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo, who was billed to chair the event, was absent. He did not send a representative. The Ooni of Ife was represented by Oba Fayemi Johnson.