Telecoms giant, Globacom, on Wednesday received recognition from industry players in acknowledgement of its innovations that have contributed to the growth and development of the sector. Association of Telecommunications Companies of Nigeria (ATCON) celebrated the company and other key agents of the revolution that altered the face of the industry in 15 years. Billionaire, Dr. Mike Adenuga Jr. and the telcom giant, Globacom were recognised for their commitment and rare dedication to the growth of the industry into a world-class business concern which also generates employment for millions of Africans in Nigeria and other parts of the continent where it operates. Former Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Dr. Ernest Ndukwe, chaired the occasion of the public presentation of the publication at the Oriental Hotel, Lekki, while the Minister of Communications Technology, Adebayo Shittu, was a Special Guest of Honour. The book reminisced on the fact that Globacom crashed the cost of GSM SIM and tariff from N20, 000 and N50 per minute respectively to as low as N200 and 5 kobo per second. Globacom also got credit for introducing per second billing at inception. “That feat, consequently, made it much easier for Nigerians to get value for money by paying only for the exact time spent on calls… thus helping to aggressively boost telephone penetration in the country”, the book recalled. The book mentioned other early revolutionary products pioneered by Globacom in Nigeria which included Blackberry, vehicle tracking, mobile internet, mobile banking, multimedia messaging service (MMS), in-flight roaming services, voice SMS, Magic Plus and Text2email, among others. The publication also documented Globacom as the first and the only operator so far with a wholly-owned submarine cable, Glo-1, linking Europe and America to West Africa to ensure the availability of bandwidth to enterprise customers in West Africa. “Globacom was the first to launch 4G-LTE network in 33 cities in Nigeria in 2016. Recently, the company scored another first by introducing the novel concept of creating a dedicated path in its 4G LTE network for enterprise customers,” the book added. In its bid to boost access to bandwidth in areas outside Lagos, especially the oil platforms and under-served communities in the southern parts of Nigeria, the telecommunications service provider   recently flagged off the laying of Glo 2, the first submarine cable in Nigeria to terminate outside Lagos.