Following the inauguration of a new state executive committee to pilot the affairs of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State, a former chairman of the Inter-Party Advisory Committee (IPAC) in the state, Mr. Goddie Akpama, has urged all members of the party to close ranks and work together for the party’s interest. Akpama, who is a chieftain of the APC, said with the successful conduct of the state congress which produced Dr. Mathew Achigbe as the chairman, it was important that members of the party, no matter their affiliations and sentiments, to embrace the new exco and work towards the bigger goal which is winning the next elections. Speaking with reporters in Calabar, Akpama appealed to those with grievances to embrace the new leadership of the APC and bring their issues to the table to be addressed. Akpama, also a former governorship candidate of the Progressives Peoples Party (PPA), said beyond the positions in the state executive council, there was so much members of the APC in the state would benefit from, if they work as a united front to take over power in 2019 from the PDP. “The state congress has taken place and a new set of leadership for the state chapter of our party, the APC, have emerged, and I think instead of wasting energy and resources on those things that will not help the party, we should drop respiration in the pursuit of our personal ambitions, and put the interest of the APC first, and view the interest of the party as the best interest for all members and Crossriverians in general. “The bigger picture for all members should be winning power for the APC in the state, and that would be the best opportunity to reward a vast number of members for their support and hard work,” Akpama said. Akpama also advised the new executive council of the APC in the state led by Achigbe to be magnanimous in victory by inviting their former opponents to join hands so they can work as a team for success of the party at the polls in 2019. “I expect the party chairman to be magnanimous in victory, and declare a “no victor no vanquished” policy as a necessary step towards bringing everybody on board ahead of 2019,” Akpama said. 