JUNE was a month of one World Day after another. The blood, albinism, sickle cell disease had one day each. Last Monday was Mosquito Day. The urinary bladder may find a place on this growing list. Only people who have been challenged by “Urinary incontinence” will recognise that, while this may not be an incurable disease or seriously life-threatening it is, nevertheless, an embarrassing which may make the sufferer feel disabled. The picture I often see when thoughts of these conditions cross my mind is that of a pretty, effervescent woman reduced to a caricature by a stroke which took away from her control over her urinary bladder. It was bad enough that her husband was gone, and all her children, grown, had left home to found their own families. To worsen matters for her, she had to live with her son whose wife soon got tired of changing diapers for an old woman. The emotional stress which followed the stress of her son’s marriage must have made her lose the will to live. Some women are luckier. Their leaks are not caused by a stroke and are often easily treatable because they are not disease, but symptoms of them or other less problematic events. The bladders of a man and a woman leak little amounts of urine when they laugh, cough or lift heavy objects. Some of them may be old, and and the nerves and muscles of their bladders may have become weak in the ageing process. Some may have germ infected urinary bladders which make these storages contract irrationally to expel urine. When a woman has had her womb surgically removed, urinary incontinence is not too far from the picture. For the womb and the urinary bladder are supported by muscles and ligament common to both, and the surgeon’s knife may have been intruded hither and thither. Child birth does not always leave a woman unscathed. Apart from the pressure of the uterus and foetus on the urinary bladder during some pregnancies causing small and frequent emissions now and then, the uterus may prolapse, that is leave its bounds. The intestine, too, may protrude into the vaginal region, disturbing equilibrium in the pelvic. In some men, the phosphate gland may be inflamed, enlarged or it may have become cancerous. Some pharmaceutical medicines may be the culprits behind urinary incontinence. So can a large dosage of vitamin C or diuretics. At work, also, may be coffee, caffeine and spicy foods or drinks.  Types of incontinence  Doctors divide urinary bladder incontinence into different groups in accordance with their presentations. The common groups are related to stress, infection, overflow, function, timing (temporary or permanent), medicating (heart and blood pressure medicines, muscle relaxants e.t.c.)  Stress  Coughing, laughing and exercises, such as lifting of heavy objects, may pile pressure on the urinary bladder and cause urine leakage. The spincter muscles at the neck of the bladder ought to withstand the pressure. As it doesn’t, there is a suggestion that, either in constitution or tone, this muscle is weak. This may be a subtle message that the health of muscles throughout the body needs to be addressed. This is important. The heart is a crucial bundle of muscles. Muscles hold the skeletal system together. The uterus, too, is a muscular organ. Muscles hold the eyeball to its socket. Even in the eyeball, muscles are present. In such disease conditions as glaucoma, muscle weakness is indicated. But all too often, attention is not paid to the entire body or to the fact that muscular dystrophy may be emerging, worsened as well by nerve deterioration. You probably have heard reports of people who collapse on their own weight. Their muscles and nerves just cannot hold their bodies together. I was told of a case in Ibadan last year. She was in her 60s. If she tried as little to cross a road in haste, she crashed. So, she had to seek help all the time. I suspected this could be a case of “mild beriberi” in which the nerves and muscles are deprived of thiamine, Vitamin B1, through dietary deficiency. People whose diet is almost exclusively refined rice suffer most from it. People who live on divretics, such as hypertensives, may always have their thiamine stocks washed away in the urine. Nerves may begin to deteriorate when they do not have enough thiamine and this may affect muscles. Realising that Lions Mane Mushroom  is one of the rare herbs which supports the regeneration of mangled or damaged nerves and, in addition, increase nerve flow or energy flow in the nervous system, among new discoveries about its other contributions to health in other parts of the body, I suggested Vitamin B1 and this mushroom to this woman. As set to write this column, I called the woman who introduced her to me to ask about the health of the older woman. To my joy, the younger woman reported that she was now as fit as fiddle. Such was the status of a young man who was falling on staircases and was, also, beset with slurry tongue. To understand what a slurry tongue may imply, push forward your tongue and try to speak! To Vitamin B1 and Lions Mane Mushroom may be added Magnesium. There are many brands of magnesium in the market, but many of them are not easily bio-available and are, therefore, good waste of money. The brands most often considered good are Magnesium Orotate and Magnesium Citrate, in that order. In a state of magnesium deficiency, the body is like “frozen” because the status suggest calcium dominance. Calcium contracts, but magnesium relaxes. It is this situation of contraction and relaxation which keeps the body in equilibrium. What has been suggested above does not rule out the use of bio-chemic tissue of cell salts which improves nerve and muscle constitution and tone.  Urge incontinence  When nature calls and you head for the rest-room but urine begins to drip before you arrive there, or it cannot wait for you to undo the zip or buttons, that’s urge incontinence. An infection may be at work, which may be easily cleared up with such natural anti-microbials are corn silk, cranberry, Aloe vera, Garlic, Golden seal root, Mango seed Extract, Collodal Silver, Black walnut Hull, Apple cider Vinegar, Maria Trebens Swedish Bitters, and proprietary blends such as Virus Viral, Bladder and yeast infections, Amazon A-F, Amazon A-V, Grand Aloberrynectar and the likes of them. But, sometimes, urge incontinence may have neurological foundations, or even diabetes. In the case of diabetes, prompt action should be taken to avoid such degeneration as may affect the eye, kidneys and nerves. Chromium or chromium-containing formulas such as BLOOD SUGAR, BLOOD SUGAR BALANCE may be called up. Herbs, such as FENUGREEK and CINAMON, are good. My current pets are ORANGE PEEL POWDER, which have been out of the market for some time, and RED KIDNEY BEAN POD POWDER. The latter not only cuts blood sugar well, but it also, helps many kidney conditions and supports weight management.  Overflow incontinence  Here, urine is not flowing reasonably out of the urinary bladder. That means the bladder does not empty completely despite intense urge, causing frequent or constant urine dribbling, such as experienced by when beset with inflamed, enlarged or cancerous prostate gland. Many men are now aware this symptom is better not treated with kid gloves, having witness the discomfeitures of many friends who either have to go about their activities of with a cathether and a urine bag on their bodies, or who have had to undergo expensive n50-50 chance of survival surgeries, with many dying in the process. Now, such men know they have to be on a daily zinc supplement, in addition to other vital food supplements. About 80 percent of the zinc in a mans body is behaved to be resident in his prostate gland where, combined with prostatic fluid, it makes the sperm fertile and provides it an excellent alkaline environment for its survival in the acidic vagina environment. Many cases of a couples infertility may be caused by an overly acidic vagina and a semen not alkaline enough to survive this atmosphere. Men themselves may be responsible for this by being sexually over-exposed without responsibly restoring, dietarily, the zinc they lose with every ejaculation. This brings them nearer their prostatic waterloo because of another vital function that zinc performs inside the prostate gland. Inside the gland is an enzyme named 5-ALPHA REDUCTASE. In the presence of adequate amounts of zinc in this gland, 5-alpha reductase behaves normally. It cuts the picture of a rat in the colony of cats. When zinc is indefficient status in the prostate gland, 5-alpha reductase goes to town as it were, converting the male hormone Testosterone to Di-hydro testosterone (DHT), which encourages or stimulates prostate gland cells to overgrow or enlarge. As any man of my age should care for his prostate gland in an environment where men about 20 years younger are stumbling, I do not wait for warning signals before I take the bull by the horn. I even encourage my son who is under 30 to get on zinc culture. Every morning I make him make a tea pot of Stinging Nettle Root Powder Tea for both of us. This is reported by Maria Treben, the Austrian author of  HEALTH THROUGH GOD’S PHARMACY, to be one of the best blood builders and cleansers on the face of the earth. I go for it more for its ability to make urine flow naturally through a check on prostate gland enlargement. Some people prefer the leaf, but I think I do much better on the root powder as tea or sprinkled on food or wisped into juice. For me, it increases the force of urine voiding, frees the pelvic of that pressure often associated with urine retention after voiding. Besides, it increases the quantum of urine voided, thereby eliminating the question of and need for frequent voiding. Of all the other remedies I would have liked to mention, I would be able to talk about only ROBUST ROOT and AFRICAN BLACK ANT. Robust Root is indicated primarily for low male libido and, erectile dysfunction, turgidity and all that. It works for these immediately and long term. One of the side effects often reported by the users is that, suddenly, they begin, again, to experience early morning turgidity which is a hallmark of a virile man. Even children experience it. Something must be going wrong urogenically for the mature man who no longer experiences it. As an icing on the cake, perhaps, experiencing it helps to overcome some, if not all, of the challenges of overflow incontinence. As for African Black Ant, which works gradually, it is reported to help out in prostate gland enlargement in addition to its libido and erectile dysfunction healing activities.  Functional incontinence This occurs when a mental or physical ailment delays arrival in the rest-room, or, while there, one cannot immediately get into the act.  Mixed incontinence  Sometimes, combinations of these problems or all are the root of the challenge. For women only using the United States model where about 25 million people experience urinary incontinence and about 80 percent of them are female, it can be assumed that more women than men suffer from this condition in many countries. After all, they are the ones who suffer more from yeast and candida infections in the urinary tract where the equally dangerous or more virulent ailments abound. For this reason, many women turn up at the doctor’s. But, increasingly, they are becoming frustrated by anti-cholinergic drugs they are given to normalise events in their bladders. Some of these drugs leave the users with unpalatable side effects such as blurry vision, faster heart beat, dry mouth, an indication of constipation, memory loss and even convulsion. In the search for safer options, some have had bladder or vaginal surgeries to shore up muscles and ligaments which hold the urinary bladder in place. Women do not give up in the search for health. Pressing their doctors for better and safer and more convenient options, women who are Challenged have obtain a number of natural reliefs or cures from the natural medicine industry, about five of which I will sickly mention here. The first is the party liner which, as reported in this column a few months ago, is now becoming popular in Nigeria. It is much lighter and smaller than the typical menstrual pad menstruating women are familiar with. It is not used by only women who suffer from vaginal infection and do not want discharges to soil or ruin their panties, or who wish to avoid embarrassment of the repulsive odour which these discharges may spew around them. Panty (or panties) liners are now worn by women who suffer from any form of urinary incontinence. Such women keep a few panty liners in their bags and wear one over their panties. When urine drops (or those vaginal discharges) soil the one they wear, they simply walk irrelevant to the rest – room, change it, throw it into the trash and walk away, free again. The second option is a behavioral change.  It is timed voiding. That means, tying to empty the bladder at regular intervals. My friend are surprised to learn that I void the bladder every four hours, full or not, except at night, when I may be pressed once. This, along with thiamine, lions mane mushroom and magnesium helped me to curb urinary incontinence. Timed voiding also helps to prevent microbial build- up and overgrowth which may cause urinary tract infection.  Kegel’s exercise  Developed by Dr. Kegel is a third option. Please search the internet for this. It is being employed to day by millions of men and women world-wide to solve pelvic flour challenges such as urinary and incontinence, premature ejaculation of flabby vaginal wall muscles arising from birthing or other challenges. Magnesium constitutes the fourth option. This is a mineral that is becoming more well used as a food supplement these days because of its importance in normalising nerve and muscle function in blood pressure mechanisms, sleep disorder, joint immobility, constipation, mental adroitness and other situation. In the troublesome bladder, there may be more calcium than magnesium in the calcium / magnesium mix. This may lead to contraction of nerves and muscle spasms which cause irregular dropping. Just this scenario may be playing out in premature ejaculation which leaves many sexual partners exasperated and fusions. Magnesium in the bladder tissue helps to calm tremulous nerve and muscles and, thereby, helps to resolve urinary incontinence. One study at Tel Aviv University involving 40 women is deported to have confirmed this hypothesis. Finally, women wound need to get out more in the early morning sun, which is same to help the body absorb Vitamin D, which in turn, is known to help the absorption of calcium into the bones. Too much calcium outside the bones may cause deposition of this minerals on soft tissues, hardening them, as in Arteriosclerosis (hardening of the arteries) which may cause high blood pressure. According to a 2010 study published in OBSTETRITS and GYNEOCOLOGY reported that women who presented higher levels of Vitamin D exhibited lower risks of pelvic flour disorder, compared with women with a lower levels of this sunshine Vitamin. These pelvic flour disorders included urinary incontinence. There would no doubt, be more safer option available to women and men beset with incontinence. We may talk about thesew another day.