WHAT EVERYONE OVER 40 SHOULD KNOW Everyone gets forgetful once in a while, especially as we get older and with all of life’s stresses, tiredness, certain medication , distractions and illnesses. Apart from being annoying, that is generally nothing concerning If however it starts to impact on day-to-day living and then medical attention needs to be sought So, WHAT IS DEMENTIA? Dementia is a group of related symptoms associated with an ongoing decline of brain functioning resulting in memory loss, problems with thinking speed, mental sharpness, language & understanding A person with dementia can become uninterested in their usual activities. They may have problems controlling their emotions, their personalities change and they often lose interest in socialising. They may see or hear things that other people do not (hallucinations). They lose the ability to remember events and fully understand environmental situations. They find it difficult to plan and organise and also to maintain their independence It is a disabling disorder that affects the way a person behaves, thinks, speaks and can be a huge burden for the person and family members
Even though Dementia is a condition associated with the older age group, it is NOT a part of aging and should never be dismissed as such. There are many people in their 90’s who do not have dementia because they did some things right in their earlier years 2 
The 2 commonest types are Alzheimer’s and Vascular and these account for the vast majority of cases.
This three part article is aimed at everyone over 40 years old, pointing out what we should all be doing now and as we grow older, to reduce the risk of developing this devastating disease
WHAT ARE THE RISK FACTORS AND WHAT CAN YOU DO ABOUT IT?
There are some risk factors for dementia that are impossible to change such as age & genes but there are other risk factors that have been clearly identified and can be addressed early on.
Landmark research carried out in Cambridge University in 2014, identfied seven lifestyle factors that increase the risk of developing dementia.
Each week, I will focus on one or two of them & this week, it is exercise  and blood pressure control
Exercise and Dementia
For many people exercise is a heart sink topic!
Not many of us like to spend the early mornings or late evenings grinding it out in the gym amongst lots of superfit people who make us look like couch potatoes. In fact for many, the thought of having to drag themselves out for a run on a day to day basis is neither attractive nor do able
That said, the evidence is overwhelming from research done at Cambridge University in 2014 those who did not achieve 20 minutes three times a week of vigorous exercise such as jogging or football or five 30 minute sessions of Moderate activity such as walking were 82% more likely to go on to develop dementia.
The good news, however, is that just one hours exercise per week can reduce the chance of developing Alzheimer’s disease by almost 50%
So, what do you do with that information?
For me personally, I found it very reassuring. The answer really is to schedule an hours walk once a week, on a day that works well, say Saturday morning and do it religiously once a week. From age 40, it is good to get into this routine. The benefits are felt at age 50, 60 and beyond. The added benefits of this include weight loss, the general feeling of well-being and the reduced risk of diabetes and hypertension. 3 
Studies have also shown that for people aged 60 and above, mental decline can be reversed by as little as 52 hours a year of exercise.
It does not appear to matter how many work outs someone does a week or how long each of the workouts last, as long as they eventually amount to 52 hours.
This can easily be achieved by scheduling a one hour walk every weekend.
The important thing is to do something and sustain it.
It has been very reassuring to see how many men have taken up cycling over the past couple of years. That is an excellent form of exercise.
Many of us have also taken up jogging and have hit the gym but the vast majority of people are still not doing anything at all.
Ladies, can you start a weekly walking club with a group of your friend? This could over some time morph into twice weekly or even three times work outs
So, to motivate you to get up a walk for one hour a week… THINK BRAIN!!
We all want to live long but like the late Martin Luther King Jnr said. “ it is not about how long you live but how well you do it”
Blood pressure and dementia
Research has shown that 50 year olds with slightly raised blood pressure are at an increased risk of getting dementia in later life.
This association was only seen at aged 50, but not 60 or 70
People aged 50 with a systolic BP consistently above 130mmHg had a 45 per cent greater risk of developing dementia
This is particularly concerning in our geographical location because black Africans have an increased incidence of high renin hypertension and as such will be at a high risk according to this study of developing dementia in later life
So, what do you do with that information?
4 
– Get a health check at 50 – Monitor your BP regularly with a good electronic sphygmomanometer  – If you have consistently high blood pressure readings, book a consultation with a reputable Consultant Physician  – You might need to take medication to control your blood pressure  – You will need to modify your diet to a low salt one – You will need to schedule in regular exercise
This is not by any means an exhaustive list, it is really just the minimum that should be done.
In conclusion, in order to minimize the risk of developing dementia in later life, there are some lifestyle changes that we need to make at age 40, 50 and beyond.
This 1st part of the series has touched on the role of exercise and blood pressure.
I will discuss the other key lifestyles changes in the 2nd part of the series. NB: Dr Toyin Ajala is a Consultant Geriatrician and Physician. She is CEO of JBS Medicare Services and contactable via email at toyin.ajala@jbsmedicare.com, for more info and tips on healthy aging In the last part, I talked about what Dementia is, what it is not, the common types of Dementia, the risk factors that we cannot change like age, sex and to some degree by age 40, lower levels of education and two of the risk factors that we can do something about – Exercise and High blood pressure.
In Part 2, I am going to discuss two more risk factors that we can do something about from age 40 and upwards. These are
– Depression ( to include loneliness and social isolation) – Obesity in mid-life
These are all scientifically proven risk factors.
In the next part, I will discuss the risk factors that have been associated with dementia but which studies have thus far have been inconclusive in proving.
Reminder!! WHAT IS DEMENTIA?
Dementia is a condition associated with an progressive decline of brain functioning resulting in memory loss, problems with thinking speed, mental sharpness, language & understanding
It is a disabling disorder that affects the way a person behaves, thinks, speaks and can be a huge burden for the person and family members
As I pointed out in Part 1 of this series, even though Dementia is a condition associated with the older age group, it is NOT a part of aging and should never be dismissed as such.
There are many people in their 90’s who do not have dementia because they did some things right in their earlier years 2
The 2 commonest types are Alzheimer’s and Vascular and these account for the vast majority of cases.
This three part article is aimed at everyone over 40 years old, pointing out what we should all be doing now and as we grow older, to reduce the risk of developing this devastating disease
APART FROM EXERCISE AND HIGH BLOOD PRESSURE, WHAT ARE THE OTHER RISK FACTORS THAT WE NEED TO BE AWARE OF IN MID-LIFE AND WHAT CAN YOU DO ABOUT IT Depression and Dementia Research has shown convincingly that untreated depression in mid-life, i.e. after the age of 40, increases the risk of developing dementia in later life
Untreated depression and low mood can also affect a person’s ability to be socially active and lead to loneliness and social isolation.
Loneliness and social isolation are also believed to be linked with a higher risk of developing dementia but it is still unclear as to how this link is established
There is a 20% increased risk of developing dementia in later life in people aged between 40 & 55 who have untreated depression
Unfortunately, depression and other mental health illness is on the increase! So is loneliness and social isolation
The reasons for this are multifactorial and beyond the scope of this article
That said, how can depression at age 40 to 55, or even loneliness and social isolation increase the risk of developing dementia in later life?
What biological or physical mechanisms could account for this?
The answer lies in a hormone called cortisol. It is called the stress hormone because it is related to the stress response. It has been found that people who are depressed have high levels of cortisol which then has an adverse effect on a part of the brain called the hypocampus. This part of the brain (hypocampus), is critical for memory and is responsible not just for shirt term memory but also new learning.
The hypocampus has been found to be smaller in people who are depressed 3
Secondly, this stress response in depressed people can lead to chronic inflammation that damages blood vessels and reduces blood flow to the brain, predisposing to neurodegenerative changes in later life
So, what do you do with this information?
If you are feeling depressed, the first thing I want you to know is, you are not alone.
1 in 6 people in the UK have depression and anxiety. In Nigeria, the WHO in 2017, said 7,079,815 Nigerians suffer from depression. It is highly likely that with the taboo surrounding mental health illness in Africa, that figure is many times higher! It is the fear of being stigmatized that prevents the majority of people from seeking expert help
Fortunately, the tide is changing and with increasing enlightenment, depression is being seen for what it is, a manageable medical condition and not a physical or spiritual taboo. These are several strategies for coping with depression. I will touch on a few but quite often, as I intend to ensure this is relevant and reproducible, my take home message is SEEK PROFESSIONAL HELP!
It is untreated depression that increases the risk of developing dementia, so seek specialist treatment!
There is a significant amount of evidence which shows that as a society, mental health issues including depression and anxiety are stigmatised and as such people do not seek help or medication until it is too late. – Stay in touch with people and try to get outdoors. Sometimes it is impossible for people with depression to motivate themselves into action but if you have others around you that you trust and can confide in, that can really help – If you are worried about confiding in family and friends, for whatever reason, turn to a health care professional, ideally a psychologist, who will be able to support through the difficult times, all in confidence. There are brilliant psychologists around in Lagos like RSG services, Info@rsgservicesltd.com –   Consult a psychiatrist! Medication can help and there is nothing wrong in taking medication for a time limited period to enable you to get over the condition.  Quite often, depression is due to a reduced level of the “happy” hormone Serotonin in the brain and taking anti depressant medication can address that imbalance. – Be more active: Take up some form of exercise. Start walking for at least 15 minutes every day. Exercise promotes the release the “happy” hormone Serotonin in the brain and also boosts the overall feeling of well being  – Go to work, and continue with social and religious activities as much as possible. 4
This is not by any means an exhaustive list but just doing what is listed will go a long way in ensuring that your brain activity in later life is preserved
Obesity in midlife and dementia
Recent research shows that people who have a high body mass index (BMI) are more likely to develop dementia than those with a normal weight.The risk is actually almost double of developing dementia in later life with mid life obesity.
Being overweight can also increase your risk of developing type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure, both if which also have been proven to increase the risk of developing Alzheimer’s and vascular dementia So, what do you do with that information? – Get a health check at 40 and check that your weight is within the healthy range – If it is not, and you have a high BMI, then take steps at once to reduce it – Dieting to lose weight, is not easy!! For most people, it is an uphill task that involves a huge amount of willpower, dedication and commitment. If this is an issue then speak consult a physician on the various medical and sometimes dental options available to control your food intake. Whatever route you take, commitment is required so surround yourself with people who will encourage you on the journey and make sure your family members are on board – No getting away from this one! You will need to schedule in regular exercise! This will increase your metabolism, enhance your sense of well-being and accelerate weight loss I will discuss the other key lifestyles changes in the 3rd and final part of this series. Overall, THINK BRAIN!! Dr Toyin Ajala is a Consultant Geriatrician and Physician. She is CEO of JBS Medicare Services and is contactable via email at toyin.ajala@jbsmedicare.com , for more info and tips on healthy aging For any questions or help in managing someone with Dementia, contact doctors@jbsmedicare.co