More firms will soon be finding their voice and position as Leadway Assurance steps forward to support the introduction of the solvency requirement for insurers from January 1, next year. This is coming on the heels of the announcement of Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Requirement (TBMSR) regime by the regulatory authority, the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM). The new TBMSR will reclassify firms into Tier 1, Tier 2 and Tier 3 and ensure that they insure only risks that are commensurate with their capital. The development is expected to grow  industry contribution to Gross Domestic Product (GDP) from 0.3 per cent and improve its ranking within the comity of African insurers. Since NAICOM’s announcement, insurance firms have been thrown off balance and are still grappling with its after shock. The development has upset some firms that thought they may be extinguished form the industry. But two weeks after the announcement, one of the leading insurance companies, Leadway Assurance Company Limited commended the regulators for a policy, saying it is long overdue. Its Managing Director, Oye Hassan-Odukale, who gave the commendation following FBNInsurance Limited Managing Director, Val Ojumah’s description of some operators as fringe players while supporting the regulatory order, said solvency requirement’s introduction would help restructure the market in a way that insurers could choose, which part of the consumer segment is best served, based on the capital fund it holds or is able to deploy. The Leadway chief is also the Sub-Committee Chairman on Publicity and Communication for  Insurers’ Committee. According to Hassan-Odukale, with the restructuring, insurers do not have to be compelled to increase their capital to underwrite risks that stress their capital without delivering commensurate returns to capital providers or shareholders. He said the restriction would foster the emergence of players with capacity to become retail or underwriters’ specialists in critical sectors of the economy, such as the aviation and oil and gas, while accelerating the growth of the industry and its contributions to the country’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). Hassaan-Odukale also expressed his confidence in the initiative. “The news of NAICOM’s introduction of TBMSR is a positive one. I am confident that it is an initiative with potential upside for the industry to grow and take its rightful position as a formidable contributor to our national economic activities, growth and development as it is in developed economies. “It is high time we moved beyond the 0.3 per cent contribution to GDP and improve our ranking within the comity of African insurers (heavily dominated by South Africa) as measured by the African Insurance Barometer. Overall, we should expect an improvement in the capacity and reputation of the industry on the back of unwavering market discipline, improved claims settlement, stronger local retention, increased prudence and promotion of appropriate pricing,” he said. He continued: “Under the new TBMSR, the minimum capital requirement which is policyholders’ surplus/shareholders’ funds for insurance companies remains as the base Tier 3 capital (N3bn for General Insurance; N2bn for Life).  Tier 3 companies are now only able to write retail insurances (micro insurance, motor, fire, agriculture, compulsory liability insurances, individual life, health and miscellaneous insurance). Tier 2 companies are required to have 150 per cent of the base capital (N4.5 for General Insurance and N3billion for Life) based on the types of risks written. Tier 2 companies can write retail insurance as prescribed under Tier 1, including commercial and industrial risks and group life assurance. “Tier 1 companies are ultimately required to have 300 oper cent of the base capital (N9billion for General Insurance and N6billion for Life) to write all risks including annuity and exclusively Special Risks (e.g. energy and aviation risks) which are highly capital intensive in terms of risks retained on the balance sheet of the insurer in addition to any reinsurance capital purchased. Automatically, composite companies (Life and General Insurance) at any tier only need add both sides to make up the required capital, so you will have N5billion for Tier 3, N7.5billion for Tier 2 and N15billion for Tier 1.” On how the TBMSR will affect insurers’ solvency margin, Hassan-Odukale added:“It is important to note that all companies already fall within each restructured tier therefore, no company needs to raise additional capital unless they have existing capital deficiency or prefer to play within a tier above its current capital level. “Leadway Assurance, which falls within the Tier 1 bucket has shareholders’ funds valued in excess of N40 billion compared to N15 billion required for a Tier 1 composite insurer. A number of other insurers are also within this tier. We believe this TBMSR is good for our industry as it helps to promote the financial health of insurers and, ultimately, consumer confidence. “Insurers are already at different levels of the tiered system. Each company will then be placed within the bucket that they already belong. Should companies now decide to play at a level higher than their current tier, the shareholders can take capital actions either by mergers or injection of new funds. With the TBMSR, insurers simply play within the limit of their solvency capacity,” he said. Hassan-Odukale also said unlike the previous capitalisation, no insurer is being asked to shore up capital and neither will anyone’s licence be withdrawn either, stressing that companies simply get to choose which tier they want to operate in, ensuring that they stay within their capacity so that they are able to meet the obligations of the risks that they carry. “If a Tier 3 company then wants to play at Tier 1 level, nothing stops them from embracing voluntary merging with other companies in order to scale up their capacity and build more formidable and globally-competitive institutions that would create value for stakeholders and investors. “At the end, the major difference between the three tiers will be in the nature of risks underwritten by each insurer, depending on each insurer’s current capital position. To reiterate, the choice of whether to increase capital is left to the insurer who must decide within which tier it wants to play the market as the regulator has not required any company to increase capital above the current minimum,” he added. Meanwhile, NAICOM will today kick off a training session with Board members of all the companies. The Commission, which planned to transit to the new capital regime, is preparing the Board for smooth transition. Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari said the Commission said the training would create awareness for the Board and enable them make proper decision going forward. He said after the training, the Boards are expected to take a decision on their choice to either be a Tier 1, Tier 2 or Tier 3 player not later than September 14.