Residents of Angiama, the ancestral home of the late Gold Coast, the mother of Bayelsa State Governor, Mr. Seriake Dickson, shed tears uncontrollably on Wednesday when they were formally notified of their daughter’s death. A delegation of leaders of the Kpadia Royal family to which the Dickson family is a part and the Toru Orua community of Sagbama Local Government Area was in Angiama with the sad message. The high powered delegation was led to the Angiama community of Patani Local Government Area òf Delta State by the Kpadia Royal family. The messengers included a full community delegation from Toru- Orua and Bulou-Orua, with Chief Accra Odogu as leader. The delegation included the Chairman of the Kpadia family, Chief Joshua Ogoezi and Dr. Seiyefa Koroye. The Governor of Bayelsa State who was the first son of the late Mrs Gold Coast Dickson, his friends and associates, National and state legislators, government operatives, youth leaders also formed part of the delegation. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, stated in a statement on Wednesday that the visit was in adherence to the age long tradition of the Ijaw people to formally inform the deceased family in the event of death. The delegation was received by the three paramount rulers in the area, the Amananaowei of Angiama 1, Delta State, Chief Frank Ayakoroma, the Amananaowei of Angiama 2, Chief Bruce Ogbo, and the Amananaowei of Bolou Angiama, Chief Forward Osuobeni. The Head of the Akpe family of the late Mrs. Dickson, Mr. Salami Akpe, a maternal uncle to Governor Dickson and his siblings, and other prominent members of the area also received the delegation. The late Mrs. Goldcoast Dickson died in August 18, 2018 at the University of Texas M.D. Anderson Cancer Centre, Houston, Texas where she wasreceiving treatment. Governor Dickson who returned to the country after the death of the matriarch on Monday said during a church service held in memory of his late mother that she was a mother who displayed unique qualities and virtues which shaped the lives of her children and those who came across her in her lifetime. “My mother has been an integral part of my journey, she was not just my mother, she was my elder sister, she was my rock, my counselor, and because of her subtle style, people might not know the level of her influence.” He said Dickson said that his mother complained of some pain in the leg in January which was later discovered by medical experts at the Bayelsa Diagnostic Centre to be cancer. He recounted the last moment he had with his late mother who passed on in his presence in the US. He recalled that his mother told him some people dressed in white had come to take her home before she passed unto glory. “One thing that happened before she passed on, is that she said that people dressed in white had come to take her home”, he said. He described his mother as a warm, witty and charming personality who love humanity and was loved my many including the medical experts at the Cancer Centre where she died. The governor urged the people to pray against untimely death especially the rampant incidence of cancer related deaths in the society.