The Sultan of Sokoto and President General, Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs ( NSCIA) Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar on Tuesday urged Nigerian youths to use their PVCs not weapons to choose their leaders. According to the reverred leader, is the only sure way to ensure the success of their parties and candidates in the forthcoming elections. ‎”I urge you to obtain your PVCs. Without which you cannot not vote for your favourite party and candidates in the forthcoming elections in 2019. “We should see our PVCs as religious and weapons not the kind of weapons given to our youths by unscrupulous politicians to cause mayhem in our societies. ” If you love Buhari, the only way you can ensure his success is obtaining your PVCs and same thing with Governor Tambuwal and other aspirants,” he said Sultan made the call in his message to Muslims on the occasion of Ed-el-Adhan. The religious monarch also reiterated his call on them to shun acts of thuggery or violence, saying no election worth a precious life of any Nigerian. He maintained that traditional rulers have no favourite party or candidate other than the choices of their subjects. However, the royal father appealed to politicians and political parties not to take politics as do or die affairs, stressing that only God gives power to whoever He wishes and at the time He wishes so. “We should therefore play the game by its rules. We should avoid making inflammatory and divisive statements in our politicking. And after the election whoever God gives the office we should support him to succeed,” he said He further urged Nigerians to continue supporting their leaders with prayers and advices in order to deliver on their mandates successfully while reminding them of the need‎ to also pray fervently for a sustained peace across the country as according to him, no country would progress without a permanent peace and tranquility. In the same vein, the religious leader commended the efforts and resilience of security agencies in their drive towards securing the country.