President Muhammadu Buhari has urged women to go for elective offices so as to help make the needed change in the country. He spoke during the women political aspirants’ summit organised by National Council of Women Societies, (NCWS) and Women in Politics Forum. He also expressed optimism that Nigerian women would vote massively for him next year as they did in 2015. He said women constitute more than 50 per cent of voters, and are by experience more dedicated and principled than their male counterpart. He said “Politicians rely on women voters because their word is usually their bond.  Women stand by candidates they believe in all the way, so politicians do a lot to gain their confidence. “Let me thank Nigerian women who put their confidence in me and voted for me in 2015. It is my hope that the confidence is still there; seeing this gathering. I am confident that it will remain. “Nigeria is a country of opportunities and possibilities. It is blessed with productive and skilled manpower, coupled with resources still being harnessed. With the right leadership at all levels, appropriate mindset and strong institutions, we can attain great heights.” he said The challenges his administration had witnessed since 2015, he said, have given way to dividends, which can only increase considerably and translate to better infrastructure, more jobs and more food on the tables of Nigerians. “A few months ago, I met with female parliamentarians and they raised issues concerning the passage of Gender and Equal Opportunity Bill now before the National Assembly and the implementation of 35 per cent affirmative action, among others. “I am fully in support of both positions because these measures will improve the representation of women in our politics. Let me add my voice to the call on women to contest for political offices and effect the changes they want to see. I am confident that women can make great leaders and move the nation forward,” he said. The Director-General of Women Development Centre Mary Ekpere Eta said: “Over the last two decades, the rate of women’s representation in national parliaments globally has incrementally increased from 11.8 percent in 1998 to 17.8 per cent in 2008 to 23.5 per cent in 2018. “However total global representation is still well below the 30 percent benchmark often identified as the necessary level of representation to make an impact on laws and policy. “Here in Nigeria,women’s participation in politics has sadly remained poor and  as suggested by data, the participation of women in the affairs of political parties has not transformed to real opportunities as to allow them participate effectively in governance. “What are the solutions? How can we change politics from being  a male-oriented, male-dominated enterprise in Nigeria? “Elections in Nigeria have often been characterized by one form of violence or the other.”