The motivation to write on this matter is informed by the preponderance of telephone calls I receive daily from candidates, parents and educationists, wanting to know how they can secure admission into the University of Ibadan (UI). They say: “I love UI”; “I want to attend UI, but I don’t know anybody there”; “I don’t have connection there! Can you assist me?”; “How much can I give as bribes in order to gain admission to UI?” What a misconception! They see UI as the richest ad cheapest intellectual citadel of higher learning in Nigeria, yet they are bereft of basic facts about the University. One will now begin to enlighten the callers, explaining the modalities of securing admission into the Nigeria’s premier university, fondly referred to, as the First and Best.  You do not need any connection; neither do you have to give bribes to get into UI. In other words, UI’s admission process is not only tough but absolutely merit-driven. This is because the University sees all the states of the federation as its catchment areas. Thus, admission slots are highly competitive, available only to the best of the best candidates, irrespective of socio-economic status. Again, UI’s undergraduate admission process seems to be so tough and rigorous because the University is fast becoming a Post Graduate institution, training manpower for other younger universities in the country.  This Postgraduate flagship status automatically limits undergraduate admission capacity. While the National Universities Commission (NUC) approves up to 8,000 admission slots for UI, the institution admits yearly, an average of 3,500 undergraduate candidates whom the available facilities can effectively accommodate, in order to be able to concentrate on Postgraduate studies. To be fair to all undergraduate admission seekers, the Management has, over the years, entrenched a culture, which gives everybody a level-playing ground for competition, with the ultimate goal of picking the best candidates. With five credits in relevant ordinary level subjects, 200 and above in the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME), and a good post-UTME score, a candidate has a chance to study in UI. However, there is a problem!  Most of the candidates with good WASSCE and UTME grades do not excel in UI’s post UTME test, which is more or less a repetition of past UTME questions. Whereas, the test is a quality-control mechanism designed to validate candidates’ claims, yet, many perform abysmally to the embarrassment of their parents. For instance, out of over 21,000 candidates who sat for UI’s last Post- UTME test conducted last October, only about 9,000 got 50 and above, out of which UI admitted about 4,000. But what is the problem? The simple truth is that today’s students are largely distracted. Indeed, to me, the distraction offered our students by the social media demands serious attention of both parents and guardians. Our failure to reckon with this simply denies us the grasp of where the problem lies. Social media has its merits, but the youth of this generation seem to tilt much more towards its demerits. Candidates seeking admission into UI, but are habitually glued to Facebook, WhatsApp, Twitter, LinkedIn , Instagram, YouTube, Snapchat among others, have already limited their chances of getting in, because they may have little or no time to study to the level demanded by UI . In addition, the youth equally waste precious time watching TV, especially sports channels, where they memorize all the names of football players. All of these indulgences affect reading habits, and consequently, poor academic performances. Let me slice it a little thinner, the reasons for mass failure in public examinations are certainly, multifactorial. But I am convinced that in today’s world, where everybody is connected and nobody is in control, social media is responsible for denying the students their dreams , as they don’t succeed academically as much as they have capacity to. They waste a lot of time on frivolities and pornographic materials. Unfortunately, many parents condone what should be condemned. In the last UI’s post-UTME test in which my daughter participated, I took some measures perceived by my nucleus family members to be in extreme, which ultimately contributed to her success. Having realized the dangers of social media, I denied her the use of phone until; and I stopped subscribing to DSTV until after the exams. I bought several JAMB past questions for her and began to monitor her. We indeed studied together! When the result came, it was amazing as she scored 72 and got admission to UI on merit. This was the same Post-UTME test in which thousands of other candidates flunked, getting 27, 32 and 41, thereby bungling their chances of studying at Ibadan.  It is said that if you can pay the price, you will get the prize. Success doesn’t happen by happenstance. It is a product of hard work. The price of success is hard work, dedication to the job at hand, and serious preparation. Consistent hard work leads to success. This is therefore a wake-up call for parents to moderate the addiction of their children to social media. Parents have the mandate of moral regeneration. It needs no emphasis that the children of these days need attitude reconstruction to study. Serious reading is the best nourishment for the mind, and the foundation for clear thinking and sound planning. But our children will love to live in luxury of life without too much stress. They prefer to be lassies-faire about their business of knowledge acquisition. You can’t blame them; this is a generation with consumer mentality. They prefer consumption to production. Securing UI’s admission is like winning a lottery, nothing beats the feeling. This is a university with the highest number of professors in the country.  About 50 percent of Vice Chancellors of Nigerian universities are products of UI.  It is the intellectual capital of Nigeria. 