15 hospitality, travel and tourism companies in Dubai, the economic capital of the United Arab Emirates are set to be in Lagos for the 2018 Akwaaba West African Travel Market holding at Eko Hotels and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos. The fair will hold from September 9 to 11.  The companies will be led by Dubai’s Department of Tourism and Commerce Marketing (DTCM). They include: Jumeirah; Red Apple; Khimji; Sun and Sand; Apha Tours; Swisshotel; Copthorne Hotel; Rayna Tourism; Mgallery; Arabian Adventures; Dubai Health Authority; Wings Tours; Pullman City Centre Hotel; JA Resorts & Hotels; Ritz Carlton  and Dubai Tourism. Also, the Gambia Tourism Board seeks to renew their presence in Nigeria.  As part of latest efforts to increase awareness for the Gambia as an all year tourism destination for Nigerian visitors and prospective investors, the Gambia Tourism Board has announced its participation at the 14th Akwaaba–African Travel Market holding in Lagos between Sunday 9th to Tuesday 11th September 2018. The Gambia has confirmed participation with a 20 man delegate for the event to include top stakeholders in the industry to be led by the Director General, Gambia Tourism Board. In a statement signed by the Marketing Director, Gambia Tourism Board, Adama Njie, visitors to The Gambia stand on Gambia Day were promised an unforgettable Gambian experience. Top hotels, tour operators and stakeholders will be attending from The Gambia. He assured visitors a “taste of some of our national cuisine, music and multimedia presentation of the range of our trendy and exquisite resort facilities, cultural patrimony, ecotourism, exotic fauna and flora attributes throughout our beautiful country which have earned The Gambia the acronym –the Smiling Coast of Africa. The Gambia Day event is set to flow from Sunday with the Jollof rice contest into Monday where the Gambia Day proper will hold, The Gambia is keeping no secrets as they will be deploying the best of the team to meet Nigerians and see the beautiful loving tourist destination.