An Ikeja High Court yesterday remanded in prison three businessmen, Anietei Obong, Akaninyene Okpoho and James Dottie, following their arraignment for alleged theft of helicopter spare parts worth $46,940 (about N16,898,400). They were before Justice Oyindamola Ogala on a five-count charge of stealing, conspiracy to effect an unlawful purpose, forgery of incorporation documents and uttering of false incorporation documents. The special fraud unit (sfu) of the police alleged that they sold the parts to a United States (US) buyer. Prosecuting counsel Benneth Benedict alleged that they stole the parts from Bristol Helicopters Nig. Ltd premises at the General Aviation Terminal, Murtala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Ikeja, from 2016 to 2017 Benedict said: “The defendants stole by fraudulently converting to their use and benefit, several helicopter spare parts. “The spare parts include integrated instrument display, transceiver, valve kit, NG dual indicator, symbol generator and tail rotor servo.” He listed the other spare parts to include tail rotor blade, fuel control unit, antenna radar and display unit. “The businessmen conspired to effect the unlawful and unauthorised sale of the several helicopter spare parts to one Mr Frank of Great Lake Air Support, a company in the United States. “The defendants forged a registered company incorporation name as well as documents entitled ‘Sales Invoice’ and ‘Export Invoice’ in the company name of Sammy Global Ltd. “They used the false documents to export and sell the several spare parts to Frank, their U.S.-based buyer.” In another instance, the prosecutor alleged that they uttered the false documents through the use of computer systems stationed in Lagos. According to him, the offences contravened Sections 383(1), 390(9), 465, 467(2)(i) and 518(6) of the Criminal Code, 2004. The defendants pleaded not guilty. Benedict prayed the court to remand them in prison and fix a date for their trial. But counsel to Obong and Okpoho, Mr Alli Abbah, and counsel to Dottie, Mr Tope Temokun, prayed the court for a short adjournment to enable them apply for bail. Justice Ogala will rule on their bail applications on September 11.