An Igbosere High Court yesterday fixed September 6 to hear an application by nine Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) members seeking to nullify the party’s 2017 congresses. The plaintiffs are Ishola Shodiya, Ismaila Abiola, Kehinde Adela Aluminani, Kazeem Adeyemi, Awoyemi Abayomi, Adegboyega Adegbesan, Olalekan Bello, Florence Akojenu and Wasiu Aderounmu. Joined as respondents in the suit are PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus, PDP National Vice Chairman South-West, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, Mr Moshood Salvador, and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The plaintiffs are seeking a declaration that the party’s October 21 local government congresses in Lagos State did not conform with the party’s constitution. In a motion filed by their counsel, Mr O. J. Osinowo, the plaintiffs are praying the court to declare that Salvador and other executive members were not validly elected at the congress. They urged the court to declare to restrain the executive members from parading themselves as members of the party’s Executive Committee in the state. They are seeking an order of perpetual injunction restraining the party and its national chairman from recognising the Salvador-led executive. The plaintiffs urged the court to compel the PDP to conduct local government congresses for the election of members into various offices as contained in the party’s constitution. They also sought an order directing INEC to monitor the congresses in all local governments and at the state level within 10 days after the order is made. The respondents, in their preliminary objection filed by their counsel, Mr Spurgeon Ataene, urged the court to strike out the suit for being incurably defective. They averred that the claimants failed to comply with the condition precedent in filing such processes, adding that Order 7 Rules 2 and 3 of the High Court of Lagos State Civil Procedure Rule, 2004 was not complied with. The respondents argued that the originating summons and accompanying processes were not endorsed for service in line with the provisions of Section 97 of the Sheriff and Civil Process Act Laws of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 2004. Justice Idowu Alakija adjourned till September 6.