The next set of corps members to be posted to Lagos State will undergo safety training in camp, the state Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Prince Mohammed Momoh, has said. He told The Nation yesterday at the closing of the orientation programme for Batch ‘B’ Stream I corps members that emergency responders would be invited to the orientation camp in Iyana Ipaja to teach corps members what to do in emergencies. This followed the death of nine corps members while swimming in River Mayo-Selbe in Gashaka Local Government of Taraba State last week. Momoh said: “Specifically in Lagos, we want to deepen this (safety).  Fortunately, the chairman of Governing Board of NYSC in Lagos State, who is the commissioner for Special Duties, is in charge of emergency and safety responders in the state. We are already talking to create an avenue for the emergency responders to come to camp during the next orientation, to sensitise corps members, give them safety tips and emergency numbers they can call and what to do when they are under threat or their safety is threatened.” Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, represented by Mr. Oluseye Oladejo, the commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-governmental Relations, urged employers to improve welfare packages for corps members. Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano yesterday urged corps members to carry out their responsibilities with patriotism and team work. He advised them to bring to bear their intellect, energy and resourcefulness towards the development of the state in course of their service. Obiano spoke through the Commissioner for Youth Empowerment and Creative Economy, Mr. Bonaventure Enemali, during the closing of the orientation camp of 2018 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 at camp site, Umunya in Oyi Council Area. He assured the corps members of residents’ hospitality and advised them to reciprocate by putting in their best during the service year. NYSC members have been urged to remain apolitical and avoid situations that may compromise their integrity, as they get ready to function as electoral officers during 2019 general election. Niger State Coordinator Mrs. Theresa Ibukun Arokoyo spoke yesterday at the closing of the 2018 Batch ‘B’ orientation camp. She said the nation believed in NYSC’s ability to ensure credible election. Governor Abubakar Sani Bello said the government had confidence in the scheme’s abilities to play key roles “in our quest to put the country on the path of progress.” Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike yesterday pledged to pay attention to the welfare of youths serving the mandatory one year National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). The governor, who promised a conducive and secure environment for corps members, urged them to see the experience they had gained at the orientation camp as a spring ball to their dreamed success. He spoke at the closing of the 2018 Batch ‘B’ Stream 1 orientation camp at Nonwa-Gbam in Tai Local Government of Rivers State. Represented by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Kenneth Kobani, Wike urged the youth to see their posting letters as windows of opportunities. NYSC state Coordinator Mr. Chinwendu Chukwu, who described the camp activity as successful, said it added to their skills.