The National Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus has mocked the erstwhile Senate Minority Leader, Godswill Akoabio, for jumping into a “sinking ship”. Akpabio had on Monday, dumped the PDP for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), in a move perceived by many as ploy to leverage on his status in the APC. Describing Akpabio’s action as unfortunate, Secondus said Akpabio chose to walk against the tide to endanger his otherwise rising political career. In a statement on Wednesday by his media aide, Ike Abonyi, the PDP chair said he found it very strange that anybody would go into a “sinking ship” at a time every other person was finding their way out of it. Secondus traced Akpabio’s action to self-preservation and not borne out of any rational strategic political decision. The party chair added that Akpabio’s decision did not enjoy the blessing of the people of Akwa Ibom whose mandate he enjoyed for eight years as state governor and his present position senator. Secondus said, “I cannot fathom any reason why on earth Senator Akpabio should work against the tide, moving at opposite direction to a place every reasonable person is escaping from. “He deserves our pity because whatever would make somebody to choose bad for good is clearly one that he should be prayed for, for salvation, especially given the fact that wolves are waiting for his arrival to devour him. “How on earth can anybody who has his eyes wide open be seen walking into danger knowingly”. Prince Secondus lashed out at the APC, for allegedly arm-twisting and intimidating people into what he described as a “sinking boat”, ostensibly to ruin and disintegrate the person involved. He called on the people of Akwa Ibom to be wise and know when to turn their back from a leader directing them to danger. “I urge you to remain focused and continue to give support to your hard working governor, His Excellency Emmanuel Udom as he remains unrelenting in the delivery of democracy to the people,” he said. 