 The International Press Institute (IPI) has commended the release of The Premium Times Reporter’s release and also demanded that all charges against him be dropped. IPI, a global network of editors, media executives and leading journalists also condemned the trend of forcing journalists to reveal their sources. Samuel Ogundipe was nabbed by the Police Special Anti-Robbery Squad operatives on Tuesday and released on Friday after posting bail of N500,000. The arrest followed Ogundipe’s refusal to disclose the source of a story published by his newspaper on  a report sent by the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) to Ag. President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Shortly before his release on Friday morning, six protesters at the entrance of the Force Headquarters in Abuja were being held back by aboit one hundred of Policemen acting on orders to prevent journalists from entering the complex. The Policemen who appeared ready to prevent breakdown of law and order locked their arms to form a barricade and they had batons, teargas cannister and guns. The Protesters chanted: “We have decided to fight injustice, no turning back, no turning back, Freedom cometh by struggle”. Speaking on behalf of the Protesters, the National Secretary of #OurMumuDonDo, Raphael Adebayo said: “Samuel only did his job and what he gets from those who are meant to protect him is arrest, is it fair? “He is a journalist not a terrorist or criminal.  People are dying in other states for real crime but you are here deploying about 100 Policemen for Protesters who are not upto 20.” The Protesters also called for the sack and prosecution of the Police chief for not defending the democracy. According to a statement by IPI Executive Director, Barbara Trionfi: “The prosecution of Samuel Ogundipe is a form of harassment against a journalist who has been carrying out his work professionally and in full respect of the principles included in the Code of Ethics of the Nigerian Press Council”. “The confidentiality of sources is universally acknowledged both as a duty and a right of journalists, as it is a necessary precondition for journalistic work.” She added: “International principles and treaties, including the 2002 Declaration of Principles on Freedom of Expression in Africa adopted by the African Commission on Human and Peoples’ Rights in 2002 and which represents an important milestone for media freedom in Africa, sets clear obligations on African Union member states to guarantee the confidentiality of journalistic sources.” Trionfi explained that in arresting and prosecuting Ogundipe, the Nigerian government has also violated Article 66 of the Treaty of ECOWAS signed in Lagos in 1975, which requires member states to “ensure respect for the rights of journalists”. She said: “In June of this year, Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari, inaugurating the 67th IPI World Congress in Abuja, said that “good journalism promotes good governance”. He added: “In an environment where fake news dwarfs investigative reporting, good journalism matters”. “Unfortunately, President Buhari’s words do not resonate in the actions of the police, and investigative journalism still faces great obstacles today in Nigeria”, Trionfi said. “The article published by the Premium Times is an example of good investigative reporting. Nigerian officials should cherish this type of journalism and so send a clear message about their serious intention to fight corruption and wrongdoing in the country”. Citing instances where journalists were harassed, Trionfi said: “Arresting journalists and asking them to disclose their source has become a pattern in Nigeria. In April 2013, two journalists of the Leadership newspaper were detained for several days after they refused to disclose their sources. “In March of this year, Tony Ezimakor, Abuja bureau chief of the Independent, was arrested and pressed to reveal his sources after he reported about the government’s allegedly paying ransom to Boko Haram for the release of kidnapped girls. He was later released without any charges. “The arrest of Ogundipe comes amid deepened scrutiny of press freedom in Nigeria. During the World Congress, IPI raised the case of Jones Abiri, editor of a weekly who had been in the custody of the security services for nearly two years without charges. “The government accused Abiri of being a terrorist and denied that he was a journalist. Thanks to pressure from IPI and other international press freedom organizations, along with reports published in the Nigerian media establishing that Abiri is a journalist, the security services produced him in court last month and he was released on bail on Wednesday. “The magistrate hearing the case has cautioned the prosecution that the case against Abiri will be dismissed if it does not produce proof of evidence”, she explained.