After two weeks of skills acquisition in a fun environment, Governor Ibikunle Amosun has counselled 226 public and private school pupils who participated in this year’s Summer camp organised by the Ogun State government to build on skills they gained during the camp. The youngsters aged 10-15 were camped at Akin Ogunpola Model College in Akinale, Ewekoro Local Government between August 6 and 19 during which they were exposed to ICT, vocational training, music and culture by experts in such fields. They were visited and taught by various highly renowned professionals and the state indigenes, including Nobel Laureate, Prof Wole Soyinka, and showbiz impresario, Kenny Ogungbe during the period. Receiving them at the Government House, Oke-Igbeyin, Abeokuta last Wednesday, Amosun told the young ones that the skills they learnt would serve as catalyst for their greatness in future. He told them to preserve the spirit of friendship they cultivated beyond the camp. “I urge you to put into practice what you have learnt in arts and crafts, as well as etiquette.  This annual summer camp would outlive the present administration,” he said. Amosun advised them to emulate worthy sons and daughters of the state, who had excelled in their chosen careers. When he met with the participants, Prof Soyinka warned them not to fall for peer pressure or participate in politics for the wrong reasons. “You mind the type of company you keep and do not fall into peer pressure. Politics is not for you at this young age. However, if you have to do this in the future it has to be from the lower position in the land”, Soyinka said. On his part, Dr Ogungbe advised them not to be discouraged by unpleasant situations but be focused on their studies and hope for the best in the future. Earlier, the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology, Mrs Modupe Mujota, described this year’s camp, as an enlarged one that attracted participants from other states. In 2016 when the camp started, there were 114 participants, while 161 attended last year. The students, grouped into six colours, took turns to appreciate the state government for organising the camp.They said it had broadened their horizon and exposed them to eminent personalities. Meanwhile, the body of permanent secretaries in the state has commended the management of Ministry of Education, Science and Technology for its efforts at improving facilities at the ongoing summer camp. The Secretary of the body, who is Permanent Secretary, Bureau of Cabinet and Special Services, Mr. Femi Kusimo, said, the experience garnered at the camp would forever linger in the minds of participants, charging parents whose children are yet to attend, to allow them take part next year.