As Muslims all over the world celebrate eid-el-kabir today, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode has called on them to embrace the virtues of sacrifice, love and continue to foster unity as they join faithfuls all over the world in celebrating. This was contained In his Sallah message on Monday signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Habib Aruna. Ambode said the period of the celebration was a clarion call for Nigerians to imbibe the lessons of the season such as selfless service to God and humanity, sacrifice and sincere commitment to righteous conducts in their private and public life. According to him, the significance of the season should be beyond feasting, adding that as Muslims prepare to offer animal sacrifice in the prescribed days of the festival, the real essence should be to encourage piety, self-discipline and sacrifice. The Governor therefore called on all Nigerians to exhibit these virtues for the good of the country and shun any act capable of heating up the polity or causing distrust among various ethnic groups in the country. “As we celebrate this auspicious occasion, let us renew our faith in our nation and implore the Almighty God to restore to us those values that place high premium on human life, love of neighbour and sharing even as we ventilate our faith in the unity of our dear country”, the Governor said. “This period requires more patience, fortitude, tolerance, endurance, patriotism and a greater willingness to make personal sacrifices for the good of all,” he said. The Governor also thanked Lagosians for supporting his administration, assuring that the government would continue to do its best to serve the people and promote fairness and mutual tolerance among the populace, irrespective of their ethnic religion or political affiliation. While wishing all Lagosians, especially adherents of the Islamic faith a happy Eid-el-Kabir celebration, Governor Ambode enjoined Nigerians in other parts of the country to continue to be their brothers’ keeper.