It was a gathering of who-is-who in the oil and gas industry in Lagos when the Chief Executive Officer, Seplat Petroleum Development Company Plc, Austin Avuru turned 60. The industry players poured encomiums on a man who has spent 38 of his 60 years on earth working to maximise value creation from Nigeria’s greatest asset, oil and gas, having trained as a geologist. Avuru is a key player in the oil and gas industry. He started his career with the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) in 1980, holding several positions, including well-site geologist, production seismologist and reservoir enginer during his twelve years in the company. He left the NNPC in 1992 to become a technical manager/Deputy Chief Operating Officer of a start-up business, Allied Energy Resources in Nigeria, a pioneer deepwater operator. This step triggered his entrepreneurship skills and helped to launch a growing business empire. Buoyed by his huge appetite for value creation, in 2002, Austin assembled an array of industry professionals to form Platform Petroleum Limited and subsequently held the role of managing director. In response to the divestment programme by the international oil companies (IOCs), Austin’s team at Platform worked with Shebah Exploration and Production Company to form Seplat in 2009. Subsequently, Seplat acquired 45 per cent interest in three oil blocks from Shell Nigeria, Total and Agip. Under his leadership, the company has grown from a little known minnow producing 18,000 barrels per day (bpd) in 2010 to a major Nigerian Independent dually listed on the Lagos and London Exchanges with operated production of over 70,000 bpd crude oil and 280 million standard cubic feet per day (mmscfd) of gas. A geologist/Petroleum Engineer and an alumnus of OPM 41 at the Harvard Business School, Austin is an accomplished industry writer and a resource professional for major national and international conferences. Co-author of “Nigerian Petroleum Business, A Handbook” and author of “Politics, Economics and the Nigerian Petroleum Industry,” he won the 2013 Ernest Young Entrepreneur of the year award in the Master Category for Nigeria and the West African sub-region The lecture for his birthday entitled: ’60 years later: Preparing for a Nigeria without oil,’ drew critical and knowledge-based contributions on how the country can effectively shift from dependence on oil for its survival. Avuru said the market is grossly underserved.  We have to create a future without oil because that’s where the future is, even if there is still oil, the future and prosperity of this nation has to be without oil, the market in Nigeria is grossly underserved. The Commissioner for Information, Delta State, who representedd the governor, Patrick Ukah, said: “I would like to congratulate Mr. Austin Avuru on his birthday. He is an illustrious son of Delta State and we are happy that he is a Deltan because he has impacted a lot on Deltans and not only on Deltans but also the country, individually and with the company that he has worked for. We have been in great partnership with him, so it’s a great thing celebrating with him. “But on the topic of the lecture, it is a clarion call to those in the private sector, that they must show interest in politics, they must learn to remove their minds from what they feel is dirty in politics, but  look at what they have to offer Nigerians. I think that is what is said here today. People like us came from the corporate world, and we are trying to do our own based on what we got from the private sector. The Governor of Edo State, Godwin Obaseki, is another example. He came from the private sector, and there are many like that who have succeeded in politics. There are a lot of discipline coming from the private sector that comes to bear on politics. “There are signs Nigeria would be a better place, the bottom line from what I take here is that Austin has prepared our minds for life after 60, to prepare the minds of those in the corporate world. So what we are saying to everybody is that we all should show interest in the governance of this nation that is the only way we can give the good governance that we look for. We pray that God will give him strength to enable him to do more for this country.” Platform Petroleum Limited Chairman, Dumo Lulu-Briggs, said: “There’s always life after oil, the point we are making is that we overemphasise oil, and we are beginning to have a sense that oil will solve all problems and that’s so untrue. On top of that fact, oil is becoming a curse. If we have oil we will be able to do other things. We have to create the awareness that as a nation we have to take a very critical decision about our future. Once we realisse that we have a common future, we begin to emphasise hard work, emphasise merit, and begin to reward merit. We have been fighting corruption but we are not rewarding merit, when we begin to reward merit, then it becomes a choice for the people. When they see there is reward for good work, people can begin to be very conscious of what they do. It’s an awakening for all of us. “For me, what Avuru has done speaks for him, not just his accomplishments, he is a brilliant person, over and above all others his humanity. He is able to put in place structure that will help people to grow to empower people, he is silent eloquent – for all of us to gather here and see, he has built institutions that will help people.” Seplat Plc Chairman, Dr. Ambrose B. C. Orjiako, said: “The first thing is to say a big happy birthday to Mr Austine; congratulations to him, and I wish him many more years of fulfilled life, that is my wish to him and I ask God to bless him with many more years.  Seplat as an organisation, we don’t always project, but at all times we say that the future is bright for this company, given the very strong foundation and fundamental conditions of Seplat. We can only look ahead and know that the future is very bright for the company, “All the commitments we made to produce gas, we already have market for that, which is part of the reasons there is growth in our gas treatment. There is increasing demand, there is good pricing, the environment for this gas abound, Nigerian environment remains good for gas supply. The industry and agriculture, therefore, there is a very strong market now and the future is even looking better. “The take home is very simple – Austin is a man of many attributes. He is a very sound oil and gas man, therefore, many captains from the industry were here to honour him, and he is also a philanthropist, given the diversified life he is supporting. He is also a very strong political analyst, many people may not know him, he is also a strong believer in what Nigeria becomes going forward. For Rev Fr. Matthew Kukah: “Austin is among the oil magnets. It’s my honour to be among these people. Post Oil Withdrawal Syndrome, I think the first question to ask is: ‘What did we do when we had oil?’ That’s what we should be talking about. Nigeria without oil, the question we need to ask is what we did when Nigeria had oil. “It is a question we must all try and answer before we ask what our country might be without oil, and again we have to return to the scene of crime, all the stories about oil in Nigeria, the Oloibiri where oil was first discovered and ask ourselves were did we go wrong? “Today as a country, we cannot feed ourselves. We are a country that cannot provide education for our children, today we have become a country that cannot generate and distribute electricity for the citizenry, today we have become a country that cannot provide railway line, we have no national airline, we have no medical facilities, and all of these came when we had oil. We are being at war with one another because oil led us to war, and we are still gathering the consequences of that war. “So, thinking forward on how our country will be, over and above material resources, we have to show commitment to the rules of the game. We substituted democracy with military rule. No country can survive without the rules of engagement.’’