The Federal Government said yesterday that its whistle-blower policy had raked in N13.8 billion from tax evaders. It added other massive dividends of the policy included N7.8 billion, $378 million and 27,800 Pounds recoveries from public officials. Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed told reporters in his country home, Oro, in Irepodun Local Government of Kwara State that “the fight against corruption has been unrelenting, without fear or favour. The administration has driven corruption under the table. “Nigerians no longer celebrate the corrupt. Looters no longer sleep at night, as the long arm of the law closes in on them. “This administration has embarked on institutional reforms to curb corruption. The implementation of the Treasury Single Account (TSA) has plugged the loopholes being exploited to steal public funds.” He urged Nigerians to be vigilant, adding that the “gains of the past three years plus must be preserved. Nigeria must continue on its present trajectory to sustainable growth and development. Never again must we go back to Egypt. “2019 is the year of decision for Nigeria. It is the year that a critical decision will be made as to whether Nigeria will continue along the path of development, in all ramifications (social, economic, political, etc) that this administration has embarked on since 2015, or the country will retrogress and backslide to the throes of massive and primitive looting and lack of development. “As we approach this critical fork on the road, I have no iota of doubt that the good people of Nigeria will choose the path of development, having seen the commitment, sincerity and patriotism of this administration. It is clear, from all indications, that Nigerians are not going back to Egypt. Because of the support of the people, our party will win, even with a wider margin, in 2019, thus sealing the fate of the naysayers. “The fear of this impending victory explains why they have been running from pillar to post, desperate to thwart the victory of the APC in 2019. They labour in vain.” Reeling out the achievements of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration, the minister said: “Never in the history of our country has any administration embarked on such a massive infrastructural development as this administration. The whole country is one huge construction site. Roads are being constructed in all the six geo-political zones. As you all know, I have been touring the infrastructural projects of the Federal Government across the country, with the media. So far, we have inspected about 10 projects, including the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail project, Lagos-Ibadan expressway, Oyo-Ogbomoso road, Enugu-Onitsha and Enugu-Port Harcourt roads, 2nd Niger Bridge, Abuja light rail project and Ilorin-Jebba-Mokwa-Bida road. The administration has built over 700km of roads and rehabilitated about 650km. “In the area of agriculture, it has been a huge revolution. Let’s take one of our national staples, such as rice, as an example. When we came in, there were 5 million rice farmers. Today, we have in excess of 11 million rice farmers. Our rice import has been cut by over 80 per cent. These didn’t happen by accident. It was a result of our Anchor Borrowers Programme. There are more millionaire farmers today than at any other time in the history of our nation. Today, Nigeria is closer to achieving self-sufficiency in rice than at any other time in the history of our country. “This administration has employed 500,000 unemployed graduates under its Social Intervention Programme (SIP). No government in our country’s history has ever done that. This administration has been daily feeding 8.5 million school children in 23 states. That has never been done before in Nigeria. This administration has been providing 10,000 Naira every two months to over 300,000 families as social security for the most vulnerable. This has never been done before in Nigeria. This administration, realising that SMEs are the biggest employers of labour, has been growing such enterprises at an astronomical rate through its Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme. This is unprecedented. “In the area of power, this administration has taken power generation to 7,000MW. This is unprecedented in Nigeria. Distribution is at 5,000MW. This has never been achieved before. Model houses are being built across the country as a prelude to a massive housing scheme.”   