Residents of Badagry have cried out over four years of power outage, accusing Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) of “total neglect”. They said the outage had paralysed social and economic activities in the ancient town. A resident of Topo-Badagry, Mr Femi Ilori, said it was sad that the town had been in darkness since 2014. Ilori said: “Living in this town is becoming unbearable because there is no hope of getting power supply. Since 2014, we have been in darkness in Badagry; former Governor Babatunde Fashola promised us during his tenure that he would bring electricity to Badagry. “The present administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode also pledged to restore power supply when he came to launch Light Up Lagos, a rural electrification project, in Badagry. In spite of all these promises, we are still in darkness. No electricity supply to do business, no power at home and in office. “In fact, it seems to me that we are not part of Lagos. If not, why is it that no government has been able to solve our electricity supply challenges.” He appealed to EKEDC to restore power to Badagry. “We are really suffering here due to the total neglect by EKEDC; please give us electricity,” the resident said. A frozen food seller at Agbalata International Market, Mrs Funke Adeyeye, said they had killed businesses. “Many frozen food sellers have abandoned the business due to lack of power supply to operate. Some are now selling vegetables; they ran into a loss because there is no electricity to sustain their frozen foods. I am still in the business because I took a loan to buy generating set which I’m using daily to power my business. “Business is dull due to the outage, traders prefer to travel across Seme border post to buy their frozen food because electricity is constant there and their frozen foods are always fresh. This market is supposed to be booming but the lack of power has turned it to ghost market. The present government and EKEDC should come to our aid by restoring power to the city,” she said. A landlord at Ajara-Badagry, Mr Tobi Oke, said the power equipment in the area was in good condition, decring EKEDC’s refusal to supply power to Badagry. “Electricity installation and EKEDC equipment in the area are working well, so there is no justification for this outage. EKEDC only flashes residents with two hours supply thrice in a month and the next thing you will see is electricity bill of N5,000. We do not know what we have done to justify this hardship from EKEDC. How do you expect the residents to pay for power supply that comes around 2 a.m., when people are already sleeping only thrice in a month. “We are peaceful and ready to pay for electricity supply, so EKEDC should please restore supply to our community, this hardship is too much,” he said. EKEDC spokesman Godwin Idemudia, attributed the outage to the ongoing National Integrated Power Project (NIPP). Part of the project, he said, had been handed over to EKEDC but not completed. “The community might still experience outage here and there until all the projects within that area of our network are fully completed. We appeal to our customers within the area to bear with us as all hands are on deck to improve supply to the affected communities,” he said.