Ahead of September 8 AFCON Qualifier between the Pirates of Seychelles and Super Eagles of Nigeria, a 2-man NFF advance party is to depart the shores of the country for Seychelles this weekend. Spokesman of the NFF Ademola Olajire in release dished out Friday and made available to Sportinglife.ng said the party will be led by the Director of Competitions Ayobola Oyeyode. The advance team according to Olajire has been mandated to engage officials of the Seychelles Football Federation on all matters of logistics regarding the comfortable stay and conducive atmosphere for the Super Eagles ahead of the match. Matters such as accommodation, feeding, local transportation, training pitch and security it further revealed would be addressed. The team will also assess the match venue and pass information to the Eagles’ technical crew. Nigeria –based members of the Super Eagles’ technical crew and backroom staff will depart Nigeria on Sunday, to prepare for the arrival of the players who are expected to start arriving on Monday. Goalkeeper Ikechukwu Ezenwa will travel with the crew that will fly from Abuja. The Seychelles Football Federation has already scheduled the Group E, Matchday 2 encounter for the Stade Linite in Victoria, which is capital city and also within the island of Mahe, one of the main islands in the archipelago of 115 islands that is Seychelles. The match kicks off at 4.30pm Seychelles time (1.30pm Nigeria time) on Saturday, 8th September. Whatever hotel accommodation the Nigerian contingent decides to settle for one thing however is certain they are very likely to have an ocean view as most hotels in the city boast of beautiful ocean view while the cuisine has a heavy base of sea foods. Staple foods include fish, seafood and shellfish dishes, often accompanied with rice. Fish dishes are cooked in several ways, such as steamed, grilled, and wrapped in banana leaves, baked, salted and smoked. Curry dishes with rice are also a significant aspect of the country’s cuisine. Coconut water and fresh juices are some of the beverages readily available. Eagles need to win the tie to improve their chances in the group after failing to pick a point in the opener against South Africa.     