The Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors of Nigeria (CIFIA) has expressed concern that  the Institute of Chartered Accountants (ICAN) produced less than the accounting need of the country. The Institute estimates that ICAN produces roughly one accountant to nearly 2,000 Nigerians and it says that if foreign businesses in the country are added, the figure will be less. President CIFIA, Dr. Victoria Enape explained that unfortunately CIFIA is not an accounting professional body but an anti-fraud organization that cuts across other professions. Speaking on Thursday in Abuja at the pre-induction training/mandatory continuing professional training, Enape stated that while ICAN handles financial accounting and associated responsibilities of financial statements, CIFIA is an anti-fraud organization that provides skills to internal and external auditor. Her words, “ClFlA is anti-fraud organization that provide skills to internal and external auditors, lawyers, criminologist, cyber professionals, security experts, etc on how to make use of science and technological tools to detect, prevent and investigate fraud no matter how smaH-big, and also put in place some sophisticated mechanisms to prevent future occurrence. Therefore, CIFIA membership is not limited to only Accountants, but multidisciplinary in nature. “Besides; How can a country of (198 million by the most recent estimate of the Nigerian Population Commission and projected to be the world’s 3rd largest population by 2050, that’s in the next 32 years) feel happy and occupationally contented with just 2 professional accounting bodies? Smaller countries have over 10 professional accounting bodies. “For over 50 years of its existence, ICAN has produced less than 100,000 accountants that is roughly 1 accountant to nearly 2,000 Nigerians. Now, if you add foreign businesses in Nigeria. that figure will even recede. So, where therefore lies the incompetence they are talking about? Who among them is more qualified than the promoters of CIFIA bill? Is it not the same argument of incompetence that they used against promoters of ANAN and CITN Bills? “They even took ANAN and CITN to court and lost all their cases. Unfortunately ClFlA is not even Accounting Professional Body, but anti-fraud organization that cut across other professions. This unethical and mischievous behavior of ICAN should be disregarded neglected and be totally discourage.”