 Super Eagles forward Ahmed Musa has signed for Saudi Arabian side Al Nassr FC. The 25 year old who was in superlative form at the World cup in Russia despite Eagles early exit from the championship became has been on the radar of the Saudi Club even before the World cup. His exploits at the Mundial further fired the desire to have him in the fold.  The club on Friday released a video welcoming the Nigerian international whose exploits with Russian side CSKA Moscow received a lot of the commendation from the club and its fans. Musa, who  was Leicester City’s  record signing when he moved to the King Power for £16.6million in 2016,  failed to hold down a place and was loaned back to his old club CSKA Moscow for part of last season. Interestingly former VVV Venlo and Kano Pillars ace found the net six times in 10 appearances at the Russian club, three times as many as he managed in his 21 Premier League appearances. Al-Nassr said he had signed a four-year contract but did not disclose the transfer fee. The announcement was also accompanied by a bizarre video that did not even feature their new signing — only highlights of his playing career to date. The clip consisted of a flight taking off from London directly to Al-Nassr, with an unidentified man making his way through security. On board, highlights of the striker playing for Leicester, Nigeria and CSKA Moscow could be seen out of the cabin windows, including on of his World Cup strikes, and his International Champions Cup goal for the Foxes against Barcelona. Rather than the video ending in the more traditional fashion, an image of the new signing in a shirt, or perhaps even just a scarf, the short feature ends with the plane flying perilously close to the main stand at the King Fahd Stadium in Riyadh, the plane only just clearing it as the captain announced their arrival. Al-Nassr finished third in the Saudi-Arabian professional league last season, qualifying for the Asian Champions League play-offs in the process. A check conducted on the current squad of the club indicate that Musa has already been included an indication that the club is eager to have the Nigerian get into action in the new season. The way the Nigerian who only recently welcomed a baby boy is being celebrated and expected in the club, it is apparent that club management may be hoping to unleash him against Ohod on August 30 at the Prince Mohammed bin Abdul Aziz Stadium  in Medina