As more reactions continue to trail the recent subscription price hike in Nigeria’s pay TV market, StarTimes, a leading digital TV in Africa has reduced its highest bouquet (Classic Bouquet) from N2,600 to N1,900. StarTimes took to its twitter page @StarTimes_Ng to announce the price reduction in a series of tweets which now have over 100 retweets.
The tweets read: “We are aware of the recent price hike in subscription by D other pay TV network and sincerely think that Nigerians deserve better. “The price increment is highly insensitive to the current economic hardship most Nigerians who also happen to be pay-TV subscribers are faced with. “Since their price increment took effect last week, we have received tons of DMs, mentions & enquiries about our pricing, products and services by defecting customers. “In view of this, we are happy to inform everyone that our highest bouquet (Classic Bouquet) will be reduced from N2,600 to N1,900 – With the inclusion of Ebony Life TV, ST Nollywood Plus & Fox. “We hope that everyone who seeks quality entertainment at pocket-friendly rates jumps on this opportunity to do so.” Nigerians seem to be opting for a less expensive option as they have taken to their social media accounts to react swiftly to the announcement. Azeez Olalekan tweeted “Thank you StarTimes for reasoning with us Nigerians.” Another user, Obinna expressed surprise at the gesture tweeting “wow. I’m subscribing to classic bouquet right away” Another intending subscriber, Bukky tweeted “This is nice. How do I get StarTimes and how much is the dish? Oyeyinka Esther also tweeted “I’m coming back. I just wished you guys could give me one free dish. I used to have StarTimes.” When asked what prompted him to buy a new dish and decoder, another new customer, Temidayo Lawal, an accountant who resides in Abuja said “I have other bills to pay including school fees not to talk of house rent. At this point in time, paying ridiculous expenses on subscription is not wise for me. All I need is entertainment, movies and cartoon for my kids and StarTimes offers all of this. My wife is addicted to Ebony Life TV, and for me I am only home on weekends, I don’t have time to watch TV during the week so I think if I can get all of these for only N1,900 there is absolutely no need to pay over N15,000 monthly on subscription.” He added.