Maurizio Sarri has admitted that Chelsea had a “very difficult” time playing their game in Sunday’s 2-1 win at Newcastle United. The Magpies lined up in a 5-4-1 formation at St James’ Park, and the Blues struggled to break their opponents down despite boasting over 80% of possession by full time. Eden Hazard eventually broke the deadlock with a 76th-minute penalty, but Magpies substitute Joselu levelled with a header seven minutes from time. Late on in the game, however, Marcos Alonso’s shot took a deflection off DeAndre Yedlin to finally give a dominant Chelsea side all three points. “The match was very difficult and it was impossible to have space,” Sarri told Sky Sports News. “We were good, better in the second half, but it was very difficult. “I don’t know [about the penalty], I was far from the incident and I am not the referee, and I don’t want to be a referee either. “Eden has played very well but maybe it was better if he played for only 75/80 minutes, but [Mateo] Kovacic asked me to be replaced so it was not possible.” Chelsea return to Premier League action next Saturday by hosting Bournemouth. Rafael Benitez has defended his conservative tactics as Newcastle United fell to a narrow 2-1 defeat at the hands of Chelsea on Sunday afternoon. The Magpies lined up in a 5-4-1 formation at St James’ Park and, despite being overrun in possession, were level with the Blues in the latter stages of the game. Three minutes from time, however, a Marcos Alonso shot took a deflection off DeAndre Yedlin and breached the Newcastle goal to condemn the hosts to defeat. Chelsea boss Maurizio Sarri admitted after the game that he had “never seen a Rafa Benitez side play with five defenders” but the Spaniard stated that he had little choice in who he could deploy. Asked by BBC Sport about his system, Benitez replied: “It depends on the players you have. “If I had [Eden] Hazard I would give it to him and he would make the difference. We know that we can be better with the ball, but I think we did well until the end.” Joselu’s goal in the 83rd minute was Newcastle’s first shot on target since the sixth minute and their only shot on target in the second half.