Liverpool manager Jurgen Klopp has admitted that he could not have wished for a better start to the season after watching his side run out 4-0 winners over West Ham United at  Anfield on Sunday. Goals from Mohamed Salah, Sadio Mane (2) and Daniel Sturridge saw the Reds pick up the biggest win of the opening round of fixtures, leaving them top of the first Premier League table of the season. However, Klopp stressed that it is only the start of the campaign and insisted that his focus would switch to the next game against Crystal Palace almost immediately. “You cannot wish for better. It was a fresh start from the first minute, everything looked like it should have been. It’s a good day. It’s only the start, and we know that, but for a start it was really good. We all know West Ham have a lot of quality, individual quality. In all other situations we were really concentrated defensively,” he told Sky Sports News. “It’s a good game, now let’s carry on. It’s all good, but for the moment, it’s no more. It’s a nice moment, and we can enjoy it for two, three hours, and then prepare for Crystal Palace. We already today, with a few injuries, had to make really hard decisions. Alberto Moreno not in the squad, I have no explanation for that, apart from needing Clyney (Nathaniel Clyne) on the bench, or others on the bench. “It’s quite difficult to strengthen this squad, because this squad is good. They are used to the style of play, sometimes it needs a bit of time, I have no problem with that. Only the public and media could cause problems by questioning constantly why some aren’t playing. We need everyone in that squad before the end of the season.” Klopp also claimed that his side do not deserve to be regarded as the only challengers to Manchester City in the Premier League title race this season. West Ham United manager Manuel Pellegrini has admitted that his side must click into gear in time for next next weekend’s visit of Bournemouth. The Hammers started their Premier League campaign in the worst possible fashion, falling to a 4-0 loss away to Liverpool on Sunday afternoon. Pellegrini was unhappy with the officials’ decision to let Sadio Mane’s second goal stand, with the Senegalese forward well offside, but the Premier League title winner concedes that a vast improvement is required at the London Stadium in six days’ time. “We knew before the game that our start was very difficult. In our first few games we need to play some of the big teams,” he told BBC Sport. “It’s difficult to play when you concede four goals. We started the second half and the referee didn’t see a clear offside. “We need to win our second game. We need to work during the week and try to win three points at home. We not only have nine new players, but three or four players who were not completely fit in pre-season. We need to improve in attack and continue working. I am sure next Saturday we will see a team that is trying to win.” Pellegrini has lost more Premier League games against Liverpool (5) than he has against any other opponent in the competition.