The Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) in conjuction  with Alliance for Smiles and Rotary Club Disrrtrict 9110 is  to  conduct  a medical programme where  100 children with cleft lips and palate  will enjoy free surgery.About 71 children  have earlier benefited from such  programme. The Chief Medical Director of  LASUTH, Prof. David Oke, who spoke at a briefing, said the two conditions are a facial disorder where the face has an opening in the upper lip that may extend into the nose making the victims  to have social challenges. Prof Oke said apart from the surgery, there will be rehabilitation and speech therapy for those with speech impairment because some are still unable to speak and are in their twenties. He said the speech therapy and psychotherapy centre is already established and ongoing. Vice President for Projects outside of China, Alliance for Smiles, Mrs. Barbara Fisher, said a memorandum has been signed with LASUTH to carry out a comprehensive, multidisciplinary, long-term treatment  at the centre. Fisher said the organisation has all the skill needed to carry out the care and has also put together an ongoing multidisciplinary team, that would come out with a pure plan that would produce the best , to address the comprehensive needs of the patients. She added that the Alliance for Smile would do more of assisting and teaching while the surgery would be done by Nigerian doctors. Dr. Omosebi Taiwo, a plastic surgeon said the cleft lip and palate are congenital problems during stages of child development and if a mother already has a child with the disorder, there are chances of the other children having it and these disorders can result in feeding problems, speech problems, hearing problems, and frequent ear infections. “This is a congenital problem during stages of child development, anything can go wrong at any time, and it’s possible that babies can be born with a cleft. It can be discovered in the first trimester during an ultrasound to know”. Dr Taiwo said one of the causes is alcohol and smoking. Also, when mothers don’t pay attention to antenatal care but take drugs without a doctor’s prescription, without knowing its consequences on the foetus, “Antenatal is compulsory for expectant mothers as there would be a nutritionist to ensure that the children are well fed. I urge pregnant women to take folic acid as well.” Rotary district 9110 governor, Dr. Wale Ogunbadejo said parents hide children with this order until much later when the child lacks the ability to speak. He said the reason is that such children face stigmatisation from the public, friends and even family members, “Rotary is here to assist put an end to this disorder.”