Oil service companies are worried by incessant picketing by the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) members over internal labour issues. Nestoil oil subsidiary, Neconde Energy and Ciscon Limited, among others, have had conflicts with PENGASSAN over labour issues, which included not allowing their workers to unionise. Leaders of Petroleum Technology Association of Nigeria (PETAN), the umbrella body of the oil service firms, met in Lagos over the continuous picketing of their members’ firms with a view to charting strategies to deal with the issue. Some of their discussions included legal determination of labour activism boundaries, internal reorganisation and staff contracting. The oil service firms are working together to ward off common hindrances to their business growth. PETAN Chairman Mr. Bank-Anthony Okoroafor, who spoke on the outcome of the meeting, said PENGASSAN had refused to play the role of patriotic partners  to sustain the Nigeria Content Development in the face of the prevailing downturn in the industry. “It is difficult times for the oil firms, not just the service firms, but also oil firms that are facing the headwinds in the oil market. Some of them are finding it difficult to pay for jobs delivered by service firms. So, they owe us. We don’t go to war with them because we know what the industry is passing through. “Most of the contracting firms are owed. So, they are justifiably in debt, and the banks are chasing them. And you go and shut them down because you want to unionize. That is insensitivity. Now, if these fledgling firms go down completely where will your members work? The biggest losers would be the workers PENGASSAN claims to be fighting for,” Okoroafor said. Besides worsening the situation in the industry, picketing could be fatal on small fledgling companies, Okoroafor said, advising the PENGASSAN leadership to create internal communications channels to enable workers at all levels to understand the business dynamics and state of affairs in the industry at all times. Some PETAN members, who spoke on the outcome of the meeting, said investors’ response would take a multi-faceted approach that would not rule out massive re-staffing, which might involve well-defined workplace behavioural codes and activities that conform to local and international labour laws. They expressed dissatisfaction over workers’ boldness in shutting down operations of some members, describing it as totally unacceptable.  