Nigeria generates 1.1million tonnes of electronic wastes annually, President of E-Waste Relief Foundation (ERF), Ifeanyi Ochonogor, has stated. He said it was necessary for Nigerians to embrace training to tackle e- wastes effectively. Ochonogor spoke during the inaugural board meeting of the ERF in Lagos. He pointed out Nigeria generates massive electronic waste, saying it is necessary for the nation to be deliberate about managing the situation. “Nigeria alone generates about 1.1million tonnes of e-waste annually. Thus, it is only in enlightening the people on the e-waste crisis and training the informal handlers on standards of operation that the country can successfully tackle its electronic waste issues.” ERF is Nigeria’s first Non Governmental Organisation focused on tackling the electronic-waste crisis within the country and the West African region. Ochonogor said that there was a great need for a foundation driven by the passion to aid in solving the e-waste problems within the country and beyond. He stated further ERF is charged with the task of educating people on the dangers of improper e-waste management as well as enlightening them on the right solutions available to stop the crisis at hand. “It is in making people understand the threats we face that they see reasons to join in the process of putting an end to the e-waste challenges that beset us,” Ochonogor added. Speaking further on the mandate of the ERF, Ochonogor stressed establishment of the institution has ushered in a new era filled with hope. He assured the e-waste crisis within Nigeria and even around West Africa will be tackled headlong with the best of technology and to the utmost of international environmental standards. According to him, a recent report published by the Unite Nations (UN) forecasts that global electronic waste is likely to increase to 50 million metric tonnes (Mt) in 2018. The ERF inaugural meeting also had Professor Oladele Osibanjo and other members of the board and invited guests in attendance. 