After weeks of intense planning, the organisers of the second edition of Ojaja II Talent Hunt show have announced dates for the auditions of this year’s edition of the competition. According to a statement from the organisers, while sale of forms commences March 12 and runs till April 5, auditions come up in Lagos at Silver Cafe Lounge, Ozone Cinema, Yaba from April 9 to 10. In Ibadan, it will hold at Mauve 21 from 12 to 14, while the Ilorin and Akure auditions come up at Princess Luxury Hotel from April 16 to 17. For Ekiti and Ondo states, interested participants will be auditioned from April 19 to 21 while April 23 to 25 will be for Oshogbo and Ile Ife residents at Plan B Lounge, Opposite Ife Grand Resort will be the venue for Ile-Ife. Speaking on this year’s talent hunt which will be featuring top music artistes and producers, Director of the project, Olasoji Olatunde contestants stand a chance to go home with a star prize of one year recording and promotion in Nigeria and London, cash prize, scholarship to a music school as well as loads of other freebies. According to Prince Babajide Fadairo, CEO House of Oduduwa (the Kabieesi’s mouthpiece), the hunt is further proof of His Imperial Majesty’s commitment to youth development and empowerment. He further revealed that the hunt will span across seven Yoruba speaking states of the Federation, UK and the United States of America. Powered by His Imperial Majesty Ooni Adeyeye Enitan Ogunwusi Ojaja II, Ooni of Ife, the event is packaged by Nuff Jamz Entertainment run by Olasoji with support from Ms Fehintolu Odejide, the CEO of Black Music Initiatives. The event is supported by Black Music Initiative, Samich Records, Puffy T Entertainment, Campus Alive Initiative, Funmi Sparrows Music, In house entertainment, Ife Grand Resort and Leisure, Mauve 21, Silver Cafe Lounge, Princess Luxury Hotel, Club Quebana, Plan B Lounge, Tentakul Lounge, Jusseg Travels, Ice Cool Contracts and a host of others. Activities open with a carnival April 30 and runs till May 5 while the grand finale comes up May 6 at Ife Grand Resort And Leisure, Ile-Ife.