Nigeria retained its leading position in Africa after the latest FIBA ranking was released yesterday. The country was a non-mover in the latest ranking, which placed it at 32. The FIBA World Ranking Men, presented by Nike, was updated following the conclusion of the February 2018 window of the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 Qualifiers. The Nigerian team, D’Tigers inspired captain Ike Diogu won all its three matches at the qualifiers held in Bamako, Mali. The Nigerians beat Uganda, Rwanda and host, Uganda as they began the qualifiers on a strong footing. Also in Africa, Senegal move up one spot into 35th place after getting their qualifiers underway with two wins and one loss in Group D. Mozambique, who hosted Group D action in Maputo, made good use of the home court advantage to also register two wins and one loss and, in the process, climb up to 76th in the world. Despite losing the points earned for their title run at the 16th edition of FIBA’s flagship competition, the USA hold on to the number one spot in the world. Spain remain right behind them, with France moving up one place into third on the strength of winning both of their home games in the February window. By doing so, they improved to 4-0 in the FIBA Basketball World Cup 2019 Qualifiers. Argentina also climb up one spot into fifth after splitting their games in the second window as part of the Road to China 2019. Greece and Italy, like France, maintained their perfect record in the qualifiers, resulting in both teams jumping up a couple of places to be ranked ninth and 14th respectively. Mexico, Canada and Uruguay made some of the biggest moves up the ladder for teams from the Americas. The Mexicans are up to 13th, while Canada find themselves in 23rd place. Uruguay registered a first-ever away win over higher-ranked Argentina in the Americas Qualifiers and the historic result went a long way toward helping them move up the world order from 39th to 34th. In Asia, Korea jump up four places to 31st after compiling a 1-1 mark in the February window. Kazakhstan bounced back from a loss at the hands of mighty Iran with victory over Qatar to improve to 3-1 overall, resulting in a five-place increase that moves them to 67th. However, numerous teams that played at the World Cup in 2010 are impacted by the loss of these points in thelatest ranking. Lithuania, who stood on the third step of the podium in Istanbul, fall just outside the top 5 into sixth place, while Turkey – who battled the Americans in the title game on home soil – drop five spots to 18th.