The handover was brief but meaningful. After eight years as Director-General of Centre for Management Development (CMD), the only one of the eight DGs to complete his eight years tenure, Dr Kabir Kabo Usman handed over to his successor Mr Bitrus Danharbi Chonoko. The event was profound chiefly because of what the departing chief told his successor and the workforce he was leaving behind. The CMD, established by the Federal Government in 1973, is a parastatal of the Ministry of Budget and National Planning and is charged with the responsibility of driving the vision, plans and programmes of the Federal Government. Its core mandate includes Policy Making, Promotion and Coordination of Managerial Manpower Development, Accreditation and Registration of Management Trainers and Training Institutions, Management Advisory and Consultancy Services Reference Library for Management Development, Sponsoring, Promoting and Conducting Research into various facets of Management Development, Publishing Journals, Research Papers and Books on Modern Management. Dr. Usman who had spent 22 years working in the United Kingdom before being appointed by the Obasanjo administration, and Mr Bitrus Danharbi Chonoko, the erstwhile Director of Administration and Human Resources of the CMD, exchanged batons following a letter from the Presidency dated January 22 signed by Mr Emmanuel Akissa, a legal adviser to the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, which acknowledged the notice of Dr Usman’s disengagement and directed him to hand over to the most senior officer in the centre in compliance with circular Ref. No. SGF.50/S.II/C.2/268 dated 4th December, 2017, issued and signed by the Secretary to the Government of the Federation,  Mr Boss Mustapha. Bitrus Chinoko who was born in 1964 at Danko/Wasagu Local Government Area of Kebbi State, had his primary school education in Ibadan, Enugu and Zaria from 1970 to 1976, studied at Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria where he graduated in 1986 with B.Sc in International Studies and Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto from 1995 to 1997 and passed out with an M.Sc Political Science. During the brief handover ceremony, Usman’s motivational speech included counsel to CMD staff and other civil servants on the need to stay away from tribalism and religious sentiments, stressing that such attitude will only mars development efforts of the country and reduce productivity in the system. “I tried my best on all the issues of conversion, staff welfare; you must be united and disciplined, work as a team and please take off religious sentiments and tribalism,” Kabo said, while appealing to CMD’s union leaders to embrace dialogue instead of industrial action. Reeling out his achievements, he said it took him only eight months to secure a permanent headquarters for the agency at the sum of N250 million but the property is currently valued at N1.3 billion. In his remarks, the new Acting DG, Bitrus Chinoko pledged to sustain an atmosphere whereby every employee can feel a sense of belonging in order contribute meaningfully to goals and objectives of the centre . “We have travelled to some of these countries and we have seen the way they run their management institutions. So we want to run an institution that will attract world attention; we can do that through collaborations, revenue generated internally and budget funding,” he added. Earlier, while speaking with reporters, Dr. Usman expressed appreciation to government, CMD staff and other government agencies for facilitating his successes. “We looked at accreditation so that all management consultants operating in the country must be accredited and if you are not accredited by CMD, then you are operating illegally, so we trained and certified about one thousand from 2010 to date and of the Management Development Institutions and consultants that are operating across the country, we trained and certified over two hundred of them so that they can be  doing the correct things and there are certain benchmark that is comparable to international standard. “We work together with the International Standard of Americas and the ones in Europe to make sure that we are delivering training in that level.”