…honours Ogundipe, Shittu, others
The University of Lagos ( UNILAG ) Alumni Association, Lagos State branch, amidst an alumni get-together and award ceremony on Sunday launched its N738,981,000 ‘Support Our University Project’ (SOUP) at the Jelili Omotola Hall C of the varsity. The event marked the final day of UNILAG Alumni week which started with a press conference at the Afe Babalola Auditorium of the varsity on March 16th. SOUP, according to the Lagos State branch chairman, Dr. Lukumon Adeoti, is a ‘long time project’ meant to ‘fund the university’s projects.’ Estimations from the alumni have it that a total of N468, 500,000 will be expended on UNILAG students. This sum is expected to cover the awarding of scholarship to indigent and first class students, conduct of an educational contest, running an innovation and research in science and technology programme, and awarding of the three best graduating students across all faculties. Other proposed expenses under the project include N181, 000,000 for skill acquisition and entrepreneurial skills development and a total of N57, 700,000 for academic excellence and professional development. The state branch’s Annual General Meeting and the Alumni week are expected to cost about N31, 781,000. Speaking during the launch, Adeoti explained the essence of the project include, “One, [it is] about the indigent students, [because it] is part of it [sic]. “[It includes] even the indigent students, the first class student and third class students. We believe and ask how we can come in to mitigate that. “Also, there is entrepreneurship. Entrepreneur skills because the whole world has gone beyond this white collar job. “Through this, we trace some people and by the time they are in final year, and by the time we have trained them and they leave the university, they will be able to stay on their own. “Another one is employability scheme. We have plans on that. So, by the time we invite our friends from the industry to train our students on how to do things, there is no way that we won’t be doing well in the area [of their studies].” Adeoti also explained that the money from donation to the project will go the university. “It’s a long time project,’’ he said. “So, we are trying to raise money for it. By the time we get the money, and we start expending the money accordingly, virtually all the money will go back to the university. ‘’ The Geophysics lecturer, therefore, called on alumni of the university to contribute to the course of the project in order to make it a success. He, however, identified the insufficiency of funds as one factor that has made it difficult for the state branch to do much. Adeoti said, “It is a reality that the federal government cannot do it alone. ‘‘Therefore, we need participation of all stakeholders including the private sector, successful entrepreneurs, friends of the university/alumni, prominent alumni members, as part of our efforts in this direction. ‘‘We have intention to do more but [for] the handicap due to the paucity of funds. ‘‘We are of the opinion that this challenge could be mitigated by contribution from all of us… Our interest in this university has necessitated the programme tagged Support Our University Project (SOUP). Speaking on the project, the national president of UNILAG Alumni, Olorunsogo Dr. Sunny Kuku reiterated the role of alumni association in funding the university. He urged members to donate to the project which ‘is in line with the tenets, hopes and ambitions of the alumni association.’ The vice chancellor, Prof. Toyin Ogundipe, has said that the University of Lagos (UNILAG) will make judicious use of whatever comes in from the Support Our University Project (SOUP). Ogundipe, who was represented by the Deputy Vice Chancellor (Development Services), Prof. Folasade Ogunsola, gave the assurance during the award/get-together ceremony for the launch of the project. “I assure you that will shall use your money and whatever you bring in judiciously. We will also support to the best of our ability,” she said. Meanwhile, Ogunsola expressed his gratitude to the varsity’s alumni association for seeing the university through the times when ‘things went down.’  She restated the commitment of the university towards building the image of the university. Ogunsola said, “In addition, the university has been working to complement the work of the alumni by reaching out to industries, reaching out to development partners and working with them in order to make sure that we continue to be relevant. “And what we are having now is collaborations that can engender not only fund but can also bring about impact.” On his part, Adeoti revealed measures the association would take in order to increase the participation of the varsity’s alumni. He mentioned sensitization, creation of website for the state branch, use of social media and creation of the position of vice chairman II as part of measures to be taken. Meanwhile, the University of Lagos (UNILAG) Alumni Association has also conferred honorary awards on prominent members and ‘friends of the university.’  List of awardees at the event includes the Hon. Minster of Communication, Barr. Adebayo Shittu, Innovation in Information and Communication Skills Award; 12th Vice Chancellor, UNILAG, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, Distinguished University Administrator award; Executive Chairman, Federal Inland Revenue Service, William Babatunde Fowler, Tax Legend Award; and Chairman, Police Service Commission, Mike Okiro, Innovation in Security Advancement Award. Also in the list are: Senator Andrew Uchendu, Excellence in the Development of National Politics; Chief Henry Ajomale, Distinguished Democratic Leadership Award;  Hon. Moshood Oshun, Youth Empowerment Award; and Prince Lateef Fagbemi,  Innovation in Fire Safety and Manpower Training Award. The rest of the awardees include, among others, Assistant Commissioner of Police, Chioma Ajunwa-Oparah, Outstanding Athlete Award; Prof. Matthew Olusoji, Exemplary University Leadership Award; Sir Joseph Ari, Innovation in Skill Acquisition and Wealth Creation Award; Prof. Oluwayemisi Obashoro-John, Humanitarian Award and Chairperson; Nigerian Women Premier League, Mrs Aisha Falode, Excellence in Women Soccer Award. According to the Adeoti, the awards was conferred on them because they have been good ambassadors of the university. Adeoti, who explained that the non-alumni members considered ‘to be friends of the university’ were honoured because of their assistance to the university, reiterated that they were not only being awarded because of their money. He said, “It’s not only the issue of money, we have so many people that we could not give award because we emphasize [on] integrity a lot. “When I was talking, in UNILAG here we have so many people that are relevant…the professor, it’s not that they are rich but they have contributed tremendously towards the development of this country.” At the event, Fagbemi made a donation of N2.5 million Naira while Okiro (and friends) promised 1 million Naira as support. Nigeria’s topmost sport female journalist, Aisha Falode, on her own part donated the sum of N500, 000. Others, including Shittu and Oshun, promised undisclosed amount of money which they said would help achieve the aim of the project.