The Obafemi Awolowo University ICT Knowledge Park (OAK-Park), African Centre of Excellence (ACE), Ife, Nigeria was designed to address the dearth of information communication technology (ICT) personnel in the country, the Vice Chancellor, Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede, has said. Speaking with The Nation on the sideline of a one-day forum tagged: Academia/Industry Engagement at Lagos Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, he said over the years, the skills available have not been speaking to available jobs in the market. According to him, the system has placed so much emphasis on the theoretical aspect of learning. He added that the ACE, backed with the World Bank, will bring about a paradigm shift as students would be exposed to practical aspect of engineering programmes. “Job creation is the crucial thing for us. What has been happening over the years is that we have been so theoretical in our approach. But the ACE programme, we are introducing the practical day-to-day aspects of engineering to our students. We are, through this project, sending our students to the industry for practical experience and we are also bringing in captains of industry to also talk to the students because we have laboratories where they have equipment to develop their own projects; we have incubators where they could stay and advance whatever they have developed before it will be commercialised. This is more of a deviation from the past and a movement towards practical exposure as opposed to the theoretical framework that people have been emphasising. “We already have 15 post-graduate programmes running including cybersecurity and other newer areas of ICT,” Prof Ogunbodede said. Also speaking, Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Council, OAU, Dr. Yemi Ogunbiyi said the ACE project is a World Bank sponsored initiative to rapidly build capacity in Africa in some identified domains of knowledge, adding that OAU is one of the 16 centres in Africa being supported by the global bank. He said the OAU ACE aims to create a regionally-recognised and acknowledged model that is driven by high quality postgraduate education for uptake and commercialisation of research and technology to advance the growth of ICT industry. The centre is actively providing launch pad for start-up companies borne out of university research activities, and collaboration with partnering ICT companies especially along Lagos axis, who will have the competitive advantage of proximity and direct access to the intellectual infrastructure and output of the university. “The ACE project is to develop a centre of excellence in ICT as a training hub in software engineering for   Nigeria and other countries in the sub-region; develop the next generation of scientists, researchers, teachers, entrepreneurs and product developers in the area of ICT through appropriate practice-anchored capacity building measures and enrolling new postgraduate students from Nigeria and the sub-region; stimulate creativity and excellence in research and innovation in ICT applicable to other fields and related to regional developmental objectives, in postgraduate students, with opportunities for industrial research uptake through the centre model; expand learning opportunities for postgraduate students in all the sectors, by deploying existing and new developments in ICT, for which OAU is leading in the sub-region, ,” he said. According to Dr Ogunbiyi, a major component of the project is the linkage between academia and industry hence this engagement, adding that the forum will stimulate a more robust engagement between the university and industry; and birth a new thinking in the relationship between university, industry and government. He said: “We want to create a platform where OAU and the industries here can jointly identify challenges plaguing our society and through well-grounded research provides solutions to the identified challenges. The intent here is that such solutions be innovative and can be commercialised.   There is an emerging OAU Knowledge Park from the Africa Centre of Excellence project. “