 A Federal High Court in Abuja on Tuesday dismissed a suit seeking to sack the Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello. The suit marked FHC/ABJ/CS/488/2017 was filed by three individuals, who described themselves as electorate in the state. They are Michael Elokun, Ibrahim Sule and Mrs Hawa Audi. In a judgment on Tuesday, Justice John Tsoho upheld the objection raised against the suit by Bello (who was sued as the 1st defendant), to the effect that the plaintiffs had no locus standi to institute the suit. The judge added that the plaintiffs could not challenge the right of 2nd defendant (All Progressives Congress) to substitute/nominate the 1st defendant as its flagbearer in place of a dead gubernatorial candidate in the 2015 Kogi governorship election. He said such decision was the sole prerogative of the 2nd defendant and as such could not form a basis for any legal dispute between the plaintiffs and defendants. The judge noted that the plaintiffs were neither members of the APC nor aspirants in the primary election that produced Bello as the APC’s flagbearer in the governorship election. He agreed with the 1st defendant that the plaintiffs were not the only electorate in Kogi state. Justice Tsoho held that the subject matter of the suit was not within the jurisdiction of the court as it was not a pre-election matter. The judge further held that the court lacked jurisdiction to adjudicate on matters outside the purview of Section 251 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended). He said the subject matter and reliefs sought by the plaintiffs were predicated on issues on which only an Election Tribunal could exercise jurisdiction pursuant to Section 285(2) of the Constitution. Justice Tsoho said the suit, as presently constituted, did not disclose any reasonable cause of action. He added that the suit was bound to fail, because it was filed almost two years after Bello was sworn in as a democratically elected governor of Kogi state. Other defendants in the suit were the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the Independent National Electoral  Commission (INEC), and the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF). 