An Ikeja Special Offences Court has ordered that a businesswoman, Olaremi Dilureni,  be remanded in Kirikiri Prisons for allegedly defrauding a pastor,  Anthony Rapu, and three others of N23 million and $50 million (N18 billion). Rapu, a medical doctor, is the senior pastor of House of Freedom. Dilureni whose business name is Creadon Ventures, is facing an eight-count charge of conspiracy, obtaining money by false pretence and stealing preferred against her by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). She pleaded not guilty. The prosecutor, Mrs Fadeke Giwa, said Dilureni committed the offence with four others,  who are now at large,  between March and May 2013. On the run are Lola Anjorin, Tunde Oladunmaye, Oluremi Osubo and a company, Home Concepts. According to her, Dilureni, on April 16, 2013, obtained N10 million from Rapu under the guise that the cash would be invested in a diesel supply business with a monthly interest rate of 6.5 per cent. “On April 17, 2013 the defendant received another N10 million from Rapu for the business deal,” she said. The prosecutor claimed that Dilureni defrauded two members of a popular Lagos family. According to Mrs Giwa, the defendant in March, 2013, fraudulently received $50 million from Mrs Eyitope St.Matthew Daniel and converted the cash to personal use. She said the defendant fraudulently received another N320,000 from Mrs Nellie St. Matthew Daniel on May 8, 2013 on the pretext that it was for the same business. The prosecutor alleged that the Diluremi also fraudulently received N3 million from Adeojo Babasegun. Following Dilureni’s plea, Mrs Giwa told Justice Sherifat Solebo that she just got  a motion for bail from the defence counsel and asked for time to respond to it in writing. But the defence counsel,  Tunde Kolawole, urged the court to remand his client in EFCC custody instead of prison because “she is a nursing mother and has been in the EFCC custody since Thursday. She was just brought to court today.” Justice Solebo rejected his request and ordered that Diluremi be remanded in Kirikiri. The case continues on  March 14.