The Lagos State government has debunked rumours of increasing the cost of processing motor vehicle particulars and application for number plates. It said the rates remained the same across the state. A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr Kehinde Bamigbetan, said the clarification was in response to enquiries by the public about the rumours of increases in charges relating to the motor vehicle administration. Bamigbetan said anyone with evidence of any increase in motor registration rates from any of the official centres managed by the State Motor Vehicle Administration Authority (MVAA) should report to the agency or the Ministry of Transportation. He said: “Although the cost of maintaining the roads and expanding infrastructure, which ease the operations of vehicles is enormous, the Lagos State government shall continue to bear the burden of keeping the roads motorable and safe for all users.” The commissioner said some people he described as mischief makers were cashing in on the challenges the new Land Use Charge Law, which seeks to raise more money for the provision of public infrastructure for the benefit of all, to misinform the public. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode had debunked insinuations that many tax items were reviewed upward, adding that the claim was not true. Addressing reporters on Monday after leading a symbolic walk against sexual and domestic violence at Alausa in Ikeja, the state capital, Ambode said his administration was sensitive to the people and would not go all out to overburden them. He said: “I want Lagosians to understand one particular issue. We have over 300 tax items for which nothing has been touched, apart from this Land Use Charge, and maybe one other. But again, we are a very responsive government; we are very sensitive because at the end of the day, governance is about the people; it is about what they want. “…People might like that infrastructural development is on the progressive chart in Lagos, but also it comes with a price. But notwithstanding, in the middle of all that, a responsive government will listen to the yearnings of the people. At the end of the day, it’s all for the development of Lagos. “What this government is interested in is to create a trajectory and framework of permanent prosperity for Lagos. It is not about today; it is about the future. And if there is going to be permanent prosperity in Lagos, some things have to be done. But I can tell you, based on the dialogue and the things we have been receiving on the Land Use Charge, we would respond positively to those yearnings.”          