The Federal University Ndufu-Alike Ikwo (FUNAI), in Ebonyi state, has found solution to the soil contamination in the Niger Delta region and other parts of the country using rice husk derived biochar. The experiment which heats up rice husk in a locally made carbonizer produces biochar which is discovered to enable microbes in polluted soil systems grow. Cordinator of the research, titled ‘ecotoxicological assessment and agricultural benefits of rice husk derived biochar’, Dr. Ihuoma Anyanwu made this revelation in Abuja, at the National science, technology and innovation expo, 2018. Themed: fast-tracking sustainable development of Nigeria through science and technology. Anyanwu stated that the biochar can be used for soil conditioning for farmers and bio remediation of contaminated systems, be it due to mining or crude oil pollution. Her words, “The target of the biochar is to use it for soil conditioning, especially acidic soil, most soil here in Nigeria is acidic, we want to use it to condition the acidic soil so that it will be good for farming and can also be used for bio remediation of contaminated systems in Nigeria. “We have a lot of mining and drilling going on, we have several crude oil polluted sites and heavy metal polluted sites, we produce the biochar so we can use it for soil conditioning for farmers and bio remediation of contaminated systems. “We did not just end with carbonizing it, we tested it on the soil to know the effect? If it is going to do the work planned or be more toxic. We tried to use it at a laboratory concentration on different scales on biota which comprises of earthworms, microbes that are responsible for the bio degradation and the plants that farmers cultivate on different concentrations; we allowed it age in the soil for 90days. “At the end we collected our result to know the percentage good for farmers to use as a liming product on the soil before cultivation or to use as an alternative to inorganic fertilizers, we also tested it on microbes that are responsible for bio degradation at different concentrations and we know the concentration that when uses on bio remediation it will give the required result. “We know it can work in the Niger Delta region because we have tested it on microbes and we know that microbes responds very well to the addition of biochar in the soil, it helps the microbes to grow, we tested up to 50% of it in the soil and found that as it ages in the soil, it gives the microbes the medium to grow, we analysed it scientifically and found that it gives the microbes the nutrients it needs and provides a refuge for the microbes to hide in and not be predated upon and gives them the nutrients they need to multiply, which helps in attacking any contaminants in the soil. We published this in a paper just recently. “This is all about converting waste to a byproduct  that can be used in soil amendment and bio remediation of contaminated system and what we did is that because our university is situated in a place you have a lot of rice husk because they are mostly farmers that produce a lot of rice, we have mountains of rice husk which we want to help the community out of it and at the same time manage the waste so that it will not become a problem to them, so we constructed a locally manufactured carbonizer, what we do is get the rice husk, the carbonizer has two chambers, the inner and outer, we put it into the inner chamber which is made up of a small container where we put the bio mash which is the rice husk, cook it properly with firewood to cook it and produce a byproduct known as the bio gel, it will only be called biochar if it is produced in a zero or low oxygen environment  but if it is not, then it is not known as a biochar but ash and we have tested ash and found out that it is very detrimental to the environment.” Director, Research and Development FUNAI, Prof. Onuegbu Igwu added, “There is need for industries to come and play a part, the idea of a university is to generate knowledge, then industries should help and propel such knowledge.” 