The Architects Registration Council of Nigeria ( ARCON ) has given full accreditation to both first and second degrees Architecture programmes of Caleb University. The Public Relations Officer of the university, Elvis Otobo, said in a statement that the letter conveying the approval was signed by the Registrar of ARCON, Umar Murnai ( FNIA ). Otobo said that the accreditation was contained in a letter dated March 5 and addressed to the management of the university by the council. According to Otobo, the council, in the letter, re-accredited the B.Sc. Degree in Architecture and fully accredited the Master’s Degree programme of the institution. An excerpt from the ARCON’s letter of re-accreditation reads: “We refer to all correspondences relating to the professional accreditation to the Department of Architecture, Caleb University, Imota, held from Nov. 14, 2017. “We hereby inform you that in line with Section 9 of the Architects Registration, Act CAP A19 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 200/404, the Council of the Architects Registration Council of Nigeria ( ARCON ) at the meeting of Nov. 24, 2017, considered the report of the visitation. “In considering the report, the council took cognisance of the fact that the department has good staff/students’ ratio of (1:9). “It has a staff quality/students’ coefficient rating of (1:2) in line with the minimum acceptable standard of SSR (1:12) and SSQC (1:4) respectively, and the substantial improvement in physical infrastructure, facilities and equipment. “We, therefore, re-accredited the Bachelor of Science (B.Sc.) and Master of Science (M.Sc.) degree programmes in Architecture of the Department of Architecture, Caleb University, Imota, Lagos State’’. Otobo said that the National Universities Commission ( NUC ) had earlier given full accreditation to the architecture programmes in the university. “The department has received some high-profile visitors, who rated the facilities as one of the very best in Africa. “Femi Majekodunmi, the Chairman, FMA Architects and past President of Nigerian Institute of Architects and past President of African Union of Architects, said that the Department of Architecture in Caleb University has one of the best facilities in Africa,’’ the PRO said. NAN