Serbia has included Branislav Ivanovic and Nemanja Matic in the squad that would face the Super eagles in the pre-World Cup match later this month. Serbian Coach, Mladen Krstajic on Sunday announced a 24-player list for the international friendlies against Morocco and Nigeria which included the two strong players. 27-year-old Red Star Belgrade central defender Vujadin Savic is in line to make his international debut for Serbia as he has been handed a maiden call-up to the senior team. Headlining the squad is Manchester United midfielder Nemanja Matic, Skipper Branislav Ivanovic,  Marko Grujic (Cardiff), Dusan Tadic (southampton). Ex-Manchester City left-back now at Roma, Aleksandar Kolarov, has also been invited, and could face his old teammate at The Citizens Kelechi Iheanacho, who has been named to the Nigerian roster. Nigeria face Serbia at the Hive Stadium in London four days after their friendly against Poland. Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr last week released a 28 –man squad to battle Poland’s fellow Eagles and Serbia in the pre-FIFA World Cup friendly matches. The invite which was no surprises has two home base players and 26 foreign base players. Victor Moses and Left back, Elderson Echiejile got an expected called to the Super Eagles after the duo missed the last cracker against Argentina. Both players were instrumental in the Super Eagles qualification process for the 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia. Though the duo of midfielder Wilfred Ndidi and defender Elderson Echiejile missed the Eagles friendly against Argentina and the dead rubber qualifier against the Desert Warriors of Algeria but they have been invited to return to Eagles. Succinct to mention that Echiejile who recently moved from Turkish club, Sivasspor to Belgium side, Cercle Brugges during the January transfer window announced the birth of his first child on Monday via his Instagram handle. Meanwhile, Victor Moses has been a regular in the Chelsea team in the current campaign and Eagles Captain John Mikel Obi.  THE FULL LIST Goalkeepers: Francis Uzoho (Deportivo La Coruna, Spain); Ikechukwu Ezenwa (Enyimba FC); Daniel Akpeyi (Chippa United, South Africa) Defenders: Abdullahi Shehu (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Tyronne Ebuehi (Ado Den Haag, The Netherlands); Olaoluwa Aina (Hull City, England); Elderson Echiejile (Cercle Brugge KSV, Belgium); Brian Idowu (Amkar Perm, Russia); Chidozie Awaziem (Nantes FC, France); William Ekong (Bursaspor FC, Turkey); Leon Balogun (FSV Mainz 05, Germany); Kenneth Omeruo (Kasimpasa FC, Turkey); Stephen Eze (Lokomotiv Plovdiv, Bulgaria) Midfielders: Mikel John Obi (Tianjin Teda, China); Ogenyi Onazi (Trabzonspor FC, Turkey); Wilfred Ndidi (Leicester City, England); Oghenekaro Etebo (Las Palmas, Spain); John Ogu (Hapoel Be’er Sheva, Israel); Uche Agbo (Standard Liege, Belgium); Joel Obi (Torino FC, Italy) Serbia Squad Goalkeepers (3): Vladimir Stojkovic (Partizan), Predrag Rajkovic (Maccabi), Marko Dmitrovic (Eibar); Defenders (10): Branislav Ivanovic (Zenit), Antonio Rukavina (Villarreal), Dusan Basta (Lazio), Nikola Maksimovic (Spartak Moscow), Vujadin Savic (Red Star), Matija Nastasic (Schalke), Dusko Tosic (Besiktas), Milos Veljkovic ), Aleksandar Kolarov (Roma), Ivan Obradovic (Anderlecht) Midfielders (9): Nemanja Matic (Manchester United), Luka Milivojevic (Kristal Palas), Sergei Milinkovic-Savic (Lazio), Adem Ljajic (Torino), Mijat Gacinovic (Eintracht), Marko Grujic (Cardiff), Dusan Tadic (Southampton), Filip Kostic (Hamburg), Andrija Zivkovic (Benfica) Attack (2): Aleksandar Mitrovic (Fulham), Aleksandar Prijovic (PAOK)