That the Inspector General of Police, Abubakar Idris, could commence his annual leave while there are security crises in the country is a source of wonder to the House of Representatives. Douye Diri, chairman, Adhoc Committee investigating the ‘purported  harassment, intimidation and threat to life’ leveled against the IGP by DCP Abduyari Lafia, via a petition sent to the House has said. The lawmaker was surprised that the IGP could not appear at the hearing after two invitations sent to him. He said: “it is worrisome for the President to grant three weeks leave to the IGP at this time that the country is experiencing crisis and the security situation is becoming very bad.” The Legal Adviser to the IGP had said Idris embarked on three weeks leave following the approval President Muhammadu Buhari. He also noted that the petition being investigated by the Adhoc Committee is already before a Court hence any presentation by the IGP will be subjudice. He also presented the Court’s summon from the IGP and the petitioners. The Adhoc committee members expressed displeasure over the IGP’s attitude to the issue of security of lives and property. They urged the Police to stop treating the Committee with disdain, noting that the sensitive matter before the Committee could drag the Police institution into public disrepute. The committee members however resolved to mandate the IGP to appear in person, on a day to be communicated. The Lawmakers also note that the Court’s summon will enable the Committee to decide whether it could proceed with the investigate hearing. While ruling, The panel’s chair noted that if the Speaker deems it fit, the Court proceedings can not impede the issue being investigated, as provided by the Standing Rules of the House. “The matter the Committee is investigating has to do with corruption, harassment and threat to life, between a junior police officer and a senior police officer which when brought to the public domain is not good for the image, credibility and the integrity of the police institution.” The Adhoc Committee also invited Mike Okiro, chairman of the Police Service Commission who via a letter sent to the Committee argued that the issue is before the Court. “Most times when government agencies and institutions are invited, they look at the Committee of the National Assembly with disdain, and when a vote of no confidence is passed on them, they complain,” the lawmaker said referring to the letter sent to the committee.