 Ahead of the World Cup billed for kick off June 14, Russian Football Union (RFU) has warned players against drinking ‘exotic tea’ or smoking Shisha pipes to avoid being linked to doping scandal The governing body said on Friday that stars heading to the World Cup this summer in Russia should be cautious of accidentally consuming banned substances. The RFU, in a guide to help players avoid failing drugs tests, recommended they read the label on exercise supplements and check on the internet whether they can possibly be contaminated with banned products. The RFU are being extra cautious ahead of the eagerly-anticipated tournament after Russia has been rocked by a number of failed doping tests recently and a state-sponsored cover-up. The guide also comes amid FIFA’s investigation of allegations that positive drug tests in Russian football in years gone by were covered up. The RFU reminded the players that they could kiss their career good bye if they fail to heed the warning.’Be aware. Your career depends on it!” the campaign submitted Back in 2015, Algerian footballer Youcef Belaili tested positive for cocaine, which he said he accidentally consumed via a friend’s shisha pipe. Meanwhile, despite not knowing what prompted the tea warning, a study from 2012 claimed green tea could make testosterone appear lower on drugs test. However, that doesn’t constitute an offence. The Russian guide comes just two-and-a-half months before the World Cup gets underway, with the hosts taking on Saudi Arabia in the opener. Many people believe that smoking a shisha is safe and hence, an excellent alternative to smoking cigarettes. However, a study conducted back in 2005 by the World Health Organization showed that smoking shisha poses risk to the health of the smoker and is not a safe substitute for smoking a cigarette. The average shisha session tends to last around 40 minutes if not longer, consisting of around 50-200 inhalations that can range from 0.15 liters of smoke to 0.5 liters of smoke. In fact, if a shisha session lasts an hour, the smoker may consume around 100-200 times the volume of smoke consumed from a cigarette.        