A National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member yesterday lost  four of her fingers after being hit by a train at the  Ikeja railway crossing  on the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway. Her right leg was also broken in the accident that happened around 1pm. She was  coming from the nearby Ikeja Local Government Secretariat after her Community Development Service (CDS). Witnesses said the accident occurred while she was crossing the rail line. She was said to have a big headphone on. An official of the Ikeja Local Government, who pleaded not to be named, said the train was heading for Oshodi   from Ogun State. He said the council workers rushed out when they heard shouts from the railway line. “We started hearing shouts from the side of the railway line. I was one of those who ran to the scene, we saw the Corps member hit by the train on the floor and she was been taken to the hospital by some fellow Corps members and some of the council workers. We took her identity card and gave it to our boss. The train cut her finger and injured her right leg. “We learnt that the train had stopped for passengers to alight shortly before the accident happened. The train then took off, but despite the horn and shouts from people, this woman did not leave the rail line, probably the head phone she was using did not allow her to hear all of that. It was people that dragged her from the rail line, but while they were trying to drag her, the train hit her.” An eye witness, a Corps member, said : ‘’She was dressed in the NYSC uniform and she carried a bag. She just finished her clearance here (council secretariat) and she was probably going home. What I saw was that she was crossing the rail line, but suddenly I saw her still on the rail line while the train was pressing its horn and everyone was shouting that she should leave the rail line. “It was when she did not move that some people pulled her away from the rail line, but while she was being pulled, the train hit her. I am sure the bone of her right leg is broken, because it was looking lifeless, her four fingers were also cut; I saw the four fingers on the rail line. “However, she was there on the floor for about 30 minutes before help came her way. No one was ready to take her to the hospital, but after a while, another Corps member came with a  car and she was taken to Ikeja General Hospital. Some of the officials here also followed them,” she said.