The government of the United States of America should assist Nigeria in the repatriation of stolen funds stashed in foreign countries by corrupt public officials over the years, the House of Representatives said Tuesday. Hon Ehiozuwa Johnson Agboniayima, Chairman of the House Committee on Nigeria-US Friendship Group/ Inter-parliamentary Relations  requested for  the cooperation while hosting a delegation of military officers of the US Air War College in Abuja . The lawmaker informed the military delegation while requesting for the assistance that as accomplished officers who would soon would be involved in policy formation in the United States, they should assist in the repatriation of the nation’s stolen wealth kept in America by corrupt Nigerian citizens. The funds are proceeds of crime, he said, adding that the funds should be returned back for the development of Nigeria. The lawmaker said Nigeria appreciates the US for supporting the country’s fight on health, economic and security issues, He further sought the support of America to assist in the deepening and strengthening democracy by ensuring a successful conduct of the 2019 general elections. He said: “the National Assembly is committed to good governance, social security, due process and transparency especially in the fight against corruption and the desire to build institutions to tackle corruption “The US and Nigeria has over the years been consistently close allies, sharing stronger ties in peace keeping within the African continent and around the globe. As future key actors in the Pentagon and Washington, your role in global peace cannot be over emphasized “There is a need for peaceful coexistence and world peace and Nigeria is a key nation in promoting global peace especially within Africa “Nigeria continually seeks the support of the US and other friendly nations in overcoming the challenges we face. Majority of our people yearn for one united country devoid of sectionalism and nepotism, built on equity and justice, a country of security and prosperity”. The leader of the US military delegation, Lt. Col. Stacy Kihara of the US Air Force while responding told the committee that the visit had enabled the delegation members study the political, economic and social dynamics of Nigeria. 