Former Vice President and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, has felicitated with Christians as they mark the ressurection of Jesus Christ. In this, he was joined by Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, PDP chieftain and former Kaduna State governor, Senator Ahmed Makarfi and former Osun State deputy governor, Senator Iyiola Omisore. In a statement released by his media office in Abuja to mark the Easter celebrations, Atiku called on Nigerians to emulate the virtues of love and sacrifice which characterised the life of Jesus Christ. The Waziri Adamawa described those two qualities as essential to the unity that Nigeria so desperately needs at this time when vested and provincial interests threaten to tear our nation apart. He also encouraged Nigeria’s leaders to use the opportunity of the Easter celebration to reflect on their stewardship to their people and to the nation. “Our leaders at all levels should follow the virtues that define this season – sacrifice, love and charity – and come together to help all Nigerians resolve the differences that divide us. We must not allow those who seek to divide us to pretend as if our problems are as a result of another ethnic or religious group,” Atiku said. On his part, Senator Omisore charged Christians as well as all Nigerians  to demonstrate the essence of Easter as exemplified by Jesus Christ, by living in love and harmony with one another. Omisore, a former Chairman Senate Committee on Appropriation, gave this charge in a statement he issued to felicitate with Nigerians on Easter celebrations. “As Nigerians, we must eschew acts that will divide us further. We must embrace Christ’s attitude of living in love and harmony with ourselves and our neighbours,” he said. “It is not by chance that God put all of us in this environment called Nigeria. Whether as Muslims or Christians, we must remember always that we are our brother’s keeper. “We must promote all the enriching values that make our lives and society embodiments of godliness.” Omisore, who was the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the 2014 governorship election in Osun State, urged the people of the state to be steadfast in their prayers. Bayelsa State governor, Hon, Henry Seriake Dickson, urged Nigerians, particularly Christians to jealously cherish and guide their faith by living a Christ-like life of selfless service, sacrifice, love and righteousness. The governor, in a press statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Francis Ottah Agbo, noted that, without the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, “our faith as Christians would have been a fallacy.” While stressing that Nigeria is presently at a crossroads, the governor called on Bayelsans to love one another, pray fervently for the peace, prosperity and stability of the nation and sacrifice for the common good of Bayelsa State. Governor Dickson also solicited for the maximum cooperation of the people and leaders of the state and the Ijaw Nation to enable his Restoration Government  consolidate on its legacy projects in order to finish strong by 2020. He said: “As we celebrate Easter, which of course is the basis of our faith as Christians, I urge Nigerians, particularly Bayelsans, to emulate our Lord Jesus Christ by words and deeds. “We must love one another and sacrifice for the common good of Bayelsa State and Nigeria. “This country is facing daunting challenges which call for fervent prayers and hard work to surmount. “Our Government in the last six years has put Bayelsa State on the path of peace and prosperity. I therefore, solicit the continued cooperation and support of leaders and the people of the state to enable our  Restoration Government consolidate on its life-changing legacy projects and finish strong.” In his own message, Makarfi said in spite of various challenges, there is still hope for Nigeria. Jesus’ death and resurrection, he said, are everlasting reminders that it is possible for Nigeria to overcome its difficult situation and embrace great virtues. He asked Nigerians to eschew bitterness and embrace the spiritual legacies of Jesus Christ which can immensely facilitate Nigeria’s peace and progress. He sent “warm felicitations and greetings to the Nigerian Christian community, and indeed all Nigerians on this auspicious occasion of the Easter celebrations in memory of the legendary spirit of sacrifice and selflessness espoused and exhibited by Jesus Christ.” It is imperative, according to him, that this period be “used by all for meditation and sober reflections on the life and times of Jesus Christ and his sacrifices, with a view to imbibing  such virtues as humility, forgiveness, tolerance, good neighbourliness, respect and empathy for others’ feelings as well as love for one another.” The Chairman, Senate Committee on Local Content, Senator Solomon Adeola, charged  his constituents and Nigerians in general to remain peaceful and exhibit the Christian virtues of sacrifice, love and abiding faith in a better tomorrow as exemplified in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Adeola said the season symbolises a new beginning of hope and redemption for all mankind, adding that for all true Christians, the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ means that all challenges confronting individuals and mankind are ultimately surmountable with fervent belief in God. The senator said the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ gave mankind hope of a new beginning and a better future, stressing that in spite of enormous challenges confronting the nation, Nigeria is at the threshold of a better tomorrow.