•We will meet in court, says NCP The Special Adviser to  Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Taxation and Revenue, Mr Abdul Fatai Lasisi has said the revised Land Use Charge (LUC) law was ‘’grossly misunderstood’’, adding that it “has a lot of benefits and is relatively easy to understand.” Speaking at a meeting of religious leaders and faith-based organisations in Alausa, Ikeja,  Lasisi said “the revised LUC is more harmonised, relatively cheaper and affordable.” According to him, the charges “are done in a transparent and consultative manner, and quite predictable”. The law, he said, favoured the physically-challenged, those who have been residing in the same location for up to 12 years, minors, retiree-owners of occupied properties, those in active service and the aged. He said there would be no more penalties on arrears while late and instalment payments were now acceptable. The law, Lasisi,  granted general and specific reliefs which could be as high as 45 per cent in some cases such as “pensioners of 60 years and above, owner-occupiers who are over 10 years in same properties, persons with disability, senior citizens above 70 years and non-profit making organisations”. Lasisi said some properties, such as state-owned, public cemeteries and burial grounds, buildings used as public libraries and  places  occupied by obas and chiefs  were exempted from payment of the charge. Only about 700,000 tenements in Lagos, he noted,  “have been captured in the tax net”, adding that this is low, considering the estimated number of houses in built-up areas across the state. The National Conscience Party (NCP) founded by the late Chief Gani Fawehinmi yesterday said it would soon sue the Lagos State Government over the Land Use Charge (LUC) law. Its National Secretary, Ayodele Akele,  at a Political Education and Membership Integration Programme in Lagos, said the party had found out that the LUC was illegal. To Akele, the LUC was unaffordable and unacceptable even with the recent reduction following public outcry. He said: “We have already discussed with our lawyers to take the government to court very soon over the LUC. We are taking the action because we have been able to establish, from the face value, that the charge is unconstitutional. “Based on that, we are challenging this new charge in court, apart from the political steps we have been taking to challenge it. The fact is that the new charge, even with the review, is unaffordable to most residents; it is outrageous and will inflict hardship on residents.” Akele said the charge was not well thought out and would lead to suffering. He advised the government to look towards reducing the cost of governance as a way of generating revenue. It was, he said,  improper to increase the charge when a new minimum wage had not been approved, alleging that the state had introduced several other forms of taxes. Akele said residents were being overtaxed, adding that only cancellation, not review of the LUC would be acceptable.  