Public policy experts, academics and other professionals have urged the Federal Government to commission a Nigerian centennial history project that will document and define the most important socio-political, economic, physical and cultural development of the country in the last century with a view to using it to plan for the next century. They spoke at the public reading and review of a book, titled: Nigeria in the Twentieth Century: History, Governance and Society, at Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy (ISGPP). The book was edited by Prof. Olutayo Adesina of the Department of Historym at the University of Ibadan (UI). The experts, led by Ambassador Ayo Olukanni, who chaired the review, noted that the project would help the country to learn from the pitfalls of the past while planning for a better new century. According to them, the knowledge of history will help the citizens think together and avoid moves and activities that can cause a repeat of past failures and troubles. They advised the government to employ the services of historians to undertake the project along with other relevant experts. The policy experts, who included Prof. Olabode Lucas, Prof. Oka Obono, ace broadcaster Edmund Obilo, Edem Ossai and Dr Nathaniel Danjibo, posited that the project would help to highlight the sterling contributions of Nigeria to the rest of the world. These include the valiant roles of Nigerian soldiers in enthroning peace in different parts of the world as well as the socio-economic strides in various fields of human endeavours. Examining issues about the reconstruction of Nigerian history, particularly those relating to contemporary socio-political developments in Nigeria, the experts dissected issues on federalism and the national question, gender and development, decentralisation and local government system, anti-corruption as well as Nigeria’s foreign policy. They averred that the full potential of Nigeria’s federal structure would be maximally realised if adequate and timely attention is paid to the alignment of intra-governmental relations along the principles of greater devolution of powers and fiscal independence. The experts said this potentially strengthens financial autonomy of states and promotes a greater sense of national identity among Nigerians. The Executive Vice Chairman of the school, Dr Tunji Olaopa, noted that ISGPP had been harnessing available platforms since February 2016 through the framework of its seminar series, executive education, policy dialogue and book reading events. The vice chairman said these are meant to stimulate sustained interrogation of policies and implementation feedbacks and deepen policy conversation with a view to contributing ideas to get government to work better for democracy, good governance and development. He added: “In so doing, we have also attempted, in the best way we know, to raise the bar of reflection and public discourse in order to facilitate a more proactive and meaningful participation of critical stakeholders in pushing the frontiers of advocacy for accelerated development. “There is no doubt that there is so much more that needs to be done. Of critical concern is the question regarding the quality and depth of evidence-based researched ideas and knowledge that drive policy making and advocacy. “Indeed, whether we talk of Internet policy and governance, climate change, institutional reform, trade negotiation, intellectual property rights, data privacy, artificial intelligence, among others, the evidence we confront daily through policy research is that the contributions of African researchers, professionals and players in global conversations that shape their trajectories is low and far between. It suggests that Africa might be treading another path of re-colonisation as the Fourth Technological revolution unfolds. “So, while other readers’ clubs all around Nigeria are addressing the basic literacy side of poor reading culture, ISGPP’s Readers’ Club events will strive to provide platforms to interrogate the information and knowledge gaps in Nigeria’s future possibilities, leveraging problem-solving documented ideas, frameworks, models, paradigms and researched insights, to deepen issues and conversations that have critical bearing on the Nigerian and African condition.” 