The people of Bende Local Government Area of Abia State have endorsed Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for second term. At the endorsement rally in Uzuakoli, the governor urged residents to collect their voter’s cards, ahead of next year’s poll. EMMANUEL OLADESU reports. The p eople of Bende Local Government Area, Abia North Senatorial District of Abia State, have endorsed Governor Okezie Ikpeazu for a second term. The endorsement has significance because of the influential indigenes from the area. They include the late Commodore Amadi Guy Ikwechegh, former military governor of  Imo State from 1986 to 1989, former Governor Orji Kalu and   House of Representatives member Hon. Nnenna Ukeje-Elendu, who has been representing Bende Constituency since 2007. Bende Council is also the cradle of Hon Cosmos Ndukwe,  Deputy Speaker ofAbia State House of Assembly, Secretary to State Government (SSG) Dr Eme Okoro, Chief Chris Uche (SAN), Chief Jerry Kalu, Sir JC Ogwo, Hon. Nnamdi Njoku, and Chief Ekeoma Eme. At a rally in the famous Practicing School,  Uzuakoli, the people urged Ikpeazu to declare his second term bid, assuring him of support. It was witnessed by traditional rulers, community leaders, women and youth groups, artians and peasants. Speakers at the rally included Hon. Ukeje, Hon. Cosmos Ndukwe, the council chairman and  Chief Gabriel Elendu. Also, All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) and All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains led their supporters to defect to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The defectors included Chief Ude Eme Obike, Chief Sunday Akachukwu Oko and Chief Johnny Ukpabi. PDP leaders said the base of the opposition has been destroyed, following their defections. Former chairman of the local government, Chief Ukwu Rocks Emma, described Ikpeazu as a people’s governor, adding that he is tested and trusted. He said: “Ikpeazu is a Governor after our hearts. Bende, the land of warriors, would go to battle in defence of this trusted governor. Bende stands with you since you have stood by Bende when you became governor. From the election of the deputy speaker to the appointments of Secretary to the State Government, two commissioners, special advisers and special assistants, chairmen and members of board of parastatals, the governor has carried Bende sons and daughters along in his journey. Why then should we not carry Okezie Ikpeazu along?” The former chairman also lauded Ikpeazu for fighting the infrastructure battle in Bende. He said residents are happy over the construction of many roads, including Lohum- Nkpa-Port-Harcourt Expressway, Alayi-Item-Nkporo, Akoli Imenyi and Alayi Erosion Control projects; Aba Road-Ceramics-Isi Court, and Umuahia Dual Carriageway. “When you launched the Made-In-Aba campaign, you got us there. That campaign is a promotion of the industry of the Bende man. You are globally expanding our market horizon and increasing the per-capita income of the Bende man. “When we match Governor Ikpeazu’s giant strides in education where Abia has consistently maintained the first in WAEC, where the abandoned Umunnato General Hospital is transmuting to a National Hospital before our  eyes and where agriculture is finally getting due recognition, culminating in the Item Poultry Farm Village and the New Rice Mill here in Uzoakoli, we have no option than to support you for a second term. “If we adopt the lingual franca of the Nigeria proletariat, that is, the pidgin English, the title of this address could be: Why Bende dey raise voice dey shout: Governor Ikpeazu, carry go till 2023. An excited Ikpeazu thanked the people for endorsing him. He promised to return to them at the appropriate time to respond to their call for him to re-contest next year. He said: “Bende people have spoken, and I thank you for speaking as a people. I also thank you for the endorsement.  Bende is among the local government areas in Abia State that I don’t need to campaign because I know that I have the support of Bende people. “When I look around and see the number of our people here today, I remember your support for me in 2015 and I have no doubt that I will always have your support. But, let me say here that I will come back to Bende to respond appropriately on your demand for me to contest again in 2019. The governor promised to sustain the tempo of achievements till the end of the first term. He said his government was laying a concrete foundation for the future prosperity of the state. Ikpeazu added: “One thing I will assure you is that Abia State will never go back to the days when we were regarded as a pariah state. Jointly with Bende people, we will continue to upgrade our state infrastructure and make our people bold in wherever they do. “That is why we took on the made in Aba campaign which Bende people have benefited from. Today our people in Aba are proud of what they do with their hands. We sent them to China and they proved to China that we are very hard working people. As governor, I promised to wear only made in Aba cloths and I have kept my word. The governor urged the people to protect public utilities in the area. He said the on-going projects will be completed. He stresed: “This administration will not do road that will last only one year, we are doing roads that will last at least 20 years, that is why we engage reputable constructions firms. We have Setraco working on Port Harcourt and Faulks Roads in Aba, Arab Contractors on Aba Road in Umuahia, the Chinese Construction Company at Osisioma flyover and Bulletin Construction Company at Abiriba-Nkporo Road. “We also have some very reputable local contractors who are doing very well. All our urban and semi-urban roads must have drainage on both sides and terminate at an appropriate water receiving facility.” Ikpeazu advised the people to collect their voter’s cards, stressing that voting is impossible without the cards. He lauded Bende for producing about 30 tons of Abia rice last year, urging them to double their efforts. Ikeazu added: “We will reconstruct dilapidated roads in the council in addition to providing portable water at Item and Ozuitem.”