The Akwa Ibom State government accords great respect and recognition to the traditional institution. It prides itself as regarding traditional rulers as dependable and indispensable partners in building a peaceful, economically and politically vibrant state. Governor Udom Emmanuel recently issued certificates of recognition to 230 traditional rulers as part of government’s commitment to build and sustain a working bond between the traditional institution and his administration. At the colorful event, which held at the Banquet Hall, Government House, Uyo, Emmanuel said the traditional institution has a major role to play in the maintenance of peace and security in the state, and tasked them to increase efforts at ensuring  security in their respective domains. The governor, who decried the rate of moral decadence in the society, asserted that threat to security in communities is traced to cultism and charged the royal fathers to assist the state government in the provision of adequate security measures in their respective domains. While explaining that traditional rulers are closer to the people at the grassroot, Emmanuel said: “It is your duty as village heads, clan heads and paramount rulers to rise up and make sure that we have adequate protection to lives and property within your communities.” He stressed that security should form the major agenda in the traditional rulers council meetings to stem the tide of cultism and vandalisation of public infrastructure, assuring of government readiness to support security measures taken at their individual domains. The governor added that with the increase in the population of communities, it has become extremely difficult for the Nigeria Police Force and other security agencies to monitor every nook and cranny, imploring them to offer useful information on perpetrators of crime in their areas. He mentioned that the state government is vested with the authority to issue certificates of recognition where there are no legal injunctions, adding that the certificates can also be withdrawn at the final determination and judgement of the court. The State Chief Executive solicited for grassroot support through the royal fathers, tasking them to mobilise the people in their separate communities to ensure continuation of the present administration beyond 2019 for the consolidation of ongoing development programmes in the state. Emmanuel appealed to the traditional rulers to encourage their subjects to partake in the ongoing voter’s registration exercise. The Supervisory Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Mr. Nsikan Nkan, said  the issuance of the certificates was an exposition of the state government’s friendly disposition to the traditional institution, applauding the newly recognised traditional rulers on their emergence from their respective communities. Nkan said the recognition of the royal fathers was in tandem and consistent with the provision of Akwa Ibom State Traditional Rulers Law 2000, Section 15, Cap 134, informing them that by the official acknowledgment of their status, they have automatically become officers of the state government. Obong Ikamaise Udo Ekong, the village head of Itu Andem in Ibiono Ibom local government, during an in interaction with our correspondent at the event, expressed gratitude and joy for receiving his certificate of recognition from the state government. The highpoint of the event was the formal presentation of the certificates by Nkan, assisted by Paramount Rulers. The event was witnessed by the Secretary to the State Government Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem, Chairman of the State Traditional Rulers Council and Paramount Ruler if Ini Local Government Area, Edidem Ntoeng Udo Effiong Akpan, State Chairman of  the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP, Obong Paul Ekpo, former Commissioners in the Ministry of Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Hon. Udo Ekpenyong and  Chief Uwem Etuk as well as some members of the State Executive Council among others.