The Nigerian Healthcare Excel-lence Award (NHEA) has called for nominations. Its Project Director Dr. Wale Alabi,  said this edition would be bigger and exciting, in view of the increased activities in the sector. To nominate for corporate or individual categories, the public should visit www.nigeriahealth-awards. com.ng, he said. Nominations will close on May 25, before the online voting will kick off. The award jury will select winners in the various categories. He said winners of the various categories would be honoured in June at Eko Hotel and Suites, Lagos. NHEA is organised by Global Health Project and Resources (GHPR) in collaboration with Anadach Group, United States. Alabi said about 23 awards and recognitions would be presented at the ceremony, made up of four main categories: Special Awards, Health care Delivery Services, Biomedical Technology and Pharmaceuticals. Some of the awards include the Lifetime Achievements Award, Outstanding State Government Healthcare Programme of the Year, Outstanding CSR Health Project of the Year, Healthcare Media Excellence (print and electronic), Private Healthcare Provider of the Year, Other are Public Healthcare Provider of the Year, Laboratory service provider of the Year, and Radiology Service Provider of the Year. There are Biomedical Engineering Service Company of the Year, IVF Service Provider of the Year, Dialysis Service Provider of the Year, Eyecare Service Provider of the Year, Laboratory Equipment Marketing Company of the Year, Nursing and Midwifery Excellence Award of the Year. NHEA Director of Strategy, Marketing and Communication, Moses Braimah, said NHEA will continue to provide a virile platform for the recognition, reward and celebration of successes, innovations, growth and excellence in the health Sector. ‘’Moreover, we have observed that the award has been able to stimulate quality improvement and innovation in the health sector leading to improved service delivery and management of key health issues and the capacity of individuals to influence and set new performance standards in Nigeria and beyond.