Direct to Home (DTH) broadcasting system that offers services to its subscribers through highly entertaining and informative channels, Play Tv has said its focus is to make 90 per cent of its channels totally indigenous to support the creative sector of the economy. The Executive Chairman, Digital Play Nigeria Limited, Toyin Subair, who spoke in an interview with The Nation, said Play is a brand that has been developed, conceptualised and is being rolled out for different sectors in television, video-on-demand, cinemas and in production. “Play Television is coming up in a lot of channels and we will create more local channels. The ideal situation for us is getting 90 per cent of our channels to be local channels. We are not just doing that, what we are doing is that we are creating a partnership with different people who have good ideas about monitoring the channels; we have the infrastructure, the facility to use to partner with them to make it easier for them. They don’t need to go and re-invent the wheel again. You know everybody has become so used to becoming our own utility centres where you are the one doing everything yourself. This infrastructure now becomes a hub. You don’t need to start putting structure in place. You just come here and everything is ready for you. That’s where we make good use of our resources because we don’t have it like many other people. It is not even cheap; so instead of people going to get that (loan at) 35 per cent (interest rate), it is available somewhere you can use the little money you have to  create what you have and let the expert put it together for you, transmit it for you,” Mr Subair said. He said the idea of Play Tv is a common world where people come together making it easy for them to monetise their creative talent. “The brand will evolve over the next few months, launching various products both for Nollywood, making Nollywood available to people in their homes even if they don’t have internet, that’s one of our products. Then you have the television and a whole multitude of channels for different people. We have very well-known creative people leading and spearheading the different channels of their own and a product line put on television. The future of television is mobile and people that are able to enjoy it and so that is what PLAY is about at the end of the day,” he added. Last week, award winning hip hop sensation and Play Brand Ambassador, Olamide aka Baddosneh launched his music and lifestyle channel, Voice of the Streets (VOTS) on Play Tv. VOTS is expected to deliver the best in showbiz bringing in the best street music, lifestyle, reality shows and entertainment news across Nigeria. The channel will also offer rich contents on events, documentaries, red carpet events, features, interviews and many more. Speaking on the occasion, Olamide had said: “This is just the beginning of good things to come to Entertainment industry in Nigeria. In Play TV, we have a collaborator that enhances our offering of local contents to our fans. For me and my team, we have always aimed to launch a channel that will speak for the streets and so when the opportunity came up, the choice of Play TV and the launch of VOTS for us is significant as it will cement VOTS as the leading music and entertainment channel in Nigeria and beyond.” Formerly known as Continental Satellite Limited (CONSAT), Play Tv has deployed advanced digital broadcasting system to broadcast world-class international channels, channels from Africa and Nigeria. With the target audience of age group 0-70,  it offers the best music hits  exclusive movies, entertainment, cartoon, comedy, lifestyle, fashion and an exclusive behind-the-scene access to top African celebrities: from the latest video clips/concerts of the major urban artists, behind the scenes to the most( intimate interviews with A-list champions. With over 40 channels, the platform is home to some of the world’s most popular brands, including Rishtey Asia, Aljazeera, HFATV, Colors International, Mount Zion Television and 1Music. In less than one year, Pay has grown into a global urban entertainment brand that is the catalyst, the voice and the one stop destination for urban entertainment creators and fans. Each Play channel has a clear mission: ( to entertain, empower and engage with a passionate multicultural cross over audience. 