The Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, has described as untrue claims that the Abuja-Kaduna train was attacked by gunmen. The minister said it was impossible for the train to be attacked while moving, adding that armed policemen are always on board the train. He stated this during the inauguration of the governing board of agencies under the ministry in Abuja. He said: “I saw one false or what you can call fake news on social media where they said armed robbers attacked the rail line which is not correct. But you see how Nigerians on their own fabricate stories. “In every coach, we have armed policemen. So how can armed robbers attack the train? “Their claim can only be possible if they said it happened in the station but it cannot happen while the train is moving and they said the incident happened in Rijana community while the train was moving.” Also reacting to the alleged attack, the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) said the coaches were only stoned. The Deputy Director, Public Relations of the NRC, Yakubu Mahmud, also reassured passengers of their safety while at railway stations and onboard the trains. The Corporation urged traditional rulers to warn residents along the Abuja-Kaduna route to desist from any act capable of damaging government infrastructure. The statement reads: “This reassurance is reiterated by the NRC management in order to allay the unfounded fears of our esteemed passengers after the reported incident of miscreants along Abuja-Kaduna railway corridor engaging in unwholesome act of stoning our passengers’ trains as against the unsubstantiated and purported media report of attack by gunmen. “The Corporation considers this as security threat and a deliberate attempt to damage Federal Government’s property which is provided to alleviate the transportation problems in the country and also serves as a source of employment for people residing in the environment. “NRC is being proactive by taken measures through the deployment of additional security equipment and personals to checkmate the unwholesome, uncivilized and unpatriotic tendencies.” 