Folarin Falana simply known as Falz is the son of Human Rights activist, Femi Falana. The multi-talented rapper who added a feather to his cap as a movie producer with his movie Falz Experience, The Movie, revealed to ADENIYI ADEWOYIN, how he has been able to merge acting, comedy and music. Excerpts… YOU had your concert last year and now Falz Experience the Movie; tell us about this transition… At the event and also preceding the event, I worked on a short film which was then shown at the event. It is first of its kind and never been done before, I don’t think any artiste has been able to successfully merge both film and music in one experience. I think it’s a combination of observing and realising that what we had done is a landmark. Even before the event happened, we’ve always wanted to do something very ground-breaking and something that would last a long time in peoples mind. And meeting with the Film One crew and sharing the idea with them was the turning point. This is a partnership between my company Bhad Guys Entertainment and Film One. So, meeting with them and then sharing ideas we were able to conceive this concept and I am grateful that they came on board and I am grateful that we are here. How did you arrive at your cast and what informed your choice of cast? I wanted to put in people that I’ve personally always been a fan of and I’ve worked with in the past and people I believe will make this project something worth watching. What brought about the inspiration of both the concert and movie? I’ve always wanted to be different. I’ve always wanted to do something that’s novel that people can see and appreciate. Do we get to see more of this? Yes, definitely, there will be part two and three continuously. What differences are we expecting in this movie? I will like to say growing with no expectations, this is a novel idea that you’ve never seen before but go and watch it. I believe you will be blown away. Aside from acting, singing and comedy, what other things do you have in the kitchen? For now, those are the only things. Maybe in future if something else comes up, yeah, but for now, music, film and comedy. We are trying to combine and try(ing) to continuously break boundaries. Are we likely to see more full-length movies from you? Oh yes, definitely. That is something that’s in the works. This, I wanted it to be my stepping stone. I wanted it to be my first step in the film industry. So, now that I am officially a film producer, I am going to be working on more stuffs. From March 2nd, it’s going to be in the cinemas all across Nigeria. Why are you drawn to acting? Because I have always had a passion for film growing up. So, it’s not something that’s really new to me. I believe that now is the right time to really explore that side of me. Are you saying that the AMVCA awards didn’t spur you to go further in acting? The AMVCA award was more of motivation. Even before it came, acting has been something I’ve always been passionate about but that extra push to keep on exploring the side of me. What other areas in movies are you looking at exploring; directing? Let’s take it one step at a time Music wise, what projects are we expecting? I just released my third solo album last year October and I am going to be shooting some videos off the album. And I am going to be putting out some fresh tracks later in this year.