The Nigerian Sovereign Investment Authority (NSIA) has set aside $20 million to develop three healthcare facilities in three states. The NSIA Healthcare Development and Investment Company (NHDIC), an NSIA company, in collaboration with Federal Ministry of Health yesterday announced the execution of joint venture and other project agreements for investments in three  federal healthcare institutions in Nigeria. The benefiting healthcare institutions are, the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH, Lagos), the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH, Kano) and the Federal Medical Centre Umuahia (FMCU, Abia). Following from these agreements, funds will be deployed to build, equip, maintain and operate a private cancer centre for advanced radiotherapy treatment at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH) and to also build, equip, maintain and operate private modern medical diagnostic centres at the Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital (AKTH) and the Federal Medical Centre Umuahia (FMCU). Under the agreements, the cancer centre at LUTH will be upgraded to provide specialist care for cancer treatment while AKTH and FMCU will focus on diagnostics providing medical microbiology services, routine chemical pathology,  haematology tests and advanced radiography including MRI and CT services. The investment is expected to upgrade these institutions to modern medical centres and significantly enhance Nigeria’s ability to treat non-communicable diseases (NCDs). The NSIA said: ”The investments will assist in bridging the infrastructure gap in the healthcare sector and help reduce the burden of medical tourism which is estimated to drain over $1 billion in foreign exchange annually. “Similarly, the investment is intended to provide access to advanced healthcare services for the benefit of lower income families many of whom have limited access to care.” As part of the programme, NHDIC has procured the services of internationally renowned equipment vendors, including Varian (Switzerland), Siemens (Germany), JNC International (Nigeria) and Fuji Films (Japan) to provide turnkey services including civil works, design, equipment installation and maintenance services for the centres. Each centre will run as a joint venture between NSIA and the respective tertiary hospital to ensure timely and efficient delivery of services. Speaking at the agreement signing ceremony yesterday, Mr. Uche Orji, MD/CEO of NSIA stated that “Investing in healthcare remains a vital component of the Nigerian Infrastructure Fund strategy. The enhancement of healthcare infrastructure in these institutions will contribute towards raising the quality and standard of care in Nigeria with outcomes which are consistent with the 2030 agenda for sustainable development. In addition, it will demonstrate the economic potential of healthcare nvestments in Nigeria and catalyse private sector participation” The Chairman of NSIA, Mr. Jide Zeitlin said the NSIA’s pursuit ”in this phase of our healthcare strategy is to focus on non-communicable diseases and provide treatment for cardiovascular, renal, orthopedic and oncological conditions.