Senator Abdullahai Adamu (APC Nassarawa West) has denied allegations that he’s leading a few other senators in a conspiracy to unseat the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki. Adamu, who Friday reacted to alleged plans by him to destabilise the leadership of the upper legislative chamber, described the allegation as unfounded and baseless. Senator Obinna Ogba had, during plenary session on Thursday, alleged that Adamu had concluded arrangements with some Civil Society Groups to stage massive protests against the President of the Senate. The allegation followed disagreements over an amendment to the Electoral Act, whereby the Senate reordered election sequence for the 2019 poll. The Senate had concurred with the House of Representatives for the National Assembly election to come first, with the presidential election coming last. But leading nine other senators in protest against the amendment, Adamu had alleged that the amendment was targeted at President Muhammadu Buhari and had vowed that the said amendment would not stand. Pro Saraki lawmakers in the Senate had interpreted Adamu’s position as a rebellion against the President of the Senate, with the view to getting him removed from office. But in his reaction, Adamu said although he was not in town on Thursday, one of his colleagues had informed him about the allegation against him, which he described as amusing and saddening at the same time. He denied eyeing Saraki’s job, saying the President of the Senate was like a son to him. He added that he would have contested for the position three years ago if he was interested in it. “I am not in any way after Saraki’s job. Saraki is like a son to me. I have every right to contest for the Senate President seat three years ago when the 8th Senate was inaugurated, but I never did because I wasn’t interested”, he said. The senator said it’s therefore unreasonable for anyone to suggest that he is now plotting to unseat Saraki and destabilise the Senate in the process. “It is therefore not logical for anyone to say I am interested in the seat now and will be planning to destabilise the Senate. “To achieve what? For what purpose? It is not right for anyone to make such unfounded insinuations”, he said. According to him, it would be foolhardy for anyone to contemplate unseating Saraki’s leadership at this time after three years in office, saying such a move would be a lost battle. “We are almost three years in office, election year is drawing nearer, and I think anyone thinking of upstaging the leadership of the Senate for any reason will only be fighting a lost battle because it is not what should naturally occupy the mind of any serious minded lawmaker now”, he said. The lawmaker said he was ready to confront those behind the allegation, adding that any investigation of him in that regard would vindicate him any time any day. He said, “I am not in any way afraid of anyone who thinks I’ve offended him. I have the neck to carry my cross, but no one should cook up lies just to discredit me or any senator for that matter. “If I’m asked to appear before the committee on Ethics and Privileges, I will come out clean because whoever raises the allegation will have to come out and present incontrovertible facts to prove the allegations. “Then, names of other so called collaborators will be made known. They will be confronted; evidence of such meetings will be produced. Those accused will be asked to defend themselves, and recommendations will be made by the committee based on facts presented to it”. 