A total of 40 professional golf players from eight West African countries will be on parade when the maiden Eko Golf Challenge Cup on the 2018 West Africa Golf Tour tees-off on Wednesday at the Lakowe Lakes Golf Club in Lagos. The West Africa Golf Tour is a Nigerian initiative, dedicated to promoting and developing the game of golf in Africa by organizing internationally-acclaimed professional tournaments and introducing golf education programmes in schools. Nigeria’s professional golfer Gift Willy, who is ranked 4th in West Africa will lead his compatriot from Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja against other golfers from Gabon, Senegal, Cameroon, Ghana, Togo, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Ghana that will parade Vincent Torgah, who finished 2nd at the just concluded FCT Classic on the 2018 West Africa Golf Tour held at the IBB International Golf and Country Club, Abuja. A total prize money of 25,000 Euros is available at the tournament with the overall winner going home with 4,000 Euros. President of West Africa Tour, Emeka Okatta informed NationSport that Eko Challenge Cup is a platform for professional golfers to excel and improve on the sport. “West African Golf Tour is hoping and planning to become the sixth tour in the world. Right now the top five are USA PGA Tour, Sunshine Tour, European Tour, Asian Tour, Japanese Tour and we are working towards that and we are planning to have a co-sanction event with all these tours. “The reason to have a co-sanction event is for players to have international world ranking points. If you don’t have a co-sanction event, the players will not have ranking points and will not be ranked. Now golf has been included in the Olympics and the selection of golfers from countries to go to Olympics is based on world ranking. “So this is one of our developmental tours aimed at providing players more opportunities to build their careers as professional golfers and compete internationally. “Also organization of international golf tournaments in Nigeria will contribute to creating an emerging domestic tourism market, which in turn will put Nigeria in the limelight and boost the country’s image and economy. “Knowing that the development of the sport needs future generations, the West Africa Golf Tour has created a Foundation that offers golf education programmes to children and youngsters in elementary and secondary schools in order to introduce and encourage the practice of the game so that future players and winners will be coming from Nigeria. “We are taking golf to schools because we realized that if you watch the no 1 player in the world today, Dustin Justin is 33 years old. Former no.1 Jordan Spieth is 24 years old, Justine Thomas now is 24 years old, all of them started golf from school. “In Abuja we have about eight schools we teach golf on regular basis and lot of schools have written us to come and participate and do that in their schools. That is why we moved down to Lagos because we need to introduce the same thing in Lagos schools,” Okatta told NationSport.