Edo State House of Assembly Speaker Kabiru Adjoto has denied claims by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that a bill seeking to ban open grazing was sent to the Assembly. He said what the House received was “a mere letter, which we received from the post office, talking about open grazing and not a bill.” PDP Chairman Chief Dan Orbih, at a lecture organised by the Gatekeepers, said the passage of the bill would stop clashes between Fulani herdsmen and farmers. Ex-Benue State Commissioner for Works and Transport Mr. John Ngbede said the passage of the bill would stop Fulani herdsmen’s destructive activities. But Adjoto, in an interview with reporters, said it was wrong for the PDP to post a letter and call it a bill. He said bills were not sent through the post office, but presented as private members’ bills or sponsored with names of the sponsors on them. The Speaker said the PDP should have asked its lawmakers on the procedure to present a bill, instead of passing a letter as a bill. He said: “There is a procedure for everything. The PDP knows the address of the Edo State House of Assembly. They know how to present a private member bill or sponsor a bill. They cannot go to a post office and post a letter, saying it is a bill. We don´t even know the person that sent it. “They used PDP letterhead, but nobody signed it. Who are the sponsors of the bill if it was a bill they sent to us? Those who are sponsoring it should put their names on it. PDP as a party is not the name of a person. If actually they intended to send a bill, it means they have not followed the procedure. They simply went to the post office and sent the letter to members, using the address of the House of Assembly. “We have PDP lawmakers in the house and if actually they are confused about how to send a bill, they should have used those ones as sponsors. There should be the names of the sponsors if it is a bill they actually sent. It should be sent to the House of Assembly, not the post office. “What they sent was a mere letter; we need to know who is sponsoring the bill. They should follow the proper channel in sending it to the house and as the representatives of the people, once the proper channel is followed, we will treat the bill, but as it is now, in the eyes of the law, they have not done anything. “A bill is not something you send through the post office. The process of lawmaking is not mama akara business. If they are sincere about what they claimed they did, they should have consulted those ones and even pass the bill through any of them.”