Boat drivers and allied professionals in the Niger Delta are keen on safer waterways. A major awareness campaign is on to achieve that, writes BISI OLANIYI Thousands of boat drivers and allied professionals benefited from the marine safety awareness campaign to reduce boat accidents on Niger Delta’s waterways, which was sponsored by Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria at the multipurpose hall of the secretariat of Port Harcourt City Local Government Council on Moscow Road, with the theme: “Reducing Boat Accidents.” Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria is the operator of the Oil Mining Lease (OML) 130 concession, with partners consisting of China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC); the South Atlantic Petroleum Company (SAPETRO), a Nigerian oil and gas exploration and production company; PETROBRAS company and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). The awareness campaign was aimed at inculcating in boat operators based in Port Harcourt jetties: Okrika, Bille, Nembe, Bonny, Abonnema Wharf, Rumuorlumeni (Iwofe) and oceanic, safety habits and tools that would assist them in navigating the waterways safely, in order to avoid boat mishaps. The facilitator of the awareness campaign, Chief Nimisoere Hutchinson-Bobmanuel, in his welcome address on March 23, noted that the well-attended event was timely and a step in the right direction, while urging passengers of boats to always wear life jackets with whistles and the boats should not be overloaded. Hutchinson-Bobmanuel insisted that the boats must have fire extinguishers, lifebuoys and that refueling must not be done on the way, to prevent accident, advising that enough fuel should be taken at the various jetties. The National President of the Institute of Safety Professionals of Nigeria, Nnamdi Ilodiuba, who is based in Ikotun, Lagos and was one of the resource persons at the awareness campaign, urged the boat operators to be safety conscious. A fellow of the Institute of Safety Professionals of Nigeria, Timothy Iwuagwu, an engineer, urged drivers of boats to always have clear view while on the waterways, while passengers were also admonished to ensure that they had proper assessment of the drivers of the boats, before embarking on the journeys. Iwuagwu declared that reckless and unstable behaviours of drivers of boats should never be condoned by the passengers, while advising against night journeys, considering the risks involved and security challenges in Nigeria, especially on the waterways, and he urged boats’ drivers and passengers to always buy/use genuine or original life jackets that would stand the test of time, not the fake or sub-standard ones. An official of Cornerstone Insurance Company, Onajite Prosper Orijedje, stated that comprehensive insurance policies were necessary for the boats, the drivers and passengers, in order to be on the safe side, stressing that as people would be thinking safety, they must also think insurance, considering the fact that the boats, made of fibre, could crack. The Southsouth Zonal Director of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Mr. Olusegun Abiodun, who was represented by NIMASA’s District Surveyor in Port Harcourt, Mr. Layiwola Olanrewaju, lauded the stakeholders for coming together to think safety, but urged them to avoid shortcuts, since only living persons could work. The Deputy General Manager, Marine, of the National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), Agbahi Fidelis Ebiala, who came from NIWA’s headquarters in Lokoja, Kogi State, admonished the drivers and passengers of boats to always be safety conscious, especially on the inland waterways. The Second-in-Command, Marine Police of the Rivers State Police Command, Gajere Raynan, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), advised against overloading of boats, in order to be able to navigate safely and easily, while urging boat drivers to always obey the laws on marine safety, assuring that safety on the waterways would be ensured. An occupational health and safety professional, Pastor Ilodeami Macsoto Mopho, who is also a fellow of the Institute of Safety Professionals of Nigeria, reiterated that with the rivers and seas being very wide and deep, the risks would be higher, while urging drivers of boats to always be careful, describing safety as a collective responsibility, thereby making it imperative for passengers and drivers of boats to be safety conscious at all times. One of the boat drivers, Dagogo Hart, of Bonny-Port Harcourt route, stated that the awareness campaign helped the privileged participants to know more about safety on the waterways, stressing that it would go a long way to help their passengers to be safe. Another boat driver, Abraham Iringeresibo, also plying the route of Bonny Island, the base of the Nigerian Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Company, which can only be accessed for now by boat, as the Bodo-Ogoni/Bonny coastal road by the construction giant, Julius Berger, is still under construction, described the awareness campaign as high educative, very timely and a step in the right direction, while requesting for more. Deputy General Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Deep Water of Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Dr. Nkoyo Attah, stated that the oil giant and its partners were concerned about safety of the passengers and drivers of boats, thereby necessitating the awareness campaign, which she said would be taken round the country. The Deputy Managing Director, Deep Water, Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Mr. Ahmadu-Kida Musa, in his address, noted that the marine safety awareness campaign not only focused on safety, which he described as a core value at Total, but a demonstration of the oil firm’s commitment to promoting safety best practices, environmental protection, business ethics and corporate social responsibility everywhere Total officials work. Musa, who was represented by the General Manager, CSR, Deep Water of Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria, Dr. Charles Ngerebara, stated that Total was proud of its contributions to the socio-economic development of Nigeria. The deputy managing director said: “As a group, we (Total) have been present in Africa for more than 80 years and in Nigeria for 60 years. Total’s upstream branch has added over 2.3 billion barrels (of crude oil) to Nigeria’s production in the last five years and has also invested approximately $10 billion in the country. Through decades of executing development projects, Total’s activities have contributed to creating jobs and human capacity development in Nigeria. “We are delighted to note that today, reference is being made to us as the industry benchmark for Nigerian content, given our significant investments in local capacity development through our Ofon 2 and Egina projects. Egina has the highest deepwater local content ever in Nigeria. “We operate the Akpo field (OML 130) and we are currently developing the Egina field, which will come on stream this year, with a capacity of 200,000 barrels per day. With such offshore and deepwater operations, marine safety is very important to us. “Our company, on a yearly basis, offers graduate and post-graduate scholarships and skills’ acquisition, not only to the indigenes of the areas where we produce oil and gas, but to all eligible Nigerians. We have and we will continue to contribute meaningfully to the overall development of Nigeria and its people. At Total, we remain committed to Nigeria and we will always seek ways to make positive impacts in our business environment.” Musa also stated that at Total, by making safety its core value, the oil giant was reaffirming, in the clearest of terms, that safety remained the ultimate measure of success in the oil industry. The deputy managing director lauded the resource persons and marine operators in attendance at the awareness campaign, who availed themselves the opportunity to acquire new information and gain knowledge that would make the waterways safer for everyone, describing safety as the responsibility of everybody. Other oil companies/multinationals should emulate Total Upstream Companies in Nigeria in CSR, thereby making lives of the people of their host communities and others much better, easier and safer, with all the positive impacts to be highly appreciated by the beneficiaries.