There are over 1.5 million cases of arthritis in Nigeria, according to a report by the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan (UI). OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes on how to treat and prevent the disease. Arthritis is a joint disorder featuring inflammation. A joint is where two bones meet. It helps move parts of the body that are connected. Literally, it means inflammation of one or more joints. According to Dr Godwin Ihesie, arthritis, also called joint inflammation, is accompanied by joint pain. A joint pain is referred to as arthralgia. Ihesia, a naturopath, said when four or more joints are involved, the arthritis is referred to as polyarthritis. When two or three joints are involved, it is referred to as oligoarthritis. But when it is one joint, it is referred to as monoarthritis. Some of the most commonly impacted joints are located in the lower back, hips, knees, feet, neck, fingers and thumb base. Referring to the research by the College of Medicine, University of Ibadan (UI), Ihesie, who is also the Managing Director, Ihesie Natural Health Services, Ajuwon, Iju Hills, Ogun State, said: ‘’Arthritis is not a single disease; it is an informal way of referring to joint pain or joint disease. There are more than 100 arthritis and related conditions. People of all ages, sexes and races can have arthritis, and it is the leading cause of disability. More than 50 million adults and 300,000 children have one type of arthritis with more than 1.5 million cases of the disease per year in Nigeria. It is most common among women and occurs more frequently as people get older.’’ To identify arthritis, and nip it in the bud, Ihesie said the main symptoms of the disease are joint pains and stiffness, which  worsen with age. He added that the most common arthritis are osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. “Osteoarthritis causes cartilage – the hard, slippery tissue that covers the ends of bones where they form a joint – to break down. Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disorder that first targets the lining of joints (synovium). Uric acid crystals, infections or underlying disease, such as psoriasis or lupus, can cause other arthritis. Treatments vary depending on the type of arthritis. The main goals of arthritis treatments are to reduce symptoms and improve quality of life,” she added. On how to recognise arthritis, the naturopath said the most common signs and symptoms of arthritis involve the joints. Depending on the arthritis one has, the signs and symptoms may include:  pain, stiffness, swelling, redness and decreased range of motion. He noted that risk factors for arthritis include: family history, age, sex, previous joint injury and obesity. Shedding light on the factors, he said some  arthritis run in families, adding that one might develop the disease if one’s parents or siblings had it. ‘’Your genes can make you more susceptible to environmental factors that may trigger arthritis. The risk of many arthritis, including osteoarthritis, rheumatoid arthritis and gout, increases with age. Women are more likely to develop rheumatoid arthritis than men, while most of the people who have gout, another type of arthritis, are men. Those who injured their joints, perhaps while playing a sport, are more likely to develop arthritis in that joint. While excess weight puts stress on joints, particularly the knees, hips and spine. Obese people have a higher risk of developing arthritis. “Symptoms may come and go. They can be mild, moderate or severe. They may stay for years, but may progress or get worse over time. Severe arthritis can result in chronic pain, inability to do daily activities and make it difficult to walk or climb stairs. Arthritis can cause permanent joint changes. These may be visible, such as knobby finger joints, but often the damage can only be seen on X-ray. Some types of arthritis also affect the heart, eyes, lungs, kidneys and skin as well as the joints,” Ihesie added. What can be done about arthritis? According to Ihesie, many things can be done to preserve joint function, mobility and quality of life. Learning about the disease and treatment options, making time for physical activity and maintaining an healthy weight are essential. “Doctors traditionally treat arthritis with anti-inflammatory medications and painkillers. However, some medications cause side effects, and a natural approach to pain relief is becoming more popular,” he said. Ihesie said the first step in preventing or treating arthritis is improvement of one’s diets. He listed foods such as: Omega-3 foods, good for lowering inflammation, wild-cat fish, and salmon, as the first choice. Others  include grass-fed beef, flaxseeds and walnuts. “Foods high in sulphur are good as they contain methylsulfonylmethane (MSM) that reduce joint inflammation and help rebuild the tissues. MSM has been proven to lower pain and function impairment. Its sources include onions, garlic, cabbage, and asparagus which are available in superstores. Bone broth is one of the best natural sources of collagen, which contains amino acids proline and glycine that help rebuild connective tissue and have many more benefits. ‘’Also, bone broth supplies chondroitin sulphates and glucosamine, antioxidants that help lower inflammation, arthritis and joint pain. “High-antioxidant foods, especially fruits and vegetables – colorful fruits and vegetables are packed with antioxidants, vitamin C, vitamin A, fibre, magnesium, potassium, digestive enzymes and anti-inflammatory compounds. Some of the best sources include leafy greens, cruciferous veggies, such as Broccoli, Brussels, sprouts, cabbage, and cauliflower, berries, melon, papaya, avocado and pineapple. Foods high in fibre helps control one’s appetite, and it is beneficial for digestive health and lowers the risk for various other diseases and complications. The best high-fibre foods include vegetables, fruit, ancient grains, soaked legumes/beans and nuts and seeds like flaxseeds, and walnuts,” he added. He continued: “To help keep inflammation levels low, avoid these foods: excess sugar, hydrogenated oils (soybean oil, cottonseed oil, even canola oil), refined conventional grains, such as gluten, flour products and wheat products; and if you have an autoimmune disease, then also nightshade vegetables like potatoes, eggplant and tomatoes.” Ihesie said being active is also helpful. “People with arthritis tend to be less active than those without it, due to the pain they feel when exercising and moving stiff body parts. However, physical activity is important for joint health and in the long run, can actually help treat arthritis. Exercise is beneficial for strengthening the muscles around the affected joint, which provides added support and less strain. “Chiropractic adjustments and treatments for arthritis can really be helpful, as it includes manipulation (sometimes called osteopathic manipulation) in the neck or lower back, spinal manipulation, massage therapy, training in biofeedback and relaxation therapies to help control pain. Similarly, acupuncture is helpful for reducing arthritis, especially osteoarthritis pain,” he added.