Mr Mutiu Agboke, the Resident Electoral Commissioner (REC) Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) Oyo State, has urged the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi, to assist the commission over unclaimed Permanent Voter Cards ( PVCs ). Agboke made the call on Wednesday when he paid courtesy visit to the traditional ruler in his palace at Oyo, Oyo State. He appealed to the traditional ruler to prevail on his subjects whose PVCs were still in INEC custody to collect them. According to him, 648,840 unclaimed PVCs are still in the custody of the commission. He urged the Oba to use his position as father of all to reach out to other traditional rulers in the kingdom to sensitise their people on the need to collect their voter cards. Agboke reiterated the commitment of the commission in conducting free, fair and credible elections in 2019. The REC assured the Alaafin and the people of Oyo State that the commission would continue to be unbiased and impartial umpire. He said “it now behooves on eligible voters to collect their PVCs, which is their voting power to elect those that will govern them.”
 He urged eligible voters who had yet to register to visit INEC offices in their respective local government areas to register, saying the second phase of the exercise would begin on April 3. Adeyemi assured INEC of effective support to ensure that people participated fully in the electoral processes. The Oba promised to mandate other traditional rulers in his kingdom to create awareness for the collection of voter cards. He urged the REC and his management team to fullfil its pledge in conducting free, fair and credible elections. He also urged Nigerians to cooperate with INEC for credible elections come 2019. “We must support the commission to give us credible polls, your vote is power and you must not sell it. “My appeal also goes to women to participate actively in the elections because of the future of your children. “Your participation will give way to credible leaders that will provide good governance. “Youths should abstain from hooliganism or anything that can cause disturbance to the electoral processes. “Observers from different parts of the world would be sent to monitor the elections: we must demonstrate that we are civilised people and justify the confidence reposed in us as Nigerians.” NAN