THE Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) may declare a former Plateau State Governor Mr. Jonah David Jang wanted, following alleged failure to appear for interrogation in connection with alleged N5.6 billion fraud. The cash, belonging to the state, was allegedly embezzled during the Jang’s tenure. Jang ruled Plateau State from May 29, 2007 to May 28, 2015. ICPC officially said Jang allegedly received N2 billion in cash illegally out of the money, which was allocated to micro, small and medium enterprises. According to a source, who spoke in confidence, the ex-governor was invited through both the Office of the Senate President and the Clerk to the National Assembly. But he allegedly refused to honour ICPC summons. In a response to The Nation’s enquiry, ICPC officially confirmed that it was investigating Jang. ICPC said: “The commission has been on the trail of the former governor, now a senator, since October 2017, when it opened investigation into alleged corruption-related activities during his tenure. “Several invitations have been sent to Jang by ICPC through both the Senate President and the Clerk of the National Assembly to come and clear his name but he has refused to honour the invitations. “Also, efforts to procure an arrest warrant from two different magistrate’s courts in the Federal Capital Territory have been futile as the magistrates declined to sign them even after the sworn requisite affidavit had been presented by the commission. “In the light of the foregoing, the Commission may have no other option than to declare the former governor wanted.” The commission gave the details of its preliminary findings against Jang. The fact-sheet added:  “Evidence before the commission so far indicates that Senator Jang allegedly committed the offences in March 2015. “He allegedly received N2 billion in cash illegally out of the money which was allocated to micro, small and medium enterprises, under the pretext of a loan to be spent on ‘classified expenditure’. “Jang again allegedly received N400 million illegally of funds meant for Plateau State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB). “He also allegedly caused a former commissioner of finance in the state to illegally transfer the sum of N3.2 billion of SUBEB funds to the project account of the Ministry of Finance.” Meanwhile, the ICPC is also set to arraign former Kebbi State Governor Saidu Usman Dakingari in court for allegedly misappropriating N664.3 million belonging to the state. A statement by the anti-graft agency said: “The ex-governor who is to be arraigned at the High Court of Kebbi State, Birnin Kebbi, allegedly conspired with the then Commissioner of Finance, Mohammed Bello Tunga, and the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Garba Rabiu Kamba, to misappropriate funds that were meant for certain provisions for the successful conduct of the 2015 general election. “Tunga and Kamba are already facing prosecution by the commission at the Kebbi State High Court.”