The prevalent unfriendly banking practices are responsible for the stunted  entrepreneurship and by implication the slow growth of the nation’s economy  in Nigeria, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has said. He also identified lack of political will to effect necesaary reforms as a major stumbling block to a conducive entrepreneurial  growth in the country. According to him, the seemingly intractable  adverse effect of the harsh business environment requires a concerted action by all stakeholders. Dogara spoke  on Monday in Abuja at the launch of a book on banking reforms by Dr. Bode Ayorinde, a member of the House of Representatives, representing Owo/Ose Federal Constituency of Ono State. Also in attendance were the Vice President, Professor Yemi Osinbajo and the governor of Ondo State, Rotimi Akeredolu among several others. Dogara, who noted that high lending rates, coupled with  difficulties in accessing loans, regretted that the prevailing Nigerians banking  situation was not so unfriendly compared with what obtains in other countries. He said: “The challenge in the banking industry in Nigeria is such that it is organized in such a way that it creates buoyancy and development in other jurisdictions, not in Nigeria. “I have had cause to say this before, that unless you have assets or equipment, there is no way you can take loans or access loans from Nigerian banks to do the business. “If you are not careful in taking loans from Nigerian banks, one will just end up in the poverty gap. I don’t think our citizens are supposed to do their businesses with money they already have in their pockets. “Businesses elsewhere are executed by loans by the banking industry in those countries. I don’t know why the interest rate in Nigeria is so high”. Saying that the time is now for a comprehensive review of the situation, the Speaker added, “What is it that we can do to lower the cost of funds in Nigeria, so that our young men, women and entrepreneurs can risk taking money from our financial institutions in order to realize their dreams?” Besides, business reforms in the country are not likely to succeed in Nigeria considering the fact that loans remain largely inaccessible to those who most require such financial aids to grow their businesses, he noted. “I love the fact that the Vice President is chairing the council on the ease of doing business in Nigeria but in dealing with most businesses, you are forced to ask what business are we doing? How do we fund these businesses?,” he noted. Saying that the political will to tackle the challenge has been lacking, Dogara nonetheless challenged all stakeholders to work together to strengthen institutions saddled with the responsibilities of repositioning the econony to work towards ensuring compliance with global best practices. “That has been the challenge, from the point of view of the Executive down to the Parliament, the political will to address this has not been there. “And the answer has always been that just one opinion cannot solve the issue, all hands need to work at it. We cannot afford to continue having weak institutions in Nigeria, not after so many years of having balance. “So I believe that concerning some of these borrowing voyages such as been embarked upon recently can be avoided by applying the required formulas that work even here in Nigeria. “The sharp parallel that is drawn between the practice here in Nigeria and the practices in over 20 other jurisdictions of the world,” he added.