 *Vladimir Putin shows skill Former Super Eagles midfield maestro Jay Jay Okocha is among top retired and active soccer players that stared in FIFA promotional video launched to mark 100 days to the kick off of the World Cup in Russia. The Nigerian international and former Bolton and PSG ace appeared in the video dazzling with his trickery whilst on a driveway. If you however think that only footballers have exclusive ability to thrill with the ball, then you are very wrong as Russian President Vladimir Putin proved he is not a push over as he did not hesitate to showcase his skill when he took on FIFA President Gianni Infantino as part of the program. Putin appeared in the promotional video to aimed at further putting the world in the mood for mother of all tournaments where 32 countries will battle for supremacy The clip was recorded by the governing body, counting the amount of touches various stars notch up while doing keepy-uppies. To close the video, Putin and the FIFA president Gianni Infantino can be seen in a luxurious room knocking the ball back and forth to each other with the President even delivering a header. Before Putin enters the fray, the trailer starts with the words ‘Some people cannot wait for the greatest show on earth’, before Wayne Rooney appears in an indoor centre to start the proceedings. After three keep-ups, the screen flashes to Brazilian striker Ronaldo on a balcony overlooking a beach who starred for his country as well as Barcelona, Inter Milan and Real Madrid in the late 90s and early 2000s. He is followed by a flurry of former international stars including Spain’s Carlos Puyol and Nigeria and Bolton’s Jay Jay Okocha who dazzles with his trickery whilst on a driveway. The 20th keepy-uppy is registered by Argentina legend Diego Maradona, who balances the ball on his foot whilst holding onto a counter in a kitchen. Australia’s Harry Kewell and Saudi Arabia’s most capped outfield player Sami Al Jaber both enjoy some screen time as well as, perhaps surprisingly, Leeds flop Thomas Brolin from Sweden. England fans are given a throwback to the 1998 World Cup in France with an appearance by Carlos Valderama, who is still sporting his trademark blonde afro but has substituted his Columbia kit for a suit. Nostalgic figures such as Paolo Wanchope and Peter Schmeichel are seen keeping the ball off the ground as well as France’s David Trezeguet before the video returns to Putin and Infantino. Between them, they bring up the 100 keepy-uppies before the video signs off, ‘Russia 2018. 100 days to go’. The tournament begins on June 14 and will run until July 15 with 12 arenas in 11 cities prepared to host matches.           