Mrs. Pep Asama, a hat maker and doctoral student, shares something in common with Mrs. Igbudu Mary,  a weaver of Anioma traditional fabric “Akwaocha”, and Mrs. Precious Nwaise,  a fashion designer. The three housewives participated in a Products Exhibition and Business Fair to showcase the products of beneficiaries of  Delta State  youth empowerment scheme. The Delta State government’s twin youth empowerment programmes, Skills Training and Entrepreneurship Programme (STEP) and Youth Agricultural Entrepreneurs Programme (YAGEP), have turned around the lives of the three Delta women, who enrolled into the schemes to escape the drudgery of housekeeping and nurture their entrepreneurial skills. The initiative, with the goals of tackling unemployment and nurturing Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSME’s), has impacted positively on the local economy with many individual families including that of using skills acquired under the initiative to augment income. Although, the three housewives have widely different educational backgrounds, but the shared zeal for entrepreneurship have bond them together. For Mrs. Asama, the training programme could not have come at a better time. According to her, marriage brought her to Delta State, adding that she grew tired of the drudgery of keeping home and finding something that would engage her was a challenge. She said when she got an offer to train in hat and beads making under the Overseas Development Agency and UNDP in collaboration with STEP and YAGEP in 2014, her joy was boundless. Mrs. Asama said the skill she  earned has helped her achieve financial independence, adding that aside from engaging in a financially rewarding business, her self- esteem has been boosted. She said:“It happened with the intervention of Delta State government in 2014.I was nominated and trained to make hats and beads sponsored by Overseas Development Agency (ODA), and UNDP in collaboration with STEP and YAGEP.I was honoured when I was invited a month ago to show what I have done over the years and be part of the business fair. I have come to display what I have done. Initially when I came into Delta State, marriage brought me here, so I was a housewife doing nothing and with this skill I have been able to support my family financially especially during festive periods, people buy hats .It has made me vibrant, I am no more just a housewife but now a business wife, thanks to Delta State Government”. On how she juggles her responsibilities as a wife and mother and business, Mrs. Asama said being self -employed has helped her manage her time between business and her home saying “there is no competition between job and family.” Narrating her experience, Mrs. Asama said her products at the outset were rejected but with perseverance, she mastered her trade and she now the toast of clients from across the country. Her words: “It can be discouraging. I was ordered to do wedding. I was paid N10, 000.00 for the job. I toiled day and night to get the job done. When I got to the wedding, to my amazement, the bride did not wear it. I was very disappointed. I approached the bride later on to find out what happened. She told me they did not really like the hats I made. But one week later I saw my hats being worn by the family to church and they are still wearing it as I speak to you. The fact that they say it is not good, it is not really true. It may not be the best but it can stand out.So, when rejection comes it should not make you quit, find out why you were rejected, perhaps it your finishing. I have been favoured to get help from experts in this business, they have been able to guide me.” Mrs. Igbudu ,who hails from Aniocha South, earns enough to contribute towards paying for the educational needs of her three children at different tertiary institutions. She said the art of traditional weaving of the local fabric (Akwa-Ocha) received a boost with the introduction by the Delta State government of modern machines, adding that it has improved productivity and reduced production times. Mrs. Igbudu said the training received through the STEP training has been of immense benefit to her and other local fabric weavers, adding that the 300 member strong association has formed a cooperative to access government loans. Her words: “ Before we weave Akwaocha manually, but now our Governor trained us .And we were empowered with a mechanized system that enables me produce two Akwaocha fabric within three days .With the traditional manual methods it takes two weeks to make one fabric. Although Akwaocha as the name implies is white cloth, but we have introduced other colours into our designs and we see that people like these new designs. With this innovation Gov. Okowa has nicknamed the fabric Akwaoma .Now we use blue, gold and any colour depending on what my customers want.” Mrs. Nwaise said:  “Fashion designing has improved my life tremendously, since I started I have travelled all over the world .Just three days ago I returned from Dubai .I have been exporting my clothesline around the world”. 