THE Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday heard that former Chief of Air Staff Air Marshal Adesola Amosu is yet to reach a plea bargain agreement with the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) over diversion of about N21 billion Air Force funds. Justice Mohammed Idris adjourned the case until March 27. Prosecuting counsel Mr. Rotimi Oyedepo told the judge that no “concrete” agreement had been reached. “We’ve not reached any concrete agreement that is acceptable to the complainant. We’re here with our witness and we’re ready to go on with trial,” he said. Amosu’s lawyer Chief Bolaji Ayorinde (SAN) said everything was in EFCC’s hands. “For now, we leave it in their hands to see how we proceed,” he said. He had earlier told the court that the talks were progressing. However, Oyedepo agreed with the judge’s suggestion that the case be adjourned in view of other pending cases in court. A witness, an ECCC Investigation officer, Tosin Owobo, who was about to enter the box to give evidence, eventually did not testify. Justice Idris also vacated today’s date, which was also earlier fixed for the trial. Amosu, former Nigeria Air Force (NAF) Chief of Accounts and Budgeting, Air Vice Marshal Jacob Adigun and a former Director of Finance and Budget, Air Commodore Olugbenga Gbadebo, were arraigned before Justice Idris but pleaded not guilty. They were accused of diverting about N21 billion NAF funds, but they pleaded not guilty. An initial plea bargain talks with EFCC broke down after they reportedly refunded some money to the Federal Government. At the last hearing, EFCC’s lawyer, Nnaemeka Omewa, who stood in for Oyedepo, told the court that the defence team was in talks with the commission towards reaching a plea bargain agreement. “My lord, the defence team met with the prosecution and has proposed terms of settlement. We are still on it, but we are also ready to go on with the trial of the accused persons”, Omewa said. Ayorinde confirmed that talks were ongoing. But he sought an adjournment to allow parties conclude with discussions. 