 At 3-0 down, Wenger doesn’t make a single substitution. What does that say about what he thinks of the squad he has at his disposal? Read Post Match Interview Below Wenger, when asked by BBC Sport if Arsenal can compete with City: “It doesn’t look like that for you at the moment, but we have to put things in perspective. The players have been through a lot of difficulties. We have to accept that City are above us. The difference in the league is no coincidence. On the crowd: “You cannot be euphoric after what happened on Sunday, and again tonight. The weather explains it as well. Arsene Wenger told BBC Sport: “I feel we put a lot of effort in tonight. We played with low confidence, you could see that at the start of the game and we paid for it. “We needed the penalty to go in, but that was anotehr negative. We lost to a team that is the best in the country at the moment.” Manchester City manager Pep Guardiola told BBC Sport: “Mentally we were strong. We were clinical. We scored three outstanding goals. After that it was not easy – the first 15 minutes of the second half we were poor. Still, it’s an amazing result for us. “We are out of the FA Cup and we won the League Cup. Now it’s just two competitions and you fight for one of them for 10 months. These are the last steps to be champions, you keep going until the end. “We have to win five games. We don’t think too much. Now we play Chelsea. Hopefully we have the desire to win, to be the best team in England. We forget that we are tired.” SILVA: WE WERE FOCUSED Bernardo Silva told Sky Sports Man City had been desperate not to let their cup win on Sunday affect them and had been near their best before half-time at the Emirates. “I think it was a great game for us,” he said. “Especially the first half. We were very focused and very concentrated. We kept playing the way we have all season, to get three more points to keep first position and go 16 points clear of Manchester United.”  @ HALF-TIME: Arsenal 0-3 Manchester City @ Emirates What do you say to Arsenal at the break if you’re Arsene Wenger? The Gunners haven’t been too bad but Manchester City have been on another planet. If you haven’t already, go and have a look further down the blog at their goals. They have been unbelievable. Leroy Sane The Arsenal fans are booing, but can anything stop Manchester City when they are playing like this? It is simply irresistible. Leroy Sane gets the goal he deserves, finishing another sweeping move. So much space behind the Arsenal defence, Kyle Walker puts the ball across the face of goal and Sane gets there ahead of Hector Bellerin. Arsenal’s only hope is that this doesn’t get embarrassing.  David Silva Game over? Arsenal’s defence is a wet sheet of paper, Manchester City’s forward line is a battering ram. Breathtaking, lighting, sweeping attacking play by City results in the second goal. David Silva starts it all, into Leroy Sane, who finds Sergio Aguero to lay the ball back to Silva. Clinical finish by the Spaniard. Wonderful, wonderful stuff by the soon-to-be champions.  GOAL! ARSENAL 0-1 MAN CITY (B Silva 15) Well just as anticipated Arsenal needed to take their chances, City just gave the Gunners a lesson in goal-scoring. Sane is tight on the touchline before dribbling his way inside, past four Red shirts, and gives it to Bernardo Silva who is given time to open up space on his left and finish very well beyond Cech. 15′ 