 Promoter Lou DiBella has confirmed that Las Vegas would be the most likely location for a potential lucrative heavyweight unification showdown between Deontay Wilder and Anthony Joshua, while former champion Evander Holyfield has encouraged the duo to fight “while the money’s there”. Undefeated WBC title-holder Wilder came through comfortably the toughest test of his 40-fight professional career to date on Saturday night [3 March], when he survived a real scare before stopping Cuban Luis “King Kong” Ortiz in the 10th round of his brutal and explosive seventh defence at Barclays Center in Brooklyn, New York. It was a performance that further emphasised the concussive punching power possessed by ‘The Bronze Bomber’, while highlighting his heart and formidable durability. Nevertheless, the display also raised further questions regarding his highly unorthodox fighting style and technical abilities. Talk of a much-anticipated meeting with WBA, IBF and IBO champion Joshua dominated the build-up to that bout – one which drew plenty of comparisons with the latter’s memorable defeat of Wladimir Klitschko in April 2017 – and predictably remained the hot topic of conversation in the ring afterwards, with the self-styled “baddest man on the planet” reiterating that he was ready to unify boxing’s blue-riband division. “How many times do I got to call him [Joshua] out? How many times? They hiding,” Wilder said, as relayed by ESPN. “His promoter [Matchroom Boxing’s Eddie Hearn] don’t want that fight and after tonight they definitely won’t want it. I’ve done enough, I’ve spoken enough.” Though Joshua has significantly pulling power in the United Kingdom, as evidenced by him selling out both Wembley and Cardiff’s Principality Stadium after outgrowing the O2 Arena, a meeting with Wilder would likely happen across the Atlantic due to the more lucrative financial sums on offer. And while DiBella admits that New York is a potential option and that Wilder would be willing to travel to the United Kingdom for big money, boxing’s spiritual home in Las Vegas – specifically the 20,000-seater T-Mobile Arena – definitely appears to be the front-runner.