British indoor high jump champion, Mike Edwards has embarked on a protest to challenge the refusal of the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) to allow him compete for Nigeria at the Commonwealth Games which starts on April 4 in Gold Coast, Australia. Edwards was born in Manchester, England to a Nigerian mother and his father is Jamaican and he has spent long periods in the United States at school and college. He was aware before travelling to Australia that the IAAF had frozen the transfer of allegiance process in order to stop athletes nation-hopping from one country to another. The 27-year-old has been warned by the International Association of Athletics Federations that he is ineligible due to the transfer of allegiance process being frozen. Angry with the decision, he has started a protest in the Commonwealth Games village where he is carrying a sign that reads: “Homeless… Dear IAAF, please let me compete 4 Nigeria.” In a message on social media, he adds: “No shame, I will stand here every day until @iaaf_athletics makes a change. It’s wrong what they’re doing.” He continues: “Is this what athletics has come to? People behind the desk dictating on innocent athletes wanting to give back to their respective countries, but you can allow ex-drug cheats to represent at every major championships including the Olympics … it’s just pathetic.” “No shame. I’ll stand here everyday until @iaaf_athletics makes a change. It’s wrong what they’re doing. I’ve come too far. I’ve sacrificed way too much to fold at the Commonwealth Games. @gc2018 As a law abiding dual citizen of Great Britain and Nigeria I should have every right to represent #TeamNigeria regardless if I chose to represent my birth country GB almost a decade ago, at a Jr. level Championship. “Is this what Athletics has come to @iaaf_athletics ?? People behind the desk dictating on innocents athletes wanting to give back to their respective countries, but you can allow Ex-drug cheats to represent at every Major Championship including the Olympic Games – to sell more tickets (yea that part) don’t get me started, it’s just pathetic. I may not be the most decorated athlete in the world but I’m resilient. “Remember it’s been (9 YEARS) since my last major Championship. I don’t quit easy… This sign is a representation of the levels I’m willing to take it too. I just want to compete. Call me back @iaaf_athletics ?? The People’s Champ #whateverittakes #TeamNigeria” But the high jumper felt he would be able to compete on the Gold Coast because he holds a Nigerian passport, the Commonwealth Games is not an IAAF event and, whereas he competed for Britain as an under-20 at the European Junior Championships, it was back in 2009. AW understands that British Athletics has no objection to Edwards competing for Nigeria, but the IAAF will not give Edwards its blessing to compete for the African country until its new transfer of allegiance rules are in place.