MANY residents of Soluyi/Sosanya Community in Gbagada have fled their homes following an ivasion by monkeys. Some of the residents told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Lagos yesterday that they could no longer withstand the situation. They called on the  government for help, saying  the animals forced their way into their rooms by destroying window and door nets. Chairman of the  Landlords’ Association Mr Adigun Olaleye said it had become difficult for the community to curtail the monkeys. He said the invasion might have resulted from the community’s closeness to a swamp forest. According to him, the monkeys come around at any time, including early morning, and gain entrance into rooms even if the houses are locked. Olaleye said the community had written to the Ministry of Agriculture over the matter,  but had yet to get a relief. “They said we would have to pay for them to come and pack the monkeys,” he said. He said the invasion had been on for years but  ‘’is now intense’’. Narrating her ordeal, a journalist who lives in the community, Mrs Funmilola  Gboteku, said the monkeys had forced her family to flee the community. “Many times, these monkeys come to the neighbourhood to destroy our property. Once they see food items inside a house, they direct all their energies at gaining entrance forcefully. “The monkeys are in the habit of tearing the protective nets on windows to gain entrance and eat whatever they find in the house. I have had to replace the protective nets several times;  I am tired of doing it. “I have been locking my windows but locking of windows has disadvantages; there is no cross ventilation in the house, and as a result, we suffer heat,’’ she said. Another resident, Mr Gabriel Omopariwa, said he was tired of the monkeys and had looked for ways to stop them, to no avail. “Several traps have been set to capture and kill these demonic animals to no avail. “One of my neighbours, while trying to pour chemical on a monkey, fell in the bowl of the chemical; she had to be rushed to a hospital. “She still lives with the scars from the unfortunate incident,”  he said. A landlord, Mr Joshua Folowosele, said the monkeys entered his wife’s shop on many occasions to eat gala, biscuits and other foods. “We have tried to poison them on many occasions, but those monkeys are too smart; once they perceive the smell of the food, they usually detect it has been poisoned. Some of them have been killed with guns, but we cannot keep shooting in a residential area; it is very risky. Those of us who are landlords can testify that these monkeys have been disturbing us for years. “One of the landlords here had to sell his house to move to another place when he got tired of the disturbance,” Folowosele said. Another landlord, Mr Oluwatosin Aregbesola said:  “The monkeys enter kitchens to eat our soups and any food stuff on the shelf. The day I tried to catch one of them, the monkey attacked me by using its long nails to punch a hole on my neck and scratch my face,” he said. Aregbesola appealed to the  government to save the community from the menace.