As a lover of books, Big Brother Naija’s Angel Awotarigha was on the ‘Read it, tell it’ segment of Top Radio 90.9FM. He spoke with Georg Nakanda after his eviction about his experience in the House, Cee-C and Ahneka. You’ve been setting the internet on fire, just five weeks in the house? I’m actually amazed I read somewhere a journalist wrote that you were the ‘Voice of Reason’. What’s up with that? It’s ironic because going into the house; I knew I would be the voice of reason. Generally as a lover of knowledge and books, I’m not driven by emotions or sentiments. White is white, black is black. None is good and none is bad, it is what it is. When I got into the house, whenever people would have fights they would come to me. Maybe it was because I was the old papa of the house, I mean I was the oldest in the house. I’m about eleven years older than Nina. Yeah! That’s a lot!!! I don’t know if it was about that? But yeah people always brought their problems to me and we walked through it together. We talked and I gave logical approaches to whatever it was. The house obviously misses the logical grand master? The voice of reason Tell us a little about the Ahneka and Cee-C’s issues? It’s a very touchy issue, but I’ll shed some light on that. Let’s talk first about the Cee-C issue. Cee-C has been getting some unnecessary bad press and having lived with her for five weeks, I can tell you that she’s not half as bad as people make her sound. They make her sound like some crazy girl who just wants to go off and annoy everyone, but that’s not who she is. She is simply a highly opinionated girl who likes to air her views. She is a lawyer for God’s sake and was trained to defend herself… And defend people…? Yeah, and defend people. So if you come off as offensive towards her, she will defend herself. Why is everybody going off like she’s one mad girl. I get offended when I hear that. She’s my friend. A lot of people who bad mouth the house mates don’t even watch the show. Great, shed some light on the Ahneka issue? When I got out, I heard so much about how I was a gossip, yeah hope I can clarify that. I had a plan which the audience missed. Ahneka was under a lot of heat, housemates and so on…so I came up with an idea to take the heat and divert attention Good cop, bad cop? Good cop, bad cop! So I became the bad cop… said lots of things which she already knew of.. Viewers missed this because it’s a 24 hour surveillance which they can’t all put out for the viewers. I mean with more than 40 cameras in the house, and you can only see just a few at a time. You see less than you should know actually. Big brother is over, have you caught up with the news about a Nigerian being the present longest reader in the world? Are you serious? I haven’t heard that yet. Well but you know I love to read a whole lot and the biggest problem I had in the big brother house was “I couldn’t read.”  The way my brain works is I gather information from reading, break it down and build up on it. Anyway I wasn’t reading as much in the house, that began to depress me, at some point I had to lean on just music and that was taken away from me too. I felt isolated and later had to reach out and interact with other house mates. How did you form a reading habit? I never even knew I liked to read, as a child, my parents were liberal and they let us watch a lot of regulated TV, educative children’s products. Discovery channel, documentaries, things that moulded how I saw the world. We had last of the wild, as a kid my parents would buy the cassettes we would watch and I got to know a lot about animals and science. They bought us a lot of encyclopaedias to compliment these, Charlie Browns, Funk and Wagner’s… You know for children. So I got used to reading without even knowing I was reading. You could also say I never liked school because it became boring at some point. I needed to know much more than the basic which I already learnt during leisure at home. At some point, I realised I knew something about everything. So, whenever I’m interested in something, I read up on everything about that thing. I advise people to develop a habit of studying. So what’s next with you now that you’re living in a post Big Brother world? I run a Tech Company and a movie studio. The movie studio has some movies that will be released at the end of the year and the tech company is working on some apps that hopefully will amaze the world, they possibly will be revolutionary. Who are your five favourite authors? I read a lot of non-fiction, Sun Tzu, Robert Greene, Robert Kiyosaki, John Maxwell, Brian Tracy. You can also have some of Deepak Chopra… They teach you how to stay positive. I think every young person should turn away from the negative energy and look for books to groom their minds. That’s the greatest weapon you have against the world. Knowledge is power, the more you know the better. Never let anybody make you feel bad because you learnt something that requires knowledge. 