Christian youths gathered in Owerri, the Imo State capital, to discuss how Nigeria can achieve economic prosperity. It was at a symposium organised by Global African Christian For Liberty Initiative, a think-tank promoting the idea of liberty and economic freedom. No fewer than 70 youths from various tertiary institutions gathered for the event, which featured lectures and interactive session. According to the organisers, the objective of the event is to engage various denominations of Christians to employ virtues embedded in Christianity, with the aim to promote tolerance, peace and love. These virtues, the organisers said, are vital for building a prosperous nation. The founder of the think-tank, Bishop Emeka Ezeugo, said Christianity enjoined every man to respect and tolerate his neighbours whether they share the same beliefs or not. He said the teachings of Christianity laid the foundation for peaceful coexistence among the people and paved the way for thriving businesses. He said: “Diversity in beliefs is more of a blessing than a curse. It makes the world an interesting place for humans to live in. If we can tolerate ourselves irrespective of the different religions we practise, then we can do business together in the spirit of trust and friendliness.” Bishop Ezeugo noted that religion remained an individual’s choice, saying any human should not be denied the freedom to choose any faith go in line with his spirit. Compulsion of faith on any individual, according to the Bishop, breeds intolerance, disorderliness and hypocrisy. Speaking on Rule of law and Christianity, Mr Kingsley Owuamanam, a lawyer, said Christians must show interest in decision and policy making in the country, saying such would give them opportunities to change bad policies offended their beliefs. He said it was important for people of all faith, including Christianity, Islam and traditional religion, to work together and create laws that would work for their individual peace. He said difference of religious beliefs should be seen as a virtue, saying the basis for common prosperity lie in their readiness to work together and tolerate one another. Owuamanam said: “Christians need to get involved in politics so that they can fully understand and defend the reasons why some policies are being entrenched in the constitution. If they participate in decision making, they would be able to challenge policies that do not work for them.” Speaking on entrepreneurship, Mr Nwabueze Akobundu, an engineer, said the youth needed to think outside the box and create economic prosperity out of their condition. He urged them to reject anyone recruiting them for religious violence, saying entrepreneurship would help them to be overcome their immediate challenge. He said: “Every religion preaches that there is dignity in labour. If you must become a successful entrepreneur, you have to learn how to make money in an old-fashioned way; that is, you need to earn money. Cutting corner is forbidden by the law and all religious teachings.” A participant, Somachi Ugochi, said youths of all religions needed to imbibe the virtue of tolerance creating peaceful society where people would live to prosper. She said sharing knowledge on common objective would make youths make positive impact in the society.