In a rare move aimed at improving the quality of his art, Nigerian saxophone player, Olu Jazz, recently hosted music critics to a listening session of his yet-to-be released 5th studio album. Welcoming guests to the session, which held at The Shelter, Gbagada, Lagos, the artiste explained that the idea is to perform some of his anticipated music while they share their two cents on it. According to Olu Jazz, the move became necessary because it is time for gospel acts to step up their game in order to align with the global music industry. “We need to let people know what we are made of and what it inside of us, what we are really all about,” he said. “We need to let the whole world know that God has blessed us with something and that we don’t have to hide it. We are here to touch every life, every soul, everybody with our gift and that’s what we are doing.” Titled ‘Sweet Sound’, the artiste says that the anticipated eight track album comprises of different kinds of songs, different genre of songs from African to European to American kind of songs and they are all worship and praise songs. “We will be releasing it on my concert that is coming up by God’s grace on August 26 in Shell Hall, MUSON Centre,” he said. “It will be released in the concert. We are looking at worship, praise, soulful music, we are looking at love songs, skill and everything.” Speaking at the listening session, media personality, Deji Irawo, the CEO of Xclusive2 Divinity (X2D), a gospel news and music channel said that based on the feedback he is getting, the album will be featured on his platform. “In terms of arrangement and what I can hear tonight, it is very good arrangement sound-wise,” Irawo said. “It needs one or two touches here and there, obviously, we know there is always room for improvement but i feel it’s a good package overall.” Olu Jazz is a graduate of Computer Science, and is presently studying Business System Information in the US. Although, he says that his fulfilment comes from music.