 . ICC approves Lagos for tournament The Nigeria Cricket Federation (NCF) has invited 24 players ahead of the International Cricket council World T20 Sub Regional qualifiers. The ICC has given NCF the final approval to stage the Tournament at the Tafawa Balewa Cricket Oval, in Lagos. The invited players are expected to resume on Sunday March 11 and they will be led by experienced Seye Olympio. Others are Ademola Onikoyi, Joshua Ayannaike, Chimezie Onwuzulike, Adu Bimbo, Isaac Okpe, Friday Udoh, Leke Oyede, Sulaiman Runsewe, Daniel Ajekun, Isaac Danladi, Vincent Adewoye, Danladi Gim, Taiwo Mohammed, Sylvester Okpe, Ayo Mene-Ejegi, Chibuike Iteogu, Chima Akachukwu, Kunle Awosanmi, Sesan Adedeji, Osita Onwuzulike, Samson Simon, Seun Adeboro and Ovie Osuaso. The double round robin qualifiers will involve Nigeria, Ghana, Gambia and Sierra Leone. At a meeting between members of the Local Organisation Committee (LOC) and ICC representative Kuben Pilay, key areas discussed and addressed were security, catering, accommodation, transportation, medical and media. An inspection tour was also conducted by the LOC team on the Tafawa Balewa Cricket Oval where constructions were ongoing. Pilay, who addressing the media said that the ICC was pleased with level of preparedness of Nigeria for the regional championship. “We are impressed with the level of work done so far and the level of commitment by members of the LOC.” He also expressed optimism that this will be the first in a series of international competition to be hosted by Nigeria. The Vice Chairman of NCF, Uyi Akpata also took time to explain that the rationale for hosting this competition, adding that it was born out of the board’s desire to re position the sport. He added that the board would try its best to  make the sport attractive. Although the federation has Eroton Exploration Production Ltd and Zenith Bank as sponsors, effort according to him is being intensified to increase the number of sponsors to reduce dependence on Government and ICC.       