 The National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended to Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State the compulsory retirement of the state’s suspended Chief Judge, Justice Theresa Uzokwe and Justice Obisike Oji, who was picked in her place. This formed part of the decisions taken at the NJC’s 85th meeting held on March 14. The NJC had earlier suspended Justice Uzokwe, and issued a query to Justice Oji (of of Abia State High Court) for allowing himself to be sworn-in as Acting Chief Judge when the Abia State House of Assembly purportedly sacked Justice Uzokwe. According to the NJC, Justices Uzokwe and Oji were found guilty of misconduct. NJC’s Director, Information, Soji Oye, said in a statement that the council also set up committees to Supreme Court Justice, 2 state Chief Judges. The statement was silent on the identity of the judicial officers involved. The NJC issued warning to Justice S. E. Aladetoyinbo (of the High Court of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and Justice Olusola Ajibike Williams of the Lagos State High Court. It referred a petition against Justice Mwada Balami of the FCT High Court to the Police to investigate the allegation of N5, 000,000 (Five Million Naira) bribe to the Judge for granting bail to an accused person. The NJC dismissed petitions against 31 judges for being without substance and approved the appointment of 60 judges for 24 states. In relation to Justice Uzokwe, the NJC said she was recommended for compulsory retirement following the findings of two investigative committees set up to examine the petitions against her by Abia State’s  Attorney-General/Commissioner for Justice,  Umeh Kalu (SAN). NJC said Kalu, in the petitions, accused Uzokwe of  illegal constitution and working with a parallel Judicial Service Commission (JSC) instead of the one constituted by the State Governor and confirmed by the House of Assembly. It added: “Hon. Mr Justice Uzokwe was also found to have misconducted himself in Suit No. HU/131/2005, wherein he delivered judgement in the sum of N825, 000 (eight hundred and twenty-five thousand naira) only in favour of a litigant, but subsequently signed a garnishee order of N109, 612, 500 (one hundred and nine million, six hundred and twelve thousand, five hundred naira) only.” As it relates to Justice Oji, the NJC noted that it had earlier queried him “for allowing himself to be sworn-in as acting Chief Judge, and thereby colluding in, and aiding an unconstitutional process. “His (Justice Oji’s) reply was unsatisfactory and the Council recommended his compulsory retirement. “The NJC reprimanded, seriously warned and placed on the Watch List Hon Justice S. E. Aladetoyinbo of the FCT High Court for impropriety in a case between U.L.O. Consultants Ltd v BIL Construction Nigeria Ltd, sequel to a petition by one Uche Luke Okpuno. “Council would have sanctioned the judge more severely, but had to take into account the fact that aspects of the case are appealable. “Council also seriously warned Hon Justice Olusola Ajibike Williams of the Lagos State High Court for grave errors of judgment in her level of involvement in a family business. “Council found that the judge, as a judicial officer, should have been more circumspect and conscious of her office. “Council’s sanction was as a result of a petition by Chief Ladi Rotimi-Williams, SAN. “Council at the meeting also considered various petitions written against thirty-one (31) judicial officers and resolved to empanel three investigative committees against one Justice of Supreme Court and two state Chief Judges. “Petitions against various Justices were dismissed either for lack of merit, lack of evidence of misconduct, being sub judice or that the subject of such petitions were matters for appeal.” The dismissed petitions were those written against Justices Abdu Aboki, Theresa Abadua and Ahmed Belgore (all of the Court of Appeal); Justices J. T. Tsoho, Ayo Emmanuel, Sabiu Yahusa, Zainab B. Abubakar and B. O. Quadri (of the Federal High Court). Others are Justices A. N. Ubaka and B. B. Kanyip (of the National Industrial Court); Justices Bello Kawu, S. C. Orji, A. N. Talba (of the FCT High Court); Justice K. C. Nwankpa (High Court Abia State); Justice D. A. Onyefulu (High Court Anambra State); Justice W. I. A. Effiong (High Court Akwa-Ibom State), and Justice A. M. Ikpambese (High Court Benue State). Equally affected are Justice G. E. Gbemre (High Court Delta State); Justice A. O. Onovo (High Court Enugu State); Justice Idi Apollos (High Court Gombe State); Justice G. O. Ogunsanya (High Court Ogun State); Justice A. B. Abdulkarim, (High Court Osun State); Justice K. A. Ojiako (High Court Imo State); Justices A. M. Lawal;  L. A. Okunnu and L. B. Lawal Akapo (all of High Court  Lagos State). The statement also said the NJC “decided to advise Hon. Mr. Justice J. E. Ikede of Delta State High Court and Hon. Mr. Justice Yusuf Halilu of FCT High Court to be more careful in the course of their judicial duties. “Council decided to refer a petition by Prince Adesina Okuneye against Hon. Mr. Justice Mwada Balami of the FCT High Court to the Police to investigate the allegation of N5, 000,000 (five million naira) bribe to the judge for granting bail to an accused person. “Council decided that the petition should be put in abeyance until the outcome of the investigation by the Police. “Council at the meeting also recommended 60 judicial officers to Governors of twenty-four (24) for appointment as High Court Judges, Sharia Court Kadis and Customary Court of Appeal Judges.”