CAN  a man allow another man to sleep with his wife in their matimonial home? This was the allegation made yesterday by a woman, Mrs Musilimat Olasuyi, who is seeking the dissolution of her five-year old marriage to Oluwagbemiga. She told an Igando Customary Court in Lagos that her husband permitted another man to sleep with her in their matrimonial home. The 48-year-old trader said : “It was not my fault. I did not voluntarily submit myself but the man in question charmed me to make love to me with my husband’s agreement all because of his selfish ambition’’. The petitioner said her husband threw her belongings out of their matrimonial home in her absence. She claimed that the over N800,000 which she kept inside some boxes were stolen in the process. She said: “I went to the hospital to take care of my daughter from my first marriage, who suffered from gas explosion. There, I was told that my husband came with some boys to our matrimonial home to pack all my belongings outside. “After some days; I came home and I discovered that all my boxes and bags had been ransacked; some were missing and my money stolen. “My jewellery valued at N250, 000 and the N250, 000 given to me by my son-in law to start work on his landed property close to us were missing. “Also, N100,000 for my customer’s cassava (garri), N250,000 being our mosque’s money kept in my custody and N30,000 my trading money got missing.’’ Musilimat submitted a written petition to the court seeking redress and judicial actions against her husband. She wanted to know if it was proper for her husband to throw her property out without a court order. The petitioner urged the court to direct her husband to get a house for her and their only child. She pleaded with the court to dissolve the because she no longer loves her husband. Oluwagbemiga accused his wife of infidelity, saying : “My wife does not have respect for her marriage vow; she makes love to her concubine on our matrimonial bed.” The 55-year-old sand supplier also accused his wife of being fetish. “My wife is diabolical, she comes home with different charms and objects; she gave me a soap on nine consecutive times to bath with.” According to him, he  gave his wife a three-month  notice to vacate his house but she refused. He consented to the dissolution of marriage, saying the love between them had long faded. The court’s president, Mr Akin Akinniyi, said it was wrong for a husband to pack out his wife’s belongings from their matrimonial home. “It is legally wrong for a man to throw out his wife’s property. The respondent should have requested for the return of the dowry he paid on the wife from the wife’s parents. Better still, he should have sought the dissolution of the marriage at the court of law before such an action could take place. “The husband will be responsible for any cost of missing valuables and the wife is entitled to compensation,’’ he said. Akinniyi urged the couple to maintain peace and adjourned till April 26.