 World Cup hosts Russia will need to fortify their team before the real battle begins following their 3-0 defeat Friday in an international friendly by Brazil at the Luzhniki Stadium. Barcelona stars Philippe Coutinho and Paulinho were on the score sheet as Brazil enjoyed a cruise control playing without injured Neymar who is being tipped to bounce back from injury before the world cup begins. Igor Akinfeev made a string of fine saves to keep Russia level in the first half but the goalkeeper was at fault for Brazil’s opener, failing to divert a Thiago Silva header out of the danger zone, with Miranda on hand to turn home the rebound. Within nine minutes Brazil had doubled their lead from the penalty spot, Aleksandr Golovin clumsily fouling Paulinho in the box, his club team-mate Coutinho stepping up to score. Paulinho added his name to the score sheet as Brazil moved through the gears, William hanging up the perfect cross for the midfielder to nod in at the back post. A burst of three goals in 13 minutes left the result in no doubt, but substitute Alan Dzagoev went close to grabbing a consolation for Russia, sending a drive narrowly wide. Brazil created their first clear chance in the fifth minute, a lofted Dani Alves pass sending Gabriel Jesus into the box, but the striker slipped as he shot and Akinfeev saved. Russia’s first chance arrived in the 32nd minute, Alisson tipping Aleksandr Samedov’s drive over the crossbar after Alves lost possession on the halfway line, allowing the hosts to break. Neat build-up play then saw Aleksey Miranchuk fire over a first-time shot after a one-two with Fedor Smolov as Russia – now winless in four friendlies gained confidence. Paulinho should have given Brazil the lead shortly after the restart, but Akinfeev saved with his legs after Willian tied the Barca midfielder up in the box. Brazil open their campaign against Switzerland on June 17, followed by clash against Costa Rica before rounding off the group stage with a tie against Serbia.  Russia on the other hand will flag off the World cup with the first match against Saudi Arabia June 14 before facing pharaohs of Egypt and then Uruguay on June 25.     