The Police have arrested and detained a chieftain Oodua People’s Congress (OPC), Dele Olorunfemi, over alleged murder of a student, Faramo Tope in Ikere-Ekiti. The deceased, who was said to be a student of University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti Campus, was said to have been killed at about 9.30 pm on Wednesday, February 28. Tope was being conveyed with another passenger by a commercial motorcyclist when he was hit by bullets allegedly fired by some OPC men on patrol led by Olorunfemi. The shooting incident reportedly took place along Winners’ Chapel Road in Oke Osun area of the town but the corpse of the deceased was dumped in a bush at Ona Owuro Road behind College Demonstration School. The Nation gathered that the commercial motorcyclist who witnessed the killing of his passenger and identified the suspects reported the incident at Anaye Police Station in Uro Quarters of the town. The report of the alleged murder led to the arrests of Olorunfemi and another suspect who was simply identified as “Bebe.” Another suspect identified as “Abule” is presently at large. Residents of the area where the corpse was dumped also reported the killing at the same police station. The corpse of the student has been deposited at the State Specialist Hospital, along Ise Road, Ikere. Chairman of the Landlords Association of the area, Pastor David Owotobi, said the corpse was dumped when members of his church were having all night prayer. “After our programme in the church, our members were going back home and they came back to report that a corpse was dropped very close to our church. “I went there when and I saw the corpse there; on the second day very early in the morning, I went to the police station to report what happened on our street.” Confirming the incident in a telephone chat, the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Abdullahi Chafe, said only one person has been arrested. Chafe said: “I can confirm that such an incident occurred, one person has been arrested and he will be transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for further investigation.” 