•Ex-president marks 81st birthday Former President Olusegun yesterday marked a relatively low key birthday, saying his greatest source of sadness was the death of his parents. Obasanjo, who turned 81 yesterday, said it was always a thing of regret and pain for him that his mother and father did not live long enough to witness his achievements in life and profit from them. The ex-president, who spoke during the celebration at the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), Abeokuta, however, added that if the saying is true that the dead always watch over the living, his late parents would not only watch over him but also  show act of gratitude to those who helped him. The occasion was chaired by former Nigeria’s High Commissioner to United Kingdom Christopher Kolade. Those who attended include Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Senator Kola Bajomo, former Oyo State Deputy Governor Taofeek Arapaja and former Minister and Secretary to the Ogun State Government Tunji Ishola and others. Obasanjo said he would continue to thank God for all that he had achieved, including the building of the Presidential Library for posterity. The former president said God has been kind to Nigeria. According to him, Nigerians and not God should take the blame for why things were not working well as they ought to. He said: “One of the things that I always missed or remember with some feeling of sadness is that my parents left this world too early and the sacrifices they made for me. How I wish they have been around to see the fruit of their labour; that is not to be. “But if, as Yoruba belief that those who are dead are still able to see who are here alive, if my parents, where they are, are able to see those of us who are here, they will also be grateful to those who have worked with me to enable me to achieve what I have achieved. If they’ve been alive, they would have been proud of those achievements. “For me, this day, I have nothing but to continue to thank God, appreciate Him and praise Him and worship Him and adore Him for all that he had done for me personally, for members of my family, for my extended family, friends, peers and for those who have worked with me.” The ex-president added: “Where people talk about my achievements, not mentioning or remembering that I wouldn’t have been able to achieve anything all by myself alone, I belief it could amount to a serious omission because many of those who worked with me worked loyally, worked with  commitment and some of them are still doing so up till today.” Obasanjo added that he did not believe God created a bad situation for Nigeria, any particular state and any part of Africa. “When things are not going on right, we must blame ourselves and these are issues of leadership, governance, development and values. “And these are things we must take seriously and make sure we get them right,” Obasanjo said. Amosun lauded Obasanjo at 81, describing him as a true nationalist, whose love for the country can’t be controverted. “Love him or hate him, there’s something nobody can take away from him. He’s a true nationalist; Baba loves Nigeria and I know that there’s absolutely nothing he wouldn’t want to do for Nigeria. “Even beyond the sores of Nigeria, if you start counting, Baba would be one of the best three giant of Africa, many of whom are no longer with us. “There’s no way history of our nation Nigeria and the continent of Africa would be written without the prominent mention of Baba. “When they were praying for Baba, they said 120 and I said 100 is okay. But Baba, when you live to that age, don’t write letters ooo, don’t write ooo, because Baba would continue writing when he lives till 120, please don’t write ooo.  That is Baba for you. “Please reduce your activities; you’re not getting young anymore. Baba please slow down, you’re not getting younger anymore.” 