The Minister of Works, Power and Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola (SAN), has said the Federal Government will soon begin the repairs of its roads in Ekiti State. Fashola spoke at the weekend during a fact-finding visit to some roads President Muhammadu Buhari approved recently for repairs in the state. He said it was the resolve of the Buhari administration that all federal roads must be made motorable to Nigerians. Represented by the Southwest Zonal Director in the ministry, Mr. Emmanuel Adeoye, the minister said priority would be given to the Federal road linking Ifaki Ekiti and Ikole Ekiti road network. Fashola said most of the roads currently witnessing major repairs had long been awarded but their repairs stalled due to non-receipt of further mobilisation by contractors. The minister said the government’s concern for those using the roads made it to consider the return of contractors to sites, after paying them the due mobilisation. He urged motorists to use the roads well, adding that the residents should avoid illegal activities, such as cutting the roads or setting bonfire on them to guarantee their durability. Also, the representative of Kopek Construction Company, the contractor handling the Iwaraja-Erinmo-Efon federal road axis rehabilitation project, Mr. Pascal Harfouch said the contract was originally awarded to his company since 2011 at a total cost of N3.5b. He said the job which covers a distance of 21.8 kilometre was stalled as a result of unpaid certificates amounting to over N1 billion. However, he said the company had to return to site to complete the job, having received mobilisation from the Buhari-led government. This was coming just as he called for an upward review of the contract sum which he said was no longer in tune with the economic realities of the present day Nigeria. Welcoming the team, the Vice Chairman of Ado-Ekiti branch of the Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Olumide Ogundipe and the state’s head of the ministry, Mr. Ezekiel Kehinde, said they would continue to monitor the progress of work on the project which they said had reached over 86 percent completion stage.