President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday led top government officials, diplomatic corps and business tycoons to witness the marriage ceremony of Fatima (Baby) Ganduje and Idris Ajimobi, daughter and son of governors of Kano and Oyo states. Twenty two governors, Senate President Bukola Saraki and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu also witnessed the solemnisation. Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Akunwunmi Ambode,(Lagos)  Rauf Aregbesola , (Osun), Abdulaziz Yari, (Zamfara), Mohammadu Abubakar Badaru, (Jigawa), Kassim Shettima, (Borno), Abiola Ajimobi, (Oyo),Ibikunle Amosu,( Ogun), Rochas Okorocha, (Imo) and Yahaya Bello (Kogi) among others Buhari, who stood as guardian to Fatima, received a dowry of N50, 000 from national leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who played the role of the guardian to Idris. Emir of Kano, Muhammad Sanusi II, joined the couple at the Kano Central Mosque where the marriage rites was performed. A large crowd thronged the Mosque to witness what has been described by many as ‘marriage of national unity.’ Sanusi admonished the couple and urged them to live together according to the tenets of Islam. The marriage was solemnised at exactly 12:30 pm by Sanusi assisted by Chief Imam of the Mosque Professor Sani Zarhadeen. The emir said marriage is religious injunction which all believers must respect. According to him: ”Allah has directed all Muslim adult who is gainfully employed or has a means of livelihood to marry a woman he loves and the two starts up their home in love and harmony.” The Emir also advised the couple to live together in peace as each of them has roles to play in the family to make it a success. A colorful grand reception held at the Government House where guests were treated to different types of dishes, traditional songs and dance. The event held under tight security as security men had hectic time controlling the surging crowd that besieged the Kano Central Mosque and Government House. However, pick pockets had a field day as hundreds of people lost phones and money, including an agent of the Department of State Services (DSS) attached to Aso Rock. He was dispossessed of his handset and other valuables to his chagrin.