Men of the Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) Victory in Calabar have arrested a large wooden boat laden with 3,574 bags of contraband foreign rice smuggled from Cameroon, worth N53.6 million naira, as well as three suspects. Commander, NNS Victory, Commodore Julius Nwagu, said the arrest was made along the Calabar Waterway in the early hours of February 27 when they got information about the activities of the suspected smugglers. He said the boat came from Cameroon and was headed for Calabar. Addressing reporters at NNS Victory jetty before handing over the items and suspects to the Nigerian Customs Service, Nwagu said, “In the early hours of 27th February, we got information about a boat laden with rice and my patrol team arrested the boat and three suspects on the boat. We brought the boat to base and offloaded the rice. It took us two and a half days to offload. After counting, we got 3, 574 bags valued at N53. 6 million. We would hand them over to the Nigerian Customs Service for further investigation and prosecution. “I want to tell general public that the Nigerian Navy under the leadership of Vice Admiral Ibok-Ette Ekwe Ibas will not leave any stone unturned in pursuing those involved in any form of criminality, and we in the Eastern Naval Command, particularly NNS Victory are all out to fight criminality at any level. “We are aware of government policies and restrictions on foreign rice. We have arrested the people involved in economic sabotage and we are going to continue arresting them. So I advise the general public to do what is right. I warn that anyone who indulges in such, we are going to catch them. They cannot escape our watchful eyes.” The Calabar Area Assistant Comptroller of Customs Customs, Omachi Joshua, who received the items and suspects, appreciated the Navy for their effort. He said the rice would be evacuated to the government warehouse of the Customs Area Command in Calabar, while the suspects would be prosecuted. One of the suspects, Moses Azazi, from Bayelsa State said they were aware they had contraband on board. “We were bringing the rice from Cameroon and were arrested by the Navy. We were aware it was contraband. I don’t know the owner of the rice. We were just asked to transport it to Calabar from Kondo in Cameroon to Calabar. This is my first time,” he said. 