AS at February 9, the cash in the Treasury Single Account (TSA) stood at N8.9 trillion, Finance Minister Mrs. Kemi Adeosun said yesterday. The minister made the disclosure at an investigative public hearing into the money accruing into the TSA by the House of Representatives. Represented by the Accountant-General of the Federation, Ahmed Idris, Mrs. Adeosun told the lawmakers that the Federal Government has been saving N480 billion annually since it introduced the TSA policy in 2015. Prior to the implementation of the policy, over N70 billion cash belonging to the government had been lost to leakages through 17,000 accounts being operated by Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs). According to her, the revenue was remitted through 1,634 MDAs’ main accounts and 3,118 sub-accounts captured in the TSA as at March 22. According to her, President Muhammadu Buhari gave approval for the exemption of some accounts, including the West African Examination Council (WAEC) and the Joint Venture Accounts of Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). Mrs. Adeosun explained that the entities were exempted because of the other partners involved in the operations of the accounts of the affected agencies.  The accounts are being operated with certain Deposit Money Banks (DMBs) Adeosun explained. The minister said a committee was set up to monitor the performance of the TSA policy to avoid its manipulation. She said the committee, which had submitted its interim report, has a mandate to conclude and submit its final report within a month. She told the lawmakers that the policy became effective in compliance with the provisions of Sections 80 and 162 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) and enforced through circular with Ref. No: 428/S1/120 of 7th August, 2015. The constitutional provisions empower the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to compel erring MDAs to comply with the TSA policy, she added. Responding to questions on the security and ownership of the various Information & Communication Technology (ICT) public finance platforms including Remita, GFMIS and IPPIS, the minister assured that necessary measures have been put in place to ensure that the independent consultants that provided the platforms had no access to the security code. The ad-Hoc Committee mandated the CBN to provide details of the money realised from the charges on in-bound and out-bound payments into the TSA within 24 hours. It also directed the minister to furnish it with details of the amount proposed in the budget within 24 hours. On the N7.6 billion refund to the MDAs through the CBN, the minister said that the amount was refunded by SystemSpecs in line with the directive of the Senate during the investigative hearing it staged in 2016. SystemSpecs, she said, has not been paid its due charges for services rendered for over two years, she added. The AGF said he personally requested for the list of MDAs that the Auditor-General wanted to audit and provide the access, noting that he had advised the Auditor-General on the need to adopt an ICT platform. According to him, the N7.6 billion was approved and paid by the CBN to the MDAs through a platform called T24 without his approval. SystemSpecs’ Executive Director, Deremi Atanda, explained that in the agreement signed in 2011 by the CBN, the service provider and other partners get 60 per cent. The apex bank, she said, gets 40 per cent of the charges. The CBN Governor, Godwin Emefiele, was represented by the Director, Banking & Payments System Department, Abubakar Kure. According to him the Federation Account gets revenue accrued from the 13 Joint Ventures in conjunction with other partners, saying that the various amounts reflected in the operational banks’ details were deposited as Cash Call by the NNPC and other operators. In his remarks, ad-Hoc Committee Chairman Abubakar Damburrau, urged the NNPC Group Finance Director, Isiaka Abdukrasak, to ensure the attendance of the NPDC managing director at the next hearing. He said that the NNPC must also present within the next 48 hours, details of the monies accrued into the Brass Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) account The committee threatened to issue a warrant of arrest to compel his appearance should the NPDC chief failed to show up at the committee’s next hearing session.