The German Government is set to fund a Master’s Degree Programme in Archival Studies as the course is introduced at the National Film Institute (NFI), the training arm of the Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC). Dr Chidia Maduekwe, Managing Director of the NFC, disclosed this in an interview with News men on Tuesday night, on the sideline of a reception dinner in Abuja. The reception ceremony was organised in honour of Maduekwe, as he was on March 20 inaugurated, along other members, into the board of the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies ( NIPSS ) Kuru, Jos. Maduekwe said that in view of this, NFI will begin a post-graduate programme in its 2019 academic session in Archival Studies, the study and theory of building and curating archives, which are collections of recordings and data storage devices. He explained that the German Government, in line with its cordial relationship with Nigeria, has indicated interest and commitment to fund the programme within the first four years of its introduction in the film institute. ” In line with the existing bilateral relationship between Nigeria and Germany, and as part of technical collaboration between NFI and similar Germany institute, this programmed will be fully sponsored by the German Government. “This is part of our efforts at the NFC to attract international collaborations, especially in capacity building for Nigerian filmmakers,’’ he said. The NFC boss noted that the German Government had earlier sought to restore and digitised a Nigerian film ‘Shehu Umaru’, in line with modern technological advancement, using the expertise of the Arsenal Institute of Film and Video Archives Berlin. He explained that the film was successfully digitised and presented for screening at the 68th annual Berlin International Film Festival which held in Feb. “The German Embassy’s interest in the film stemmed from its story line, the rich Nigerian culture it portrays in addition to the dexterity and creativity of its production. “If there was no quality in that production, it would not be globally celebrated, as we are about to witness in Germany.” He added that plans were also in place between the Berlin Film Institute and NFI for capacity building programmes for young and established Nigerian filmmakers in line with the mandate of the Nigerian Film Corporation. Maduekwe noted that since Nollywood stakeholders, especially actors and filmmakers were spread across Nigeria, NFC was making arrangement to have functional offices across the six geo-political zones. “We have just established an office in the North East and South East, and plans are under way to establish south -south office, in addition to existing ones in Lagos and other parts. “This is part of efforts to bring capacity building to the people, because that is what we represent. “There are a lot of talented young people that can be developed to explore the creative sector. “When we capture and expose these young Nigerians, we are exposing them to the exponential deliverable of their capacities towards contributing to our GDP,’’ he added. NAN