No fewer than 255 persons arrested during the raid on Mushin, Itire, Ilasamaja and Idi-Araba were yesterday paraded by Lagos State Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal. Eight persons were said to have died in the raid, but the police put the casualty figure at three. A Sergeant, Abam Mohammed, was among the dead. But,  residents of Ilasamaja and Itire are accusing the police of indiscriminate arrest of some of their family members and neighbours. The police, they alleged,   arrested anybody at sight; went into some houses, broke the doors and effected arrest. Edgal said 39 big bags suspected to contain marijuana, two pump action guns and ammunition were recovered. He denied  that a Junior Secondary School (JSS) pupil, Samuel Okeira, was suffocated by teargas. Investigation conducted by the Area Commander, Olasoji Akinbayo, he said,  indicated that the pupil died  of a knee injury. The commissioner said he had directed his men to go round and take stock of casualties and the damages recorded in the Idi-Oro clash. According to him, the object the pupil’s principal brought was not teargas canister and did not belong to the police. The police, it was gathered,  raided  Adedeji and Amodu Streets in Itire and Owoseni Ishola and Kekere-Owo Streets in Ilasamaja overnight,  arresting many people. Among those arrested at Amodu Street were an Imam, Alhaji Lukman and three siblings- Aliyu Oladapo, 35, Solomon Adedukun, 20, and Shina Sanusi, 26. According to their brother, Olayiwola, the policemen broke the door, entered their home and arrested the trio. He said the imam was bundled into the vehicle when he came to enquire what the men did. Olayiwola said: “It was around 8:30pm, there was no light and we sat outside. But Solomon was inside sleeping. Suddenly, we saw flash light from a police vehicle and people ran inside. We also entered our house only for the policemen to use their legs and forced our door open. “They entered the house, started beating everyone and they even woke up Solomon from sleep and pushed him inside the Black Maria they came with. They did not tell us anything. They did not arrest me because I was carrying my baby. “Then, our imam came to find out what happened and they put him inside the vehicle too. They took them away and they have not told us anything. It was in the morning (yesterday) that we started hearing that there was fight at Mushin and they killed a policeman. How does that concern us?” Another resident said: “This is quite saddening. The fracas took place in Idi-Oro and they (police) are busy making  arrest at Itire and Ilasamaja. Where is the link? How does one explain the arrest of petty traders at their stores? I mean, they just walked into a barber’s shop and took the innocent barber away. ‘’A man went to another street to buy something and police whisked him away. What sort of impunity is this? Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and the police commissioner should call the officers to order before Lagosians revolt. This is annoying’’. Explaining why the police  raided streets in Itire, Ilasamaja and Idi-Araba, Akinbayo said there were indications that hoodlums fleeing Akala were regrouping there, adding that he would everything to sanitise those areas. He said: “We are aware that during a raid, some innocent persons might be arrested. That is why we screened them and all those who are innocent were allowed to go. It is only those we suspect to be culpable that were charged to court.” The Nation gathered that drugs worth  millions of naira and vehicles used by peddlers were impounded at an area known as ghetto in Akala. One of the vehicles impounded yesterday was an Acura Outlander marked MUS834ER, allegedly used to smuggle drugs into Imoru Street, Odi-Olowo. A source said the vehicle was driven by a SPY Police, adding that the driver took in bags of suspected marijuana into a woman’s house and then came out with money packed inside a polythene bag. “The driver wore police uniform and they wrote SPY on it. He parked beside the house of a local government chief and then went inside with a bag. He was acting suspiciously. “He took the bags into a woman’s house and when he came out, he had money with him. As soon as he left, a Hilux Patrol vehicle also came there. I later heard that the vehicle was arrested and taken to the area command. “I hope the police would take actions against these drug peddlers. They are making Akala unsafe for our youths. The police should not handover the drugs to the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) because they are part of the problem. “NDLEA usually comes here to collect returns from the dealers. Some of the suspects that were arrested before by the police usually came back as soon as they were handed over to NDLEA,” the source said.