To make students employable after graduation, many schools have been teaching them entrepreneurial skills. But many secondary school pupils are not benefiting from the programme, reports correspondent KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE Unemployment is a big problem in Nigeria, especially given the country’s young population. Statistics by the National Population Commission show that more than half of Nigeria’s about 182 million people are under 30 – with youth unemployment in this subset at about 33.10 per cent as at the third quarter of last year, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. The government has come up with various schemes to reduce youth unemployment.One of such is the Federal Government’s N-Power social welfare scheme designed t o take about 500,000 youths off the job market to fill vacancies in schools and set them up in agricultural-based ventures. However, lack of employability skills exacerbates the unemployment problem. Not a few employers have complained about skills mismatch in the employment market. They lamented that graduates of tertiary institutions come out lacking technical and soft skills to fit into the workplace. The dwindling number of white-collar jobs also requires that students should leave school ready to create jobs, thereby reducing the dependency on ready-made employments and expanding entrepreneurial efforts. The Lagos State Government’s ReadySetWork (RSW) project for final year students of tertiary institutions is, perhaps, the biggest initiative yet by the state to teach employability/entrepreneurship modules to students to make them work-ready. Introduced in 2016, the students get 13 weeks of employability and entrepreneurship training after which they are placed on six-month internships with various firms partnering the state government on the scheme. Last year, 2,000 students were trained as against 500 the first year. During the programme, they learnt soft skills like teamwork, communication, emotional intelligence, problem solving, critical thinking, interpersonal skills which, combined with high technical and academic skills, could earn them success in the workplace. Special Adviser to the Lagos State Governor on Education Mr Obafela Bank-Olemoh said at the launch of this year’s RSW Faculty screening that 5,000 students would be trained this year to deliver greater value as employees or employers. “Governor Ambode mandate to us is to prepare our graduates for the world of work. So, our students will have some of the best experience getting ready,” Bank-Olemoh said. One of the beneficiaries of the RSW Tamilore Asikia said the initiative exposed him to what he ought to have learnt in school. “I graduated as the best student in Economics from the University of Lagos, but RSW has helped me to connect all I was taught with what I met in the workplace. RSW was the education that my school could not give me,” he said. Underscoring the importance of town-gown fit, Vice-Chancellor, Federal University of Petroleum Resources Efurun (FUPRE), Prof Akaehome Ibhadode, told The Nation that his institution took care to infuse components of work-readiness into its training curriculum. “There is a special interaction between our school and the oil and gas industry such that on graduation our students are work-ready. We have certain inputs that make our graduates fit for industry as they are leaving FUPRE,” he said. Experts believe these employability inputs should be infused in learning early. However, this hardly happens before tertiary education in Nigeria. The government’s effort to provide technical and vocational skills training at secondary school level led to a review of the curriculum to include 34 trade subjects in 2011. Each student was required to offer one and be taught the theoretical and practical aspects of the subject by artisans in the absence of trained teachers in the field. The challenge with its implementation was that many schools neither had the facilities nor teachers to teach the trade subjects.  Schools had to choose which areas to focus on. However, many private sector organisations, particularly non-profit ones, have not left the problem of enhancing employability skills to the government alone. Communications Officer of the Women’s Technology Empowerment Centre (W.TEC) Mr Adeyemi Odutola said the centre had enhanced the technical and soft skills of about 500 girls attending public schools in Lagos and Kwara State through its after-school computer club. He said the club features girls learning how to use technology to enhance their employability in various fields. “Our after school computer clubs for girls support them to learn basic computer literacy skills, Microsoft Office programmes, coding, assembling computers and even film making. “In addition to these, we also organise career counselling programmes to expose them to various careers and how these skills could serve them.The skills they learn are quite top notch. I can tell you that I did not even know as much in my university days. There are lots of NGOs that we see in schools doing many things in the areas of employability,” he said. Odutola said W.TEC also ran a yearly residential camp that exposes 20-30 girls to more advanced ICT skills, soft skills training and field trips. The Vision 2020 Youth Empowerment and Restoration Initiative (YERI) has a similar camp for secondary school pupils focused on Science, Technology Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). Its Project Coordinator, Ivie Karex, said through the camp, 50 students selected from among the 1,500 attendees of its career awareness programme, learn more about STEM careers as well as technical, soft skills and attitudes needed to excel in the country’s STEM industry. “Every year, we organise career counselling workshops where we have experts speak to secondary school students about various STEM career paths.We also organise one-week summer camps where the best students from these career workshops learn more about these skills.  They also get to learn coding and robotics and soft skills such as communications, team work and others as well as go on facility visits to see what it feels like to work in those places. “We believe that once students are equipped with these skills,  they get into an organisation, they will offer value. Though they want to work on their own, their coding and robotics skills can get them started,” she said. To mainstream the teaching of employability skills in secondary schools, the British Council, the United Kingdom’s cultural and educational organisation, launched Fast Forward – a programme to infuse work-based learning in classrooms in 2016. Under the initiative, 300 teachers, guidance counsellors and school administrators from 19 public secondary schools in five states were trained to use work-based learning to enhance how students learn and teach them soft skill. About 1000 students across the schools benefited from this pilot scheme and some got placed on internship. The effectiveness of this project by the British Council, which has spent 75 years in Nigeria, is being assessed by The Education Partnership (TEP) Centre for replication in other states, if found effective. However, some teachers have testified to its benefits. “They are excited learning new things and getting to understand that learning can be fun and interesting too,” said Mrs Utibe Ajayi Ore Ofe, who teaches at the Government Secondary School, Atu Calabar, Cross River State. While these initiatives are laudable, they do not reach secondary school pupils across Nigeria.  The closest most students get are trips to some industries once in a while or career counselling programmes where experts are invited to speak about their professions. Unfortunately, not all students benefit from this limited exposure. The challenge is for the government to find employability programmes that would give every child attending school a  chance in the labour market.