Endometriosis is a medical disorder experienced by women. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA reports on efforts of a support group and survivors’ experience. How can endometriosis sufferers be helped now that the ailment’s awareness is gaining momentum? That is the question agitating the mind of Endometriosis Support Group of Nigeria (ESGN) founder, Dr Abayomi Ajayi. Dr Ajayi, who spoke to The Nation at this year’s early morning five-kilometre ‘Endo Walk’, which kicked off at the City Hall, Onikan, Lagos  and terminated at Muri Okunola Park, Victoria Island, said many Nigerian women and girls are aware of what endometriosis is “but, that is just where it seems to end as there is no financial muscle by the Group to offer treatment to confirmed cases”. According to Ajayi, about 170 million women worldwide are affedted by endometriosis. The condition occurs when tissue similar to the lining of the womb is found elsewhere—most commonly on the ovaries, in the recto-vaginal septum, bladder and bowels. The tissue bleeds every month and can cause severe and chronic pains and makes living painful and miserable for those affected. To address this health disorder, a health facility, Nordica Fertility Centre, is planning to conduct physicians’ round-table in May, to boost doctors’ capacity in treating the disorder. According to Ajayi, Diamond Bank is partnering ESGN to ensure that the message and awareness on endometriosis get to every nook and cranny of the country. In the words of the bank’s Head of Corporate Communication, Chioma Afe, many women like her do not have an idea of what endometriosis is. “Not until I joined Diamond Bank did I know about endometriosis. The condition is a ‘big deal’ for many women. That is why Diamond Bank and Diamond Woman specifically focus on women and have supported the ESGN over the past five years,”she said. She continued: “We are very passionate about women issues that include health and reproductive health issues and we have been working with Dr Ajayi and his ESGN team to generate awareness. We participate in the EndoMarch every year and try to create awareness internally in our organisation because we have a huge clientele of women and a huge percentage of our members of staff is women. “We are doing more this year on social media and hope to do much more with the media. The  whole idea is to make more noise around the issue. We believe with more noise, the message will go to more people across the nation.” Chioma, who grew up in Port Harcourt, said most people there do not know much about Endometriosis. “Even in Bonny, not much is known about it. I think from the government and policy perspective, a lot more has to be done. We have started and would require more national awareness and I think that would involve professional bodies and the Ministry of Health to start talking about it. It’s a serious issue there is need for more visibility around it,”she said. Diamond Bank, she said, was exploring support for the Association of Fertility Research and Health (AFRH) towards training more medical doctors and more people, who would understand the issue. “We are considering educating more practitioners to do that while we explore how we can support more people with fertility treatment. The first step is getting more people to understand what endometriosis is and to encourage them to help. They said there is a lack of knowledge and if we can help address that, it would be one step forward,”she said. An endometriosis survivor and a popular Nigerian performing artiste, songstress, rapper and song writer, Saeon Moruda (Oluwaseun Omolara Oni) said though her experience was relatively short, it is unforgettable. “I found out that I had endometriosis in last June. It was at a time that I was trying to bury my father, so the experience only made it an even tougher period for me to go through,”she said. She recalled how at a young age, she observed that she was having terrible abdominal cramps, particularly during her menstrual period.  “The cramps were unbearable. I could not keep down food whenever I was in my period. If I ate, I would throw up everything. If I drank even water, I would vomit it. It was always worst during my cycle. “I was once admitted in the hospital during one of my performances when I developed excruciating abdominal pains.  An abdominal scan showed that I had an ovarian cyst (in my right ovary), but because I was not seeing any gynaecologist at that time, I did not have the education I ought to have had. The pain just kept getting unbearable and I did not know what it was,”she recalled. She said she turned to the internet for answers and did some research. “That was probably the only thing that could have  enlightened me. I kept doing countless scans from November 2016 and it was in last June, that the possibility that I might be having endometriosis emerged. The results showed it and that I also had fibroids,”she said. Relief, she said, finally came for her through surgery at the University College Hospital (UCH), Ibadan. She went through an intensive post operative process and has been on series of injections to suppress the pain. “Now I feel good, the menstrual cramps are no longer as painful as they used to be. They are bearable. I’m grateful for the support system that I got. My family has been very supportive, ESGN has been very supportive. I met Dr Abayomi Ajayi and decided to be a part of the ESGN campaign. I am grateful for it because it brings awareness to the girl child and to the world about endometriosis,”she explained According to her,  many women are diagnosed late because they lack information and what she described as the ‘normalisation’ syndrome.   She said: “When you complain about pain  during your periods  everybody  just says you should bear it, that it is normal, you would listen if you do not have information. But if you are informed, you would know it is not normal. As a performing artiste I’m glad to have had the opportunity to bring awareness and to educate people about endometriosis so that they know what to look out for.” Saeon hopes her story will  increase awareness about endometriosis. In an admonition to women experiencing any form of pain during their periods, Saeon urged them to seek help instead of living with the pain. “As women, we go through enough pain so it is advisable to look out for it. If you have painful periods, it could be a pointer to endometriosis. If the pain is outside of your period it is equally a warning sign. “If you are in your reproductive years, visit your gynaecologist, who would do checkups. It is easier to manage an abnormality if it is diagnosed early. There is no known cure for endometriosis but if detected early, it can be adequately managed. Endometriosis could run in families, and there are different stages of pain, Saeon noted. “However, in my own case it is not genetic because my mother doses not have it. It is not at all easy to be having your periods and be rolling all over the floor or throwing up all the time. The more care you have the better for you. The bottom line is to try and be supportive to someone that has endometriosis. Do what you can. “If you know of anybody with such pains, advise them to see a gynaecologist. All women should get a scan at least once every two or three months in order to be certain what is going on with their reproductive organs,” she added. 