A chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa, Alhaji Hamid Mahmud says lawmakers from areas affected by insurgency in Adamawa at the National Assembly are not doing enough to address the plight of their people. Mahmud told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Friday in Yola that lack of quality representation was responsible for his decision to aspire for Adamawa North Senatorial District seat in next year’s general election. “We have about four major federal roads in terrible condition, but our elected representatives were yet to tell us what is happening to those roads. “I am challenged by the lackluster kind of approach to representation by our members of National Assembly. This is why I feel I should go there and make a difference,” Mahmud said. On Buhari’s position against tenure elongation, Mahmud concurred with Buhari’s stand which he said was inline with party constitution. “People should not shy away from submitting themselves to the constitutional process; lets go by the provision of APC constitution as advised by the president. No more, no less,” Mahmud said. On 2019 general election, Mahmud urged party executives and delegates to ensure level playing field to make informed choice of candidates for smooth victory. “They should be mindful of the fact that it’s not APC that is contesting; we have other parties like PDP and SDP that are eager to capitalize on any mistake by APC,” Mahmud said. The former commissioner who is also a traditional title holder of “Wali” of Mubi Emirate Council also spoke on herders/farmers crisis in Adamawa and called for Security Submit by stakeholders to address the problem. “Adamawa Government just recently held a successful Anti-corruption Submit graced by Mr President, I feel a security submit should follow immediately. “In Adamawa we know what we are experiencing in some local governments like Numan, Demsa, Girei and part of Song. “We saw what happened in Rwanda, Northern Ireland; they had to come back to a round table conference.. “Those are all lessons we need to drive experience from. God created us all; our differences should not lead us to be killing ourselves! Where is our humanity? “Let’s us come to a round table to discuss and proffer solution on how we can live peacefully together as brothers and sisters,” Mahmud said. (NAN)