 Super Eagles and Tianjin Teda Captain John Obi Mikel was in superlative form on Saturday despite being held to a 1-1 draw by visiting Hebei CFFC. Mikel afterwards led his team to appreciate their supporters apparently believing that a point is better than losing in the opener of a new season. Prior to the season opener Tianjin Teda had played four friendly matches losing three and drawing one. They conceded 10 goals during the pre-season matches scoring only two, an indication that their strikers will need to up their game if the team is to make a huge impact in the new season. Away from Tianjin Teda, it was baptism of fire for Dalian Yifang debutants on Saturday. The trio of Jose Fonte, Yannick Carrasco and Nicolas Gaitan are not likely to forget Saturday March 3rd 2018 in a hurry. The three players who joined newly promoted Chinese super League Club  Dalian Yifang in February,made their debut for the club on Saturday but were handed an 8-0 demolition by a rampaging Shanghai SIPG. The three players may have come from different countries, Portugal, Belgium and Argentina respectively, but the Saturday’s experience put them in a no smiling mood. They had all started against for their side but found Shanghai SIPG parading Brazilians Hulk and Oscar too hot for comfort. Shanghai mustered 24 attempts on goal against a weak Dalian side, who were prone to individual errors and struggled to keep possession throughout. The writing was on the wall from the opening minute when Oscar put the hosts in front, before doubling their advantage in 24 minutes. Hulk got in on the act when he converted from the spot to put the hosts further ahead on 37 minutes. The bombardment did not let up in the second half, as Oscar turned provider to set up Wu Lei, before completing his hat-trick on the hour mark when laid on by his fellow Brazilian. Fonte, who signed from Premier League strugglers West Ham, was substituted in the  81st minute the by Yang Shanping , but there was still time for Wu Lei to grab a second before Hulk again turned provider, this time for Lu Wenjun to complete the rout. Carrasco and Gaitan, who both signed from Atletico Madrid at the end of the Chinese window, played the entire 90 minutes and will be hoping for a rapid change of fortunes. Carrasco, who is reportedly on a wage package worth £8.8million a year in Asia, is in contention for a place in Roberto Martinez’s World Cup squad with Belgium.    