 Wales star Gareth Bale has finally finished transforming his back garden into homage to some of the most iconic holes in golf. In 2015 the Real Madrid ace, an avid golf fan, revealed he was embarking on a project that would see the 17th hole at Sawgrass, the ‘postage stamp’ 8th at Royal Troon and the fabled 12th at Augusta National recreated at his £4million home in the Vale of Glamorgan, south Wales. He enlisted the help of Southwest Greens, a company that specialise in the design and installation of state-of-the-art synthetic turf and lawns. UK-based architects James Edwards and Mark Ely drew up the holes and worked with Southwest Greens to provide the Welsh winger with the perfect practice facility. ‘I had a lovely bit of land here and it was something that I really wanted to do and I decided that I would love to make a dream come true and build a mini golf course in my house,’ Bale said. ‘I did my research online and I found Southwest Greens. I wanted a lot of low maintenance. ‘We came up with a big concept of what I wanted to do. We loved the idea of it and went from a plain piece of land to building what we have now. The par-three 17th TPC Sawgrass was one of the three holes painstakingly recreated in south Wales by top course designers. Bale is currently in Nanning, China, with Ryan Giggs’ Wales squad ahead of this week’s China Cup. The president of Southwest Greens, Kevin Holinaty, told WalesOnline exactly how the project came to fruition. ‘We worked with Gareth to decipher what his wishes were, being that he’s a keen golfer and like all of us that like to play the game, you have your favourite holes, you have your dream scenarios. ‘He came to us with that; James Edwards at EDI Golf Design was very much involved in that process. We came up with a design that we wanted to move forward with. Bale was keen to be involved from the beginning in all areas of the design, with meetings held in Madrid and Wales to fine tune the details. He asked the designers to fit the three holes on the site as sensitively as possible at their full length       