The Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) ended on Tuesday, with about 350 blind candidates among the 1,615,309 who took the test nationwide. Many candidates praised the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) for its smooth conduct at many centres; others blamed the board for some lapses. Some of the things that improved this year included registration, checks against examination malpractice and multiple avenues for feedback to the JAMB Control Room in Abuja. For instance, apart from JAMB officials and centre supervisors, ad-hoc staff, such as corps members were required to file daily reports of the centres they monitored. A corps member, who monitored the examination in Palmgroove, Lagos, said they sent daily reports to their NYSC supervisor on the conduct of the examination in each centre they manned. Director of Education Advancement Centre (EAC), Ibadan, which served as a Computer-Based Test (CBT) centre for the examination, praised JAMB’s use of technology to improve the registration  and check examination malpractices. “One major improvement with the UTME registration is the use of mobile technology by candidates to generate their own profile code before going to accredited CBT centres. It was a novel initiative to see JAMB introducing a method whereby  a candidate can generate their identity code even before going to banks to purchase their PIN Code,” he said. JAMB’s Head of Public Affairs, Dr Fabian Benjamin, said that initiative alone reduced bank queues and the number of people who bought the forms. “The system of generating profile saved candidates from spending billions. In the past all candidates did was to just purchase the cards even when they may not register for the examination. The system now is that you must generate your profile before you obtain the pin. This year we had over 1.9 million candidates generating profiles but barely over 1.6 million registered. To check malpractice, Benjamin said the board not only banned some items that could be used to perpetrate malpractice from the centres, it also monitored centres remotely through Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) cameras as well as the computers used for the examination such that they knew from Abuja when a candidate logged on or off. Through the machinery put in place, Benjamin said the board was able to quickly detect centres that still managed to engage in examination malpractices and rescheduled the examination. “This year, with the help of the CCTV cameras we were able to see the entire proceedings at the centres and where there were issues we began deploying solutions before the reports even arrived our call centre. We had a situation where we were not satisfied with ongoing examination due to what we saw in the centres and we stop such centres and directed candidates to proceed to other centres for the examination. We monitored all examination 24hours from our control room at the headquarters; we saw how instructions were given, how candidates behaved in the hall and we called our supervisors to order where we were not too comfortable with their interactions within the hall,” he said. A candidate, who identified herself as Adeola, said she sat for the examination at the ICT Polytechnic, Sapaade, Ogun State, and that the screening was so thorough that there was no way a mercenary could have gate-crashed into the centre to cheat. “It was different from what we have heard about JAMB. There was no room for cheating. We learnt that there was a hidden camera to monitor the conduct of candidates and I don’t know how far true that was,” she said. In trying to avoid malpractice, the board was so strict that candidates were not allowed to leave their seats once they started – even to answer the call of nature. Ifeolu Adesanya, who wrote his UTME at Crawford University, Igbesa in Ogun State, felt the brunt of this rule as he was unable to finish his examination because he was pressed. “About 15 minutes after, I realised I was pressed. I knew I wouldn’t be allowed because we had been earlier warned against that. So, I had to bear the pain all alone. At a point it was affecting me psychologically as I was splitting my interest between my exam and the pains I was going through. I had to rush the exam and finished 15 minutes less than stoppage time,” he said. In terms of security, and administering the CBT examination, Dr Daniel Adjarho of the College of Education, Agbor, Delta State scored the examination body high. He said the exam was hitch-free at the centre, which coordinated 250 candidates for each of the three sessions daily. He said with the adequate security measures in place, there was no exam malpractice or violence. Blind candidates who took the exam were very happy with the board’s arrangement for them.  The Nation learnt that they were provided with accommodation and feeding for three days in the five centres across the country where they had their examination. The 110 candidates posted to Lagos had their exam at the Distance Learning Institute, University of Lagos, where the questions were read to them using dictation method. Prof Peter Okebukola, head of JAMB’s Equal Opportunity Group, said the dictation method was adopted to help candidates access the questions until CBT centres have adequate number of Braille machines and the candidates are trained to use them. “What the Equal Opportunity Group is saddled to do is to conduct UTME for visually-impaired candidates and those in prisons. Those in prisons concluded theirs on Saturday, but the blind candidates were scheduled to sit their exams between Monday and Tuesday. “This examination is holding simultaneously across five centres in each zone, and the candidates are catered for with the provision of accommodation and feeding,” Okebukola said. Adebisi Oluwashina, a visually impaired candidate, attending the Government Special School for the Blind, Ikere-Ekiti, praised the dictation method, saying it exceeded his expectations. However, JAMB still needs to do a lot to make the exam go smoothly in future as some issues, such as system failure, poor network connection and change of centres at short notice marred the examination for some candidates. Some candidates who were supposed to write the exam in Calabar, did not have it easy as their centres were changed to far-flung places at short notice. Ifeyinwa Samuel, a candidate, who was supposed to write in Calabar, found a few days before the exam that she had to go to Uyo in Akwa Ibom State.  But she ended up in a centre outside the state capital. She said: “A couple of days to the exams I realised I was going to write in Uyo in Akwa Ibom State. My parents had to borrow money to give me to go to write the exams. But when I arrived, I realised that my centre had been moved from Uyo to another local government area, which is Etinan. It was a very horrible experience for me, as I had to sleep at the centre, so I would be ready for the exam, which was the following day by 7am. “It was bad enough for me, but many people had it much worse. I have friends who missed the exams because they were sent to other states and either they could not meet up because of the short notice or because they could not afford to go. I think the arrangement was really terrible and something should be done about it.” Mrs Flora Edet, a parent, said her daughter had to travel from Calabar, her initial centre, to Obudu, eight hours away, to take the examination. “The arrangement by JAMB was wrong. My daughter was supposed to write the exam here in Calabar, but was sent to Obudu, an eight-hour drive away. I had to take her there myself and that was an unexpected expense for me. My daughter also complained that the time given to them was not enough as the computers they were writing the exam on kept going off. In the centre she was supposed to write at 7am, but we ended up staying till about 11pm to write the exam. In fact, a boy fainted in the centre because he had not eaten from the previous day and did not expect to stay till that time. I have to say the whole thing was a mess and the relevant authorities should take note of all these and make sure they avoid them in subsequent examinations,” she said. In Lagos, some candidates complained that they were not allowed to finish their time before being asked to log out. A candidate, who simply called himself Kelechi, said he had 30 minutes left when he was told to logout at the WAEC International CBT Centre in Agidingbi. “I started one hour late. I had like 30 minutes left but they told me to log out if not they’d log me out. I was the only one left in my Hall. I finished everything but I still had like half of the Maths to do,” he said. Another girl, wept as she told her mother she was unable to finish despite having 40 minutes left. “When we got in the server was down, so they were moving us up and down. I started around past 4pm. After some time they told everybody to come out. But I still had like 40 minutes left. It was not as if I didn’t know what to do,” she said crying again. When asked about the issue, the centre supervisor who did not give his name denied that the candidates were not allowed to use up their time. “Do you believe what they told you? They are lying. How can we not possibly allow them to finish their time?” he asked. Results of the examination which held between March 9 and 20, have been released in batches starting from March 12.  The JAMB Registrar, Prof Is-haq Oloyede, had said the results would not be released immediately to allow the board investigate properly for examination malpractices. While some candidates are happy with theirs, others who did not do well were not. A proud father, Mr. Tony Efe, said his daughter sat for the examination on Friday March 9 and the result was ready by Monday 12.  However, some candidates in Ekiti complained the results did not match their expectations. They all said that some of the questions that was asked was not difficult but they were all disappointed when they saw their various scores on the internet. Tope Anjorin said most of the questions were simple yet she was shocked she scored 175. Gbenga Fabiyi and Nneoma Ubani also condemned the examination because they scored below their expectations. Reacting, the Ekiti State JAMB Coordinator, Mr Hezekiah Onileowo, said those candidates who failed did not prepare well or were not patient enough to read the instructions and questions of the examination.