The Pan Niger Delta Youth Leadership (PANDLEAF) believes that leadership failure is the nucleus of the problems confronting the Niger Delta region. The region is blessed with abundant natural resources. It is a feeder of sort to other parts of the country. Niger Delta should have no problem with poverty. It should have no issues with lack of basic infrastructures such as potable water, roads, electricity and other capital projects. The youths ought to have been empowered to realise their potential. In fact, the region is supposed to be the most industrialised part of Nigeria. But, no way. Leaders have failed their region. In fact, PANDLEAF, a group of youth leaders with the vision to restore the glory of the region and promote opportunities for youths, is unhappy with various roles leaders have played with the destiny of the Niger Delta. It has formed part of the group’s message to other ethnic youth leaders across the region in its ongoing interactions. The social interactions were conceived by the President of PANDLEAF, Mr. Richard Akinaka to galvanise all stakeholders for ethnic harmony, peace and unity with a view to advancing common economic and political agenda through youth’s participation in politics. Akinaka recently led a delegation on a tour to Cross River and Akwa Ibom states to brainstorm with youth leaders. He told them that though there were clear issues of marginalisation of the region by the Federal Government, the main problem with the Niger Delta is leadership failure. He said: “The problem of our region is not that of lack of resources but lack of leadership. Failed leadership in the region is evident in the ethnic disunity and unnecessary political rivalry of our political leaders to the detriment of the collective economic, socio political growth of the Niger Delta “We have found ourselves in a situation where we are so polarized along ethnic and unworthy political divides. As youths of this region, we must put aside our ethnic difference and unite as a people with common destiny and get involved in the politics of this region to objectively purge out leaders that have failed us. “This is because if leadership is not right everything goes wrong. We must deliberately seek to correct the problems of leadership failure and disunity that have denied us of the synergy to advance a common regional developmental and economic agenda. This we can’t do by following political leaders that are undeserving of our followership. “ Akinaka told his listeners that leadership must be seen from the prisms of taking responsibilities. He said the youths could not afford to stay at akimbo and expect things to change. “Today, we have governors who are seeking re-election with not even a kilometer of road in three years. We have a minister from our region under whose watch the Onne port which was the only surviving port in the Southsouth is short down and shipments redirected to Lagos. We are a people who had the opportunity of six years presidency with nothing to show,” he said. He implored the youths to stop following failed leaders in the region blindly. Instead of declaring and bowing to maintain misplaced loyalty to such leaders, he said, youths should strive to seek political opportunity to elect leaders with the character and capacity to develop the region. Alluding to the campaign of Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State, Akinaka appealed to the Federal Government to give the Niger Delta region and its qualified business enterprises a special consideration in the allocation of oil licenses. He charged youths to stop sitting on the fence while things go wrong in the Niger Delta. He said: “We can’t fold hands as youth and expect change. The time for us to take action is now and that is the intent of PANDLEAF to awaken the youths of the Niger Delta for common good where leaders have failed. “One of the objectives we seek is to correct the attitudes of our elders. How can we still have same persons still ruling us. When are the youths going to take the centre stage? Some of these men are in their departure lounge and we keep following them “Four years is enough to know the performance of a quality leader and to determine if he can be given another term. A leader, who can’t be boasting of completing a kilometre of road should not be elected even on ethnic leaning. Your help may not come from your brothers. Let’s think beyond ethnic sentiments to move the region forward. “The greatest problem in the Niger Delta is not with other ethnic groups in the country. It is within us. And until we sort out things within us there won’t be a way forward”. Akinaka further explained that the ongoing PANDLEAF’s tour was to create political, economic and social awareness on rights and privileges for the youths of the region. He said the tour would educate people on the essence of being a youth. He said being a youth should not be viewed as an opportunity to be used by politicians as a tool to advance their selfish political interests. He insisted that youths have the responsibility to provide leadership and groom others to take over from them. He said: “Leadership is not given, you have to take it. Nobody gives power. It is a responsibility you have to take. While you are following the governor for a second term campaign, what do you have on the table to give as a leader? “What is your position? Are you just carrying flags and wearing campaign t-shirt going about risking your life? That has to stop. We should stop this division among ourselves in the region. No one is more Niger Deltan than the other. “You know what someone is capable of doing. Let your conscience be alive politically to who can provide leadership. Everybody must not be part of PANDLEAF but the group is open to everybody”. He urged the youths to register and collect their voter cards to enable them completely support candidates they believe could rescue the region from underdevelopment. He asked the youths not to risk their lives supporting candidates. He further argued that support should not be given based on religious or ethnic considerations. “The message is a call to action to take stock and some of us may not have voter cards which is basic responsibility as a citizen. For instance you are supporting someone but you don’t support him with your votes then your support is useless”, he said. He added: “For us as young people, we are very worried about how things are running in this country. We seem not to see anything to emulate. For us to move on, we have to effect change in this country”, he said. He also said the recent corruption rating of the country by the Transparency International, was a call for President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to do more in its anti-graft war. He said: “We know the effort the government is making in fighting corruption but they need to do more. We are aware of MTN case that involved the former Chief Staff to the President, the  Rasheed Maina and the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS). “These are things that are really indicting and compromising the stand of the government on fighting corruption but it doesn’t mean the government is not making progress. They have made progress to a large extent because we have seen some kind of mind-boggling revelations of loots recovered”, he said.