The Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and Edo State government have reaffirmed commitment to work together to improve access to telecoms infrastructure and provide citizens of the state with  telecoms and information communications technology (ICT) facilities. This commitment was made during a meeting between the state governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki and the NCC, led by its Executive Commissioner for Stakeholder Management, Mr Sunday Dare at NCC headquarters, Abuja. Mr. Dare commended the forward-looking policies of the governor and assured him of NCC’s readiness to support the achievement of the ICT aspirations of the state through the deployment of fiber infrastructure under the Commission’s InfraCo project and interventions by the Universal Service Provision Fund (USPF). He noted that the NCC is aggressively driving accessibility to telecoms networks at all nooks and crannies of the country. He however regretted that situation with multiple taxation and regulation in some states  is counter-productive for the states – this is because they end up losing substantial revenues and developmental opportunities which could have been stimulated with the presence of telecoms infrastructure. He assured the governor that NCC is keen to partner the state to achieve win-win solutions in the overall interests of the good people of Edo. In his remarks, Obaseki said the state government is focused on exploring non-oil resources and has therefore articulated developmental priorities. This focuses on creating a sense of order, security, safety and stability necessary to attract investments to develop the state. Since its developmental goals relies on the seamless availability of telecoms/ICT infrastructure, Edo State is passionate about the need to attract robust telecoms infrastructure to drive manufacturing, education and other socio-economic activities. As an example of the State’s forward-looking approach, the Governor noted that Edo State has always made provision for shared fiber ducts in its road projects and looks forward to engaging with NCC and operators to agree on fiber deployment projects and routes as necessary. During the meeting, the Executive Secretary of the USPF, Mr Ayuba Shuaibu confirmed that the USPF has evaluated and agreed to support the College of Education in Benin City and the Institute of Continuing Education in Abudu, Edo State with a grant to establish a computer laboratory and provide Optic Fiber Connectivity to the institutions.   