Nigeria’s poor economic indices are nothing to cheer about considering the worsening poverty situation in the country, experts have said. Worried about the parlous state of the economy, former Deputy Governor, Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Dr. Kingsley Moghalu at a public forum in Lagos lamented the fact that the country was in dire straits. Speaking on the theme titled, “The Secret of the Wealth of Nations and the Imperative of Economic Transformation” during the Centre for Financial Journalism (CFJ Nigeria)’s annual bullion lecture series in Lagos, Moghalu  revealed that, “According to the World Poverty Clock, Nigeria has overtaken India as the poverty capital of the world and that according to the African Development Bank (AfDB), 152 million Nigerians, out of an overall population of about 190 million, meet the criteria of absolute poverty which means that 80 per cent of Nigerians are extremely poor.” Lamentably, he said, the pre-conditions for moving from the path of poverty to the path of prosperity is a function of the philosophical foundation for the Nigerian state, economic vision, innovation, economic complexity and institutions. GDP is the single most commonly referenced figure to cover the entirety of a national economy and its trajectory in a single statistic. Measured on the basis of purchasing power parities (PPP), GDP can be used for comparisons among peer countries. Echoing similar sentiments, Oluwole Elegbede, Director of Finance, ActionAid, said it was scandalous to note that in the last three to seven years the country has been reporting about strong GDP yet people are still living in poverty. Elegbede who spoke to our correspondent at the weekend on the sidelines during the sensitisation programme to engage the media on the outcome of a baseline study on financing for development, said his organisation is worried that people are moving into poverty as reverse to moving into wealth, where their lives will be better.” GDP growth in this clime, hardly measures with the phase of development, he maintained. Elegbede who represented the Country Director of ActionAid, Dr. Hussaini Abdu, said: “We are not just worried, we are concerned because it is really showing the challenges that we are confronting as not really having any impact at all. Because if you have it over a period of time for about three, four, five years that you are reporting GDP growth regularly and it doesn’t impact on the lives of the people in terms of translating into development, then it is something that everybody, either ActionAid or the general population should be worried about. We are worried about it no doubt because it is impacting too badly on our core constituency of tracking development.” While commenting on the controversy stirred by Bill Gates about the flaws in the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan, the ActionAid boss was noncommittal. “We are not ready to join issues with anyone. We actually issued a press statement on the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan. We are not ready to join issues with what someone else said.”