Olusoji Fasuba had a storied career with Nigeria as a track & star but he strangely walked away at his peak for his first love-sailing with the navy. Now a logistician with Royal Navy, Fasuba opens up in frank conversation with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Olusoji Fasuba, a former Nigerian elite athlete, has yet opened up on why he left the hallowed track  to cruise in the sea with the Royal Navy (RN), otherwise known as the United Kingdom’s Naval warfare force. Fasuba was a force to be reckoned with and he wore the green-white-green colours of Nigeria with panache in his heydays and it’s remarkable that he still holds the enviable record as the fastest African of all time following his record time of 9.85 seconds in the 100m at the Qatar Grand Prix in 2006. “Yes, I do (miss athletics) but I don’t regret leaving,” the 33-year-old Fasuba said matter-of-factly in a long conversation with our correspondent. “Most people saw me win medals and laurels for the country but what they didn’t know was the lack of support I got. “During my time, for attending the African championship, you got 750 dollars after going through problems like no kits while countries like Ghana can pay those that win gold 10 thousand US dollars.  That 750 dollars doesn’t even cover one-tenth of what I used to prepare for the games neither does it pay my monthly rent in Europe. “They paid you training grants only when you are foreign based and people think it’s a lot of money but that doesn’t even cover a quarter of what used to prepare. If not for the grace of God, support of my family and my shoe contract, I won’t have gotten to where I did.” Fasuba’s repertoire included  being in Nigerian bronze medal winning team in the 4 x 100 metres relay at the Athens 2004 Olympic Games – the same year he won the African Championships on 100 metres. He also won  the silver medal at the 2006 Commonwealth Games and was the first African to win the indoor world champion over 60 metres in 2008. “I couldn’t say (I would have been better off doing other sport than athletics for Nigeria) as I bet others have their own problems, but I know if I had switch country I would have still been running,” reitreated Fasuba who graduated from the Royal Navy as a Logistician in 2011.“I am now in the Royal Navy. “As a kid growing up in Nigeria, I have always wanted to be in the Navy as I grew up at a naval base in Sapele. I loved the navy and I won’t be here today if I don’t. “I loved the way they dress and then now, the way we have to think about living and working on a ship. The passing out of training in 2011 has been one of my greatest moments. The pass-out parade was beautiful to watch with the display that we had to show and I’m in the RN logistics.” Fasuba is living his dream with the RN and is equally enjoying his athletics on the margins as well. Called Flash, the Leading Seaman (Logs) reportedly scooped the title of the fastest man in the UK’s armed forces when he won the 100-metre sprint title at the Inter-Services Athletics Championship to the delight of everyone. “He is pure class, both professionally and on the track. Leading Logs Fasuba is not only the quickest man in all three services, he is one of the quickest men in the world,” Commanding Officer of HMS Somerset, Commander Tim Berry, was quoted as saying about his crew member. Yet Fasuba remains nostalgic about his glorious years in the track and field though with tinge of regrets that the record seemed to have stood forever. “Well, records are meant to be broken and if they aren’t, it shows that development in that event is minimal,” he explained when pressed about his long-held 100m record as Africa’s fastest man since  he eclipsed  the previous 9.86 seconds set by Namibia’s Frankie Fredericks.  “I am up for development although I’m sad that Nigerian male sprinters aren’t the ones coming close to it. “That question (what were your best moments) always gets me as there are so many and trying to pick one is always very hard. “For me I would say winning the 60m World Indoors gold and I’m still the only African to have done it; and even when someone does win it in the future, I will still be remembered as the first African to have won it. “Also, I would say owning the African record in the 100m and by May 11, I would have kept that record longer than Frankie Fredericks,” he offered. Fasuba laid the dearth of quality sprinters at the doors of the Athletics Federation of Nigeria (AFN) even as he described the recent free fall of Nigerians in athletics as shameful and huge disappointment. “During your time, there were classics to pick athletes and there were also cash incentives even though they were small; but something is better than nothing,” remarked Fasuba. “One of the disappointments with the AFN is that they don’t provide the right conditions for the athletes to compete; foreign-based athletes are now allowed to qualify based on their performance in Europe, I smell doom for the sport.” He continued: “The home-based will want to go out (abroad) to compete as conditions are better paving ways for other countries to try and give them the opportunity to compete for them. “They (AFN) just need to provide equal opportunities for the home-based and foreign-based to compete because some tracks in Europe are fast while those in Nigeria are slow due to wear and tear and this would always put the local athletes in a disadvantage position. “The AFN just have to  go back to the drawing board and come up with a plan as they promised us to improve the welfare of the athletes; that is all that is needed,” stated  Fasuba who recalled  his humble beginning as if it was yesterday. “I believe athletics was the only facilities available to be then,” he said when pressed why he settled for T&F despite being reportedly gifted with football. “My role model then was Francis Obikwelu and it was fun competing against him.  Not everybody in life gets to do the thing they love in life and do it with their role models. “My toughest rivals in Africa then were fellow Nigerians in the likes of Deji Aliyu, Uchenna Emedolu and Tamoinosiki Atoridibo; and that is why I can’t understand why our sprinting heritage has died. I really don’t know what they want to achieve with that (states and companies jostling to host marathon races), and in my opinion I think they should be ashamed of themselves as that has no benefit to the nation in terms of athletes development. They know that it has no effect on producing athletes who are going to be the future of tomorrow, so why do it?” Fasuba remonstrated. Despite the peculiar mess befuddling the AFN, Fasuba is clear-headed on what should be done if offered a position of responsibility. “No, I’m not interested to lead the AFN one day,” he stated with military fiat. “I don’t have the patience to deal with politicians and people who believe they can use it as a stepping stone into politics. “Rather(a role) more like an independent advisor will be more suited for me if there’s ever anything like that; but who knows, dreams can change,” sounded Fasuba who quit T& F in 2011 to join the  Royal