THE Chinese Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr. Zhou Pingjian has presented scholarships  worth N100,000 each to 47 students of the University of Calabar (UNICAL). Pingjian, who made the presentation at university’s International Conference Centre, also expressed his intention to enrol into the university’s Institute of African and Asian Studies as student. The Ambassador said being part of the university would give him opportunity to share with the students and staff members China’s success story while learning more about Africa. He said the event was aimed at commemorating the 47 years of Nigeria-China diplomatic relations. He said UNICAL was chosen because of it visibility and honest leadership and also as the leading second generation university in Nigeria. “The vice chancellor wants this programme to be annually, but as a Chinese Ambassador I want to give him and the management team one condition. I want to send application to be a member of the Institute of African and Asian studies of the university. “We have very good reasons to be here annually. From when this university started in the 70s, from the records I have, it was founded with only about 800 students, but today the number has grown to over 40,000. This is just one of the many achievements of this institution. “The vice chancellor knows so much about China and so we choose UNICAL to mark the 47 years of Nigeria-China relation because of the honesty of the leadership and its visibility. UNICAL is a leading second generation university in Nigeria. So, I’m impressed with the achievements so far.’’ He expressed his country’s commitment to take their relationship with Nigeria and other African countries to a higher level. “We wish to take China-Nigeria relation to a higher level. This year marks China 40 years of reforms and openness. We have reached the level we are today because of three things: strong leadership, policies and hard work. “Nigeria is much better in natural resources than China, but Nigeria’s population is about one third of China’s population. So, the fear of the pressure to feed ourselves make us work very hard. If we have other alternatives, we will adopt it, but since we don’t, we have identified the three factors, which are very serious ingredients to our success. ‘’There are many similarities between my country and Nigeria. We became an independent country on first October just like Nigeria. We are the largest country in Asia while you’re the largest in Africa. So, we share many things in common”, he said. UNICAL’s Vice Chancellor, Prof. Zana Akpagu thanked the Chinese Ambassador for choosing the univesity for the event. He said the university would partner the Chinese Embassy for exchange programmes. “We are very grateful that our university has been chosen as the number one by the Chinese Embassy. This shows that our profile is rising and we will continue to work hard to be ranked the best in the country. “We have just instituted African and Asian Studies and we have been looking to meeting with you to see how we can partner. Thank God you are here today. We are thinking of you helping us to get lecturers from there, so that we can learn your languages. Our Engineering faculty will learn from your science and technology. We will also be sending our students and lecturers to China to learn modern technology,” Akpagu said. 