Governor of Osun State,  Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has described the founder and Global General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye,  as ‘the voice of peace and comfort in a troubled and edgy world’ and harbinger of hope to millions of souls across the world. Aregbesola dropped this accolade in a message commemorating the 76th birthday of the foremost man of God on Friday. The Governor, in a statement by his Media Adviser, Mr. Sola Fasure, described Pastor Adeboye as a beacon of hope for the numerous hopeless souls, reconciling them with God through his sermons and evangelical engagements all over the world. Aregbesola said few people are chosen by God for this kind of evangelical assignment in a generation, saying such chosen few are rare breed and special creation, who sparingly graces this earthly terrain. The Governor noted that Pastor Adeboye is an epitome and embodiment of knowledge, deep faith and a messenger who spread the word of God across the globe untiringly despite his graceful old age. According to the Governor, the arrival of the man of God at the threshold of 76 years is an august occasion, which is very special to his congregation across the globe, Nigeria, the State of Osun, friend and well-wishers across other faiths. The statement read: “Some individuals, very few of them, are specially chosen by the creator to be a blessing to their generation. One of such is Pastor Enoch Adejare Adeboye, the Global General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), who clocked 76 years. “Pastor Adeboye is a well-educated man who gave up his brilliant academic career to do the work of God. He is a man of deep faith with apostolic fervour who has taken Christian evangelism to the nooks and crannies of this nation and the uttermost parts of the world. “There is virtually no community in Nigeria where his church is not firmly established or any part of the world where there is no parish of the RCCG. “He is also a man of prodigious energy. Even at 76, he doesn’t appear to be slowing down, but his light continues to shine brighter and brighter. He is personally a very humble and meek man. He radiates love and deep affectation, always welcoming all and generous to a fault. He played fatherly role to all. “His accommodation knows no bound, transcending, religious, ethnic and class lines. I have found his calming words very assuring even at my most challenging times, whenever I am privileged to meet him. “He is a voice of peace and comfort in a troubled and edgy world; bringing hope to the hopeless and reconciliation with God to the faithless, through his sermons and evangelical engagements all over the world. He is the essential Omoluabi, a gift from our state, Osun, to the world. He has brought honour and glory to our state, indeed the Yoruba race, in particular his Ijesa homestead. He deserves therefore to be celebrated and honored. I congratulate this great man of God on this very special occasion. “On behalf of my family, the government and the good people of Osun, I wish this invaluable jewel a very happy birthday and many more decades of service to humanity.”, the statement read.