The Governing Council of  the University of  Osun  says it will implement  the ` no-work-no-pay’’  policy against striking members of its  Non Academic Staff Union ( NASU )  if  they failed to resume work  on  April 10. Mr Gafar Shittu, the Registrar and Secretary to the Council said this in Osogbo on Tuesday in a statement. Shittu said that any non-academic staff who fails to return to work on or before April 10 would no longer be paid. The News men  recalls that the non-teaching staff  under the aegis of the Joint Action Committee ( JAC )  had on March 5 embarked on an indefinite strike over non-payment of earned allowances among other demands. The registrar  said that  a  register of  attendance would be opened in every college and department for non-teaching staff members who are willing to resume work immediately. Shittu, however, said that the council had agreed during its emergency meeting on Monday that the N300 million balance of the 2014/2015 Earned Allowance would be paid in instalments at N10 million per month beginning from April 30. ‘‘It is apposite to state at this juncture that the University has been unable to pay the Earned Allowance because of the shortfall in its finances. ‘‘Nevertheless, of the total sum of N524 million being the cost of the accrued allowances for the 2013/2014 and 2014/2015, N224 million has since been paid while the university is not owing any arrears of salary till date. ‘‘It is on this note that the management reiterates its long-standing appeal to the striking non-teaching staff to return to work and join once again in the arduous task of the growth and development of the university,’’ he said. In a telephone interview with the News men, the university’s NASU Chairman, Mr Isaiah Fayemi, said the Joint Action Committee ( JAC ) of the institution would meet later in the day to decide the next line of action. “We are presently in the state House of Assembly premises but once we are through, JAC will meet to take a position on the issue,” Fayemi said. NAN