As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, LG Electronics, a leading brand in consumer electronics and home appliances, visited Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hospital Kano, where it donated some units of All New Gencool Inverter Air Conditioners, Jet Cool Air Conditioners as well as Treated Mosquito Nets to the hospital. The brand has received accolades from Nigerian consumers over the years, for having their interest at heart in the development of cutting edge technological products. The company embarked on this gesture in order to enhance health care delivery services in Nigeria. At the event, officials of LG Electronics interacted freely with the hospital management as well as members of the community. The donated items are expected to meet the needs of the health institution in their mission to provide people in the community with excellent health care services. Head of Corporate Marketing, LG Electronics West Africa Operations, Mr. Hari Elluru, who spoke during the occasion said: “We have remained competitive while improving sustainability; we have enabled investment and innovation required to deploy new technologies safely and responsibly develop progressive products.” He said further: “We believe that the air conditioning units as well as the other items we are donating today will improve the service delivery in the hospital and provide the enabling environment for the patients.” At the occasion to represent Fouani Nigeria limited, was the Kano Regional Manager, Fouani Nigeria Limited, Mr. Abbas Ghamloush, who said: “This visit which is part of LG Electronics’ Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities is aimed at reaching out to health institutions in the country. It is our firm belief that the items we are donating today will go a long way to empower this health facility as well as the people of this community in their quest to enjoy sound health by empowering the hospital staff to do their jobs more efficiently.” Chief Medical Director, Murtala Muhammed Specialist Hospital Kano, Dr. Nura Idris, who received the items on behalf of the hospital, commended LG Electronics for the bold and kind initiative. “We are proud to be the recipients of these distinctively designed air conditioning units and the treated mosquito nets. We appreciate LG Electronics’ generosity and good will to our hospital, which is clearly demonstrated by this donation.” 