FrieslandCampina WAMCO, makers of Three Crowns milk is set to begin the 2018 edition of the Three Crowns 30 days Fitness Challenge (TC30DaysFitnessChallenge). The programme, a month-long fitness regime is conceived to create awareness on the importance of keeping fit and eating healthy. The #TC30DaysFitnessChallenge is designed to encourage Nigerian consumers, especially mums to create fun ways to live a healthy lifestyle by cultivating healthy habits into every moment irrespective of what they do and what they take. While the event lasts, consumers will be encouraged to workout with whatever materials they have like buckets, kegs or do simple routines that do not require expert supervision to accomplish. To participate in the fitness challenge, which is in its fourth edition, consumers have been invited to register here . They are also expected to follow Three Crowns’ official Instagram handle (@3crownsmilk) and Facebook page, and then watch out for a one-minute worevery night kout video by a Fitness Instructor. Also, participants are required to make a demo video of themselves doing the same routine, post it on their Instagram page and tag @3crownsmilk. They can also upload the video in the comment section of the video post for the day with the official Hashtag #TC30DaysFitnessChallenge. Speaking about the event Senior Brand Manager, FrieslandCampina WAMCO, Mrs. Omolara Banjoko stated that as Nigeria’s leading low cholesterol milk brand, Three Crowns Milk is a brand that cares for the health and well-being of its consumers especially mothers who are the strength of the family. “Three Crowns Milk has since recognized that mothers are the foundation of any family and as such, they need to stay fit and healthy. This is why we strongly believe in supporting mothers to provide the care needed for the development of the home,” she said. And just like in previous seasons, cardio dance sessions will be organized with the fitness instructors at selected locations Pan Nigeria to create a live experience of Fitness exercise. Three Crowns has consistently delivered good quality milk for over 30 years and is trusted by families and medical practitioners to help Nigerians stay fit and healthy. Three Crowns milk can be used in your tea, coffee, custard, cereals, fruits and all kinds of dishes that can be prepared with milk.