The Community Health and Research Initiative (CHR), a Non-Governmental Organization (NGO) has urged rich Nigerians to emulate the Mr. Bill Gates and Alhaji Aliko Dangote in supporting Primary Health Care in the country. The duo recently signed a MoU with six states on sustainable funding for Routine Immunization (RI) and child health in Nigeria. The benefitting states are Kano, Kaduna, Yobe, Borno, Sokoto and Bauchi. CHR in a statement signed by its Director, Salisu Musa Muhammad, and made available to the media in Abuja said “We are also calling on other similarly rich Nigerians particularly those from the northern region to emulate Alhaji Dangote by also committing their resources to the development child and primary healthcare in the northern region, which has the poorest child health indices in the country” urged the statement. “We believe the likes of Alhaji Aminu Dantata, Alhaji Abdulmunaf Sarina (owner of Azman Air); Alhaji Abdulsamad Rabiu (owner of BUA Group) as well as Alhaji Auwalu Abdullahi (owner of AA Rano Group) are all well-placed to also contribute their quota to the quest to end child and maternal mortality in northern Nigeria. We are of the opinion that by also committing their resources to this initiative, they will not only be saving lives but also discharging their corporate social responsibility (CSR) to Nigerians.” Commending the duo for their support, CHR stated, “We particularly wish to commend the personal commitment they have shown to improving child healthcare in Nigeria which could be seen in the fact that they always personally participate in the mid-and-end of year review meetings of the situation of child and primary healthcare in the states of their intervention, despite their obviously very busy schedules. We believe the commitment the duo has demonstrated improved immunization services in the country is but second to none.” The Non-Governmental Organization also called on the governors of the 6 respective states that have signed the MoU extension with the Gates Foundation and Dangote Foundation “to remain committed of the MoU by ensuring timely payment and release of their counterpart funding adding that “doing so would be their way of encouraging the exceptionally magnanimous gestures of Mr Gates and Alhaji Dangote to the millions of children that would benefit from the RI interventions.” Since 2013, the duo of Mr Gates and Alhaji Dangote has been actively supporting efforts targeted at achieving sustainable funding for RI and eradication of polio virus out of Nigeria 