One of the topmost goals the President Muhamm-adu Buhari’s administration has set for itself since May 2015 is to kill corruption in the country before it brings the country to its knees. Corruption has been defined in many ways to include giving bribe to an official in order to prevent a disclosure of truth, and embezzlement of public fund for personal use. It involves fraudulent conduct by those in power, including illegitimate use of power for selfish or personal interest. Corruption is also seen as any act which is considered to be criminal in line with the laws of a particular society. There is no doubt that corruption is one of Nigeria’s biggest challenges, which has been found in very high level at the various sectors of the society over the years. Many international organis-ations including the Transparency International have sever-ally ranked Nigeria high in corruption. In 1999, after the military era, Nigeria was ranked the second-most corrupt nation in the world as it came 98th out of a total of 99 countries covered by Transpa-rency International report. For the year 2000, Nigeria was declared the most corrupt nation after Transparency International carried out a survey on the corruption levels of 90 countries. In the survey Nigeria occupied the 90th position in terms of transparency. The following year, Nigeria was ranked the second-most corrupt nation in the world as it came 90th out of 91 countries. That year, Bangladesh was the most corrupt country. In the year 2002, Nigeria was again ranked the second-most corrupt country in the world, after a survey  carried out among102 countries. Nigeria ended up occupying the 101st position in terms of Confidence Interval (CI). Nigeria, in the year 2003 retained the same ranking as the second-most corrupt country in the world. In a survey of 146 countries in the year 2004, Nigeria was ranked better than the previous four years as it became the third most corrupt country in the world better than Bangladesh and Haiti. Out of 158 countries surveyed by Transparency International in the year 2005, Nigeria was ranked as the eighth most corrupt nation. Out of 163 countries surveyed in the year 2006, Nigeria was ranked as the 21st most corrupt country in the world. In 2007, Nigeria was ranked 33rd most corrupt country in the world as it came 147th out of the 180 countries surveyed. While it was on the 121st position out of 180 countries in the year 2008, Nigeria dropped to 130th position out of 180 countries studied in the year 2009. In the year 2012, Nigeria became the 37th most corrupt nation in the world as it was 143rd position out of 183 countries. In 2012, Nigeria was 35th most corrupt nation in the world as it was 139th out of the 176 countries surveyed. In 2013, Nigeria was ranked 33rd most corrupt country as it was 144th out of 177 surveyed countries in terms of transparency. For the year 2014, Nigeria was ranked 38th most corrupt country in the world coming 136th out 174 surveyed countries. In the year 2015, Nigeria was ranked 32nd most corrupt country in the world, retaining the 136th position out of 170 countries surveyed. It became 40th most corrupt nation in 2016 as it again retained the136th position out of the 176 countries surveyed. The latest Corruption Perception Index released by Transparency International for the year 2017 showed that Nigeria got backward by 12 steps in the fight against graft as it moved from 136th position the previous year to 148th  out of 175 countries surveyed. While the Presidency had earlier described the latest report as “fiction”, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo last Tuesday at the Dialogue of Organs of Government on Reform of Justice Sector and Campaign Against corruption, jointly organised by the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) and Federal Ministry of Justice at the State House  Abuja,. had said that the report should not be seen as setback for Nigeria. At the same venue, the need to fight corruption to a standstill without lip service was again brought to the front burner last week. The opinion there was that only those who are not corrupt can truly fight corruption in the country. It also demands fighting corruption without any emotion or human face or partiality or selectivity. To really do better than other past administrations’ fight against corruption, the fight has been advised to be fought beyond mere lip service. The Chairman of PACAC, Prof. Itse Sagay, last Tuesday said “Fighting corruption cannot be lip service. You cannot be corrupt and be talking against corruption, it ridicules the whole exercise and the spirit of that struggle. “And so we should purge ourselves of corruption so that we can stand on firm ground to speak. Some might have been corrupt in the past but if you purge yourselves then you are welcome. “It ridicules the whole process when we see people waxing lyrical on anti-corruption whereas behind them, they have huge load of assets and other things which they corruptly acquired. “So, collaboration and cooperation is essential because we need each other in order to succeed. But I think I will rather work alone than work with a corrupt person who is not sincere and is just making a fool of the whole country whilst preaching like a pastor about corruption,” he stated There is no doubt that when corruption is squarely tacked in Nigeria, more resources will be freed for infrastructural development and to meet other common needs of the people It is also hoped that Nigeria’s backward trend in the Transparency International reports will be reversed at the end of 2018.