WRITING about kidney and gallbladder stones and stone-melting or crushing herbs and substances in the first part of this series last week, I remembered some of the unforgettable staff of The Comet. I could see Margaret Mike-Pearse, the sickle-cell disease-challenged daughter of a veteran journalist. Popping up everywhere in my memory, too, was Mrs. Harriet Lawrence, the African-American woman married to Nigerian journalist Ben Lawrence. Margaret, frail but irrepressible, dedicated and hardworking, was an impressionistic reporter. So well gifted with word smithing was she that no one saw Margaret’s bye-line on a copy and failed to read her. She could so describe the air with breath that it would suddenly become physical before your gaze. Mrs. Lawrence was four-folds the size of Margaret. She had the kind of frame that was required to chase away awkwardness and sluggishness which tended to slow the news machine of a newsroom largely populated by greenhorn reporters. Gallstones made Margaret and Mrs. Lawrence birds of a feather. Quintessential and picturesque, Margaret sometimes came down with abdominal pain, which eventually landed her for surgery at a military hospital. Mrs. Lawrence had a baby born without the gall bladder, a sort of pantry in which the liver stores the bile salts it produces for the digestion of fat and other purposes. Inside the gall bladder, these salts become concentrated to make them perform their functions with clinical efficiency. The doctors who looked after this baby knew she would not live for long. If my memory serves me right, she lived for about three years, kept alive that long by all sorts of herbals to which her mother turned, including the grating of bitter kola into the infant’s meals to fill a yawning bile gap.  Gall bladder and bile salts  It is doubtful if anyone would enjoy quality life without a healthy gall bladder and concentrated bile salts.The liver produces bile, a thick and sticky greenish-yellow substance transported by ducts into a reservoir called the gall bladder. When we eat, the gall bladder contracts to release or squeeze bile out at the other end, into a duct which runs through the pancreas, into the intestine to digest cholesterol and fats in the food, and to make fat soluble vitamins easily absorbable. Bile salts or bile acids, as they are also called, clear wastes in the liver and exports, through the stool, other fat-soluble poisons and bilirubin, the yellowish content of red blood cells which causes yellowing of skin and eyes in jaundice when it accumulates in the blood. The health of the gall bladder can be endangered by many factors, such as (1) gall stones (2) diseases of the liver (3) obstruction of bile ducts (4) narrowing of bile ducts and (5) diseases of the pancreas, through which the cystic bile duct posses on its way to the duodenum in the small intestine where it delivers bile salts. From the composition of bile, we know of the formation of gall bladder stones and how to overcome them. Bile is made of water, potassium, sodium, cholesterol,Lecithin, Calcium, Bilirubin, Chloride, Bicarbonate, Fatty acids and Bile salts, among others. The liver makes about one litre of bile everyday. Pear shaped, the gall bladder stores about 30 to 60mls of bile which it concentrates by encouraging the defusion of water chloride and some other electrolytes through its lining. This gall bladder bile is five to 20 times more concentrated than liver bile. Bile salts account for the largest ratio of gall bladder bile, and may be six times more concentrated than liver bile. Liver bile, on the other hand, has a higher concentration of water, bicarbonate, sodium and chlorine than gall bladder bile. (The Yorubas called bile Orooro d: m: d: r)  Gallstones  A stone is the hardened deposit of bile formed in the gallbladder. It can be as small as a grain of sand or be as big as a golf ball. Some people may develop only one gallstone or none, while some others may have multiples of these stones. Certain diseases are now associated with stones forming gradually in the liver. Pain may not be felt where stones have formed, if they are small enough to freely move along in the bile ducts. Where they do not, the pressure they impact on the walls may cause the following symptoms, and more.  Signals  (1) Sudden and worsening pain in the middle of the upper right abdomen (2) the pain may radiate to the back, between the shoulder blades (3) nausea and vomiting (4) bloating (5) indigestion (6) heartburn.  Stone types  In the first part of this series, Calcium Oxalate stones were reported to be the commonest type of kidney stones. In gall bladder stones, there are two dominant types…(1) cholesterol stones and (2) pigment stones. Just as Calcium Oxalate stones are the commonest kidney stones, the yellow-green cholesterol stones dominate the gallstones profile, accounting for about 80 per cent of them. The less common are the darker and smaller pigment stones made from bilirubin, a component of bile produced by the liver and stored in the gall bladder.  Risk factors  Certain factors make some people predisposed to forming gallstones. They include (1) Genes (2) Race (3) Obesity (4) Gender (5) Poor diet (6) Diabetes (7) High levels of Low Density Lipoprotein … LDL, the bad cholesterol (8) Sedentary life. These days, a doctor wishes to find out if a problem “runs in the family”. In the United States, where about 20 million people are treated every year for gallstones, African-Americans are said to be prime candidates. Obese people are also aboard the train because they are likely to have in their blood an excess of total cholesterol and a subnormal ratio of the good cholesterol, the HDL, to the bad one, Low Density Lipoprotein (LDL) which creates Havocs. In the age bracket, gallstones are believed to strike from about the age of 40. More women than men suffer from gallstones. Even where gallstones are contained, many people find out that they have no peace in the upper right abdomen. A little fat in the diet upsets them. They bloat up immediately, may have indigestion and may be unable to pass faeces for days or even weeks. The body speaks to such people, but they do not understand its language or hear its voice. The messages the body may be passing on may be in the colour of the stool, the shape of the stool or its capacity to displace water in the water closet (WC). Normal fecal colour for many healthy people is brownish. The more brown it is the more likely that enough bile has mixed with it, and is flowing normally and adequately. If the colour is yellow, something may be amiss. If the stool floats rather than sinks in the WC, there may be more fat and more air than should be in the stool. The stool of a healthy system forms like the banana and does not come in pellets. Conditions outside these ones may lead to the accumulation of more toxins, acidosis, proliferation of germs, infectious diseases and degenerative ailments. The language and voice of the body are expressed, also, in the continually changing topography of the finger nails, the mapping of the tongue and the characterisation of the iris of the eye, which an Iridologist can interprete diagnostically. The problems of the gall bladder and its duct systems may have diverse origins. Ducts in the liver may be inflamed or degenerating because the liver is becoming hardened or inflamed. Ducts which take bile away from the gallbladder en route the pancreas to the small intestine may be narrowed through scars formed by infections, the activities of microorganisms, tumours in the Pancreas or by the formation of gallstones. I know of some people who have had their gallstones removed through surgery, but who, nevertheless, remained “uneasy” because of the inflammation which had widespread in the gallbladder and the ductal systems. Doctors warn them to limit or avoid fat in the diet. So, they are literally “sentenced” to obtaining their energy largely from carbohydrates and proteins. Carbohydrates are efficient sources of fuel for the body. But they can lead the consumer in our part of the world to diabetes because we rarely consume with it enough Vitamin B-complex to help us easily burn the sugar. Besides, our carbohydrate is largely refined rice, white flour bread and cassava and yam derivatives. The end product of carbo-hydrate are acid and acidosis. Too much protein is not good, either. It may impose heavy cleaning duties on the kidneys and the digestive tract, as protein digestion may leave sludges behind. Such sludges may produce sensitivities. Urea and Uric acid levels may build up, causing their own family of problems. Saturated fats and hydrogenated fats, such as margarine, may be killer fats, but there are healer fats as well which a gallstone sufferer may be warned against. I can hardly visualise healthy life without Titus fish and Omega-3 fish oil, or without flax seed oil or Udo’s oil, all of which may cause blow-outs in an inflamed gallbladder in need of these oils to cool off the heat of inflammation. This is not saying there is no hope of normal life for the gallbladder challenged person…As the major culprit in gallstones is cholesterol, it is not surprising that the major antidote of many recepies target cholesterol, and their chief weapon is fiber … RADISH JUICE. Maria Treben tells a radish juice story in her HELP THROUGH GOD’S PHARMACY…A General’s wife had her gallstone surgically removed. As a momento, she stuck the stone into the handle of a kitchen knife. As she was cutting radishes one day, the door bell rang. She kept the knife in the radish pulp bowl and went to answer the call. When she was done with her visitor and returned to the kitchen, she found that the gallstone momentous on the knife she kept in the radish pulp bowl had melted. So, radishes can melt gallstones! In one of several reported studies, the following report was made of a probe into folklore claims: “In Mexico, Raphanus sativus var. Sativus (black radish) has been used for the treatment of gallstones and for decreasing lipid serum levels. We evaluated the effects of juice squeezed from Black radish root in cholesterol gallstones and serum lipid of mice. The toxicity of juice was analysed according to the OECD guidelines. We used female C57BL/6 mice fed with a lithogenic diet. We performed histopathological studies of gallbladder and liver, and measured concentrations of cholesterol, HDL, and triglycerides levels, and decreased HDL levels; gallbladder wall thickness increased markedly, showing a epithelial hyperplasia and increased liver weight. After treatment with juice for six days, cholesterol gallstones were eradicated significantly in the gallbladder of mice; cholesterol and triglycerides level decreased too, and there was also an increase in HDL. ‘Gallbladder tissue continued to show epithelial hyperplasia and granulocyte infiltration; liver tissue showed vacuortar degeneration. The juice of Black radish root has properties for treatment of cholesterol gallstones and for decreasing serum lipids levels; therefore, we confirm in a pre-clinical study the utility that people give it in traditional medicine.”  Vitamin C  Dr. Robert Atkins says in his VITA NUTRIENT SOLUTION that a study found that 2grms of Vitamin C everyday reduced the risk of developing cholesterol gallbladder stones by 350 percent! In one of the many studies which excited my interest about this, I found the following abstract: “… In experimental animals, Vitamin C deficiency led to a super-saturation of bilary cholesterol and to the formation of gallstones. ” AM: to search for a possible relationship between serum levels of Vitamin C and the formation of cholesterol gallstones in patients with cholelithiasis. Thirteen patients with cholelithiasis and programmed surgical intervention were treated with 2grams/day of Vitamin C per is before surgery. 49 patients subjected to a cholecstectomy not supplemented with Vitamin C were studied as controls. Plasma concentrations of Vitamin C and lipid profiles were measured. The cholesterol saturation index, crystallisation time, cholesterol and phospholipid content in vesicles and micelles, separated by gel filtration. “Chromatography were studied in bile samples obtained from the gallbladder. Vitamin C did not change significantly plasma lipids and bile lipid concentration. However, in supplemented patients, significant reductions in vesicular cholesterol content (6.5 – 4.8 per cent compared to 17.9 to 14.00 per cent in the entry group; Vitamin C administration may modify bile cholesterol crystallisation process, the first step in cholesterol gallstone formation.”  Red kidney bean pod  Fiber-rich, anti-cholesterol, anti-diabetic, Urinary Tract Infection (UTI) fighter and anticancer (lungs), among its many uses. This is a known stone crusher.  Others  There are many that cannot be all mentioned here. There are Lecithin, Lemon, Milk thistle, Tumeric, Curcumin 2000X, an extract of Tumeric developed as a proprietary blend 2000 times more powerful than the anti-inflammatory Curcumin in Tumeric. Lecithin is a fat emulsifier or melter. It dissolves cholesterol and other fats in blood vessels, and melt cholesterol gallstones. It is active in the brain, which is fatty. Apple cider vinegar knocks out stones. In one study, Activated charcoal reduced that cholesterol by as much as 45 per cent in four weeks, LDL cholesterol by 41 percent while HDL rose by eight percent. Such is the story in other studies worldwide.  Chanca piedra  Our forefathers in Yoruba land tell us in a wise saying: the biggest masquerade is the last to leave the shrine (eegun nla lo ngbehin igbale). Failure to mention Chanca piedra in gallbladder therapy is like commission of sin against Alternative Medicine. The Yorubas call this herb Ehinbisowo or Ehin olube. It lowers high blood pressure, high blood sugar, is good for male sexual vitality, and is traditionally used by Yorubas traders to invoke high customer traffic to their business premises. It is present in such proprietary liver food supplements as Amazon Liver Support and Liver Balance. www.jonbarron.org tells us the uses in other parts of the world: Did you know that millions of Americans suffer from kidney stone or gallstone problems? In fact, each year, more than one million people in the US learn they have gallstones. Overall, nearly 10% of the American population have gallstones. They join the million people who visit their healthcare providers for kidney stone issues. Each year, more than 300,000 people end up in emergency rooms for kidney stone problems. “Luckily, nature has a remedy to help. For generations, chanca piedra has been used by the indigenous peoples of the Amazon for treatment and removal of gallstones and kidney stones. In fact, the name chanca piedra, as it is known in Peru, comes from its effect on kidney stones and gallstones. The literal translation is “stone breaker.” It effectively softens both kidney stones and gallstones for easy passage out of the body. It is also renowned for its diuretic qualities and has been shown effective at helping relieve edema and urine retention. “This natural remedy has sparked the interest of researchers around the world, and since the 1960’s, over 300 studies have been carried out. The first research was conducted by Indian and Brazilian research groups, since the plant is indigenous to their areas. The Brazilian researchers summarised their research stating: ‘Pre-clinical and clinical studies carried out with the extracts and purified compounds from these plants support most of their reported uses in folk medicine for the treatment of a wide variety of pathological conditions.'”