The Senate has threatened to halt work on the 2018 budgets of no fewer than 444 federal commissions, agencies, corporations and parastatals for failure to submit their account records to the Auditor General for the Federation over the years. The action of the agencies contravened Section 85 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), which mandated such federal agencies to submit their audited reports to the Auditor General, for onward transmission to the National Assembly. Worried by the development, the Senate on Wednesday gave the affected agencies till the end of May 2018 to comply or have their 2018 budget proposals withdrawn. Chairman Senate Public Accounts Committee, Senator Matthew Urhoghide (PDP, Edo State), while presenting a report at plenary on Wednesday, pointed out that of the 491 federal agencies, only 47 have fully complied by submitting their audited reports for 2017. The agencies that have complied included: Assets Management Company to Nigeria (AMCON); Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Abuja Property Development Company; Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre; National Law Reform Commission; National Agricultural Seeds Council; National Open University; University of Abuja among others. In all, Urhoghide revealed that 444 agencies are yet to comply. Among the defaulting agencies, 85 had never submitted audit report since they were created. While others are in arrears for five to 17 years. The report listed some of the agencies yet to submit their reports since inception to include: Bank of Industry (BoI); Bank of Agriculture (BoA); Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC); FCT Internal Revenue Service; FCT Universal Basic Education Board; Agricultural Research Council of Nigeria; Abuja Infrastructural Investment Centre; National Automotive Council among others. The report also named parastatals that are yet to submit their audited accounts between six and 10 years to include the Debt Management Office (DMO); Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC); National Insurance Commission; Financial Reporting Council; Bureau for Public Enterprises (BPE); and Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria. Others are Bureau for Public Procurement (BPP); National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS); Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA); Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) among others. The committee chairman said that many of the parastatals were not willing to submit their audited accounts without being compelled, adding that many of the parastatals do not take issues of accountability in public expenditure seriously. He accused the Auditor-General of placing less premium on high profile federal agencies with huge accounts like the NNPC, NPA, NIMASA, CBN, TETFUND, etc. “An agency like the EFCC misinterprets the reporting requirement in their enabling Acts to violate the Constitution,” he stated. Other recommendations by the committee urged the Office of the Auditor-General for the Federation to constantly update and reconcile with parastatals on their status of compliance. It also urged the Auditor General to liaise with the Bureau for Public Enterprises (BPE) and the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation to clarify status of privatised and merged/scrapped Parastatals. It also recommended adequate budgetary allocations to the office of the Auditor-General to enhance performance. 