The University of Benin (UNIBEN) is one of Nigeria’s first generation federal universities. It was founded in 1970. It started as an Institute of Technology and was accorded the status of a full-fledged university by the National Universities Commission (NUC) on 1 July 1971. In his budget speech in April 1972, the then Military Governor of Mid-Western State, Col. S. O. Ogbemudia (also Visitor to the University) announced the change of the name of the Institute of Technology to the University of Benin. On 1 April, 1975, the university at the request of the state government was taken over by the Federal Government and became a Federal University. Since the inception of the institution, it has produced eight substantive Vice chancellors. Prof Faraday Osasere Orumwense on November 30, 2014 assumed office as the 9th substantive Vice-Chancellor of the University of Benin. Prior to his appointment as Vice-Chancellor of the University, he had over two decades of experience in university administration in various capacities, including his appointment by the Edo State government as pioneer Rector of the Institute of Management and Technology, Usen. Since his stewardship as Vice-Chancellor in the last three and a half years, there has been rapid development across various strata of the university. The primacy of peace in any given environment cannot be overemphasised, as it remains an important ingredient in the realisation of an organisation’s goals and objectives. Orumwense was very clear on employees’ and students’ welfare in his first appearance as the university gaffer, saying it was a major factor to improve on. The former Dean of Students, Prof Francis Osagiede harps on Prof Orumwense’s visionary leadership thus: “Orumwense has matched words with action as the administration placed huge premium on the welfare of staff and students. To this end, the administration remains committed to regular promotion of staff as at when due with their entitlement paid. “Our pensioners are not left out as we remain committed to their welfare. The administration is also leaving no stone unturned to create a befitting environment for learning. In pursuance of this, the administration has put in place an up to-date routine maintenance of existing public utilities on campus.” The administration in its effort to strengthen the committee system of university administration successfully conducted the 2015 congregation election, where members of staff were elected into various committees for the smooth running of the university. Cultism and other associated vices have been reduced to the barest minimum with the increase level of security surveillance made possible through the procurement of six patrol vehicles by this administration. The VC said: “I am happy to inform you that students now sleep with their two eyes closed and are also not afraid to go about their lawful academic and extra-curricular activities without fear of molestation.” The state of ICT Platforms in University of Benin has improved tremendously following series of upgrades to international standard. “It is with a sense of fulfilment that we announce to you that the University of Benin is the first University in Nigeria to develop software independently for the Computer Based Test (CBT) for PUME/PUDE and other internal and external examinations,” he stated. He further explained that the Network operation Centre (N.O.C. Room) of the University has been upgraded with the support of the NCC and NUC administration to an international standard that can accommodate the 155mbps. The ICT/CRPU of the University of Benin now boasts of e-learning multimedia platform, e-Senate meetings/result presentation and hostels with fiber optics. Similarly, the Ekehuan campus has been linked with Network operation Centre room to improve internet services in the environment. Also, the campus now boasts of improved information technology facility, massive renovation of lecture theatres and a 24-hour library. Face-lifting and beautification of the institution, provision of new industrial borehole facility for male halls of residence situated at both Ugbowo and Ekehuan campuses, renovation of Anao Toilet facility at Hall IV male hostel at the Ugbowo Campus. Orumwense also saw to the provision of Methylated Spirit and Hydrogen Peroxide production unit, which is awaiting final approval to commence production but has successfully undergone a mandatory pre-assessment by the National Agency for Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). An astroturf football pitch was provided, just as the university embarked on the construction of 500-capacity female hostel, construction of golf course building, construction of safety& environmental education building, construction of an ultramodern library in college of medicine, construction of Botanical gardens research building, re-grassing of main bowl football pitch, among others. That the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) licensed the University of Benin (UNIBEN) to generate and operate a 7.5 megawatt Independent Power Plant (IPP) within its campus is also a testimony to the dynamism  of the astute academician. He also initiated different awards to reward outstanding lecturers like the Distinguished Research and Innovative Achievement Award (DRIAA) to reward researchers in the school who have carved a niche for themselves. The administration has attracted scholarships/research grants to staff and students of the University. As part of efforts of his administration in building capacity on ICT proficiency for both teaching, non-teaching as well as students, the CRP/ICT Unit of the University of Benin successfully held its 2017 edition of ICT Day, the second in successive years, with the theme ‘Unlimited Access to Learning for Everyone Everywhere: ICT the Rostrum’.  The lecture with the topic’ Continuous Learning, the Role of ICT: Free Online Course’ from Abuja by Dr. Joshua Attah, Director NgREN, National Universities Commission Abuja via the use of video conferencing. The successful launching of the Centre for Global Eco-Innovation which was done in collaboration with Lancaster University, United Kingdom attracted participants as well as goodwill messages from African Union Scientific Technical Research Commission, Nigerian Airforce, Manufacturer Association of Nigeria, Raw Material Research and Development Council, National Biosafety Management Agency, Small and Medium Enterprise Development Association of Nigeria, National Environmental Standards and Regulatory Enforcement Agency, Nigeria Meteorological Agency, Standard Organisation of Nigeria, Nigerian Content Development and Monitoring Board and several others. Under Prof Orumwense, the University of Benin has in partnership with Lancaster University (UK) and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (Ghana) won a Global Challenge Research Fund (GCRF) grant. The grant which is part of a new 225 million pounds rate of investment, aims to grow research capability to meet the challenges faced by the developing world. The Great Britain 6.8 million projects will be led by Lancaster University (UK), with the University of Benin and CSIR Ghana as core partners. The varsity makes history as first African University to advance to final stage of Petrobowl Championship in USA. The flag of the University of Benin was again flown very high in far-away San Antonio, Texas, USA. This is the first time in the history of the competition that an African University will advance to the final stage. Two of University of Benin professors have brought honour to the University by their recent appointments as Rectors of Ogwashi Uku and Oghara Polytechnics in Delta State by the Delta State government. They are Professor Stella Chiemeke of the Department of Computer Science and Professor Emmanuel Ogujor of the Department of Electrical/Electronic Engineering. Interestingly, Shell Petroleum Development Company is working with the University of Benin for greater development. Shell Petroleum Development Company is one partner that has expressed keen interest in the University of Benin. The current Managing Director, Mr Okunbor is a worthy alumnus of the University of Benin. The company has expressed interest in constructing an ICT Building for the University. Lately, the company has been involved in the renovation of and upgrading of facilities in the Sport Complex. With these feats and many more to come, the university is indeed way ahead in administrative proficiency.  