The International Women’s Day is marked globally in honour of the womenfolk. Abisola Nwoboshi, Assistant General Manager & Head, Corporate Business Group, Axa Mansard Insurance Plc, in this interview with Charles Okonji, speaks on issues affecting women and her engagement at her work place. Please introduce yourself, what your role entails and what do you love most about your job? My name is Abisola Nwoboshi. Basically my role entails supervision of the activities of the Relationship Managers within the Group.  I develop and implement strategies for business development for the group, grows and expand nationwide market share for the group, provide direction and leadership for the group, drive the implementation and achievement of the Group’s budget. Monitor the company’s portfolio to ensure profitable portfolio of policies is maintained and lastly manage the relationships of key executives of large customers within the Group. What I love most about my job is the opportunity to provide coaching and mentoring to members of the Group, most especially the young ladies to always think into the cloud, do everything to the best of your ability with time allotted What does the International Women’s Day means to you. How relevant is it? It is an opportunity to reflect, rejoice and recharge ourselves together as one with women all across the globe. It’s also a day to connect with one another physically, virtually and spiritually – and to give thanks for the generations of amazing women who have come before us, and the generations of phenomenal women still to come! Women have not always shared the same rights, and still do not in many respects. International Women’s Day is an opportunity to celebrate the women who have paved the way towards our progress, yet at the same time, it is a reminder of the inequality that plagues society. We must continue to support our leaders, innovators, and risk-takers for thinking forward and expanding the possibilities for women around the globe. The global International Women’s day or month allows us to celebrate women, their achievement and measure the progress we are making when it comes to the topical issues that concerns women. From Gender parity, to inclusion in leadership and politics, spousal support and generally women empowerment –allowing women to be who they want to be or allowing them to pursue their dreams What do you think is the single biggest issue currently facing Nigerian women? Personally I think it is the veiled patriarchy. We rarely stop to think about the ways that patriarchy shapes our daily lives as an invisible organizing principle. We’re largely unaware of the way the female perspective is quietly omitted in design, business, technology, clothing and even our cities. How does AXA Mansard intend to or how does it currently empower Nigerian women? AXA Mansard launched her SHEFORSHIELD initiative in 2016. Our objectives include partnering with women from all works of life to become their preferred insurer. Being the Preferred Insurer for women goes beyond selling insurance products to women. It is about redefining the way women customers view and react to insurance while being innovative and impactful. Solutions to protect women – health covers for their families and themselves, education cover for their children and wards, protection for their businesses and assets, savings products for the rainy day is essential. We also look to provide value adding services beyond products to help women whether in building their businesses, or developing their careers or from falling back into poverty (for low income women). What are the objectives and benefits of AXA Mansard SheforShield initiative? Why is it important for women to be empowered? Women are systemic thinkers and consumers. Women control 85% of consumer spending globally. Why? Because your average woman makes purchases for herself, her husband or partner, her children and also her elderly parents. Women make 70% of major financial decisions for themselves and their families, everything from auto, insurance, home and investment. Do you feel a responsibility to mentor other, younger, less experienced women? As I have mentioned earlier, the need to empower women cannot be over emphasized but I believe it has to start with you & I. I believe strongly in guiding and mentoring women in my sphere of influence, whether in the work place, in my family, in my religious circle.  Women need to help one another to succeed. While it feels nice to have someone who cheers you on, the most effective mentors are brutally honest.  They would tell you what you need to hear to reach your goals, would point out your blind spots and push you to understand where and why you are making a mistake. The best mentors also possess superb EQ and know how to deliver the message so that it has the highest probability of being accepted.  A mentor also provides helpful suggestions about what the mentee can do differently. The most effective mentorship sessions lead to reflection and ultimately positive change. Reciprocally, a good mentee is an open-minded thinker who craves to know what he is missing or how he could improve.  Additionally being a mentor has helped me identify talent and be able to build effective teams quickly when the need arises. Who is your biggest influence or icon? Over the years I have learnt to find roles in different models. Maya Angelou is my hero because she is always positive. She is my role model because of what she had overcome and because of what she has accomplished. She took life head on and she never gave up. One of my favorite quote from her is “No matter what happens, or how bad it seems today, life does go on, and it will be better tomorrow”. However my greatest Icon remains the everyday Nigerian Woman to her again I quote Maya Angelou “Stepping onto a brand-new path is difficult, but not more difficult than remaining in a situation, which is not nurturing to the whole woman.”   Succeed in every aspect of her life. What main change would you like to see for young girls in the next generation? The new generation of women is increasingly stepping into entrepreneurship and innovation. Yet as they do so, we are seeing a wave of businesses with women centered innovation at the core — meaning, products and services that are designed to reflect women’s pain points and direct needs. This may seem like a minor point — but keep in mind that this simple assertion disrupts thousands of years of social conditioning to “code” for the masculine. So for me it is more about more women taking their destiny into their hands and test erstwhile unchartered territories. I want the next generation to be limitless and fearless, to see the world as an equal playing ground for all and to reach for beyond the star. What message would you like to leave for men and women on International Women’s Day? To women, it is only when you risk failure that you can discover new things. When you play it safe, you’re not expressing the utmost of your human experience. In life, we are either growing or dying. Life doesn’t have to be complicated. Let’s try and keep life simple. Women take calculated risks. We need 3 things in life “Something to do, everybody needs someone to love, we need something to hope for. There is never a right time to do the wrong thing and there’s never a wrong time to do the right thing. Let’s just be right on time. Always show people you care. #Pressforprogress, do more, be more, do not limit yourself. Challenge the status quo always! 