President of the Nigeria Aquatics Federation, Babatunde Fatayi-Williams has expressed satisfaction over the organization coupled with the standard of the maiden Dolphin Swimming League, while he revealed that the tournament would unearth world beaters for Nigeria. He described the atmosphere at the Lekki British School (LBS), venue of the week two of the championships as excellence for the schools competition. Fatayi-Williams, who is also the second Vice President of the Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) believes with more bodies coming on board, the tournament would attract more schools across the country. Fatayi-Williams said “The whole idea of the league is very good because it provides regular competitions for children if it can be sustained. The children will progress and develop skills, techniques, build stamina and competitive spirit. A lot of schools want to join and that would mean more expenses for the organisers. I appeal to sponsors to support because it is difficult to organise tournament of this magnitude. The organisers need funding so the more sponsors are coming, the better for the competition.  The Aquatics Federation is very much behind the league and we will continue to give technical support and in other areas when required.” The maiden Dolphin Swimming League continues to garner momentum with large turnout of stakeholders craving support of corporate organisations and well-meaning Nigerians to sustain the league. The Lagos team and five other schools competed for honours in the inaugural edition of the developmental championships designed to unearth new talents and improve the technical know-how of coaches. Head of School, LBS,  Ashish Gill said apart from giving participants opportunity to develop talent, active participation in sports will keep the children away from negative influence and  help them to build functional skills that will useful in the future. “It is a brilliant concept by Dynaspro Sports I congratulate them for bringing the swimming league and getting a lot of international schools and the Lagos state team to compete. It is s great opportunity for children to meet, participate and bring out the real talent in the course of the competition. Of course, sports bring out the real character in the field, sportsmanship, leadership qualities, accepting victory in humility and accepting defeat in a situation that you can do better next time. These are some of the values that are not just building blocks for now but also for the future as well,” Gill said.