There was confusion yesterday at Oporoma, headquarters of Southern Ijaw, Bayelsa State, following a clash between police and gunmen suspected to be cultists. It was learnt that the gunmen overran Oporoma Police Division, and set the building ablaze. The policemen escaped into nearby creeks. It was gathered that a policeman was injured. Others went into hiding waiting for reinforcement. Police Commissioner Don Awunah, on assumption of duty, launched operations to tackle cultists. The clash was reportedly caused by a failed attempt by a suspected cult leader to escape from police custody. The suspect, said to be on the police wanted list, following his alleged involvement in kidnapping, robbery and pipeline vandalism; was shot by policemen on duty while trying to escape. His colleagues were said to have regrouped and attacked the police station. Command spokesman Butswat Asinim, who confirmed the incident, said a reinforcement had been sent to the area. He said: “Preliminary report indicates that a suspected cultist on the police wanted list for crimes such as kidnapping, robbery and pipeline vandalism was arrested and detained at Oporoma Police Division in Southern Ijaw Local Government, preparatory to his transfer to the State Criminal Investigation Intelligence Department (SCIID), Yenagoa. “The suspect on March 21 attempted to escape and was shot by the officer on duty. “Other members of the suspect’s cult mobilised and attacked officers on duty at the police division. They set ablaze the building. Additional policemen were deployed to restore peace. “There seems to be emergence of cultism in Bayelsa State. We urge the public to volunteer information and assist the police in eradicating cultism among youths.” Disturbed by activities of cultists, the House of Assembly yesterday began the amendment of anti-secret cult law to increase the jail terms of persons convicted of cultism to 20 years. The motion to amend the law was moved by the Leader, Mr. Peter Akpe, representing Sagabama II . The document gave the police legal backing to search any vehicle suspected to carry illegal arms and ammunition, and the magistrate power to remand any suspect arrested for cult-related activities for 30 days. The amendment will empower the governor to revoke the Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) of any property or premises used to hold meetings of suspected cultists. Deliberating on the Secret Cult/Societies and Similar Activities Prohibition (Amendment) Bill, 2018, the lawmakers condemned increase in cultism and killings. They said the amendment would empower security personnel to tackle suspected cultists. Akpe said: “At inception in 2012, the present administration silenced secret cult activity with the passage of the Secret Cult Prohibition Bill. But now, the bill seems not to have achieved the desired effect. It is to be strengthened because the government wants a peaceful society.”