Landing that dream job is a job in itself. The interview process that leads to an eventual selection of suitable candidate(s) can be a very arduous and tasking experience especially for the job seeker. Let’s say time, chance, competence and serendipity have all collaborated with you that you conveniently aced all interview questions. Then comes the big question: “What salary do you expect?” At this critical junction, a lot of people begin to flounder and goof for lack of tact and creativity that could ensure their landing the job without shortchanging themselves or downplaying their professional values and worth. Another question job seekers get asked is “What is your current salary?”. This practice is fast becoming illegal around the world. Although, these twin questions are not illegal in our clime, you will need a great amount of tact and creativity to conveniently answer. Checking out these 6 tips that’ll help you handle salary questions: It is important that you thoroughly research the organization you intend to apply to. Find out about the position and compensation range. Knowledge of the industry average for salary will not be out of place. This way, you are not overshooting your expectations or underprice yourself which undermines your competence. Research what the job you’re applying for pays in tandem with your skill and work experience to make sure your expectations are on target. Decide on the minimum salary offer you can accept; one that would cater conveniently for your expenses and creates some allowance for savings. There is no point accepting an offer that will impoverish you, bearing in mind your family, social and economic commitments. Negotiations are sometimes very difficult processes especially when you (as a job seeker) know you really need the job. This is where creativity and tact comes in handy. Try to avoid this kind of talk until there is a solid offer on the table. However, if you are asked before you have such tangible offer, then be careful not to give a direct answer. It is always better to return the question to the interviewer. You can say: “I will like to know more about the position and its sundry responsibilities before I consider a salary fit for it. What are your expectations for this job?” It is in your best interest if the interviewer reveals the salary package to you, instead of being cocooned and boxed with the question of “what salary do you expect?”. However, if the reverse is the case, try as much as you can to be creative. One of the biggest calamity that can befall a person would be working in a job you don’t like and receiving a take home package (salary) that can hardly take you home…you know what I mean? *winks* However, if you can’t get the salary you want, consider negotiating on the total compensation package. These benefits can include flexible work hours, vacation, training, health, education, transportation, etc. Being timid and overly humble about the value you can bring into the organization will be committing an hara-kiri (suicide). Confidence is not arrogance. It is a reflection of your emotion and intellectual competence. A confident candidate with average experience and skills has more chances of being employed than a timid and docile, but highly competent person with experience. Hope this helps. By Moses Emorinken You can contact @memorinken ( Moses Emorinken  ) on twitter and Instagram for  further questions and clarifications.