 Paris Saint-Germain are set to offer Antonio Conte £10million a season in an attempt to convince the Italian to leave Chelsea this summer and have already held talks with his representatives about replacing Unai Emery. Emery, who was appointed in 2016, is almost certain to leave the club when his contract expires at the end of this season, having failed to mount a serious challenge for the Champions League following their exit in the first knockout round against Real Madrid last month. According to Corriere dello Sport, PSG president, Nasser Al-Khelaifi, has made Conte his No 1 target and is ready to table a huge deal to prise him away from Stamford Bridge. Jose Mourinho, Diego Simeone and Massimiliano Allegri are also high on Al-Khelaifi’s shortlist to replace Emery – though he is aware it will be harder to tempt them to move from their respective clubs. Conte is already earning a reported £9.5m a season at Chelsea, so PSG will only be willing to give him a small increase in salary. However, the Italian boss is frustrated at the club and thought to be interested in delving into a new challenge. Conte’s relationship with the Chelsea board has deteriorated this season following the 48-year-old’s public claims they have failed him in the transfer market, which has subsequently placed his future at the club in doubt. He will sit down with the board next month to discuss his future with Chelsea in fifth position in the Premier League and only capable of winning the FA Cup. If he was to join PSG at the end of the season the expectations will be to deliver success in Europe, something he has never done as a manager. Emery has led the Parisians to top of the Ligue 1 table, 17 points clear of Monaco, but this parochial triumph has not persuaded the board to retain their faith in him, with the thinking that the club has not progressed enough under him on the European stage. Despite the high expectations and pressure that comes with the territory of taking over at PSG, Conte will undoubtedly be interested with the club also prepared to hand him freedom in the transfer market. The Chelsea boss has however also been linked with the Italy post. It is understood he is keen to remain in club football with Roberto Mancini and Carlo Ancelotti set to battle it out for the job, but has been placed top of their shortlist. Alessandro Costacurta, Italian football federation vice-commissioner, said last month that the Chelsea manager is Italy’s top choice as national coach. ‘I haven’t chosen yet but I think Conte is the one who could do the best,’ he said. ‘I’ll definitely talk with him in a couple of months.’