SENATOR representing Ogun East Buruji Kashamu has written the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) over the Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Executive Council. He wrote the commission against the backdrop of a recent judgment of the Federal High Court, Lagos, which directed INEC and the PDP to obey an earlier judgment of the court that declared Adebayo Dayo-led State Exco as the authentic leadership of the party in the state. In the letter dated March 26, Kashamu questioned why the commission was recalcitrant in keeping to its tradition of obeying court orders and judgments until a superior court says otherwise. “The commission’s position with regards to the Ogun State PDP Exco negates its well-known and established tradition of giving effect to court judgments until a superior court says otherwise. INEC had in similar situations as this case taken the path of honour and rectitude as shown in the cases of Chief Ejike Oguebego Vs Prince Kenneth Emeakayi over the Anambra State PDP Exco; Samsom Ogah Vs Governor Okezie Ikpeazu of Abia State and Barrister Jimoh Ibrahim Vs Eyitayo Jegede, just to mention a few. So, what has changed? Why is the case of Ogun State PDP Exco different?” Kashamu wrote. The letter reads: “You would recall that I had written three different letters dated 29th January, 2018, 5th and 12thFebruary, 2018 respectively to you, in respect of the Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Executive. However, it is surprising that up till date, the commission has not replied any of the letters. “The silence, notwithstanding, I am again constrained to write you, particularly to draw your attention to yet another judgment of the Federal High Court, Lagos, which has not be stayed or upturned on appeal.” The lawmaker said the latest judgment has been served on the commission’s legal department and wondered why the “the Director of Legal Services, Mrs. Oluwatoyin Babalola, is either keeping the judgment away from your office and/or sitting on it”. Kashamu contended that the court held that the judgment of the Supreme Court on the national leadership tussle between Senator Ali Modu Sheriff and Senator Ahmed Makarfi has nothing to do with the issue of the Ogun State PDP Exco. “As you would find in the judgment, the court held that the resolution of a political party in respect of a State Exco cannot vitiate the subsisting judgment of court. It also ruled that the judgment of the Supreme Court in the Ali Modu Sheriff/ Makarfi case has nothing to do with the issue of the Ogun State Exco. “So, the ill-advised decision of the commission to recognise some dissidents instead of the authentic and legally-recognised Ogun State PDP Exco has no basis in law and it is antithetical to internal democracy and justice.”