Chevron Host Communities Contractors Association (CHOCOPROCO) has sought the relocation of Chevron corporate headquarters to Warri, its operational base, as directed by the Federal Government. Its Chairman Comrade Emmanuel Adidi and Secretary Enaefewan Friday, said this is “because we are aware of the process this will take; we, therefore, demand the immediate relocation of the procurement supervisor’s office and Warri area manager’s office to Warri forthwith.” The group reiterated its 45-day ultimatum to Chervron. It said from next Monday, no truck/trailer of any Chevron contractor/vendor/supplier would be allowed to enter Chevron dockyard/TOPCON or be allowed to park on the Warri-New Port Expressway. The group condemned the marginalisation the region. It said: “Host communities contractors have equal stake in the activities of operations on in their communities and are entitled to live peacefully and benefit maximally from her government and resources. It, however, praised Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for tackling the problem. “We call on all Nigerians to support Delta State and the Federal Government to not only assist in resolving this crisis, but to also help restore peace to the aggrieved parties, which is another way of moving Nigeria to a greater height. “We believe strongly that the unjust and unfair handling of affairs in Chevron Lekki office gave birth to most of the restiveness that is being experienced in parts of the Niger Delta area, which gave rise to agitation from various parts of zone. It, therefore, behoves on a responsible management to address the basis for these agitation. “CHOCOPROCO must be carried along with 65 per cent of all opportunities in the daily contract awards in facilities engineering department, construction department, logistics department, facilities management department, procurement/purchasing department forthwith. “It is fatal to allow selfish individuals and groups through their actions, gang-up and activities, to plunge their host communities into chaos and anarchy. We must, therefore, rise above ethnic, religious and sectional interests and sentiments and put the interest of all Nigerians above every other. “We call on leaders to act as bridge-builders to promote unity, healing and soothing, which our nation needs desperately.’’ The group sought the deployment of Mr Emmanual Agbongiague, the FM supervisor in the Warri office. It said this would serve as a warning to others, especially those supporting and working with him.