SENATOR Aliyu Sabi-Abdullahi (APC-Niger) probably thinks his sponsorship of the hate speech bill is a demonstration of his patriotism and altruism. It is nothing of such. Hate speech is an indication of intolerance, a vice that sometimes draws strength from stereotyping. It can end in terrible destruction and scar a society for generations. Consequently, hate speech should be deprecated, and even legislated on, assuming existing legislations are neither wide-ranging enough nor offer sufficient deterrence. But to ask for the death penalty — the latest Nigerian obsession — for hate speech is both very facile and dangerous. Here is Sen Sabi-Abdullahi’s justification: “I looked at the rate at which people say things anyhow just to get at another person. Yes, somebody will tell you that there is law on defamation, but you may not even say a word to defame a character. What we are saying here is that today, the various divisions within our country, from religious to ethnic and other societal strata, try to differentiate themselves from others. Arising from what you represent, somebody may come out and be saying things that are very hurtful. There are things you say to somebody that hurts them deeply. It was hate speech that led to the genocide in Rwanda. The biggest challenge with hate speech is the fact that it is usually along two prominent lines. And Nigeria is so prominent with them: religion and ethnicity.” Apart from the weakness of his argument, the senator can of course not guarantee that the provisions of the bill would not be twisted to achieve predetermined ends, or be deployed against opponents and the opposition, or against anyone politically and hurtfully designated. More importantly, going by the provisions of that bill itself, it is too amorphous to lend itself to unambiguous definition and determination. Here is how the bill describes hate speech: “A person who uses, publishes, presents, produces, plays, provides, distributes and/or directs the performance of any material, written and/or visual, which is threatening, abusive or insulting or involves the use of threatening, abusive or insulting words or behaviour, commits an offence, if such person intends thereby to stir up ethnic hatred, or having regard to all the circumstances, ethnic hatred is likely to be stirred up against any person or person from such an ethnic group in Nigeria.” How for instance would Nigerians, going by the country’s cultural and religious divisions, have categorised Ms Isioma Daniel’s commentary in This Day newspaper on the 2002 Miss World pageant which was to be hosted by Nigeria, considering that it led to the death of more than 200 innocent people? Under the superfluous bill, it would have been considered hate speech. The Sen Sabi-Abdullahi bill is not only an overkill, it is a thoughtless and imprecise legislation incapable of addressing the problems it purports to fight. In any case, has the death penalty curbed armed robbery, kidnapping and murder? 