Rising female gospel artiste, Racheal Oyetosin can be described as simple and down to earth. She shares her journey into music, challenges and beliefs in this interview with Dupe Ayinla-Olasunkanmi. Tell us about yourself? There’s nothing much to talk about. I’m a gospel artiste and a graduate of Lagos state University where I studied English Language. For English major, why did you decide to go into music? It’s not just music but gospel music because it is a calling. That is why I am yet to focus on my discipline after graduation. So what are the challenges of being a gospel artiste? There are so many; but the major one is funding. There are no sponsors for most of the projects that we engage in. We do most of the funding by ourselves. When you are just starting out, you also have to do something on the side to be able to maintain and also have finances to carry out some works which involves recording and producing of songs. You cannot say you are doing gospel music and face it alone at the beginning. But it will get to a time that you will also be very busy and not have time for other engagements. Before it gets to that point, you have to continue to push and also do some spending. How many songs do you have presently? I have three; they were released in late 2015, 2016 and 2018. How has the feedback been after the releases? The responses have been encouraging. But I would have expected more. But another thing is, gospel music is not easily accepted, especially if you are an upcoming artiste; even if you’re a household name. You have to go through media houses, bloggers and others. Also, I’m yet to do video for now. A number of radio stations have been playing the songs. Has this in anyway discouraged you from continuing? It hasn’t. Like I mentioned earlier, it is a calling. Though it can be discouraging if the calling was not there, but knowing that it is a gift, you just have to face whatever challenges comes you way until you have a breakthrough. And having those who believe in you by your side also helps to forge ahead. What is it like putting finances together for projects? You cannot go to the club and say you want to sing and get funds from there. So it is usually a personal thing. And we also get to play those who come to assist in productions. So it is a personal funding and my husband has also been very supportive in making funds available for the promotion of my works. Also close friends too. Did you get the calling before or after marriage? It has been there long before I got married. Has your husband ever discouraged you from singing? From the onset my husband knew me as an artiste, even before we started courting. So it was not difficult getting his support when I decided to go professional. Another thing is being married to your soul mate. There are times that I have given up along the way and he will push and make sure I pick up the pace again. He knows it is what I have been called to do, so he tries hard to make sure the dream and calling does not die. We have come this far together and so I just have to forge ahead. This is my time of sowing phase; where you put you all. There are times, that I feel reluctant to go for rehearsals, he will encourage me, and at times when I have to stay late at the studio, he will watch after the kids at home. So he has been very supportive. What is your take on collaborating with secular artistes? It is about your belief and how you came into doing this work. So if you are given an instruction to do collaboration with a particular artiste, then go ahead. The thing is, we are all created by God, so it does not matter who you collaborate with. But for me I cannot do it. God has not told me to do that yet. But it does not make me better than they are. So I don’t see myself saying I am more spiritual than them. God said in his word, that there is no one that is perfect, except the one that the spirit of God dwells in. So I won’t see myself as being better than a secular artiste. The only difference is, I know my calling and who I serve. I stay in my line; I don’t look at what others are doing. And I believe if we are all in this believe together, there won’t be questions or argument on who is featuring who? How expensive is it to be a gospel artiste? Are you asking what people expect of you and how you are expected to look in appearance? This is Nigeria and we have to face reality. People keep expecting what they cannot give. An example is you going out in a public bus and they look down on you. Expecting you to go to places in your personal car and wear designer clothes. Things have changed, we go to the same market and we know what these things cost, but they will double the prices for you once they know you are a public figure. But all of us are struggling to make money, so why should my own be different? People are not been realistic. Aside music, what else do you do? Aside from my music, I’m also into fashion and design and I train people too. I was telling someone that I need to move because of my location and get a better paying job and the person was like ‘we don’t have million to pay you please’. The fact that they are seen every day on the TV does not mean that they are different from others. They should allow them to be themselves, and not superior to others.