The Action Democratic Party (ADP) has adopted an Ipoti born business mogul, Otunba Segun Adewale (Aeroland) as its governorship candidate in Ekiti state, charging electorates in the state to liberate themselves from the shackles of poverty by supporting the party in the July 14 governorship election. ADP decision to adopt Otunba Segun Adewale (OSA) as the party’s governorship candidate was communicated in an address by the State Chairman, Hon Kunle Abegunde during a visit by the state executive council and members of the party to the Otunba Segun Adewale Campaign office at Ado Ekiti on Thursday 1st of March, 2018. At the event which had top officials of the party in attendance, the Chairman said ADP settled for the reputed entrepreneur and philanthropist after considering his antecedent and was convinced of his capability to deliver desired leadership to the state. He pointed out lapses of the Ayodele Fayose-led government, saying the people must reject the attempt to elongate their sufferings through ‘continuity Agenda ‘. According to him, “the current leadership of the PDP in Ekiti can not appreciate the qualities in this illustrious son due to their dictatorial tendencies”. The ADP Chairman in Ekiti State described Governor Fayose’s stomach infrastructure programme as false Charity and an attempt to subdue the citizens. In his words “False charity, lack of conscience, oppression and self-aggrandizement and impunity cannot continue forever,” Giving an insight to how the party arrived at the adoption of Otunba Adewale, Chief Abegunde said “aside Otunba Segun Adewale drawing his wealth from legitimate sources, he has impacted on many lives within and outside the state, even as a private individual. Otunba is credible, with no corruption or criminal tag. His successful entrepreneurship background and exposure is needed to redirect our State on the path of prosperity. Ekiti has many illustrious sons and daughters. We can not allow the present shenanigan to continue. We must all put hands on deck to redeem our dear State from the hegemony of looters “. Responding to the visitors on behalf of the aspirant who was unavoidably absent, Prince ‘Tosin Jegede, the Director General of the Otunba Segun Adewale Campaign Organization said the ADP gesture is a confirmation of the credibility of the brand his organization has presented to the electorates. “Let me start by appreciating the leadership and all members of ADP for taking this bold and unique step of identifying with our good brand not minding political party differences. “Otunba Segun Adewale remains a chieftain of the People Democratic Party who is seeking the governorship ticket of the party in a free, fair and credible primary. However, if Ekiti State PDP refuses a credible primary, we are convinced from our research into the activities of the ADP that the party is a credible alternative. Considering the credibility of those directing the affairs of the party at all levels, easy access to Party information and the Party constitution that takes grassroots members into consideration in decision making, one can truly see that the ADP is prepared for the challenges of producing credible leadership for the State in particular and the Nation at large”. Prince Jegede challenged those advocating the continuity of Governor Fayose’s administration through his deputy, Prof Olusola Eleka to showcase legacies that are worthy of continuing. “What is there to continue with the Fayose’s administration? Is it the non-commitment of government to its financial obligations to workers and contractors or the increased unemployment occasioned by government high handedness in dealing with investors? Are we expected to accept the continuity of government inability to reason beyond Federal Government’s monthly handouts or a situation where internal revenue accruing to the State is treated as top secret known only to the Governor? Should we continue to tax elementary school students? “While we appreciate the importance of a seamless transition between administrations, we are against the continuation of the present illusions in Ekiti government house. Ekiti State cannot continue to run on the impulse of an individual.” He said. The Director General assured the visitors that their request will be considered and responded to appropriately. Addressing journalists after the programme, Prince Jegede said “Otunba Segun Adewale is in the governorship race to win. If the PDP insist on selection instead of a free, fair and credible primary, we will be left with no other choice than accept the ADP offer. OSA will not hesitate to adopt any credible means of meeting the aspiration of the oppressed in Ekiti” 