 As Super Eagles file out in a matter of hours against Poland in an international friendly as part of the build up to the Russia 2018, former coach of the team Austin Eguavoen says it will be more productive to use different formation against Poland and Serbia. The approach according to him will offer the technical crew ample opportunity to see which formation brings out the best blend and projects the best flow. The former Eagles captain revealed that he is not focusing on seeing the team emerge victorious at the friendly matches but more concerned with the blend, the level of understanding among players and the flow of the game all of which will be needed when the battle of supremacy begins in Russia in June. “I am not the coach and I am sure he knows what he is looking at and hopes to achieve with the friendly games, but in my own opinion it will be better to resist the temptation to use the same formation against Poland and Serbia. I will rather go for two different formations to enable you properly see which formation brings out the needed flow and blend that you will require in Russia. I am not too particular about result, even if you don’t win when you play well you will know,”  said Eguavoen a.k.a Cerezo While team captain John Obi Mikel, Junior Ajayi and oghenekaro etebo are expected to miss tonight’s match billed for the Muncipal Stadium Wroclaw, the trio will be available for the tie against Serbia Tuesday in London which implies the technical crew will have the full complement  of entire crop of players penciled down for the World cup. Most soccer fans who bared their minds ahead of the friendlies say a win against Poland tonight will ginger the team going into the second friendly against Serbia and serve as general morale booster. Other matches on the bill board before the Eagles storm Russia are ties against Czech Republic and England. Eagles’ world cup opponents Argentina are also locked in a friendly tonight against Italy who unfortunately will be missing the world cup for the first time since in 60 years. Croatia who will be Nigeria’s first hurdle in Russia are equally shaping up with friendly matches against Peru and Mexico respectively with Iceland also facing Mexico to tidy up loose ends. Poland are 6th on current FIFA ranking while Nigeria are 52 on the log.