• Buhari urged to intervene • N2b vote for concessioning ‘intact’ The House of Representatives has asked President Muhammadu Buhari to stop the Minister of Mines and Steel, Kayode Fayemi, from concessioning the Ajaokuta Steel Complex pending its review order. The lawmakers said the stop- order was in the interest of the economy and the anti- corruption fight of the government. The Reps, after passing  a vote of no confidence on Fayemi,  resolved to tighten the noose around  the Minister by expanding the mandates of its Ad-hoc Committee investigating   the Ajaokuta Steel Complex. The legislators promised to introduce a Bill to Provide for the completion of Ajaokuta Steel Company and also to Prohibit the Concessioning thereof prior to its completion. The ad-Hoc Committee was also mandated to inquire into why Fayemi engaged PricewaterhouseCoopers (PWC) in auditing Ajaokuta Steel Complex, without due process. The Committee would add to its reponsibility by inquiring into the nature of the conflict of interest that may have arisen on account of the Minister appointing a firm,, Greenwhich Trust Limited, to serve as Transaction Adviser for Ajaokuta, without due process. The House emphasised that it had become important for the Ad hoc Committee to ascertain whether Fayemi has pecuniary interest in appointing a technical audit firm for the company. Following the vote of no confidence passed on Fayemi and his deputy for shunning the House two weeks ago, the Minister had vowed that the Federal Government would not spend any more of its resources on the 98 percent completed Steel Complex but concession it to a private company for completion. However, at plenary yesterday while debating a motion on Ajaokuta sponsored by Ahmed Yerima (APC, Bauchi) and 24 others, the lawmakers were in unison that the Federal Government should complete the construction of the steel complex before considering its concession to the private sector. Fayemi and Hon Abubakar Bawa Bwari, have  however faulted the position of the Lawmakers on Ajaokuta Steel Complex. They said they have not contracted any transactional adviser for the concessioning of Ajaokuta Steel Company, as being asserted by the House. They said the ministry had not spent a dime from the N2.096billion appropriated by the House for the concessioning of Ajaokuta Steel Company in the 2017 Appropriation Law. They were concerned that the House of Representatives could devote an entire day to an issue that has not even arisen In a statement, the Special Adviser (Media) to the Minister, Olayinka Oyebode, said it could be deduced from the Reps Resolution to stop the planned concessioning of the steel company that they have grossly misunderstood the Ministers and other stakeholders working with the Ministry on this exercise. In view of this and the need to set the record straight for the sake of the general public and the investing community, it is important to state as follows:   