Humanitarian workers of the United Nation and Doctors Without Borders have been pulled out of Rann after a nearby attack by Boko Haram militants killed at least three aid workers. Secretary General of the United Nations (UN) António Guterres announced evacuation of all humanitarian personnel and the temporary suspension of all humanitarian deliveries in the area. He called on the federal government to apprehend and prosecute attackers. Condemning the incident, the UN chief recalled that attacks targeting civilians and civilian infrastructure violated international humanitarian law. “Those responsible for these and other atrocities in Nigeria must be apprehended and prosecuted,” the UN scribe said. The Secretary-General called on all the parties to ensure at all times the protection of all civilians. According to the UN, at least one other aid worker remains critically injured and another three are still missing while eight members of the Nigerian national security forces were also killed. The UN chief said: “At the time of the attack, over 40 humanitarian workers were in Rann. All humanitarian personnel have been evacuated from Rann, and all humanitarian deliveries in the area have been temporarily suspended.” The Secretary-General expressed his deepest condolences to the affected aid workers, their families and to the Government and people of Nigeria. The UN scribe wished those injured a swift recovery. Doctors Without Borders, in a statement, also announced medical activities in Rann were suspended and 22 Nigerian and international staff evacuation. Three UN aid workers, four soldiers and four mobile police were among the dead in the attack on a military base in Borno. Another UN aid worker is missing. Doctors Without Borders treated nine wounded patients, according to a release. It’s still unclear exactly how many people were killed and injured. “We are deeply shocked by the loss of three humanitarian colleagues in Rann,” said Doctors Without Borders International President Dr. Joanne Liu in the release. “These tragic deaths reflect the ruthless violence which the people trapped in Borno face daily.” Prior to Thursday’s attack, the roughly 40,000 people living in Rann were relying almost entirely on Doctors Without Borders’ services to access health care, the group said. “Leaving our patients, which include 60 children currently enrolled in our nutrition program, without medical assistance, is an extremely painful decision,” said Kerri Ann Kelly, Doctors Without Borders emergency coordinator in Nigeria. “We will continue to evaluate how the situation evolves and we will return as soon as the conditions allow.” 