 Arsenal striker Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang is known for his flashy lifestyle and the striker’s collection of supercars is evidence of his wealth. The Gabon international is starting to settle in England on the pitch and it appears that he is doing so off it as well as he has imported a selection of his cars, which are parked outside the luxury hotel that he is staying in. Aubameyang’s stunning array of vehicles are worth around £850,000 combined, while he has another £2million worth of cars back in Germany, where he previously played for Borussia Dortmund. Aubameyang’s impressive Porsche Panamera Turbo Techart is worth £140,000 and is part of the collection he has imported Aubameyang’s speed is his key asset and that description certainly fits some of his cars, with his collection comprised of a Porsche Panamera Turbo Techart (valued at £140,000), a Lamborghini Aventador (£270,000), a Ferrari 812 Superfast (£250,000) and a Range Rover Sport Mansory (£150,000). The 28-year-old has a host of other cars still that aren’t currently in England, including a Ferrari 458 Italia (£200,000), an Aston Martin DB9 Volante 2 (£140,000) and an Audi R8 V10 Plus (£128,000). Aubameyang is earning £180,000 a week at Arsenal after joining the club from Dortmund in the closing stages of the January transfer window. Aubameyang is clearly settling into life in England by bringing some of his cars with him only shortly after his move It has been a mixed start for Aubameyang at Arsenal as he has caught the eye in some games and appeared isolated up front in others, but his overall return of three goals in six games is quite impressive. Ineligible for Arsenal’s Europa League fixtures given that Dortmund dropped down into the competition from the Champions League, Aubameyang has led the line for the Gunners in the Premier League and scored in the recent victory over Watford. Aubameyang is currently on international duty with Gabon, for whom he is expected to feature in a friendly against Thailand on Thursday. If Aubameyang manages to find the net in that game then he will become Gabon’s outright all-time leading scorer; he is currently level with Theodore Nzue Nguema on 23 goals. Once he returns to Arsenal, Aubameyang will hope to finish the season in positive fashion as he continues to adapt to his new surroundings. Arsenal’s next game after the international break is at home to Stoke on April 1.