With tomorrow’s deadline for quoted companies to submit their audited reports and accounts for the 2017 business year, several companies are making last-minute efforts to meet the target. This is  to avoid the poor corporate governance tag and sanction of the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). Post-listing rules at the NSE require quoted companies to submit their earnings’ reports not later than three months or 90 calendar days after the expiration of the period. Most quoted companies including banks, major manufacturers, oil and gas companies, breweries and cement companies use the 12-month Gregorian calendar year as their business year. The business year thus terminates on December 31. NSE’s regulatory filing calendar indicates that the deadline for submission of annual report for companies with Gregorian calendar business year ended December 31, 2017 is March 31, 2018. However, Thursday March 29, 2018 is the last working day for the period, thus effectively the deadline for submission of the reports, in line with the traditional practice at the Exchange. A spokesman for a healthcare company said the firm has concluded preparations and secured necessary approvals for the submission of its audited report not later than tomorrow. Many board meetings were scheduled for yesterday for final review and approval of the annual report and financial statement ahead of the filing with the NSE. Lafarge Africa Plc Board of Directors, which had scheduled to meet on March 23, 2018, rescheduled its meeting to March 27, 2018. Also, the board of Studio Press Nigeria Plc, which could not meet due to lack of quorum on  March 22, 2018, rescheduled its meeting to Tuesday, March 27, 20L8. Market sources said several companies were finalising arrangements to submit their reports before the close of work tomorrow to beat the close-of-business deadline. Notwithstanding the expected rush tomorrow, there are indications that some 35 companies may miss the deadline. Not less than 28 companies were sanctioned for failure to meet the deadline for the submission of the 2016 annual reports. However, the NSE can grant waiver and extension to companies due to special consideration such as companies awaiting regulatory approval. Already, many companies have sought for extension of the deadline due to various operational and regulatory issues. Oando has indicated that its annual report may be delayed till the second week in May 2018 due to review of the oil and gas company’s report by the Financial Reporting Council of Nigeria (FRCN). “We envisage that the FRCN’s review might take longer than originally anticipated. Therefore, the company may not be able to file the accounts until the second week in May, the exact date of filing will be dependent on the turnaround time at the FRCN,” Oando had stated. Royal Exchange has also indicated that its report may be submitted on or before April 28, 2018 due to operational challenges as a holding company. “The company did not anticipate this as we had expected to conclude and submit our 2017 financial statements on or before 31st March 2018. However, as a holding company with five different subsidiaries, the audit exercise for the group is yet to be consolidated and concluded. The reason for the delay is that some of our subsidiaries are yet to submit their accounts to their various regulators for approval,” Royal Exchange stated. NSE tags and applies fines on companies that fail to meet earnings reports’ deadline. Under its rules, late submission under the first instance of 90 days could attract N9 million, additional period of 90 days will attract N18 million while delay beyond the first 180 days to another 180 days could attract as much as N72 million, thus bringing fines payable by a defaulting firm within a year to N99 million. 