•Says no agreement on Milost Global Unity Bank Plc yesterday clarified that it did not enter into any definitive agreement or sign any binding commitment with Milost Global Incorporation. At an interactive session at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) yesterday in Lagos, the management of the bank stated that it had with the mandate of shareholders of the bank had engaged in series of discussions and engagement with prospective value-plus investors. Milost Global was one of the prospective investors introduced to the bank. The bank stated that all through the process of engaging prospective investors, it was properly guided by the extant regulations concerning capital raising and equally made the process open to all prospective investors. “It is not unusual that this introduction and expression of interests would involve some level of preliminary discussions and exchange of nonbinding documentary communications between the intending parties towards establishing mutual foundation on which the transaction contemplated will be initiated,” Unity Bank noted. According to the bank, the purported “term sheet” dated September 4, 2017 said to have been executed was a “proposal” submitted by Milost Global Inc “for discussion purposes only and not a commitment” by the parties. “No definitive documentation governing the proposed financing was executed,” the bank clarified. The bank stated that there was no agreement whatsoever with Milost Global alluding to its acquisition of 60 per cent equity stake in Unity Bank and there was no iota of truth in the allegation that the bank had executed a ”binding commitment agreement”. “The bank’s position is on the premise that a document prepared by Milost and which the bank acknowledged merely contained the suggested terms and conditions on which Milost was planning to consider its possible participation in the capital funding of the bank. As stated in our previous correspondence, the bank through the mandate of its board and shareholders has been involved in series of preliminary engagements with several prospective investors including Milost, but the bank did not execute a binding definitive agreement with Milost Global Inc. It is therefore a misnomer for anyone to claim that the bank issued a false statement relative to the nature of the communication between Milost and the bank,” Unity Bank stated. The bank noted that the nomenclature “Commitment Letter” was apparently adopted by Milost in its communication to buttress its seriousness to proceed with the transactions subject to relevant compliance requirements. According to the bank, considering that Milost and the bank were only still engaged in preliminary discussions, which must necessarily be subjected to relevant regulatory, statutory and corporate governance compliance parameters before such discussions could become elevated to the level of a “binding commitment agreement” properly so called, the issue of “Termination” of the “Transaction” does not arise. “The bank is fully aware of all regulatory steps and requirements on such investment proposition and the imperative to comply with them, and will continue to engage all stakeholders on achievements made in this regard,” Unity Bank assured. 