The All Progressives Congress, APC in Oyo State has taken a swipe on those who have criticized President Muhammadu Buhari for attending the wedding ceremony between Governor Abiola Ajimobi’s son and Governor Abdulahi Ganduje’s daughter in Kano on Saturday. Critics had condemned Buhari for attending the wedding in the midst of reports of killings in different states in the north and abduction of 110 school girls in Dapchi, Yobe State. But the party in Oyo State said the critics have acted in bad faith, politicizing everything happening in the society. President Buhari, 22 State governors as well as other dignitaries had defied political, religious and ethnic sentiments to converge in Kano on Saturday to witness the solemnization of marriage between Idris Ajimobi and Fatimah Ganduje  in what could be described as the wedding ceremony of the year. In a statement issued on Monday in Ibadan by its Publicity Secretary, Olawale Sadare, the APC observed that the event was not held to downplay the mood of the nation as it concerns the security situation in some parts of the country particularly in states where nefarious activities of the Boko Haram insurgents and killer herdsmen have taken a new turn for the worse. “Without any fear of contradictions, a new chapter was opened in the history book of the nation on Saturday when another solid foundation was laid for the unity, oneness and togetherness of the Nigerian people. At a time that fear of disintegration heightened as a result of the unpatriotic activities of some disgruntled elements, a marriage of this nature was a necessity to rescue the situation and ensure that Nigeria remain an indivisible entity. “Rather than cut the nose to spite the face, critics of President Buhari should appreciate him for being passionate and affectionate to the cause of nationhood. This was a leader who had decimated the ranks of the Boko Haram insurgents as against what was obtained before May, 2015. But for him, terrorists would have overrun Nigeria and most people within and outside the country can attest to this fact. “Meanwhile, hope keeps rising for the return of the school girls recently abducted in Dapchi, Yobe State as well as their remaining counterparts from Chibok girls who were kidnapped in 2014 on account of different results-oriented measures already put in place by the federal government. All we need do as a people is to intensify prayers for the safe returns of these innocent girls as well as other captives in the hands of terrorists anywhere in the world.
“At this juncture, it is imperative to make a passionate appeal to unscrupulous politicians who are found of politicizing every issue to desist from such act. It should be noted that a President of any nation is for all the people of such country regardless of their mood or current situation. While a President shows empathy for the depressed, nothing should stop him from identifying with those with genuine cause of celebration at the same time.
“By and large, we use this opportunity to express our profound gratitude to Mr. President, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Senate President Bukola Saraki, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi (The Alaafin of Oyo), Alhaji Sanusi Lamido (The Emir of Kano) and other eminent personalities who graced the occasion. It is our sincere prayer that God will bless the new couple and make their Union a fruitful one.” APC added. 