A book said to be the first literary work on campus journalism has been unveiled at the University of Ibadan (UI). The book titled: “The Road Before the Fourth Estate”, is co-authored by Kunle Adebajo and Kanyinsola Olorunnisola, who are both students of the school. The book was unveiled during the Southwest convention of the National Union of Campus Journalists (NUCJ) at the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU) in Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State. The event was graced by top media practitioners, including the Managing Editor (Online) of The Nation, Mr Lekan Otunfodurin, Deputy Editor of Daily Independent, Mr Tunde Abatan, Head of Department of Mass Communication in OOU, Dr Dele Odunlami, and OOU Press Club Staff Adviser, Mrs Toyin Ajibola. Student-delegates also attended the convention from more than 10 tertiary institutions across the Southwest. Speaking on how the book project came about, one of the authors, Adebajo, appreciated Otufodurin’s “immense support” in making his dream of becoming an author a reality. He said student-journalists would find useful information in the work, which he said, would guide their practice. He added that hypothetical questions and answers were employed to make readers learn practical knowledge on campus journalism. He said:“Having noticed a vacuum in literature regarding student journalism, we decided to embark on this project to empower, enlighten and educate student-journalists in our various schools. We intended this book to be something different and peculiar to the needs of campus journalists. In the work, we have answers to hypothetical questions and the book contains some of our best works from various beats of journalism and interviews with many veterans and past actors in the industry. “The book is not aimed at being the end of discussion; it is a handbook for would-be campus journalist to learn from the experiences of successful people who had passed through the platform. The work is also to contribute to the growing wealth of knowledge in the industry.” Olorunnisola read blurbs written by Dele Momodu, publisher of Ovation magazine and Otufodunrin. He hailed those who contributed to the book. Others, who wrote blurbs in the work, included the Deputy Director of Programmes of Voice of Nigeria, Abdulsalam Abdur-rasaq; Special Adviser on Media to Oyo State Governor, Festus Adedayo; NUJ Chairman, Ibraheem Alawode and Programme and Research Associate, Premium Times Centre for Investigative Journalism, Deji Adekunle.