Federation of International Basketball Associations (FIBA) has ordered for a fresh election into the board of the Nigeria Basketball Federation NBBF. In a letter signed by FIBA Secretary General, Patrick Bauman and addressed to affected parties said the decision became necessary as the June 12 and 13 elections held in Kano and Abuja respectively failed to meet its statutes. It will be recalled that,  on Febuary 4th 2018, three -man FIBA Fact Finding delegation arrived Abuja to find out what led to leadership crisis in the NBBF. The three-man delegation includes; Secretary General of regional director FIBA Africa, Dr Alphanso  Bile, FIBA Sports Director and deputy chairman, technical chairman, FIBA chairman Mr. Lubomir Kotleba and Mr Fode Amara Conde. In addition to its fact finding mission that would culminate in them preparing a report which it will submit to FIBA’s Executive Committee for its consideration at its next meeting billed for March 10, 2018. Arising from its February 10 meeting held at FIBA secretariat in Switzerland, the body noted that, “In the absence of an amicable solution between the parties, the Executive Committee has decided that new elections shall be held.” FIBA which maintained its earlier stance of not recognizing both elections pointed out that it will work with relevant stakeholders to amend and develop the NBBF statutes so that such statutes fully comply with all relevant and applicable regulations, primarily the FIBA General Statutes, and guarantee complete independence of the election with no influence from third parties. “FIBA will determine when the NBBF statutes are compliant per the above and reserves the right to oversee parts or the entirety of the elections process”, the letter continued. Meanwhile  Tijani Umar  has hailed the decision of FIBA for fresh election into the board of  NBBF and ready to work with the world basketball  governing body to have free and fair election without interference from third party.  He also added that the ruling of FIBA on this matter is a victory for  basketball stakeholders and lovers of the game.