HOUSE of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara, the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Osun State House of Assembly yesterday felicitated with APC stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu on his 66th birthday anniversary. It will be marked with a Colloquium today in Lagos to be attended by President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo among other dignitaries. Today’s will be the 10th anniversary of the Colloquium, which started in 2008 Dogara, in a congratulatory message, described the former Lagos State governor as a dogged and rare breed politician, who mentors new generation of leaders for future challenges. He hailed Tinubu’s relentless commitment and sacrifice for democracy as well as his track records of service, mentoring and outstanding accomplishments. Dogara added: “You are indeed an astute politician, patriotic leader and democrat of high repute, who has the track records of mentoring and supporting upcoming leaders to accomplish their dreams. “I commend your courage in leadership and abiding faith in the ideals of democracy and the Nigerian project. “On behalf of the entire membership of the House of Representatives, I congratulate you on this milestone and pray God Almighty to continue to strengthen you and bless you with good health and long life for service to the nation and humanity.” The APC, in a statement by National Publicity Secretary Bolaji Abdullahi, said: “We attest to Tinubu’s progressive and patriotic contributions towards efforts to deepen democracy and ensure good governance in the country. As a frontline politician, he has built lasting political bridges and alliances across divides in the country. “As a National Leader of our great party, APC, we particularly reference his contributions to the growth and our electoral successes. As he carries out the presidential task of reconciling members of our great party, we once more assure him of our support in ensuring the success of this important task. “The APC family wishes him many more fulfilled and healthy years of service to our great party and nation.” To the Osun State House of Assembly, the former governor is a quintessential leader, determined democrat, whose life is committed to the course of the masses.