Nigerians from all walks of Iife yesterday converged on Eko Hotel & Suites to celebrate Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s 66th birthday. A colloquium was organised to mark the occasion. RAYMOND MORDI and LEKE SALAUDEEN capture the event. The 10th edition of the Bola Tinubu Colloquium yesterday drew a galaxy of audience. At the Convention Centre venue of the intellectual discourse, organised to mark the 66th birthday of All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, were politicians, captains of industry, members of the diplomatic corps, government functionaries and beneficiaries of the Social Investment Programmes (SIPs), introduced by the APC-led Federal Government. The SIPs’ beneficiaries gave testimonies on how the scheme changed their fortunes. Many of the audience paid glowing tributes to the former Lagos State governor.  He’s an exceptionally visionary politician, says Mohammed  INFORMATION, Culture & Tourism Minister Lai Mohammed yesterday described the All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu as “an exceptionally visionary politician who has invested in many people”. Speaking on how Tinubu had invested in people, the minister recalled how he made him Chief of Staff about 20 years back as Lagos governor. “Not being from Lagos state, many people found it strange for him to have made me his Chief of staff. “Today, I can say boldly that at least in the federal cabinet, we have those occupying positions who had served in his cabinet at one time or the other. “We have the Vice President, myself, the Minister of Power Works & Housing, Raji Fashola and the Minister of Solid Minerals Development, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. “If you also look at governor in many states today, whether it is Osun or elsewhere, they had worked with him in one capacity or the other. The minister, who said he felt elated about the day, wished the celebrant a long life in the service of the nation and mankind.  Lagos Speaker: his vision, ideas led to creation of modern Lagos  Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa described the celebrator as the founder of modern Lagos. The pioneering efforts of the APC stalwart at raising the standard of governance in the state, have taken the Centre of Excellence to loftier heights. He said: “Asiwaju combines his vision, ideas and leadership qualities to laid a solid foundation for subsequent administrations after him to build on and the result is what we have today – a modern Lagos that is moving rapidly from a mega city to a smart city; the fourth biggest economy in Africa moving towards being the third biggest economy in the continent. “His vision gave us Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, who performed well as Governor of Lagos State and now the indefatigable Akinwunmi Ambode whose performance as Governor of Lagos State for just a little over three has made him the number one state Governor in Nigeria making Lagos the role model for its counterparts not only in Nigeria but in the entire continent of Africa.” According to him, “it is to credit of Asiwaju’s leadership quality and his ingenuity that gave him the courage that those who came after him will continue to build solid structure and the foundation he had laid. “Today, Asiwaju has written his name in gold and there is no doubt about the fact that Lagos history cannot be complete without Asiwaju, the architect and founder of modern Lagos. “On behalf of my colleagues at the Lagos State House of Assembly, I wish you more healthy years in the service of this great state and the country at large.”  How social investment schemes impacted our lives, by beneficiaries  IT was testimony time for some beneficiaries of the Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) introduced by the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government. They took turns to give insight into what they have benefitted from the various schemes in the last two years. It was at the 10th Bola Tinubu Colloquium with the theme: “Investing in People”, and anniversary of his 66th birthday at the Eko Hotel, Lagos One of them, nien-year-old Muhammad Anas Ishaq and a beneficiary of the Home Grown School Feeding Programme, sent the audience roaring with laughter with his testimony. The primary school pupil from Tundun-Wada in Kaduna State recounted how he used to stay away from school but that the free meal provided by the authorities rekindled his interest in education. Ishaq said when he informed his friend who used to stay away from school, he too started coming to school regularly. He thanked the Buhari administration for the free-meal programme and urged the government to sustain the laudable programme. Mrs. Janet Ekerette Udoh, who supplies eggs for the implementation of the school feeding programme in Akwa Ibom State, said many farms are flourishing with increased employment capacity, because of the school feeding programme. Reliving the success story, she said the food items for the programme are sourced from the local communities where the institutions are domiciled. Similarly, Mrs. Rosemary John Ignatius, a food vendor, said many women, who hitherto had no bank accounts have imbibed the banking culture. Her words: “Since we started the programme, people who had nothing to do with banks in the past now visit them (financial institutions) every 10 days, to withdraw their earnings.” Mrs. Ignatius said she is glad to be part of the Home Grown School Feeding Programme, because it has given her the opportunity to make meaningful contributions to her community and enhanced her business. The vendor, a caterer at Ikotidaha, Ibiono Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State, said that with her years of experience as a professional cook, she has been able to deliver well-cooked meals to the pupils promptly and efficiently. Mrs. Kehinde Awodele, a trader from Igbo-Ora, Oyo State, a beneficiary of the Federal Government’s N5,000 monthly Conditional Cash Transfer Programme (CCTP), said that through the scheme, she has been able to raise money to grow her business. The fish trader said that prior to the commencement of the CCTP, she and her household were struggling to make ends meet. But through the CCTP, where she receives N10, 000 every two months, Mrs. Awodele has been able to join a savings group in her community which has helped to save enough towards enhancing her business. The Minister of State, Budget & National Planning, Mrs. Zainab Ahmed, said the Federal Government introduced the SIPs to tackle poverty and to ensure an equitable distribution of income among vulnerable groups, especially, women and children. According to her, 7.4 million Nigerians have benefitted from the (SIPs) and that another 7.5 million have benefitted indirectly. She listed indirectly the indirect beneficiaries as farmers, cooks and transporters. The Special Adviser to the President on SIPs, Mrs. Maryam Uwais, said the programmes target the youths and women, particularly, those living below the poverty line. She added that about 43 per cent of Nigerians live below the poverty line. Mrs. Uwais said about 300, 000 are currently benefitting from the CCTP and that their earnings are paid directly into their bank accounts. The roll call President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, his wife, Dolapo, the host governor, Akinwumi Ambode, his wife, Bolanle, Governors Rochas Okorocha (Imo State), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Ibikunle Amosu (Ogun) Waziri Tambuwal (Sokoto), Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi), Rauf Aregbesola (Osun), Mohammed Bindow (Adamawa), Abdullahi Danguje (Kaduna), Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Abdulfatah Ahmed (Kwara), Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) (Ondo) and Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa). Hale and hearty, Tinubu entered the hall around 10.50, accompanied by his wife, Senator Oluremi. Before taking his seat, where the president later joined him, he went round the hall to exchange pleasantries with guests, including the APC Interim Chairman, Chief Bisi Akande, former Chief of General Staff, Lt-Gen. Oladipo Diya, the Eleko of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akinolu, Dein Keagborkyzi of Agbor, the Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi 111, the Alake of Egbaland, Oba AdedotunGbadebo, the Osemawe of Ondo, Oba Victor Kiladejo, the Oluwo of Iwo, Oba Adewale Akanbi, former Chairman of the defunct All Peoples Party (APP), Alhaji Yusuf Ali, former Ogun State Governor Olusegun Osoba, his Ekiti State counterpart, Otunba Niyi Adebayo, Minister of Science and Technology Dr. Ogbonaya Onu, former Edo State Governor Adams Oshiomhole, Senator Abu Ibrahim, Senator Joel Ikenya, Senator James Akpanudoedehen, former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Alhaji Nuhu Ribadu, and Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly Hon. Mudashiru Obasa. Dignitaries at the historic event also included the Minister of Communication, Alhaji Adebayo Shittu, the Minister of Works, Housing and Power, Babatunde Fashola (SAN), the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, eminent industrialists Alhaji Aliko Dangote, Jim Ovia, Oba Otudeko, Chief Kessington Adebutu, and Chief Rasak Okoya-Thomas; APC National Deputy Chairman Chief Segun Oni, APC National Vice Chairman (Southwest) Chief Pius Akinyelure, Lagos State APC Chairman Chief Oladele Ajomale, Senators Ben Bruce, Babajide Omoworare, Ganiyu Solomon, Ajayi Boroffice, Ayo Arise, Solomon Adeola, Prof. Itsey Sagay (SAN), one-time Commissioner of Finance in Lagos State Hon. Wale Edun, Prof, Ropo Sekoni, Chief Niyi Akintola (SAN) and Supo Sasore (SAN). The ceremony was also witnessed by Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan, Osun State Deputy Governor Titi Tomori-Laoye, former Secretary to the Government of the Federation Babashir Lawal, Secretary to Lagos State Government Mr. Tunji Bello, Presidential Adviser on Political Affairs Senator Babfemi Ojudu, Senator Barnabas Gemade, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, former Oyo State Governor Adebayo Alao-Akala, former military governor of Lagos State Brig-Gen. Raji Rasaki, former Lagos State Deputy Governors Olufemi Pefro, Abiodun Ogunleye and Mrs. Sarah Sosan; former Speaker of Lagos State House of Assembly Hon. Yemi Ikuforiji, Chief Ologbotsere, Senator Tony Adefuye, House of Representatives members Nnana, Jide Jimoh, and Ayinla Yusuf; Princess Adenrele Ogunsanya, Chief Rabiu Oluwa, Prince Tajudeen Olusi, Asiwaju Olorunfunmi Basorun, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, Hon. Olawale Oshun, Alhaji Suraj Ayilara, Hon. James Faleke, Erelu Abiola Dosunmu and other Lagos white cap chiefs, Chief Mutiu Are, former Police Inspector-General Musiliu Smith, Hon. Jayeola Ajatta, Dr. Wale Ahmed, Alhaji Ganiyu Badmus, Comrade Kayode Opeifa, Hon. Eshinlokun Sanni, Funso Olukoga, Apena kaoli Olusanya, Hon. Bashiru Bolarinwa, Dr. Bashiru Ajibola, Hon. Funminiyi Afuye, Hon. Sunny Ajose, Mr. Dele Alake, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, Demola Sodiq, Dr. Yomi Finnih, Prof. Tunde Samuel, Chief. M.A. Taiwo, Hon.Bayo Adesanya, Hon. Jide Sanwo-Olu, Chief Olusola Oke (SAN), Hon[U1] . Bimbo Daramola, Prof. Pat Utomi, Brig-Gen. Elias Attu, Hon. Nasiru Aliko Koki, Chief Lanre Rasak, Southwest APC Women Leader Chief Kemi Nelson, Comrade Ayodele Adewale, Mrs. Toun Adediran, Toke Benson, Hon. Niyi Fabikun, Hon. Emmanuel Bamigboye, and Ikem Isiekwena, the master of the ceremony.