TO raise awareness on proper management of autism,  Neuro-development disorders professionals have inaugurated a Centre for Autism and Neuro-developmental Disorders (CAND-Do). The centre, which is at the College of Medicine, University of Lagos, is focus driven and positioned to address, research, learning and service needs of persons and caregivers of those living with autism and neuro-developmental disorders. It is also focused on the development of source and services around Autism and Neuro-developmental disorders and positioned to engage independent activities within the purview of its purpose. It is again open to partnership  with other organisations for sponsorship of its independent activities. At the inauguration Prof. Umafue of the Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS), said the organisation is to promote and show case what stakeholders are doing, and what has been done. According to Umafue, Autism  in our society tends to be mismanaged, hence the “Centre is here to promote, showcase and inform the society on how we can well be informed on how to manage people living with autism and tackling the scourge. Autistic kids are isolated from the society due to the communication gap that exists because of them being either nonverbal or having articulation issues”. Prof Folasade Ogunsola, who represented University of Lagos Vice Chancellor, Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe appreciated the CAND-Do team and promised to continue to support  children living with Autism as well as their parents, teachers and care givers “so that through us, the world can hear them”. Benola Chief Executive Officer Olufemi Gbadebo, who spoke on cerebral palsy, explained that it is  a group of permanent movement disorders that appear in early childhood. “Signs and symptoms vary among people. Often, symptoms include poor coordination, stiff muscles, weak muscles, and tremors. There may be problems with sensation, vision, hearing, swallowing, and speaking. Difficulty with the ability to think or reason. While the symptoms may get more noticeable over the first few years of life, the underlying problems do not worsen over time,”he said. Gbadebo, who said massive publicity from the government, corporate world and individual, can make a huge difference, added: “No matter your profession, you should help, don’t turn your back on people living with disabilities, early intervention helps. I urged parents to also look out for their kids. We know it is a very therapeutic experience.” Dr Yewande Oshodi, who gave an overview of CAND-Do, said it basically means we are ready, “we can do it”. Oshodi said “CAND-Do is ready to take up the challenges. “Early intervention helps and I encourage the society to support the CAND-Do team and vision.” Another member of CAN-Do, Dr Muyideen Bakare said children suffering from autism spectrum disorder and developmental disorders should not be left alone because they required special and extra care. “Aside the fact that people living with Autism are on different levels of the spectrum, they are also on different levels of disability – as some are deficient in areas where others are not,” he added. Keynote speaker, Prof Ehaleoye Ukpokolo said he was so proud of CAND-Do and urged everyone to understand how to relate with people with disability. “I will suggest and recommend  that there is a change of mindset on autism, because in every problem that we face we should always look for a solution. “I am very glad to be here to learn what I have come to do is to learn, what I have come to understand is that we all have to re-understand of this whole discourse that as to do with neurodevelopmental differently order.” Commending CAND-Do team the Provost, College of Medicine, UNILAG, Prof Afolabi Lesi, applauded all the participants and appreciated the CAND-Do team. “We will continue to support children living with Autism as well as their parents, teachers and care givers so that through us, the world can hear them,” said Lesi said. 