Youths: act on lawmaker’s tip The military has dismissed the claim that the 110 abducted Dapchi girls are in Yobe State. A top officer, who pleaded for anonymity, last night described Hon Goni Bukar and other politicians/activists speaking on the whereabouts of the girls and the identity of their abductors as “a bunch of confusionists”. “If they know where the girls are, they know what to do, instead of staying somewhere in Damaturu or Abuja and claiming that the girls are somewhere within Yobe State or anywhere else. “This is how some of these politicians will stay in Abuja and will be granting interviews to you media people, claiming this and that, yet they are not anywhere near their constituencies. “I have been in Maiduguri since Tuesday and all the nation’s top military and security brass have been in Maiduguri and Yobe axis, pursuing all the leads. The investigations are not only on-going, painstaking and multi-dimensional, but what I can tell you now is that we are not leaving any stone unturned.” The source challenged Hon. Bukar, a member of the House of Representatives representing Yunusari/Gaidam Federal Constituency, to present himself before the military and security outfits for a journey to Bulabulin or any other place where the girls could have been taken by the terrorists. He said Nigerians should beware of people with such “wild claims”. He also called on Nigerians to be patient with the military in their resolve to bring the girls back home, saying within the next few days, the nation would be briefed on the matter. The Defence Headquarters at the weekend gave a hint of its battle to rescue the girls. A statement signed by Acting Director of Defence Information Brig.-Gen John Agim said: “The Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin and the Service Chiefs with the Director General, Department of State Service met in Maiduguri yesterday, 1st March 2018 to review the ongoing operations in the Northeast, particularly the operation to get back the Dapchi girls. “Even though the military is soliciting for useful information to facilitate its operations, the fishermen and farmers have not been singled out for this assistance; rather, all well-meaning members of the public are urged to provide useful information.” 