FORMER Ejigbo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) Executive Secretary Tajudeen Jaiye Alabi yesterday slumped and died after eating in a restaurant. He was confirmed dead in the hospital he was rushed to by the restaurant. The late Alabi ran a law firm, Jaiye Alabi & Co. He  was said to be on his way to his  chamber in Ikeja but  stopped at the restaurant to eat. He was buried according to Islamic rites few minutes past 4pm yesterday. Among those at the funeral were Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr AbdulHakeem AbdulLateef and Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC)  Chairman Otunba Henry Ajomale. The late Alabi retired as a civil servant before he was appointed as Ejigbo LCDA chief. Information on his Facebook wall showed that he studied Real Property, Corporate and Public Law at the University of Lagos. Bariga Local Council Development Area (LCDA) Chairman Kolade Alabi, who led some former executive secretaries and  council chairmen to the funeral expressed shock over Alabi’s death. “He was at my council secretariat last Friday and was full of life. He did not show any sign of illness. We went for a meeting that lasted till 10pm before we departed. This is a rude shock,” Alabi said. He added: “We still exchanged messages on WhatsApp at the weekend and I  was expecting his reply this morning on a particular job he was undertaking for a foreign firm that wanted to establish their company in Nigeria’’. Alabi, who was chairman of Conference of 57 Executive Secretaries, said the group was planning an endorsement event for Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. According to him, the late Alabi was the chairman of the former Executive Secretaries and had been carrying everybody along. “I’m petrified. He was such a wonderful person, humble and cerebral. He brought his civil service experience to bear on the job in his leadership position at Ejigbo LCDA,” he said. Former Kosofe Local Government Area Executive Secretary Gbemisola Ketiku said he exchanged WhatsApp messages with the late Alabi yesterday morning. Ketiku said: “Just this morning (yesterday), we chatted on WhatsApp for a meeting scheduled to hold at Oshodi-Isolo Local Government secretariat. The meeting is about the endorsement programme we are planning for Governor Ambode. “Look at the message (showing The Nation). He wanted the meeting to hold by 8am, but I told him it will be too early that we should shift it till around 9am and he responded that ‘As your lordship pleases’. I’m sure he was on his way to Oshodi for the meeting. This is shocking. I’m still wondering how such a lively person could just die like that.” Ejigbo LCDA Chairman Monsuru Obe urged the bereaved family to take heart, saying: “On our own part, we will not leave the family to bear the loss alone because the deceased was very caring. Though, the news of his death came to us as a rude shock. We never believe it will be so soon despite the fact that we know everybody will die. He left us too soon; very sad news to our people in Ejigbo’’.