Lagos State students under the aegis of Igbogbo Students’ Union (ISU) have marked their day with a seminar, which focused on how members can combine studies with social activities. The event with the theme: Edu-social, was held on Saturday at the palace of the paramount ruler of Igbogbo Kingdom in Ikorodu. Celebrities, who grew up in the town, graced the event. They included Tope Shitta-Bay, an actor, and an entertainment producer, Ayomiposi Akinsehinwa. ISU President, Miss Comfort Olafare, said the event was informed by the low participation recorded by the union in its socio-cultural activities, noting that the seminar was taken to the palace to galvanise youths from the town in participating in the union’s events. She said:“We noticed that Igbogbo youths studying in various tertiary institutions usually don’t participate in the union’s programmes. Some of them say they do not want to join the union because of their studies. But, we want them to know that they can still attain their academic goals when they participate in the union’s events. “Anyone who does not want to socialise and participate in socio-cultural events of the union will only be depriving himself of the benefits that may come from that. Igbogbo people are known to be bridge builders and friendly.” The keynote speaker, Mr Abiodun Awosanya, spoke on the need to participate in programmes held for the development of the town. He told the youths that they had no excuse for not participating in the union’s events, saying taking part in socio-cultural events was a way of learning. He said: “There is a difference between school and education, but the two is to acquire useful knowledge. Knowledge can come from anywhere. While you are studying in school to become professionals in various fields, the knowledge would not be complete if you don’t know anything about your politics, culture and history.” Shitta-Bay advised the union members to reach out to all communities that make up the town. He stressed the need to foster unity and interaction among various communities in the town. He said “You need to reach out to people. There are new communities springing up. The union must spread its tentacles to bring in more youths.” The highpoint was the musical performance by up and coming artistes in the community, including Sholly Kay, Slim U and Dragon. There was also comedy session facilitated Mc Toniq and Mc AJ Pompey. 