Hard work has paid off for Nigerian youngster, Nnaoma Bede Opara in the Portuguese Primeria Liga following his transfer from Portuguese Primeria Liga side, Grupo Desportivo de Chaves (commonly known as Chaves) to Leixoes Sport Club. The 18-year-old was originally recruited into the Chaves’ juvenile team but was soon dragged into the Team B within a relatively short period after posting some impressive performance. “I’m happy to join Leixoes from Chaves,” stated Opara who was rejected at FC Porto which happened to be his first port of call in Europe. “The good thing is that I’m now playing with the main team at Leixoes and not with the junior teams during my time at Chaves; this is just God’s grace and favour.” Truly, Opara has every reason to be happy. Few months ago, he could only enthused about his gradual breakthrough at Chaves after being snapped up from Brighter tomorrow-an academy based in Umuekwune Ngor-Okpala in Imo State. “My time here at Chaves has been very interesting and I really thank God that everything is going well,” Opara said in an earlier interview. “I want to big thank Mr.  Emeka Darlington Ariwa who is the president and the founder of Brighter Tomorrow that facilitated my trip to Europe; when Porto rejected me, I was taken to Chavez where I have been able to prove myself.” Opara said being rejected at Porto was a blessing in disguise after all: “ The day I will never forget was  the day a coach pushed me out of his team  because he never believed in my career  and I suffered same when I went to FC Porto; but  things like that doesn’t bother me again. “I have had the opportunity of playing in the same team with the likes of David Enogela and Ernest Agenor who were part of the team that won the FIFA U-17 World Cup with the Golden Eaglets in 2015 and that shows the kind of quality that I possessed too. “Another day I can’t forget was the day I travelled to Europe because it was like a dream to me but I thank God because I’m here to do what I love; football is my life. “One of the things that make me happy is playing football and whenever I remember I have training or match, I always feel so happy.  In fact, I only dream about football and love the game so much.” Opara has played all his life in the defensive position and revealed he wished to model his game after Thiago Silva, Giorgio Chiellini as well as former African Footballer of the Year, Yaya Toure. “My role models are Thiago Silva, the captain of PSG and Brazil,” revealed Opara, a Basketball freak. “I also like Giorgio Chiellini who plays for Juventus; I picked Silva and Chiellini because they are both some of the best defenders in the world and I love cherish their style of playing. “I also cherish Yaya Toure so much because he is a business-minded player, calm and so humble and I wish I can combine all the fine attributes of these three players.” Like many notable African players in Europe, Opara had to fight against the stereotype in order to realise his dream of playing football: “Choosing football as a career was not easy at the beginning because my parents were not in my support; but they later recognized   that football is my God-given talent and they decided to give me their full support. I’m happy they gave their blessings and I know the sky is my limit. “I just want to concentrate on my career and I pray for other opportunities   as well as the opportunity of playing for any of our national teams; I’m still 18 and I’m looking forward you a very bright future,” noted Opara even as he relishes his new status at Leixoes.