The Taraba State Police Command, Jalingo, has recovered a total of fifty six riffles and three hundred live ammunitions. The arms were voluntarily surrendered and seven suspects, from whom some of the prohibited firearms were recovered, were paraded by the police at the command headquarters, Jalingo, yesterday. Among the suspects are: Umar Alhaji Abu from Karimlamido local government area, Yakubu Musa from Ardo-Kola and Sani Musa from Lau. Police said the recoveries were made possible upon “reliable intelligence.” The mop up of prohibited firearms from unauthorised persons and group of persons is a directive from the Inspector General (IG) of Police, Ibrahim Idris. I dris had given 21 days ultimatum, effective from February 22, for voluntary submission of such firearms. Taraba State Commissioner of Police, David Akinremi, yesterday said in a press conference that, within the period, some residents voluntarily surrendered their firearms to the command. Some of the firearms, police said, were recovered and retrieved by a taskforce headed by the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP)  Operations, Faleye Olaleye. The firearms recovered include: five AK-47 riffles, one G3 riffle, two K2 riffles, three LAR riffles, two Pump Action riffles, two double barrel riffles, 13 Single Barrel riffles, 28 locally made pistols and 300 rounds of ammunition. The recovery and retrieval of illegally acquired firearms from members of the public by the police force is different from the exercise called Cat Race by the military,  the police said.in “The recovery is the first phase of the operations. It is intended to be a continuous and routine exercise until the command completely mop up all illegally acquired firearms from the hands of individuals. “I am glad to inform you today that quite a number of individuals have responded to this call and have surrendered some weapons in their possessions. “However, the task force has embarked on continuous raids, cordon and search of premises, buildings and locations where it is reasonably suspected or believed that such arms are kept,” he said. Akinremi urges the public to give the police “maximum cooperation” and to report criminal activities for “effective performance and good service delivery.” Police said those who submit their arms willingly will not be paraded and punishment. But those from whom illegally acquired firearms are recovered by the police task force shall be  charged and prosecuted according to the Firearms Act.