The Oyo State Police Command has said it is investigating last week’s killing of a 30-year-old man, Kehinde Adeleke, during an argument at the car park of Trans Amusement Park in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. Police Commissioner Abiodun Odude described the incident as unfortunate. He said it would be thoroughly investigated to unravel the mystery behind the shooting and killing of the man. Police spokesman Adekunle Ajisebutu, a Superintendent of Police (SP), quoted the commissioner as saying the suspected killer would soon be charged to court after the conclusion of investigation into the incident. He cautioned that since the matter involved life, it would not be proper to rush through the investigation. According to him, the police need time to investigate and ascertain the actual killer of the deceased. Odude said: “The suspect will be charged to court after the police have concluded investigation into the matter. You know it is a murder case. So, the police will not hurry in their investigation. We will do a thorough investigation so that we will be able to ensure that the actual culprit is apprehended. Then, the case will be charged to court for prosecution.” Some witnesses had said a soldier attached to the Oyo State security outfit, Operation Burst, allegedly shot the victim and not the bar owner, Seyi Olusa. But Kehinde’s twin brother, Taiwo, accused Olusa of grabbing a gun from a soldier and shooting the victim during a disagreement at the car park of the Trans Amusement Park, where the bar is located. Three other witnesses of the shooting, who were regular visitors to the bar, told The Nation that Olusa was not at the car park when the shooting happened. They said the Army should produce the soldier who was attached to Operation Burst team on the scene of the shooting. One of the witnesses, Alli Akinoso, said Olusa, being a friend of the victim, had no reason to kill him. The eyewitness said the bar owner could not have grabbed a gun from a soldier and returned it after killing someone with it. Akinoso said: “I was at the car park and witnessed the whole thing. Kehinde’s younger brother, Damola, was having a fight with someone over the parking slot. I tried to talk to him but he did not listen. Then, a soldier came and beat him with a stick. He fell down and we offered him water. But he did not accept it. When Kehinde showed up, Demola stood up and approached the soldier violently. “I saw the siblings struggling with the soldier. That was when the shooting began. Kehinde fell to the ground. I tried to resuscitate him but there was nothing I could do. Taiwo was not on the scene; he was at the bar. He only came after the shooting, and I was the first person he saw. He attacked me and tore my clothes. I still have the clothes with the victim’s blood on it.” Asked how Olusa was involved in the shooting, Akinoso said the bar owner came out but went back almost immediately he saw that Operation Burst men were there. He said: “I saw him on the scene when the fight started. He was trying to mediate but left when the Operation Burst team came. The car park is about 100 metres to the bar. He was not there when the shot was released. It is difficult to snatch a rifle from a soldier and return it after using the same gun to kill someone.” In Taiwo’s narration of what happened on the night of the shooting, Olusa was apprehended by his friends but he was let free by men of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) attached to Operation Burst. Another witness of the shooting, Yinka Fabunmi said he and not Olusa was apprehended by Taiwo and his friends after the shooting. Fabunmi said: “I have an office at Trans Amusement Park and I visit the bar regularly. The place became rowdy soon after the shooting. Olusa was with me inside the bar. He wanted to know what happened, after we heard the shooting. Suddenly, Taiwo came in and grabbed him. He said the soldiers who were called to the scene had killed Kehinde. “Then, Damola took a bottle and smashed in on my face. I was taken to a vehicle but managed to escape when the soldiers intervened. Olusa was never apprehended. I slept at J. Rapha Hospital at Bodija for treatment…” The killing of Kehinde Adeleke took a new twist yesterday as witnesses said a soldier attached to Operation Burst shot the victim and not Olusa.   