 GOAL! AC MILAN 0-2 ARSENAL (Ramsey, 45+4) There are bemused looks from the AC Milan defenders as Ozil picks out the perfectly-timed run of Ramsey. The Welshman shows brilliant composure to take the ball around Donnarumma and tap home into an empty net to put the Gunners in full control of this tie.  GOAL! AC MILAN 0-1 ARSENAL (Mkhitaryan, 15) It’s Mkhitaryan’s first goal for the club, and what a time for him to get it. He’s picked out by Ozil on the left of the Milan penalty area. He produces a brilliant turn, cutting back onto his right foot before getting a shot away. the ball deflects off Bonucci and flies past Donnarumma to give the Gunners a crucial away goal.  Pre Match Report The Gunners are looking to keep their season alive Thursday with their visit the San Siro. Arsene Wenger’s men travel to Italy on the back of four straight defeats in all competitions. Having lost to Tottenham, Man City and, most recently, Brighton in the league, their chances of Champions League qualification via the Premier League have all but ended. It seems that winning Europa League is now their only hope of gaining qualification for Europe’s elite competition. However, the Gunners will meet a rejuvenated AC Milan side, who have improved immensely since club legend Gennaro Gattuso has taken the reins. The Rossoneri are in the midst of their best unbeaten run in nine years, having won six of their last seven Serie A matches.  AC MILAN TEAM NEWS Team to face Arsenal: Donnarumma, Calabria, Bonucci, Romagnoli, Rodriguez, Biglia, Bonaventura, Kessie, Calhanoglu, Suso, Cutrone. Subs: Kalinic, Silva, Borini, Zapata, Montolivo, Locatelli, Donnarumma. THREE CHANGES FOR ARSENAL David Ospina replaces Petr Cech in goal for Arsenal, while Aaron Ramsey and Danny Welbeck replace the cup-tied Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Alex Iwobi, who drops down to the bench. Team to face AC Milan: Ospina, Chambers, Koscielny, Mustafi, Kolasinac, Xhaka, Ramsey, Wilshere, Ozil, Mkhitaryan, Welbeck. Subs: Cech, Holding, Maitland-Niles, Elneny, Iwobi, Nelson, Nketiah. Arsene Wenger insists winning the Europa League is an opportunity Arsenal must grab and has called on his players to step up as they look to stop their season petering out with two months of the campaign remaining. “It makes me think about last year,” Wenger replied, when asked if having a trophy to play for was similar to last season’s run to a third FA Cup success in four years. “Last year we won the FA Cup, we made 75 points and missed out on the Champions League by one point. 75 points is still a very good score what we will not reach this season. This is an opportunity we have to take, yes, of course. “It increases the pressure on it even more on this competition. At the moment, it is certainly difficult when you go through a patch like that but I believe as well it is a good opportunity to show you have the quality and the strengths. You can only show that when it is difficult. It is a good opportunity to show we can deal with that and as well, on the longer term, it will make the team even stronger.” MILAN UNCHANGED AC Milan are unchanged from the side that drew 0-0 with Lazio in the Coppa Italia just over a week ago. Milan went on to win the game on penalties. This is the first meeting between Milan and Arsenal since the 2011-12 Champions League campaign, when they met in the Last 16; Milan won 4-3 on aggregate, winning 4-0 at the San Siro in the first leg before losing 3-0 at the Emirates in the second leg. 