The feud between Ciscon Nigeria Limited, an oil service company, and a labour union over the sack of its workers is getting worse. The workers are demanding full payment of their entitlements even, if it means winding down the firm. The firm is battling for survival in the face of tumbling oil prices in the past two years, which has led to deferment and cancellation of many projects and downsising. About 1,000 workers in the service sector have been sacked. Besides, it was learnt that some of those demanding severance packages were leaving for foreign multinational oil service firms after they had been employed as freshers and trained by the indigenous firm to meet industry skills standards. The workers, who were poached by big multinational oil firms, with promises of working aboard and with fat salaries, also sought full exit entitlements from such indigenous firms that are struggling to survive. When they don’t get these entitlements, they resorted to the labour unions, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) and the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG) for help. Ciscon has been forced to declare insolvency as hostility from labour unions and sacked employees assume threatening dimension. The situation has led to massive sack after resolution agreement failed. Ciscon Chairman Mr Shawley Coker said the company downsized because of the  downturn in the upstream after weak oil prices and low oil income forced operators to call off projects and cancel contracts when the government offered no buffer for companies that staked funds on equipment and facility acquisition. He criticised PENGASSAN for being unconcerned about what the service firms were going through, adding that PENGASSAN was formed to protect the local economy from the multinational oil firms that were exploiting national resources at the expense of the Nigerians. PENGASSAN National Public Relations Officer, Comrade Fortune Obi, said: ‘The indigenous companies have always run foul of obeying the laws, especially the constitutional rights of the workers that guarantee their freedom of association. ‘’Also in the labour laws and the international treaties, especially that of the International Labour Organisation (ILO) to which Nigeria is a signatory, create rooms for workers to belong to the union of their choice and right to collective bargaining. The question is why is it difficult for indigenous companies, including the Ciscon, to respect these laws? Why can’t they respect the CBA that was legally signed with the workers? Or is it bad for the workers to ask for a CBA to guide their dealings with their employers? Why is it that only the indigenous employers that run foul of the right to unionisation, which is allowed by the IOCs? ‘’The demands of the workers with Ciscon are contained in a CBA signed by both parties. If they have any problem with the CBA, the management should go back to the table with the workers instead of embarking on blackmail and unilateral decision of severing the workers from their jobs or rendering those workers redundant. The company declared redundancy and the workers are asking for their severance package, which is contained in the CBA signed by the management and the workers’ representatives, which is our union. ‘’The Nigerian Content Law is a law to encourage Nigerians to take ownership of the system and operations through the transfer of technical know-how and use of local raw materials for operations in the industry.’’ Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, said he had not given to that area of industry challenge. “I will pay attention to this more than we have already done because I must confess to you that we have not given enough attention to some of the developing labour issues in the industry,” he said. 