Elders and residents of Iguomon community in Uhunmwode local government area has blamed activities of a fleeing pastor as being responsible for the deaths and afflictions killing those they termed factional leaders of the community. Secretary of the community, Pastor Joseph Ighodaro, had on Monday told journalists that deaths and strange ailments in the community was as a result of a curse by a past Oba of Benin. Pastor Joseph who said they want the present Oba Ewuare II to revoke the curse claimed that sacrilegious acts of former members of the Community Development Association made the Oba to place a curse on the community. However when our reporter visited the community Wednesday to ascertain how many people were suffering as a result of the curse, some elders laughed it off insisting that there was no time any Oba cursed the community. The elders said Pastor Ighodaro and his factional leaders were the ones experiencing deaths and affiliations in the community since they caused the problems. They said trouble started for Pastor Ighodaro after he invited one unknown Pastor to hold a crusade in the community in December 2016. After the crusade, the elders said the unknown pastor led some of the villagers to destroy some shrines in the community including the sacred Okhuaihe N’ Ahonde shrine and cut down a iroko tree planted by Oba Ewuare. Pa Jolly Agbontean who spoke on behalf of the elders said all the shrines in the community were sacred as they belonged to the Benin Monarch. His words, “The iroko tree is over 500 years old. The iroko and the shrine were planted by Oba Ewuare. We serve it on behalf of the Oba. The pastor said it was the iroko that is causing them not to progress in life. “They said all the witches and wizard were in the iroko tree. Policemen were around to protect them while they destroy all the shrines including Oguedion (elders place). They were many that came after the crusade. We only watched after which we reported to the Oba. “When the Oba invited them to produce the Pastor, they said they can no longer find him. The Oba told them what to do for them to be saved but they refused to perform the sacrifice. Three of them have died since that time. “We were not cursed by any Oba. This shrine is a tourist place. We worship it every three days and people visit the place from across the country.” Another elder, Pa. Sunny Igbinovia, said he was forced to delete pictures he took on the day the shrines were destroyed and the iroko tree fell. Priest of the Okhuaihe N’ Uleku shrine, Joseph Uyi Odeh, said affliction would not affect the entire community but those that cut off the sacred tree. “The Oba told them they will suffer if they did not appease the gods. The shrine is owned by the Oba. Only the Oba will know what to do to them. The Oba did not curse us.” 