SOME Rapid Response Squad (RRS) operatives have arrested two persons for allegedly killing a Taxify driver, Godfrey Ovie, after robbing him of his car. Passengers book Taxify service online or through the phone. Lagos State Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal yesterday paraded Simon Tyozemda, 27, and Lucky Friday, 24,  who were arrested on March 14, while attempting to commit a similar act on another taxi driver They were said to have  killed Ovie and snatched his Toyota Corolla marked FST 663 EZ  last month  on Badore Road, Ajah, after booking for a ride around 2am. The police have also arrested John Thankgod, and Mohammed Usman, described as  the middleman and the receiver of the snatched car. According to Edgal,  the duo were arrested by his men before they could pounce on an Uber driver in a bid to steal his Toyota Camr marked APP1451EE last Wednesday. Edgal said the police pursued the vehicle after sighting something that looked like a knife held by the passenger on the back seat. He said Tyozemda had   booked an Uber pick up around 11pm, using an application on his lover’s computer.  Their plan, Edgal added, was to take the driver to a desolate place and kill him. He said: “They were taking the driver to a lonely place on Lekki-Epe Expressway when RRS operatives stopped their vehicle for routine questioning. The officers noticed that the passenger at the back seat was hiding a long knife and the vehicle was stopped for a search. “In the course of the search, another long knife was found. Investigation revealed that the suspects planned to divert the driver to a lonely place and snatch his Toyota Camry. “Police investigation also revealed that the suspects were released from Kirikiri prison between last December and January and they had killed a Taxify driver through the same means in February. “They snatched a Toyota Corolla from the Taxify driver which they sold to Usman for N350,000. Usman had paid N100,000 and was to move the vehicle to Jigawa State when RRS decoy team caught him.” Tyozemda said he never wanted to kill the  driver but ‘’I did when he became stubborn’’. He said he stabbed the driver twice and pushed him off the vehicle after the deceased refused to take the road they told him to enter. The suspect said: ‘’ That day, I booked a Taxify driver to drive me and my partner to Lekki at about 9pm during which I sat beside him. “When we got to a quiet place along Badore road, Ajah, I told him to stop the car and get down but he resisted and I stabbed him twice. “I did not know he died until I was later arrested and the police told me that he died. We were remanded in prison custody but later released early this year. “On March 14, the police stopped our car at Lekki-Epe Expressway and during a search two knives and indian hemp was found on us. “I met my colleague, Lucky Friday in Kirikiri Prison. We became friends and when I was released I gave him the number of my brother for him to call me. “When he was released, I promised him I was going to assist him to resettle properly. Since then, we have been working and operating together. “It was the same business that took me to Kirikiri prison. I was introduced into it by one Michael. Unfortunately for me, I was arrested while Michael escaped. I spent four months in custody.” 