A women group at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) has held an interactive session with female students to tackle low-self esteem and close interaction gap between teachers and students. SHUKURAT HAMZAT and SELIMOT AMUZAT (300-Level Biology) report. How to help womwn tackle low self-esteem was the focus of an interactive seminar held by members of the Female Staff Association of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) for female students. The seminar, with the theme: What it takes to be a successful female student, held in the school’s Multipurpose Hall II, was aimed at fostering a cordial lecturer-student relationship and closing interaction gap between teachers and students. A senior lecturer at the Department of Adult Education and Extension Service, Dr Asiya Bagudo, who initiated the seminar, said the programme sought to build confidence in female students to enable them approach their lecturers and share their challenges. In her opening remark, the chairperson of the event, Dr Constance Shehu, said the association was established last year to help women achieve their academic and professional potential. She said the seminar had the purpose to create interaction between female students and members of the association to share ideas on how they could solve common challenges. Dr Shehu said: “We noticed that there is a wide gap between us and female students. This gap is largely created by fears among students to approach us. Some of you have the feeling that lecturers are not approachable and this seminar is aimed at creating avenue for engagement between us.” Prof Aysha Madawaki, a member of the association, said the interaction between lecturers and students should go beyond the classroom, noting that lecturers have the duty to ensure that their students are psychologically balanced. She said: “It is not enough to come to the classroom and teach. As lecturers, we need to engage our students to ensure that they are psychologically prepared for the future. As female students, you should add extra effort to every of your set goals and share your challenges with us. Beyond good character and following the school rules, you need to have clear-cut ambition to contribute meaningfully to the development of our society.” While addressing the students, Prof Asabe of the Faculty of Arts and Islamic Studies advised them to remain focused and remember their purpose of being in the school. She urged participants to always engage in extra-curricular activities. “With proper planning, focus and seriousness, you can combine education with marital life,” Prof Asabe told the students, some of who expressed regrets over combining schooling with homemaking. Dr Maryam Abubakar Koko advised the students to be creative and focus on their primary aims in the school. She said: “You have to create passion for entrepreneurship, because it will give you financial freedom. As a married woman, I never allow my business to divert my attention away from studies. I still want to attain higher level in my profession. You must have this ambition too.” Participants praised the organisers, but listed some of the challenges facing female students. A student, Ayisha Ahmad, urged the women association to liaise with the school management on behalf of student-mothers to provide a daycare in the school to enable them bring their babies to school. She also mulled the idea of a female students’ body to champion the cause of women facing victimisation and harassment. Responding, Dr Bagudo said protecting female students from harassment and victimisation was part of the reasons the seminar was held. She said: “We knew there are a lot of things going on in the school, which students did not want to share with us because of fear. There are a lot of challenges, which put our ladies in discomfort. Our girls are getting carried away and they don’t know how to face their life challenges or who to turn to for advice. As adults with more experience, we need to guide you through and champion your cause.” Dr Bagudo advised students to be free in sharing their challenges with female lecturers. She promised that the association would act on the students’ observations. A mother of seven and lecturer, Dr Maryam Koko, said the platform would give female students a voice to be part of the school development. She urged the participants to be focused on their studies, while sharing her person experience. She said: “I was a mother while I was a student. Initially, I found it challenging as a woman, but I didn’t allow challenges to weigh me down. Combining motherhood with education can be tough, but it should not be seen as limitations to pursing our academic goals. A challenge can serve as a boost or push to attaining success.” Dr Shehu, who is a consultant gynaecologist at the Usmanu Danfodiyo Teaching Hospital (UDUTH), said the association would be a platform for mentoring female students towards achieving their potential. A participant, Faith Onyebuche, a 400-Level Biological Science student, said: “I had thought the seminar would be boring, but it turned out to be a programme where questions that had disturbed my mind were answered.”