The Nigeria Police have denied having any information on when Leah Sheribu would be released. Leah Sheribu was among 110 students abducted from Dapchi Government Secondary School in Yobe State on  February 19. Sheribu is still being held captive by Boko Haram even after 104 others were released last week Wednesday. The Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris who was in Maiduguri on Saturday told reporters that Leah Sheribu would be released on Saturday. His words: “I am supposed to go to Dapchi today (Saturday), but because I learnt that that schoolgirl, Leah, may be released today, that was why I had to shelve my trip to the town. “It is very understandable that in such circumstance, one does not create too much security presence in the area in a manner that it could sabotage the efforts being made there. “You know, I move with helicopter, and by the time I fly into the area they (Boko Haram) may think I break what the understanding may have been there. So I have to postpone the visit to Dapchi.” But the Force in a statement in Abuja on Sunday by the Force Spokesman, ACP Jimoh Moshood denied having any information about Sheribu’s release.  The Force also said the IG was misunderstood and misquoted.  The statement reads: “The attention of the Nigeria Police Force has been drawn to the publication on some Social Media platform and conventional media indicating that the Inspector General of Police said the last Dapchi school girl will be released soon.  “The Statement of the IGP was misunderstood and misquoted. The misunderstanding may be as a result of the already released Dapchi School girls expected back home in Yobe State today but could not arrive due to weather condition.  “The IGP could not also proceed to Dapchi because of same weather condition.  “The Force wishes the members of the public and the media disregard the purported statement as not what the IGP meant.  “The Force therefore reiterates that it has no information yet on the release of the last Dapchi school girl. This press release should be taken as the true position of the IGP’s statement.”