Nigeria  is set to produce its own vaccine in another four years if everything goes according to plan, a  notable virologist, Prof Oyewale Tomori, has said. He made this known during a tour of the Federal Vaccines Production Laboratory, Lagos. Tomori said the four-year target is possible because Nigeria is  partnering a South African firm, Biovac Institute in Cape Town, South Africa. Biovac is a private-public-parnership (PPP) firm which produces vaccines for South Africa. Tomori, who chairs Biovaccines Nigeria Limited Board of Directors, toured the laboratory facilities inherited from the government as its equity  contribution to form the partnership with Biovaccines Nigeria Limited (BVNL), in preparation for the vaccine production. He added that both Biovac Institute  and Biovaccines Nigeria have agreed to collaborate to build capacity for vaccines and biologicals in Africa, and partner through mutual exchanges in technology, processes and expertise. Tomori said Nigeria is many years behind in actualising the dream of building its national sufficiency in local production of vaccines, and thereby contribute positively in the most sustainable way to reducing immunisation challenges in the country. He assured that workers – from the chief executive to ground keeper – are primed to ensure the delivery of the indigenous vaccines to ameliorate the big burden posed by vaccines preventable diseases, particularly in children and mothers. “In a bid to get things right first time, we are working with our foreign technical team, comprising international experts in vaccines and biologicals technology to develop and implement a robust business plan. It has undertaken robust feasibility studies, evaluated all strategic options and made recommendations that underpinned our strategic direction. “We all know that vaccine production is a highly technical and complex technology, which requires time to perfect. A green field project will require five to eight years gestation period. “We cannot wait that long. We are engaging indigenous experts and relevant government agencies to see how we can shorten this process without making quality compromise,”he said. Tomori said the BVNL is not encumbered with bureaucracy and  with the expected co-operation from the government, the  company’s management will move swiftly to achieve the set goals in record time. “There is a new site, a 15-hectare of land in Ota, Ogun State acquired by Biovaccines for construction of a green field factory,” Tomori said. He assured that BVNL will take  steps to ensure that it gets everything  right. “This means that we are not only working to give Nigerians locally produced vaccines within the quickest possible time frame, we are also working to ensure that we produce vaccines of the highest quality and that they are done in a sustainable manner. We have resolved that no product of BVNL will harm any Nigerian. This is the sacred creed of BVNL,”Prof Tomori said.