Nigerian Arsenal fans returned with excitement from the tour of Emirate Stadium, facilitated by MTN – a telecommunication operator in Nigeria. Emirates Stadium is a football stadium in Holloway, London, England, and the home of Arsenal Football Club. With a capacity of 59,867, it is the third-largest football stadium in England after Wembley Stadium and Old Trafford. Two female Arsenal fans and  five male made up the seven Nigerian ‘Gunners for life’ fans on the tour of the Emirates which lasted four days.  The seven jet out of the country on the bill of the telecommunication company in February, had a 4-day live experience of the eye pomp ‎£390 million ‎construction cost‎ stadium. Their firsthand tour at the stadium included; a tour of the magnificent Emirates Stadium, experiencing the playing turf, visiting the popular Armoury housing the club’s merchandise among many opportunities. High point of the tour was on March 1st, as the seven ‘Naija’Gunners joined teeming English fans to watch Arsenal and Manchester City, a live experience they described as  quite unique and ecstatic for good football. “My best part of the tour was the live match with Manchester City at the Emirates,” said the Nigerian fans as they shared the tour experience with the press at a ‘Meet and Greet’ session at MTN headquarters recently in Lagos. Commenting on the trip, MTN’s General Manager, Brands and Communication, Richard Iweanoge said “We are delighted to be a part of our customers’ dream come true. This opportunity to watch their favourite team play live at the stadium is our way of giving them the total footballing experience they deserve and expressing our appreciation to them for choosing to be a part of our Y’ello family.” One of the Y’ello family said, “It was really amazing and exciting to watch my Arsenal team live, infact it was a dream come true. I’ve been on cloud nine since I heard… I’ll be going to London to watch my Arsenal play live! It has always been a dream of mine and it’s even on my bucket list. MTN has now made the dream a reality and I’m thankful to MTN for this”. One thing that was common with the seven Yello families is that they are not only Arsenal fans but also MTN subscribers; their names are, Ademola Sulaiman, Asemota Ivie, Coker Olabisi, Orimoloye Olateju, Arthur Chuks, Chief Kingsley Chinedu and Aniekpeno Mkpanang. During the trip, the seven also visited other iconic locations in the historic city of London.