A woman delivered of triplets last week  has said her husband ran away from home four months ago after her  scan result. Mrs Ijeoma Uzoma gave birth to the babies last Thursday at Tolu Crescent Medical Centre at Ajileye Street, Bariga, Lagos. She said : ‘’My husband left home since December when we did the scan and the results showed that I’m carrying triplets. I don’t  know where he is. I’ve not set my eyes on him since then. He left home without my notice. I wonder how he could abandon me in such condition. If he returns, I will tell him to go and see the government since they are the ones taking care of me,” she said. Mrs Uzoma, who lives at Farayibi Street, Bariga appealed to  the public and the government to help her raise the babies. “I don’t have anything. I’m still feeling pains. If the government can help with money, I will be glad. I used to hang umbrella to plait people’s hair in our house before delivery. I need money to raise these children and start business. I do not like begging; I can work if government can give me fund to establish myself,” she said. She thanked Bariga Local Council Development Area (LCDA) Chairman Kolade Alabi for coming to her aid. “God will bless him; the Lord will lift him and give him bigger position and others who came with him. They really made me happy,” she said. The Nation learnt that the woman laboured for 14 hours at home before she was rushed to the hospital. A senior local government official praised the Dr Mustafa Omotolani-led  team for saving the woman’s life. According to her, the hospital did not ask for  deposit before attending to her. Alabi said the gesture was part of his socio-economic promises during campaign period. “People often dismiss politicians’ promises during campaign as lies but some of us are not out to deceive people because we believe we can contribute our quota to assisting humanity. “These children could be future governors, ministers, business moguls even president of our country. We do not know what the future holds for them, hence the need to take care of them. Besides, in Bariga, we want increase in our population,” Alabi said.