The House of Representatives has given former Minister of Finance,  Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala four working days to appear before its Committee investigating pension reform. The governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Godwin Emefiele was also expected to appear before the lawmakers for explanations on the alleged stealing of pension funds in Nigeria. The Anayo Nnebe-led ad hoc Committee investigating the activities of the Presidential Task Force on Pensions Reforms from 2010 to the time of its dissolution and any other successor agency said no representation would be allowed. Nnebe said all those invited must appear in person. Also to appear alongside the former Minister are former Chairman of the defunct Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Abdulraheed Maina, former members of the Task Force, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, the Head of Service of the Federation, Winifred Eyo-Ita, former Head of Service, Stephen Orosanye, and the Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami. Others are the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) and all relevant stakeholders in the pension sector. Speaking at the opening of the public hearing Tuesday, Nnebe said the physical appearance of those summoned was purely on an account of accountability and thoroughness, adding that the Committee would not entertain any representation. He said: “The issue is very simple. We have heard from PTAD and the Legislative Watch. Former minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iwela, all the member of the defunct Presidential committee, EFCC, ICPC, Attorney-General, Governor of Central Bank, the IGP, and all the relevant stakeholders are invited by this Committee. “On Monday, March 12, 2018, we expect that in the next adjournment, all stakeholders would be here. “We have to get to the root of this matter. We cannot conclude this investigation without hearing from the persons involved. We must bring all the culprits to book.” While declaring open the hearing, Speaker Yakubu Dogara said the House was forced to embark on the investigation the numerous complaints that trialed the reforming agency considering the significance of pension in the lives of the citizens especially the retirees. Represented by the Chief Whip of the House, Pally Iriase, the Speaker recalled that the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms was inaugurated on 10th June, 2010, with the mandate to restructure the Head of Service Pension Office, Police Pension office and among others. He said: “The Task Force was dissolved in February 2013 after series of allegations of looting of pension fund amounting to N200b which was neither accounted for by neither the Task Force nor the successor agency. “Following the great significance of this sector in the lives of our citizens especially the retirees and the receipt of numerous complaints and petitions from relevant stakeholders, it became inevitable for the House of Representatives to set up this Ad-hoc Committee to examine all the facts surrounding the activities of the Presidential Task on Pension Reforms during its existence. “The subject of this investigation has had a checkered history and has become very controversial. I understand that the Senate is also conducting investigations on the subject. “As a bicameral Legislature our constituents have inundated us with complaints that gave rise to the Resolution of the House. Where possible you should compare notes with the Senate while maintaining the Independence of your investigations. “As Members of the Parliament, it is our mandate to represent our people very well, demonstrate transparency and justice to issues that affect the well-being of our people in accordance with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and other related policies”. In her presentations, the Executive Secretary of the Pension Transitional Arrangement Directorate (PTAD), Sharon Ikeazor said that the Abdulrasheed Maina panel left no significant details for her upon assumption of office. She said: “PTAD only inherited liabilities from the task force. We didn’t get anything sufficient from the defunct task force, only liabilities were handed over to the directorate. “PTAD is an outfall of the maladministration of the pensions reforms “. On his part, the Executive Secretary, Legislative Watch, Ngozika Ihuoma who was also a former member of of the Presidential Task Force however said the task force was still active with its mandate. He said Maina was innocent of all the allegations levelled against him, wondering why other government officials were not fingered in the alleged diversion of pension funds, “What of all the other members of the task force and other government officials at the time? “Maina was able to help the Federal government   recover N1.3 trillion after a visit to him in Dubai by the Minister of Justice,” he added. 