Youths of Dapchi, the Yobe State village where 110 schoolgirls were abducted on February 19, have called on the authorities to act on tips given by groups and individuals on the whereabouts of the girls. Last Thursday, a member of the House of Representatives, Goni Bukar (representing Bursari/Yunusari/Gaidam Federal Constituency), told The Nation that “the girls are still within Yobe State. We have an idea that they are in Bulabulin in Yunusari Local Government .  The military is aware that Boko Haram has been in that place for over four years.” The lawmaker offered to lead the military to the place if given the opportunity. The Dapchi Youth Development Association (DAYDA), in a statement yesterday after a meeting of stakeholders in Dapchi, insisted that only 107 girls and not 110 as announced by the government were abducted”. They also urged the Yobe State Government to decide the fate of the 800 girls that escaped the attack at the Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC) and escaped abduction. ”Despite the incident, they are still entitled to their right to education”, the forum said. The communiqué of the meeting signed by the Chairman of the forum, Alhaji Bashir Manzo and Secretary General  of DAYDA, Alhaji  Baba Shehu, said: ”We declare total support for ongoing efforts by the government to rescue our abducted daughters, but would only be convinced by her commitment when the girls are rescued in earnest and alive. “From our records, which we gathered from individual parents and made available to government and other stakeholders, the abducted GGSTC Dapchi girls are 107 as against 110 publicised in the media. “We condemn in  totality the selective engagement by government’s constituted committees and representatives with parents of the abducted school girls, whereby only those considered to be stooges to some political leaders were consulted while neglecting the leadership of the forum of abducted Dapchi school girls that has the support  and confidence of its membership. We want inclusiveness, if government must earn our confidence. “We hereby urge all our political leaders and technocrats across the globe to use whatever influence they have to support and compel governments at all levels to intensify her rescue efforts, as there is no time the community requires their support and services better than now. “Government should consult with those who claim to have heard from the abductors or known the whereabouts of our children and mobilise whatever resources that are required to rescue our daughters alive. “Youths and other community stakeholders are determined to resist from whatever quarters any attempt to politicise the incident. “We describe as lack of commitment, ineptitude and breach of our fundamental human right of freedom for peaceful assembly and association the denial of clearance sought by some civil society groups in Yobe State who have declared their intention to show their solidarity to us through peaceful demonstrations and street walks. This ridicules our collective conscience and the Nigerian constitution “The general public and government officials should desist from derogatory comments and statements capable of further traumatising the affected families and sabotage the ongoing rescue efforts. “While the rescue efforts may be ongoing, we urge Yobe State Government to decide in earnest the fate of the over 800 schools girls  who escaped and returned home following the closure of the school, as they are still entitled to their right to education.”