For proclaiming that her ambition is to become a Vice-Chancellor (VC), a Senior Secondary School pupil, Benita James, has made history, becoming a day VC at Ritman University in Ikot Ekpene, Akwa Ibom. The 16-year-old, who is in SS3 class, inspired the President of the school, Prof Celestine Ntuen, during an encounter when pupils from a group of secondary schools visited the university on a tour. This prompted Prof Ntuen to honour the teenager as One-Day Vice-Chancellor. Benita had the privilege to interact with the founder and Visitor to the university, Senator Emmanuel Ibok Essien, a former Deputy Chief Whip of the Senate and Chairman of Ritman Group of Companies. While receiving the One-Day Vice-Chancellor, Senator Essien encouraged her not to lose focus on her dream, saying she would attain her goals if she worked hard and excelled in her academic pursuits. Prof Ntuen conducted Benita round the campus, visiting offices including Admission Office, Information Communication Technology (ICT) Centre, the Registry and Bursary departments. Benita sat on the official seat of a Principal Officer, and signed some documents. Her mother, Mrs Deborah Aniefiok James, who accompanied her, praised the institution for what she described as a “kind gesture”, promising that her daughter would attend the school for her university education. Benita, who is a pupil of Heritage College in Uyo, said English Language and Literature were her favourite subjects. She added that she enjoyed baking, cooking, making bead and participating in drama. Until her visit to the university, she said her aim was to become a theatre artist, but said her future ambition was changed by the quality of facilities and intellectual growth she saw at the university. Prof Ntuen said the school would continue to engage young people in helping them attain their life goals by inspiring them with opportunities. Other schools that participated in the tour included Nigeria Christian Institute (NCI), Uyo; Heritage College, Uyo; Lutheran High School, Ikot Obong Edong and State College and Greenfield College in Ikot Ekpene. Prof Ntuen motivated the pupils during an engagement with them, after which he organised a game where some of the pupils won free Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) forms. Some of the pupils, who went home with the N7,500 forms included Moses Akanimo, Peters Ime, Akpan Ekemini, Lawrence Amaowo and Ruth Effiong of NCI, Lutheran, Greenfield, State and Heritage Colleges. After a seminar and facility tour, NCI Vice President described the university as “world-class”, saying the interactions the VC and other top officers of the university had with the pupils was motivating.