The first ever music concert experience they say. Taking a live music concert to screen in disguise of a movie certainly took us here in the Crithood by surprise. It gets an average thinker wondering, could it be artistically inspired? Or could it have just been purely business oriented? As it appears that Falz and his team left no room for waste in terms of making maximum profit on his concert. The day’s work had just ended and giving little thought to what was next was the decision to go see what was new in the Box office. Falz Experience the Movie, needed no persuasion as naturally the art of the dramatist spoke loudly through the artiste, only it still felt as though something about this particular movie, didn’t exactly scream ‘movie’! Having doubts in mind, still picked up the ticket and asked the attendant, ‘is this an actual movie?’ and response didn’t help as the attendant was also unsure of the supposed experience. Therefore, since the response was unsatisfactory, there was only one option left. So, walked right into the theatre and saw firsthand what it was all about. A blend of theatre and film, it appeared to be. Highly farcical in nature, most especially in character portrayal. Falz playing a multiply of characters in numerous scene, was quite commendable, only it wasn’t so much of a big deal because his brand was basically built around this act. Building up to the reason for the movie were series of slapstick actions and comical characters based on a script that dramatically interwove a concert into becoming a unique content that allowed the experience of the concert be relived in the four corners of a cinema hall as a movie. The picture quality was just average; not giving so much attention to the standard of the picture quality was not good enough. The shots were not the best, felt like a lazy work done just for the sake of it being called a movie, after all the concert ought to be the main focus. The show was properly covered and clearly, was well put together. Every event planner of that class ought to see this one. The use of elements as light, costume, sound even down to the set design spelt out organization. The dance routines were on point, coupled with the infusion of humour that kept the performances interesting. The tempo and placement of the choice of music was properly thought through and engaging. On screen the concert was standard, hopefully it was the same at the live show. At the end of it all, the movie is of a unique style. New to the Nigerian cinemas, leaving a lot of people clueless about the kind of movie it is. A number of unsatisfied movie lovers in the hall, as they were expecting something else, eventually had to take what they got. Definitely profit oriented in comparison to value for creating an artistic piece. This is our verdict. It is a nice attempt at a recreation of the concert artistically to suit screen, but making a movie goes past having funny characters and slapstick actions, the quality of picture is everything. Average is not good enough especially when it comes to an attempt at making history. It just makes the work flat and gives that sense of paucity that reduces the chances of making it grand.