 All over. Real Madrid through to the last eight of the Champions League. Zidane’s side far superior of the two. Very polished and very professional. PSG haven’t improved since last year and big questions must be asked of Unai Emery. 92min: Just not good enough… PSG’s performance summed up by Cavani. He worked himself into an excellent position in the Real Madrid penalty area but couldn’t move his feet quick enough before he was tackled. Real Madrid almost there. 86min: PSG, really, haven’t looked close all game to beating Real Madrid. Whether that be on the night or across the two legs, they haven’t been able to manage their opponents. Real Madrid have plenty of experience of navigating a successful path in the Champions League. Cavani makes things that bit worse by getting himself in Brych’s book for a late tackle.  Real Madrid’s players celebrate their second goal  Cavani looks on after Real Madrid go into the lead yet again  78min: Silly from the Real Madrid captain. Javier Pastore had control of the ball but had his back to goal. Ramos, rather than waiting for Pastore to get side on, clips the PSG player. Brych shows no hesitation and books the Spain international. 73min: What a chance that was. Benzema again manages to get behind the PSG defence. Marquinhos does well to get back but the striker should still do better after advancing into the PSG penalty area. Instead of playing a simple pass he goes for goal but his right-footed effort goes wide of Areola’s goal. That could have been game over. The ball comes off Cavani and somehow trickles into the Real Madrid goal. Thiago Silva’s header bounced off the forward and Ramos wasn’t able to get to the ball before it crossed Navas’ line. One goal back but there is still plenty to do if they want to take this to extra-time. Two more goals from PSG without reply would be enough. Oh dear. Any hope PSG had seems to have gone now. Verratti receives a second yellow card. He ran over to referee Brych after he was tackled. Brych wasn’t happy with his actions and produces a second yellow card. All over now for PSG.  PSG fans continue to back their side in the second half 9 – Cristiano Ronaldo is the second player in #UCL history to score in nine consecutive games (14 goals), after Ruud van Nistelrroy for Manchester United in 2003 (12). 55min: PSG, even more so now, are trying to get forward quickly but they don’t have the players capable of controlling the ball and playing with an element of calm. So often their play has been rushed and Real Madrid aren’t having to do much at all to win the ball back. PSG very poor in possession all night and it appears as though there is now no way back for them.  Even though Real Madrid haven’t taken full advantage as they so often have done in the past, this has been a poor defensive display by PSG. Marquinhos and Thiago Silva. Unsurprisingly they get punished just minutes into the second half. Lucas Vasquez plays an excellent ball to the far post and Ronaldo heads down into the ground and the PSG goal. Dani Alves’ mistake must also be highlighted. He allowed Vasquez too much room to get round him. 46min: Similar to the first half, PSG have started quickly. The fans continue to cheer their side on. Although maybe too much… firecrackers have been set off as well as flares and referee Brych stops the game for a few seconds. Steven Gerrard, live on BT Sport, believes Real Madrid will have been content with how they have played so far. Second half seconds awa Pre Match Reports Real Madrid are in pole position to move into the quarter-finals of the UEFA Champions League as they travel to Paris Saint-Germain for the second leg of their last-16 tie. The current European champions hold a two-goal advantage after coming from behind to win the first leg at the Bernabeu, but will have to be wary of complacency. PSG are runaway leaders in the French top flight and with an attack boasting the likes of Kylian Mbappe and Edinson Cavani will have every chance of staging a comeback at the Parc des Princes. In the view of Guillem Balague the tie is still in the balance. Sky Sports’ Spanish football expert believes PSG will have enough chances to hurt Real, who have been struggling for form in La Liga. Team to play Real Madrid: Areola, Silva, Marquinhos, Berchiche, Alves, Verratti, Motta, Rabiot, Cavani, Di Maria, Mbappe. Subs: Trapp, Kimpembe, Meunier, Lo Celso, Diarra, Draxler, Pastore. REAL MADRID TEAM NEWS Team to play PSG: Navas, Carvajal, Ramos, Varane, Marcelo, Casemiro, Vazquez, Asensio, Kovacic, Ronaldo, Benzema. Subs: Casilla, Nacho, Kroos, Modric, Bale, Hernandez, Isco. MATCH STATS 