 The Federal Government is doing everything possible to end open delectation in the country, the Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed has said. Mohammed posited that open defection was responsible for majority of diseases and high mortality rate among under five children in Nigeria. He spoke on Tuesday stated in Jos, Plateau state, during a two-day media dialogue on Water, Sanitation and Hygiene (WASH) projects organized by the Federal ministry of information in conjunction with United Nations Children Fund (UNICEF). The minister who was represented by a Deputy Director, Mr. Olumide Osanyinpeju, said the federal ministry has great concern on the wellbeing of Nigerians, particularly of children who are vulnerable to communicable diseases. He stressed that the government was desirous to ending open defecation in the country by year 2030 as a means of ensuring better healthcare services. He said, “Open defecation is incredibly dangerous, as contact with human waste can cause diseases such as cholera, typhoid, hepatitis, polio, diarrhoea, worm infestation and under nutrition. We must double our current efforts in order to end open defecation by 2030.” Declaring the workshop open, Plateau state Commissioner for Water resources and energy Ja’afaru Wuyep, said there are positive results in the lives of the people; assuring that the state government will continue to invest on its people. The commssioner stated Plateau state government with UNICEF “our partnership wirth UNICEF is necessary, we have seen positive results on our people, UNICEF are everywhere in the rural areas assisting our people. “When we invest in children, we are correcting the past, and making the future right,” he added. He commended UNICEF for coming to their aide and standing in the gap where government could not reach it citizens. He said, “UNICEF has been the major partners to Plateau state in our human challenges, as a government, we will continue to partner UNICEF.” UNICEF chief for Water and Sanitation Hygiene (WASH) in Nigeria Zaid Jurji, in a paper presentation revealed that 60 million Nigerians do not have no access to portable water. He also said 88 percent of the diarrhea cases in the country was caused by open defecation and lack of portable water. He urged Nigeria government to invest more in water and sanitation as it goes a long way to impact on the wellbeing of the people. 