 * rubbishes prison injury report Argentina international and Boca Juniors forward Carlos Tevez has thrown pebbles on media report indicating that he was injured while playing football in Prison. The report which had gone viral said the 34 year old was hurt while participating in a short time football action while visiting a relative in prison, but the former Manchester City star has dismissed the report describing it as a concussion by those in the habit of talking carelessly. Tevez, who remains hopeful that he will be considered for selection for the world cup where Argentina will square up against Nigeria, Iceland and Croatia, said he was instead injured while training in the gym. “Doing strength work at the gym last Wednesday morning, on the machine I felt a great pain in my calf,” Tevez said to TyC Sports. “On Friday, I used the kinesio [adhesive tape] waiting for progression. And since I did not see any, I had tests. There the stretch appeared. “I do not know why some people do not believe me. If I had not been injured at the gym, I would not be so stupid to say I was injured here. “But as I’m telling you, they begin to speculate about golf or jail. Sometimes they do not know if they talk bulls*** or not, but I always tell the truth, whether it’s politically correct or not. “I will not be such an idiot to expose myself to go to jail. That they talk so much bulls*** hurts and makes me stronger, because I have to keep evolving. It’s time to shut up and deliver everything on the field.” Tevez who made his  ‘third missionary’ return to Boca Juniors early this year,had prior to the return enjoyed a short but very lucrative sojourn with Chinese Super League side Shanghai Shenhua, pocketing a reported annual salary of $41 million, which would make him the world’s highest-paid football player. Tevez subsequently played down the reports he became the highest-paid player in the world following his move, saying, “My salary isn’t as high as the legends.” Although Tevez who was in the same club with Nigeria’s Obafemi Martins while in China was criticised by some for being overweight he nonetheless registered four goals in 16 appearances for the side and he left the Chinese side he described his time there as a “holiday”       