A young woman, who prefers her identity protected has taken to Instagram to reveal how her mother-in-law makes her hate her husband. According to her, she has been maltreated so many times by the mother-in-law who always complained about everything she does. She said: I’m a married woman with a kid and My mother in law is making me hate my husband because anytime the woman  comes visiting she searches all the whole house to see if there is something new, so she can talk. When I put to bed, the woman was with me and she showed me pepper, there is nothing I know how to do, she criticized everything, not up to a week that I put to bed, I have started washing this woman clothes, am a first time mum. This woman doesn’t help me in using hot water for my body, she said she will explain that I should do it myself, she told me she doesn’t know to take care of babies, all she do is bathing under 1min she’s done. She discouraged me about going to clinic for immunization that she doesn’t believe in it. The list go on and on and anytime I want 2 tell my husband about his mother character he will flare up telling me I don’t have home training and sometimes for days, he won’t talk to me because of the matter. I’m so tired, I told my husband I want to get a job at least I can take care of myself, my parent, my kid and assist him too. Ever since i got married, i don’t have new cloth but he is buying for himself, all my hair is ripped off when i don’t make it, i have old parent who need financial support and he doesn’t  give my parent money but he can borrow money for his mum if he doesn’t have. He is taking care of his baby (6 months). The worst of it, is that since he doesn’t want me to do salary job and i have handwork too. So I decided to use that to make small money. About a week ago, i went out to sell my handwork, which i came back late(due to traffic) I begged him but he didn’t even answer me till now , he won’t eat what I cook nor talk to me. I need your advices.
Marriage can be so annoying Bom