Things are looking up in Ogbia, the Local Government Area of former President Goodluck Jonathan. The hitherto divided and highly politicised council is beginning to get its rhythm of peace and unity back. Ogbia elders, women and youths are happy at the selfless efforts of Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the state’s Commissioner for Information and Orientation, in realising the dreams of the late Melford Okilo for the oil-rich council. The commissioner is making a lot of sacrifice to evolve an Ogbia with a free-flow of peace, unity and development. Complementing the aspiration of his boss, Governor Seriake Dickson, for the local government area, Iworiso-Markson recently inaugurated a football competition tagged, Dickson’s Unity Cup, the Ogbia Challenge. Indeed, the competition proved to be a unifier. It pulverised the mountain-like disharmony and lifted the obstacles to peaceful coexistence in the council. Every community in the council participated in the competition. In fact, 32 football teams representing the communities took part. For the first time in a long while, youths forgo their political and individual differences to engage one another in healthy rivalries. Those who initially could not see eyeball-to-eyeball freely embraced one another, shared jokes, food and drinks. The youths discussed brotherhood and other actions required to move their only council forward. For the three weeks the competition lasted, community folks filed out en-mass and rolled out their drums to cheer their teams. The communities bubbled in joy. Economic activities were also stimulated as some persons seized the opportunities to do brisk business. More than anything else, the Ogbia Challenge positively engaged the excessive energies of the youths. It took their minds away from crime, violence and hard drugs. It made them realise that they could develop into better individuals and contribute to the progress of their council by developing their potential and talents. Therefore, it was with excitement that the competition was brought to an end at the Opume Township Stadium in Ogbia.  Two communities of Otueasega and Otiokpoti slugged it out at the final. Otuasiga later emerged the winner. Prominent persons, Dickson’s aides from Ogbia, some local and international football stars, traditional rulers, women, elders and even children from the council graced the occasion. Deputy Governor John Jonah attended the event as a special guest of honour. Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Kamela Okara was also there. Jonah in his remarks commended Iworiso-Markson for organising the event and hailed the unity that accompanied the programme. He said the competition was part of the process of encouraging the youths to excel in their chosen disciplines. He said such competition should be part of the annual sports calendar in the state. He urged the sports commissioner to work with other local councils and integrate the competition into the ministry’s calendar. He said: “Sports as you know is one of the areas that you can derive several benefits, first it keeps you fit, second it gives you the  spirit to go on with life and these days there’s a lot of money in sports too, it can go beyond just this Ogbia challenge. “It is also a bit of talent hunt; discovering the talent in the youths at a very early stage, this is what we expect to be done in every local government area. In fact, it should be part of the calendar of the state”. The deputy governor lamented the increasing negative conducts of youths particularly their engagements in social vices such as cultism and drug abuse. But he said the Iworiso-Markson’s initiatives would help to tackle the menace. He said: “One of the things that we are fighting very seriously against is the conduct of our youth these days; youths’ indulgence in activities such cultism, drug abuse and others. It is not just employment that would take you off but activities of this nature get the youths engaged and this engagement should be done deliberately and not by chance. “With what I have seen, which the commissioner of sports can attest to too, some of the players can play for Bayelsa United. The future is here and I am particularly impressed with the standard of play. I was not expecting this standard. “For the audience I think this is very good, despite the rain you turned out en masse to support this program, this is what we expect, those of us that are very interested in the growth of the youth would always encourage this sort of activity. “On the part of the government, there are programmes to develop a lot of sporting facilities and arena so I will enjoin even the local council area to try and make sure that the facilities here are sustained even if you don’t have a sport complex, the ground is good enough. “I congratulate the commissioner of information for this initiative and hope that other local councils will emulate him and maybe later the winner of each council will now square up in Yenagoa”. In his remarks, Iworiso-Markson, who was particularly elated at the success and outcome of the competition, called for the sustenance of the unity it brought to the council. He expressed gratitude to all those who supported it. ýHe thanked Governor Dickson for providing stable leadership in the state which allowed for such communal event to take place without rancour and also praised him for fulfilling his promise of reconstructing the Iminringi and Opume bridge, internal roads, among others. He said the projects had made Ogbia a huge construction site. Iworiso-Markson also expressed immense appreciation to the deputy governor and the SSG for gracing the finals. He also commended all political appointees from Ogbia, the Council Chairman, Naomi Ogoli, the Obanoban III of Ogbia, chairman and members of the Opume Council of Chiefs and members of the Ogbia Restoration Caucus for their roles in making the tournament a success. He further appreciated the efforts of the Senior Special Assistant on Youths in Ogbia, Ossanya B. Osaanya who led all youths including the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC) in Ogbia to show solidarity and support for the competition in all the communities. He was grateful to the members of the Ogbia Restoration Crusaders and the Local Organising Committee (LOC) for their coordination. He thanked the women and other groups for turning out in their numbers to make the event colourful. But Iworiso-Markson appealed that while the football competition was over, the peace and bonds of unity that it generated should be sustained to foster development and peace in Ogbia Kingdom. He said: “This is something that we have to applaud the governor for. We are just basically toeing his line; the need for us to be united, the need for us to work together as one people and the need for us to stay committed to the restoration agenda. “So, what we are doing here in Ogbia with this football competition is to further enhance all of the efforts that the governor. With the support of all the leaders and elders of Ogbia Kingdom you can see the unity, togetherness and the cohesion in the council. “Our central message is that once we’re united then there is no way that we cannot experience development.  Ogbia needs development and we’re glad that the governor is doing that for us. “Look at the Omiringi bridge, the internal roads going on in Ogbia Town; look at the bridge going on in my community here too, all of these can’t happen if we don’t have peace. We should be united. It is the one message that we will continue to preach going forward. “We’re saying to our leaders in Ogbia that they should join forces with us to continue to preach peace and unity. Development will definitely follow once we have peace and unity”. Also, the Local Government Chairman, Naomi Ogoli, hailed the commissioner for information for pursuing the unity of the council. She said the commissioner had made a lot of sacrifice to bring peace and unity to the council. “It is what you have in you that you’ll give out. The commissioner for information is a good man and that is why he’s promoting unity starting with sports. In sports, football unifies people like what is happening here today, if not for this tournament everybody will not be together”, she said. 