•     Agency boss urges varsities to embrace global practices Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu, SAN, and the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Vice-Chancellor (VC) ,Prof Igbekele Ajibefun, have praised the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund) for its contributions to the growth of the state-owned university. The duo gave the commendation during the AAUA Distinguished Lecture titled: Paradigm shift in infrastructure development in Nigerian universities: The TETFund approach. The lecture was delivered by TETFund Executive Secretary Dr Abdullahi Bichi Baffa. Akeredolu, represented by his deputy, Hon. Agboola Ajayi, said without TETFund’s interventions, higher institutions would have collapsed in the face of facility challenges. He pleaded with the agency to complement his government’s efforts at improving infrastructure in the school. Prof Ajibefun, in his address, hailed TETFund for its “remarkable impact” in the school, describing the agency as a “dependable ally” in delivering academic excellence. He said: “In the area of infrastructure, TETFund has facilitated several projects in AAUA and all the projects have been nearly completed. Well over 400 members of our staff have benefitted from post-graduate training and conference attendance sponsorship, while a good number of active researchers have received research grants from the agency.” Prof. Ajibefun, who described Dr Baffa as a “distinguished Nigerian” and “astute administrator”, said the agency boss had built on the foundation laid by his predecessors. During the lecture, Dr Baffa stressed the need for universities to uphold best global practices in their operations. He said TETFund had spent N652.9 billion on tertiary institutions between 2006 and 2016, noting that embracing international best practices for funding would reduce cost of operation, improve efficiency, quality and accuracy. He said: “International best practice includes improving environmental conditions and generally enhancing the delivery of frontline services and the attainment of institutional goals and objectives. It also includes the provision of physical facilities for teaching and learning hinged on the new paradigms of small group teaching and interactive pedagogy. These practices broadly cover quality of the facility, its utility value, distribution and ratios, maintenance and replacement policy.” The agency boss promised his continued support to AAUA in line with the regulations guiding the operations of TETFund.