 Marouane Fellaini is one of the few footballers in the world who is instantly recognisable for his trademark hairstyle. The Belgian dominates the centre of the pitch with his tall stature and distinctive Afro… and now he has undergone a photo shoot with GQ magazine to show himself in a brand new light. Fellaini sat down to talk with the lifestyle magazine ahead of the upcoming World Cup, and tried out a few fancy hairstyles along the way. Fashioning his long locks into an array of different styles, Fellaini allowed the experts at GQ to jazz up his style by incorporating his frizzy hair into pigtails and offset with a bandana. Speaking to the publication Fellaini discussed his approach to football and his often-criticised playing style. The 30-year-old is often viewed as a battering ram in central midfield, with the intention of roughing up opponents and breaking up play. Fellaini however rejects this notion, and believes there are far more facets to his game which have seen him become an instrumental component for both club and country. ‘It think it’s easy for them to portray me as an aggressive player, but I’m not,’ Fellaini told GQ Style. ‘I try to play my game, I try my best to recover the ball quickly: that’s my job. Try to be better all the time, to give my best for the team, for the club. I always want to improve.’ Despite his future at Manchester United frequently coming into question over the years, Fellaini has repeatedly proved to be an important player relied upon by different managers since being signed by David Moyes in September 2013. Current boss Jose Mourinho has come to depend heavily upon Fellaini in recent seasons, and selected the midfielder during his side’s recent victory over arch rivals Liverpool. The relationship between the two, Fellaini points out, is one of respect and a mutual desire to win. ‘I’ve learnt a lot with him. Jose is someone who wants to win every game: he pushes players to get the maximum from them. ‘He has a very good understanding with his players. He’s a winner.’ While his ambitions are focused on a strong end to the season with United, Fellaini also has one eye on the World Cup and Belgium’s chances of going all the way. With some of the hottest prospects in European football within their ranks, Belgium are tipped by many to go all the way and lift the World Cup for the first time in their history. ‘We hope to do better than at the last World Cup and Euros. We have a great squad and we’re four years more experienced,’ Fellaini added. ‘We’re ready and want to do something special for the Belgian fans.’  