THE 2015 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Dr Dakuku Peterside, has stated that Governor Nyesom Wike’s penchant for lies may destroy him. He reacted yesterday in Port Harcourt through his aide to remarks by Wike, who claimed that as commissioner for Works in the last administration, Peterside did not build a road to Opobo/Nkoro, his council. Peterside, who is the director-general of the Nigeria Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), however, declared that Wike was fond of deceiving the people, who he said see through Wike’s lies. He said: “I served as commissioner for Works in Rivers State, at a time when one of the pillars of the administration was infrastructural development. Dr Peter Odili’s administration, through the instrumentality of then Deputy Governor, Sir Gabriel Toby, initiated the Ogoni-Andoni-Opobo Unity Road, a total of 37 kilometres, with 10 bridges and many culverts. Unfortunately, the administration was winding up, so could only do two bridges and got the road to Iwoama Asarama, achieving 26 per cent of the total job scope. “That was the point we met the road. At the insistence of the Amanyanabo of Opobo and the people of Nkoro, we did a new alignment to Nkoro, taking it to Kalaibiama and from there to Opobo Town, thus introducing the Nkoro-Kalaibiama-Opobo town alignment of 11.5 kilometres and four bridges. ‘’With the change in alignment, the unity road became 44.09 kilometres, as against 37.7 kilometres awarded by the Odili administration in 2005. In all, six bridges were completed under my watch and two bridges (Nos 9 and 10) were at 70 per cent and 50 per cent completion, at the end of the Amaechiadministration in 2015. “We started driving to Nkoro Town and I drove down to Kalaibiama Town in Opobo to campaign in 2015.  This is the true situation of things, which Rivers people know, especially those from Andoni and Opobo. Similarly, those from Ikuru Town could drive home, I did that with the then Deputy Governor,Tele Ikuru, many times.”      