…as demands for skilled manpower swell  The Edo State Government through its job creation initiative, EdoJobs, has launched a skills development programme to prepare unemployed youths in the state for employment opportunities and as employers of labour. Addressing journalists during a press conference to announce the launch of the programme, Senior Special Assistant (SSA) to the Governor on Skill Acquisition and Job Creation, Ukinebo Dare, said “Through the skills development programme, the Godwin Obaseki-led administration has been attracting investors that have need for highly skilled manpower to the state.” She explained that the state government is partnering with organisations that are specialised in Information and Communication Technology (ICT), mobile phone and laptop repairs, automobile mechanics among others, to train youths across the three senatorial districts in the state. The training she said “is designed in such a way that some programmes have stipend packages, start-up packs while others have business support packages for trainees. The programme will also address the needs of the participating business partners and individuals.” Ukinebo added that youths will be trained in various skills to meet the increasing demands for highly skilled workforce in the state. “The objective of the programme is to enable the state government prepare youths as entrepreneurs and employers of labour in line with the vision of the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, to create 200,000 jobs.” Ukinebo said that the programme is open to youths who are indigenes and those who reside in the state, adding, “The programme will enhance the employability of youths and enable them maximise their potential. It will prepare the youths for different job opportunities. Those trained will be matched with employers who have vacancies in the state through the Edojobs portal. “The programme will assist the state government supply employers skilled labour force as the EdoJobs initiative has grown from a job matching to job creation platform.” One of the partners of the programme, Slot Academy, represented by Collins Uwadiae, said, “Slot Academy is partnering with Edo State Government to complement the strides of Governor Obaseki in creating jobs for youths. The Academy will train the youths at zero cost to prepare youths as entrepreneurs. Chief Inspector of IFEST Foundation, another partner, Engr. Anthony Okogue, said: “IFEST Foundation is partnering with EdoJobs to render technical and vocational training in motor and vehicle mechanic. We are partnering with Edojobs to train Edo youths in modern motor and vehicle mechanics.” Also in attendance were beneficiaries of skills development programmes organised by EdoJobs. Isioma Deborah said the programme has helped her with knowledge of branding and packaging which she is applying in her business. “Before the training, I was just doing my normal business but with the help of EdoJobs’ partners I have been able to put my business on several social media platforms and my customers are increasing. I really appreciate them,” she said. Similarly, Loveth Osagie, who is undergoing training in fashion design, said the programme has helped her discover her innate abilities. 