Mr. Ishola Fapounda is a governorship aspirant in  Ekiti State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, he speaks on a wide range of issues, including the unity of the party and his preparedness to make Ekiti better than what it is today. What is the level of your consultation with stakeholders on your governorship ambition? We have actually gone beyond that now. We have been consulting for over two years. We will commence our local governments’ tour this week. The tour will enable us to meet critical stakeholders. We have 16 local governments; we will meet the executive of the party at the wards levels. Again, majority of those we consulted preparatory to our formal declaration has been impressive. But we still need to formally declare our mission and that is where we are right now. How soon are you going to declare? Well, it will come like a convention that has actual crept in on us. Normally, what we should do is to write a letter that we are interested in the race. But, I have actually done the declaration a couple of years ago. In April 2016, I declared my interest to vie for the governorship in my local ward in Oke Mesi, Ekiti West Local Government. But now, when I finish my local governments’ tour, I will do it at the state level to officially declare our interest to the party executive members. Just like Senator Babafemi Ojudu, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele, if they had done that, it will be the right thing for others contesting to do and I will love to do that. Governor Fayose is reputed to be a grassroots politician. Can you defeat his anointed candidate? The mood and sentiment of Ekiti people today is different from what it was 15 years ago, when the state was turned into a theatre of war. I believe that the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has taken a step in that right direction by putting forward its candidate. Though he remains Fayose’s preferred candidate, because he has not won the PDP party ticket yet. Be that as it may, dislodging Fayose’s candidate won’t be a problem, because when he picks up the ticket, it is the party that will now be against each other; not individuals. Though, individuals play a huge role, particularly when you select a candidate that matches the mood and sentiment of the people. In Ekiti State today, one of the campaign slogans of the PDP is: elect ‘Young Professor Olusola’. This is very similar to what Ekiti people are saying, elect ‘Barrister Ishola Fapounda’ to fly the flag of the APC. Now, you will be thinking intelligently by saying it is light for light, when you are comparing candidates of two parties. At the party level, don’t forget that we still a lot of battle ahead to get the party’s ticket. But, be that as it may, I don’t have any reservation that the APC will form the next government in Ekiti State come October this year. What do you think will give you an edge? Despite the fact that we have up to 40 aspirants, I stand out among other aspirants. What stands me out? Let me start by asking what the population size of Ekiti is. What are the peculiarities and what are the comparative advantages that we have? Let us assume you are the governor and you are not getting any money from the Federal Government, can you create an economy and create a viable state? It is okay for you to say that you will bring mechanised agriculture. What is the land size in Ekiti State and the traditional pattern of agriculture? What we have always had is subsistence agriculture. How do you go from subsistence to commercial without creating critical junctures? Where do you take employment and get money from? How do you plough them around to produce acceptable results for Ekiti people? In this time and age, you have to be thinking of where you have comparative advantages. In 2016, the world global health tourism worth S100 billion and Ekiti State can become a party through its serenity. Serenity is worth money all over the place and it is on serenity that tourism is built. There is a place called Ikogosi and I am sure you must have heard of the place. Former Governor Kayode Fayemi spent a lot of money to upgrade Ikogosi to national limelight. Ikogosi is a commodity for global health tourism. Can you imagine what will happen if just one place in Ekiti State is making a million dollar a year? That will impact on the state’s internally generated revenue (IGR). How do you sit down and think of innovative ideas? Are you intellectually capable of bringing the innovation that will make the difference? Can you partner with those states that can contribute to the development of Ekiti? You have to put your money into the best use possible and as the governor you should be thinking further than others are thinking. Why can’t we make Ekiti State a viable place for Lagos to make money too? So, if you want to be governor, these are the questions that need to be asked. What is the average age of our children who graduate from secondary schools? Is that commensurate with their peer group in the world? What is the age our children who graduate from the university and what is the mortality rate? How responsible is our doctors to the needs of our patients. We need to actually look at the economy of the state. The problems include teachers not receiving their salaries, civil servants not being paid on time. As a governor, how would you ensure that it does not continue? In other words, if your umbilical cord is still hanging in Abuja, that will continue to happen. How do we create a local economy? So, rather than people taking their money to India, Dubai and some of the hospitals that people go to for kidney transplant cannot even stand with our local hospitals. But, they have been able to put propaganda round it and get what they want. There are local investors, why can’t we attract them too? So, we intend to create local economy based on what we have on ground. How united is Ekiti APC? I believe to a very large extent, the APC is a united body in Ekiti. You have to understand that when you play politics, it can pitch brother against brother. But, the truth of the matter is that the structure of the party is solid. We have the APC family intact. Like what happened in Ondo State, where there was division, the party was still able to manage it and defeat the former ruling party. We had division in Anambra State as well. Even though we did not win that election, we were able to manage the outcome of the primary. When you are talking about the APC, it is not just the affairs of the party in Ekiti, but also at the national level, because the national executive will send electoral officers to monitor the shadow polls. In Ekiti, majority of the players or aspirants are people that we have known each other for upward of 20 years. So, the party would not collapse after the primary; no matter what happens. That can happen in any other state, but not in Ekiti. You also have to understand that the process that actually leads to elections is usually not too smooth, anywhere in the world. Like you mentioned, we have Ojudu, Opeyemi in the race, these are my egbons. There are interested in becoming the governor; I too want to be governor. On that basis, we will slug it out. Are you going to say when I win, I will not be their aburo anymore?  We are not going to play that kind of politics in Ekiti. Would you probe Fayose and former Governor Fayemi when you become governor? Majority of what we are seeing today, with people believing I am attacking them, bothers on intellectual laziness. If I become governor, a position that I will occupy for four years, I would not pre-occupy myself with what amounts to a distraction. After the election, I will not sit down to start looking into what my predecessors did or did not do. If you met a broken system, then you have to fix it. I will not have any problem with them. I will accord anybody who had come before me the due respect, but if they are found short of the law, there are appropriate agencies that have been saddled with the responsibilities of doing their work. I will not do the work of a policeman for instance. I will not align with any other agency to desecrate the sanctity of the office of the governor. 