After the 90 minutes of action at Etihad on Sunday, Gary Neville branded Chelsea’s display as “unacceptable’. He added that “They intent just isn’t there despite the fact that they were just one goal down.” “The Blues haven’t even had a shot on target and almost concede another after Sane’s ball flashes across the face of goal with nobody on the end of it.” In the view of Stephen Warnock, Ex-Liverpool defender on BBC Radio 5 Live who also reacted to the unimpressive side at Etihad he opined, “Chelsea haven’t replaced Diego Costa at all. With Costa today, it would’ve been a completely different game against this Manchester City team.” Manchester City boss Pep Guardiola, speaking to BBC Sport: “It was so important, a win today is another step closer. We need four victories to be champions, it is in our hands and if our behavior is like today we will be champions. “Against a strong team like Chelsea, who are still the champions, and beat them in the way we did today, that is why it is so good. “I never judge what the other guy does. Who can forget the same manager and almost same players were champions last year. “Our performance today was so good in terms of control and attacking at the right moment. Everybody was good.” 72 mins: There’s not much urgency from the visitors to grab an equaliser but Manchester City aren’t hugely bothered with attacking either. They’re so comfortable and poised on the ball that they’re happy for the clock to do their work for them. 67 mins: Finally a bit of excitement. First Chelsea counter and have a four on four but Willian’s cross is blocked. Then City counter and flood forward in search of the goal to put it to bed but Aguero is shown down a blind ally and De Bruyne then blazes over. GOAL! MAN CITY 1-0 CHELSEA (B Silva 46) Deadlock broken. Chelsea held out for 45 minutes in the first half, but they have only managed to keep City out for 34 seconds of the second half. David Silva wins it on the left side of the box and plays it across the middle, where Alonso is not alert to Bernardo Silva sneaking in behind him and finishing past Courtois. SECOND HALF No changes at the break and City get the game restarted… And that is half-time. City have dominated possession (77%) and passes (504 to 142) but haven’t created many clear chances and it’s still level. Jamie Redknapp on Sky Sports: “I am not enjoying watching Chelsea but Man City have had one shot on target and Conte will be looking at it and thinking they will get one chance. “In Hazard I see a player who has not enjoyed the first 45 minutes. His body language is wrong. He is a special player but he needs someone to link with. There is an argument to say if they had played Giroud or Morata they might be losing 1-0 but I don’t agree with that.” 45: Just one minute to be added on. 44: Rudiger almost manages to pick out Moses with a ball over the top, but it’s just a touch overhit. Chelsea have had a couple of openings on the break but they haven’t been able to pick out the right pass. 42: OFFSIDE! The ball is in the net as City take a quick free-kick and Aguero slides, flicks it past Courtois and Otamendi finishes at the back post. But the flag is rightly up for offside. Aguero didn’t need to go that early, it looked like City had caught Chelsea out anyway. 40: Hazard show his frustration at a pass whacked down the line towards nobody in particular. It’s still 0-0 and Chelsea are still very much in the game, but they are not showing much attacking ambition. 37: A bit more from Gary Neville as City continue to pass and pass and Chelsea continue to defend and defend: “Hazard looks disinterested. This is not just for him at all.” Hazard has only had seven touches so far. 33: SHOT! Another opening for Bernardo Silva on the right side of the box but, like he did earlier in the game, he’s wayward with the shot. This time he miscues with a first-time effort. 31: Frustration for Chelsea as Otamendi barges into Willian and the whistle doesn’t blow for a foul and then Hazard clips Otamendi from behind and City win a free-kick. 28: For all their possession, that shot from Sane was City’s first on target of the match. They are looking much more likely to break the deadlock though 26: BLOCK! Off the line by Azpilicueta! It’s superb from Sane as his first touch from De Bruyne’s deep free-kick takes him inside and then with his second he fires goalwards. He must be thinking he has scored as it flies past Courtois, but Azpilicueta is there to block on the line. 24: SHOT! This is what Chelsea are playing for. Zinchenko dives in rashly on Moses, doesn’t get near the ball, and the visitors can break down the right through Willian. He drives goalwards and gets off a shot which is blocked in the middle. Zinchenko booked for the tackle, which was not a good one. 22: Chelsea’s passing has not been good enough. They haven’t had the ball much and they have given it away far too many times when they have. 20: CLOSE! Almost another brilliant curling finish from Bernardo Silva. He scored one like this against Arsenal on Thursday and he tries again, checking inside on the right side of the box and curling a shot towards the far corner, but it’s just over the bar.  16: Chelsea are continuing to play four in midfield when they don’t have the ball, which is most of the time. Hazard is having very little impact on the match, he’s only had one touch. 14: CHANCE! Chelsea overplay in their own box and almost get caught out. It’s Fabregas who loses the ball with a pass backwards that’s cut out by Sane. He plays it inside for Aguero, who drives across goal and then shoots, but it’s blocked 12: SHOT! Sane has a swing at a low cross from the left but doesn’t make a good connection and drags the shot well wide. City yet to create a clear chance. 11: City are so comfortable in possession that Ederson wanders out midway inside his own half to get involved in a move. There’s no Chelsea pressure on the ball high up the pitch. 9: Pass, pass, pass. City continue to probe and press, looking for a way through. Chelsea are holding a decent shape though. 7: This game has started in similar fashion to Chelsea’s recent clash with Barcelona in the Champions League. Chelsea are sitting back, getting everyone except Hazard behind the ball and letting City enjoy most of the possession. 5: David Silva looking lively in the early stages as he drifts outside Fabregas in the box and pulls back a cross which Courtois dives out to claim. All City so far. 3: Not what Chelsea want – De Bruyne in space around 30 yards out and with time to turn. Fortunately for the visitors his ball through for Aguero is well cut out by Azpilicueta 1: And we are off. Chelsea in all blue, City in sky blue… FIRST HALF Pre -match Analysis See team news below for Today’s Super Sunday Premier League clash at Etihad. Chelsea plays away against title leader Man City The match goes live by 5pm local time.  Team to play Man City: Courtois, Moses, Rudiger, Christensen, Azpilicueta, Alonso, Drinkwater, Fabregas, Willian, Pedro, Hazard Subs: Caballero, Morata, Giroud, Zappacosta, Cahill, Emerson, Chalobah  Team to play Chelsea: Ederson, Walker, Laporte, Otamendi, Zinchenko, Gundogan, De Bruyne, D Silva, B Silva, Sane, Aguero Subs: Bravo, Danilo, Kompany, Stones, Jesus, Toure, Foden WHAT’S AT STAKE? With Manchester United not in action until tomorrow, when they face Crystal Palace on Monday Night Football, City can go 18 points clear at the top of the table with a win today. Results yesterday did not go in Chelsea’s favour as both Tottenham and Liverpool won. Antonio Conte’s side are now five points behind fourth-placed Spurs and seven behind Liverpool. 