It’s all over. How on earth have Juventus won? Pochettino heads straight down the tunnel as Juve celebrate. Spurs are out of the Champions League, having seemingly been in control of the tie with half an hour remaining. It’s a defeat for Man City, but they book their spot in the quarter-final draw of the Champions League draw thanks to a 5-2 aggregate victory. It was certainly a tale of two halves, with an entertaining first period, but the second was lacklustre from both sides, although Michael Lang scored the second of Basel’s goals on the evening. But job done in a way for Man City, and they are through to the next rounds of 16  Wednesday Champions League Live; Goals GOAL! MAN CITY 1-2 BASEL (Lang, 71; 5-2 agg) Michael Lang (71 mins) Oh hello. Are Manchester City facing their fourth defeat of the season (in a game, not as a tie obviously)? They have been a bit sloppy at the back today and go to sleep while Mohamed Elyounoussi, on the right wing, cuts the ball into wing-back Michael Lang, who smashes the ball high past Claudio Bravo at his near post. Paulo Dybala On its head. Spurs are stunned, Juve jubilant. The Italian champions completely turn the game around with their second goal in two minutes and 49 seconds – and it’s a cracker. Gonzalo Higuain spins just inside the Spurs half, looking up to put Paulo Dybala clean through. It needs a calm head… Dybala provides it with a tidy finish.  GOAL! TOTTENHAM 1-1 JUVENTUS (Higuain 64) Game on. Lichtsteiner times his run well as he gets played in down the right channel and picks out Khedira with a cross. He flicks a clever header towards the back post where Higuain is running in behind and turns it into the net from six yards out. Juve still need another.   GOAL! TOTTENHAM 1-0 JUVENTUS (Son 39) Hahaha… it doesn’t matter how they go in, right? We said Son Heung-min deserved a goal – and here it is! After Gianluigi Buffon parries out a shot, Kieran Tripper pounces on the loose ball and squares to the far post where Son is waiting. He scuffs it into the ground and the ball somehow goes in with Buffon helpless. Advantage Spurs! GOAL – Man City 1-1 Basel (agg 5-1) Mohamed Elyounoussi (17 mins) Is the comeback on? No, but Basel are level on the night. Mohamed Elyounoussi gets the ball in plenty of space in the centre of the box, he takes a touch and rifles it past Claudio Bravo. Moments earlier, Ilkay Gundogan almost made it 2-0, but his shot from Bernardo Silva’s cross was straight at Tomas Vaclik. GOAL – Man City 1-0 Basel Gabriel Jesus (8 mins) The tie was already over. Now it is definitely over. Gabriel Jesus is starting for the first time this year, but he has lost none of his sharpness in front of goal. To be fair, my gran could have tapped it in. On a plate. Slick interplay from City ends in Bernado Silva crosses for Jesus to tap in from close range. 