Presidential Adviser on Political Matters Senator Babafemi Ojudu has announced his governorship ambition in Ekiti State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). He spoke with reporters in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, on his transformation agenda, the proposed primary and how APC can defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the election. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE was there. Many of you are in the governorship race. How will the party mend fences after the primary? It would not be right for now to say we have so many of us in the race. The reason being that the party has not even called for nomination. We have not obtained forms. In about a month’s time, the party will call for nomination. Then, we will obtain forms. When you now see the number of those who obtain forms, then, you can now say whether we are many or not. Right now, I know those who are out, saying they want to become governor, but some of them actually want to become chairmen of local government councils, some want to become commissioners, senators and members, House of Assembly. People are calling attention to themselves, they want people to know them and they want to have something at hand to negotiate with. If I become governor and someone comes to me and say after all I wanted to become governor, so what do you have for me? These are some of the prevailing circumstances so far. How can the party prevent post primary crisis? In case it occurs, we have elders and leaders who will bring everybody together. But, one thing that is going to determine what happens after is the transparency, fairness and justice people are able to observe in the course of the primary. I was one of the people that conducted the primary in Anambra. Many of you must have watched it over the television. You could have seen how transparent it was, how fair and everything was in the open. It was difficult for anybody to come out and say no, I won’t accept this. See Andy Uba, who everybody thought would have won, came to embrace the man who won and they went into the election in unity. But, the Ondo experience is still fresh in the memory of the people… Someone asked in the course of an interview, if we are prepared for the Ondo formula. I said well, I don’t know of Ondo fomula. I said what is the Ondo formula about? He translated it as manipulating delegates list. I said no, that will not happen here. I have been to the party headquarters and they have assured me weeks before the primary they will give us the list of delegates which we all have to study and bring back our observations. They will now invite us to a round table, to resolve issues observed in the delegates list amicably before going to the primary. I don’t think that was done in the case of Ondo. I expect that this may be different because I am the Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters I have been a journalist, reporter, editor and media manager. I have been a Senator and it will be very difficult for anybody to come and do that in my presence. There is Segun Oni, who had been governor before, who is now Deputy National Chairman of APC South; it will be difficult to give him nonsense. Others who may also want to come have pedigree and reputation and I can assure you that I will be as vigilant as I can. I have set a team of lawyers; one of them a SAN and they will examine every process and make sure everything is just and fair. Why should Ekiti people prefer you to other contestants? Why they should vote for me is because I have been passionate about this state. I was born and raised here. I struggle for this place. I don’t think there is anybody who has been governor here from 1999 till date, that I have not been involved with. I have headed so many associations either in the Ekiti Progressives, E 11, human rights organisations, Pan Yoruba  organisations, I have done so much here. I have removed governor here, I have installed governor, so I have done quite a lot. On the social level; I belong to at the Ado Progressives Union, I belong to the parapo association of Ekiti generally. I have given scholarship; I have assisted people quite a lot even before I became a politician. I have empowered and employed Ekiti people in so many figures. I think I have done quite well for the people, I have paid my dues. That is why I told everybody who cares to listen, that this is not an ambition for me, it is a mission. It is a mission to make an example that governance should not be as difficult as some makes it to appear. That we can do it, I want to show that we can turn governance around and make it easy. We can reduce all those things that make governors swollen headed. I told people that I will live in my house when elected. I have a three bedroom bungalow, so I am living there because if I leave governance, I will go back there. So, why don’t I just live there, drive to the office every morning from there? All these methods of driving with several cars in your convoys, blaring siren and pushing people off the roads are odds. There are claims that the APC is planning to use federal might… No, we don’t do that. You all witnessed the election in Anambra, did you see federal might or federal power?  You have witnessed elections everywhere, President Buhari, the leader of our party and president of this country does not believe in federal might. He will tell you ‘go and work’. If today, I contested with his wife, Aisha, he will not raise a finger in favour of his wife. He will probably advise her on what to do, to win the hearts of the electorates. People say Governor Fayose is still a factor in the coming election. You seem to underrate his importance… He is going to be a factor, but he is going to be a factor of failure. There is no longer stomach infrastructure again. It is a myth.  People have not been paid in twelve months. Salaries have not been paid; civil servants and local government officials have not been paid. You are talking of stomach infrastructure, if I am a civil servant and you have not paid me in twelve months, what is the stomach infrastructure in that?  If truly, you are doing stomach infrastructure, you must regularly pay the workers, so that they can feed themselves.  This last Christmas, he didn’t even give them rice as he used to give them.  It is a government of deceit. Fayose is just deceiving the people. Go around with him now, nobody hails him anywhere again. Since we got into Ekiti, he ran away since yesterday. We told him ‘we have our billboards in town, come and remove one and let me see you’. I am his husband.  The Yoruba people have a saying that the mad man has a master. In 2006, I chased him out of this place. I took all his lawmakers who were members of PDP, I took them to Lagos for two months. I kept them there. When I was ready, I brought them back to impeach him. In 2011, he contested against me for Senate, I defeated him. I had 68,000 votes, he had 21,000 votes. So, forget about all these myths he sells to you out there. I am back again and I know I am the one who can  chase him out. If there is anybody he fears, it is me. We will take care of him on July14.