In this piece, Kayode Fakuyi, media aide to Senator Ajayi Boroffice (Ondo North), states that his principal has not committed anti-party offences. He emphasises the need for reconciliation in the Ondo State chapter of All Progressives Congress  (APC). The attention of Senator (Professor) Ajayi Robert Boroffice has been drawn to Governor Oluwarotimi; Akeredolu’s uncomplimentary utterances castigating the Senator Boroffice’s membership of All Progressives Congress and alleging spurious anti-party activities. Senator Boroffice represents the Ondo North District on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, APC. Governor Akeredolu was reported as follows: ”The Governor does not deny the legitimacy of Senator Ajayi Boroffice’s position as the senator representing Ondo North senatorial district. However, the point Governor Akeredolu, SAN, made was that he knows of only two APC senators in the state who are currently working with the state government for the upliftment of Ondo State.” We have previously refrained from joining issues with Governor Akeredolu on the pages of newspaper to avoid further heating up of the polity. However, the statement clarifying the position of Governor Akeredoluvis-à vis his earlier vitriolic utterances  where the governor roundly condemned Boroffice for anti-party activities raises the need to set facts from fictions, hence this press rejoinder. The insinuation and innuendoes contained in the press statement suggest that Senator Boroffice has not been working for the progress and development of Ondo State in general and Ondo North Senatorial District in particular and given several developmental strides that have been spur by the eventful tenure of the Senator, such suggestion of non-performance is wholly incorrect. It is a cherry-picked attempt to taint Senator Boroffice with bad name in order to hang him. Nothing can be farther from the truth. Setting the records straight, Governor Akeredolu has sent two private communications to the Senate since his inauguration as Governor of Ondo State on 26th of February, 2017, in respect of Senate confirmation of appointments from Ondo State and Senator Boroffice, despite the underlying differences, rallied his colleagues to support Governor Akeredolu’s position in the interest of the good people of Ondo State. Yet Senator Boroffice is not working for the upliftment and progressive of Ondo State. The Senator wishes to place on record that the Governor has not extended any invitation to him let alone turning down any of such invitation to attend any meeting or an APC’ s events since Arakunrin Akeredolu became Governor of Ondo State. In promoting and projecting the programmes of our great party, All progressives Congress and in fulfillment of the Party’s manifesto to the people of Ondo North Senatorial District, the Distinguished Senator Boroffice has initiated and installed solar-powered electricity street lights in more than 80 per cent of the 72 wards of the Ondo North Senatorial District. A visit to the district will clear the doubts. The percentage is growing by the day. In addition, Senator Boroffice constructed more than thirty-five solar-powered boreholes in various communities. The Senator installed over 25 electricity transformers located in various communities of the Ondo North. What more, Senator Boroffice has built and commissioned an obstetric hospital located at Iboje Oka, Akoko SouthWest. The Senator conceived, built and commissioned three  agricultural plants, i.e. Cashew processing plant, at Ikakuma Akoko Northeast Local Government., Biodiesel producing  plant…at Ajowa Akoko Northwest Local Government, five garri-processing plants at… Ifira, Iboropa, Ago Oka., Ipele, and Ebo. In addition there are well equipped skill acquisition centres in Ikaram, Ifon and Oka. In the area of formal education, Senator Boroffice built, furnished and commissioned five blocks of classrooms at Ikaro, Oka, Obato mention a few. He has also attracted the following Federal Institutions to his senatorial Districe; National Science Laboratory in Akungba, Bioresources Development Centre, Technology  Incubation Center, Regional Center for Leather Research, National Aerospace Laboratory, Regional Center for Chemical Technology. Despite the controvercial. emergence of Arakunrin Akeredolu as the candidate of the APC in 2016, the Senator worked tirelessly for the victory of our great party, All Progressives Congress at the Ondo State Governorship poll held on the 26th of November, 2016. Today, the attitude of Governor Akeredolu to other party leaders in the state who did not see things from his perspective has unfortunately polarised the Ondo State chapter of the party and alienated a critical mass of the party leadership and supporters as well. It is based on the above referenced developments that the Senator Boroffice is of the view that all is not well with APC chapter in the sun shine state and rather than for Governor Akeredolu to embrace the challenges of leadership and reach out to every leader of this party in Ondo State, he preferred to run the party and government of Ondo State with his trifling followership and continue to assert that he alone owns this party and others can go to hell. He continues to threaten others with expulsion from the party. The National Leadership of this great party cannot forget in a hurry the road we had to travel to reach where we are; it is our collective will and unity of purpose that have taken us this far and to destroy that is to destroy the great bond that binds us together as members of the All Progressives Congress. It is our unshakeable article of faith that moral justice is the armament of political and socio-economic progress. There can be no justice when someone appropriates our common wealth and violates our common law (APC Constitution, 2014 as amended) that binds us together, to do so. We therefore, call on the National Leadership to urgently  intervene in the crisis in Ondo State Chapter. We cannot afford to sweep under the  carpet issues polarizing the State Chapter of the party as we move into another rounds of congress and Federal Elections. It is for this reason that His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari has called for reconciliation of leaders and resolutions of disputed issues. This is the wise road to travel and we cannot dissent and we fully support our National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu on this course.