Edo State Commissioner of Police, Babatunde Kokumo, has invited Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, Chief Dan Orbih, for questioning over allegations that the state government diverted rice meant Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs). Chief Orbih had alleged that 4721 bags of rice meant for IDPs at Ohogua village in Ovai North East local government area were diverted. The invitation of Chief Orbih was based on a petition by Governor Godwin Obaseki on the need for the police to make Chief Orbih present facts of the allegations. Governor Obaseki had in the petition said Chief Orbih in a a radio interview ‘falsely and maliciously stated that the Edo State Government was involved in a criminal conspiracy to divert 4,721 bags of rice released by the Federal Government for distribution to IDPs in the state’. In the petition signed by Secretary to the State Government, Barr. Osarodion Ogie, the Edo Government stated that Chief Orbih further claimed that 300 bags of rice were diverted to a certain Senator in Ondo State. According to the petition, “It is instructive to note that in making these allegations to the general public, Chief Orbih claimed that he had facts and records to back up these criminal allegations. “The purpose of this complaints is to formally bring these weighty and unsubstantiated allegations to your attention and to request a thorough investigation with a view to establishing the veracity or otherwise of same. “It is the contention of the Edo State Government that Chief Dan Orbih should be called upon to provide evidence of the serious crimes he has alleged to have been committed by the Edo State Government and to furnish your Command with facts, details and proof of the allegations he has made in the public domain.” State Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr. Chris Nehikhare who confirmed the development said Chief Orbih will appear before the police. Nehikhare said the Edo PDP also wrote a petitioned for criminal incitement of the public against the leadership and members of PDP by the Edo State Government. He stated that Edo Commissioner for Communication and Orientation, Mr. Paul Ohonbamu and the Media Aide to Governor Obaseki, Mr. Crusoe Osagie have consistently issued press releases referring the members and leadership of PDP as bandits, rogues, liars and fraudsters who stole the resources of the people. “Edo PDP wants the police to investigate these matters and ensure that those behind these criminal incitements are brought to book.” 