THE Olubadan of Ibadan, Oba Saliu Adetunji, has said the “unprecedented” achievements of Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi qualify him for another term, if not for constitutional impediment that restricts governors to two terms. Also, the Alaafin of Oyo, Oba Lamidi Adeyemi III, expressed “surprise” at the pace of road construction and other projects across Oyo State, despite the economic downturn in the country. The first-class monarchs lauded the governor for what they called his outstanding performances in all the zones of the state since his assumption of office about seven years ago. They spoke yesterday at a meeting the governor held with traditional rulers at the House of Chiefs in Ibadan, the state capital. Ajimobi reportedly invited the monarchs to lay on the table his scorecard on development across the state and his future plans to sustain his administration’s Transformation Agenda. The Olubadan said he openly expressed appreciation to the governor for what he called his unrelenting efforts to bring development to all parts of the state. He said: “The Yoruba don’t appreciate themselves except to abuse and criticise. But when someone has done well, we must say it. I am talking about what I have seen so far. In view of this, I would have loved him (Ajimobi) to go for another term, if not that the constitution does not allow it. “The governor has performed very well. He has recorded unprecedented achievements worthy of commendation. This is the only way to spur him into greater performance for the benefit of the state.” Oba Adeyemi said Ajimobi should be praised for all he had achieved since the beginning of his administration, despite the dwindling allocations from the Federation Account and paltry internally-generated revenue (IGR). He said: We can only commend you for all you have been able to achieve in the last seven years. We are very impressed with your performance. At the appropriate time, we will comprehensively, sufficiently and adequately respond to your address. “The only thing you are not telling us is where you have been getting the money to do all the projects. I have had to engage you in a private discussion on this, to ask how you source the money you have been using to execute the projects since you are not printing money. “But the governor has allayed my fears. He explained to me that most of the projects were contractor-financed and that the money would be paid back under very convenient terms. He has assured me that he would not plunge the state into huge debts.”