The Winners of the youth empowerment Essay/ Debate project Q1 2018, organized by the Association for Credible Leadership in Nigeria ( ACLN ) have been awarded at an award ceremony which held in Lagos. The competition which focused on Youth Participation in Nigerian politics and governance brought together students of private and government owned secondary schools in Lagos State. Speaking at the award ceremony, ACLN Country President, Olurotimi Ibiyode said that the project was aimed at building right values in the Nigerian youths from tender age and helping them see Nigeria in a positive light from a tender age when their value system is yet being built. “As a group, we are poised to making a change in Nigeria and there is no better place to start than within the for walls of our educational system because we believe strongly that it is within these four walls that the future of our Nation is being determined.” Ibiyode further stated that the Association was formed in 2015 in order to bring NIgerians together to advocate for good governance and promote leadership. “ACLN seeks to advocate for a new Nigeria, govern by leaders who are trustworthy, competent and patriotic. We also hope to promote leadership values through education and empowerment programs which is why we have chosen this project.” Ibiyode further noted that ACLN wishes to unveil the full version of the project in the coming months across Nigeria, adding that the association has decided to institute an ACLN Ambassador Club in each school that participated in the debate in which members will have access to its affiliates programmes in Nigeria and around the world. According to Prince Adefowoju Adewale, ACLN Global President in a statement, “the ACLN Youth Empowerment Essay/Debate Competition is a project aimed at addressing some key issues that are hindering the progress of our nation which if not urgently addressed are capable of destroying us as a people.” Adewale observed that over the years, Nigeria has gradually degenerated into a society where hard work, integrity and accountability is no more celebrated and not worth living for. “The Nigerian political terrain has marred the thinking of the people as becoming a politician has been seen as avenues to amass wealth and not to serve one’s nation. Religion has also been embraced in a wrong manner which has inadvertently encouraged laziness instead of hard work. “Statistics from index mundi shows that 50.13% of Nigerians falls between the age range 15 – 54 years with the youth, that is 18 – 35 years of age accounting for about 30% of the population. As evident in the last 2015 election, the youth participation has increased but the understanding of selecting the right leader through voting is still lacking. Hence there is an urgent need for all Nigerian youths to understand governance and the power of a citizen in determining who governs them,” he said. Lamenting the unpatriotic and tribalistic mindset of the leaders in Nigeria, the President noted that an in-depth study of Nigerian public opinion carried out by International Foundation for Election Systems (IFES) on behalf of United States Agency for International Development – USAID in 2000 shows 48.2% Nigerians choose to tag themselves with an ethnic identity. “Though over a decade and a half has gone since this study, we still see that this condition rather than change, has worsened which is evident in several recorded ethnic clashes. Hence ACLN will like to engage in immediate sensitization/awakening of the spirit of nationalism and patriotism through a debate and essay project like this. “We believe this exercise will also help Youths to, especially, understand the importance of the nation’s diversity and it power if appropriately harnessed. This will also help the youth to step out of ethnic consciousness, seeing themselves as Nigerians first. “It is with all these problems in mind that the ACLN Youth Empowerment Essay/Debate Project was birthed. We hope that participant in the debate/essay writing contest will learn leadership qualities which will help them in their daily interactions and also in their choice of selecting leaders at the poll. “Nation building is definitely a huge task and I want to assure you that ACLN members mostly in diaspora are committed to this task and we can only hope that the God of creation will help direct this noble cause,” he said. Speaking with The Nation, visibly elated Gbenjo Olasubomi, 15; who alongside Abaton Tobi, 14 from Good Shepherd Schools, Meiran emerged winners of the competition, encouraged other youths to prioritize education over any social activity, stressing *education is the cure for ignorance, it gives you a broader perspective in Life. Without education, it is difficult to progress in life.” Representing the first runner up school, Providence Heights Secondary School, Iju, Adegbite Nathan, 16 appreciated the effort of the Association. His words: “We are very grateful to the organizers of this competition. It is an honour for myself, my partner and my school to emerge second among all other schools. We are indeed very happy.” Olasubomi and Tobi were awarded with plaques and a cash prize of N150,00. While Nathan and Anenih Anita, 15 came second thereby got a cash prize of N75,000. The awardees however expressed their joy and happiness.