The Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC), organisers of the Zuma Film Festival 2018 (ZUFF), has announced the dates for its 2018 edition themed ‘Archiving for Creativity’. According to the organisers, the film festival will take place from December 1 to 7 in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Speaking at a Press Conference in Abuja last Wednesday, Dr. Chidia Maduekwe, NFC’s Managing Director and Chairman, Organising Committee of ZUFF said, all that needs to be emplaced to ensure a successful film festival have been set in motion. Maduekwe expressed optimism that ZUFF 2018 will be used to further the cravings by Nigerian film stakeholders for a film industry that is globally competitive. According to him, ZUFF 2018, the 9th in the series will again provide the platform to sustain the recognition of Nigerian film makers who have or are adding the needed value in the development of the art and business of filmmaking. The world, according to Dr. Maduekwe is being driven by digital technologies, and therefore filmmaking in Nigeria and indeed around the world must equally adapt to these inventions and innovations. The NFC, he said is persuaded to use ZUFF 2018 to push this agenda forward, having just witnessed the Full Digitisation of one of Nigeria’s classic films, ‘Shaihu Umar’, which received a public presentation and screenings at the just ended Berlin International Film Festival (Berlinale) 2018. “We intend to leverage on the restoration of ‘Shaihu Umar’, draw on the great potentials there in, and pursue a consciousness towards a national audiovisual archiving policy,” he said. As part of the strategies put in place for ZUFF, key partnerships and collaborations with relevant agencies of government and private individuals and organisations will be retained and expanded. Also, Mr. Afolabi Adesanya was named as Chairman of Jury, ZUMA Film Festival, 2018.  Adesanya is a renowned filmmaker and television director. He was Jury President, Video/TV Category, FESPACO 2009. Entry for Zuma Film Festival 2018 opened March 1 and will close September 30.