Motivation speaker Fela Durotoye is a presidential aspirant on the platform of the Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN). But, how far can he go in his quest for generational shift? Samuel Ajayi examines the prospects and constraints. It was former military ruler, General Ibrahim Babangida, in his controversial letter to President Mohammadu Buhari that said the kind of leaders Nigeria needed were young people whose creative and entrepreneurial skills would be unleashed. His words: “This is the time for us to reinvent the will and tap into the resourcefulness of the younger generation, stimulate their entrepreneurial initiatives and provoke a conduce environment to grow national economy both at the micro and macro levels. The next election in 2019 therefore presents us a unique opportunity to reinvent the will and provoke fresh leadership that would immediately begin the process of healing the wounds in the land.” One of those who seemed to have heeded Babangida’s ‘advice’ was Fela Durotoye, renowned leadership coach and corporate trainer. Last week, Durotoye has joined the Alliance for New Nigeria, ANN, one of the newly registered political parties. At a ceremony at the party’s Lagos State secretariat, Durotoye, while picking up his membership card, said he was joining the political process to make a difference and stop the habit of complaining and moaning about poor leadership. He said for long, Nigeria has always been ruled instead of being led. He added that that was why what Nigerians get have always been ruling parties and not the party in government. He said the bold step he was taking on that day actually started over a decade ago when he received the call to make a positive impact on his country and his society.  His words: “13 years ago, my heart was infused with a vision of a New Nigeria and I received a mandate to raise a generation of nation builders that will build Nigeria into the most desirable nation to live in and work in; a most desirable nation to do business in and do business with; a nation where everything works and everyone is gainfully employed; a nation where everyone is productively and passionately working to make things work; a nation where people live in peace and harmony and are secure in every part of the country regardless of where they are from or where they were born.” He explained that this great generation of nation builders of every tribe and tongue; of every religious creed; men and women, boys and girls from every hamlet, village, town and city across the length and breadth of our nation across the entire spectrum of our society were all infused with a similar set of values and committed to a lifestyle of leadership and excellence as they seek to build Nigeria into the most desirable nation to live. Perhaps, Fela’s move, might have signaled a generational shift in the nation’s political environment. For long, those in the private sector have always believed that politics is a ‘profession’ that is only meant for ‘professional politicians’. That is why the nation has always been recycling leaders after leaders with most of them in the late 70s. Adeola Adewumi, a 36 year-old banker and one of Durotoye’s supporters said at the ceremony marking the latter’s official joining of ANN that the coming into the political terrain by Durotoye should inspire a generational shift in the nation’s political environment. According to her, it is high time young Nigerians were allowed to bring innovation and fresh ideas into governance. “If Emmanuel Macron could do it in France at the age of 39, there is nothing stopping a 46 year-old Fela Durotoye from trying his hand on it and making history,” Adewumi declared. “The problem here is that we have always felt it was not possible to wrestle power from these old people who have superintended over our affairs for the last six decades with nothing to show for it. Durotoye’s coming on board should be able to inspire the younger generation to join the political process; not necessarily to contest for the presidency but even councillorship, local government chairmanship, House of Assembly, House of Representatives and the Senate and of course, governorship seats.” Perhaps, if the country had built on the gains of between 1999 and 2007, in terms of younger people being involved in governance, may be talks about generational shift in 2019 would not have been this trenchant. For instance, Saminu Turaki, the first civilian governor of Jigawa State, was just 36 when he assumed office in 1999 having been born in 1963. Niyi Adebayo, another first civilian governor of Ekiti State, was 41 in 1999. Dimeji Bankole, former Speaker of the House of Representatives, became Speaker at 38. However, these ‘feats’ in terms of younger people being in charge of political power were not built upon and this could be traced to the ‘greed’ of the so-called older generation. For instance, not less than 15 former governors have found their ways to the Senate after serving eight years as governors. And some of these governors are in their early and late 60s. The problem is that these former governors usually manipulate the political process to suit their selfish ambitions. Since they are practically in charge of the parties in their respective states, “This is one of the reasons younger people do not have hope in the system nor show interest,” a lawyer said during the week. “They believe the system is so skewed in favour of these old politicians who know how to manipulate the system. From selection of candidates and the money you have to spend to get the endorsement of the so-called godfathers, it is just too discouraging to an average young person.” It remains to be seen how Durotoye intends to tackle this age-old system. But his target is the younger generation. According to him, that is why it was important to set up the Running for a New Nigeria, R4NN, platform, where, according to him “we will galvanise a critical mass of people who would participate in the governance process either by voting or being voted for at the 2019 general elections and beyond.”  