… Police parade student, ‘madman’ for robbery 40-year-old Ibrahim Sheu, who was arrested on Monday by the Rapid Response Squad (RRS) operatives for selling Tramadol and other addictive stimulants to school pupils, said he sold about six sachets a day. Sheu was arrested alongside his 23-year-old son, Farouk Ibrahim, after undercover RRS operatives busted them at Itire area of Lagos. It was gathered that the suspects lurked around schools where the pupils approach them to get the substances. But Sheu denied lurking around schools, insisting that the pupils came to his shop to buy two capsules of the stimulants. He said: “I don’t use to go to any school. The children used to come to my shop to buy Tramadol. I sell two capsules for N30 to them. I sell about six sachets everyday. I only sell to those in secondary schools. Primary school children used to come but I don’t sell to them.” Parading the suspects, the state Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, said they were arrested after officials of the state Ministry of Women Affairs got information that some primary and secondary school pupils indulged in hard drugs in the area. Edgal advised parents to be very vigilant and carry out surprise checks on their wards in school. Also paraded was a 23-year-old, Olaniyi Oluwatimilehin, who allegedly stole an Iphone-8 and N230,000 at a shop, as well as a mentally unstable man, Johnson Oyahere, 35, found with a toy gun under Eko Bridge. Oluwatimilehin, a Gateway Polytechnic student, committed the alleged offence on February 16 at 10:20 a.m., at 13, Aina Street, Ikeja. According to the police, he was captured by a Close Circuit Television (CCTV) and the footage was posted on the internet. Edgal said: “The technical crew of the command, RRS, travelled to Wasimi in Ogun State, where the suspect was located and arrested. The stolen phone with his sim card already inserted was recovered from him. “Upon careful examination of the phone, it was discovered that the suspect was discussing the possibility of leaving the country with one of his friends.” For Oyahere, Edgal said RRS operatives posted on the bridge went after the man, adding that he became disorganised when he sighted the police. “The officers noticed he was trying to hide an object in his trouser’s pocket. Before you could say jack, he began to walk away pretending to be mentally unstable. “The team arrested and searched him and a black plastic toy pistol, which is a perfect prototype of Berretta pistol, was recovered from him. “The public should be vigilant because not all persons who appear to be mad may be actually mad,” the police commissioner added. 