Sterling Bank Plc yesterday took its financial inclusion drive to the next level with training of over 20,000 secondary school students nationwide to mark the 2018 edition of the Financial Literacy Day. The lender also staged a quiz competition among students from 42 schools in Lagos with winners going home with attractive prizes. Its Managing Director and Chief Executive Designate, Abubakar Suleiman, led other executive and senior management team for the exercise as he taught students of Owerri Girls’ Secondary School, Owerri, to the delight of students and teachers. Suleiman taught the students the key fundamentals of financial literacy and re-enforcing the need to encourage savings culture among the youths. He noted that the Financial Literacy Day, which is also in line with the lender’s “One Education” initiative, would further consolidate the strategic focus of the Bank on education and commitment to youth empowerment and development. In his address of welcome at the quiz competition in Lagos, Executive Director of Sterling Bank in charge of retail and consumer marketing, Grama Narasimhan, encouraged the participating pupils and students to take the competition seriously. The bank organised the quiz competition to test the understanding of students who had been exposed to teachings in financial literacy through financial clubs covering more than 80,000 children spread across the country. Out of about 42 schools that participated in the competition, Glorious Redeemers School Ijebu-Ode in Ogun State won the star prize of N750, 000 followed by Taqua Private School, first runner up which won N500, 000 and Lekki Muslim School, the second runner up which went home with N250, 000.  The bank also gave N20, 000 each to about 15 students (who answered questions correctly from other schools that served as observers and N20, 000 to two teachers who answered questions correctly. It also launched Uzaali, a self-paced learning platform designed to provide children with codes to learn computer programming in a fun and interactive environment. 