The Nigerian Army has waded into the and killing of a 30-year-old man, Kehinde Adeleke, following an argument between him and another man at the car park of Trans Amusement Park in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital. The 2 Division of the Army, whose men were accused of killing the man at the amusement car park, has begun an investigation into the killing, it was learnt yesterday. The General Officer Commanding (GOC), Maj.-Gen. Chukwudili Azinta, has reportedly ordered an investigation into the allegation against his men in the security outfit of the Oyo State government, code-named Operation Burst. The outfit comprises men of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), the police and soldiers. Efforts to speak with the Deputy Director of Army Public Relations of the division, Col. Ezindu Idima, were unsuccessful last night. But a source close to the division said the GOC had ordered a probe into the killing, which occurred two weeks ago, with a view to bringing the killers to justice. Last week, some soldiers from the 2 Division of the Army were said to have visited the Iyaganku police headquarters to conduct investigation into the killing. A source said some witnesses were invited and questioned on the incident. It was gathered that report of the investigation, which is still ongoing, would be made available to the GOC to ascertain the involvement of the soldiers in the incident. The Oyo state Police Command said it was investigating the killing. A bar owner at the Trans Amusement Park, Seyi Olusa, was accused by the family of the deceased of grabbing a rifle from a soldier attached to the Operation Burst and killing Adeleke. He was said to have returned the gun to the soldier afterwards, but some eyewitnesses faulted this as a mere insinuation. Currently, Seyi Olusa is in detention at Iyaganku State Criminal Investigation Department (CID) for alleged murder. Police Commissioner Abiodun Odude, who described the incident as unfortunate, said the matter would be thoroughly investigated to unmask the killer of Adeleke and bring him to justice. Police spokesman Adekunle Ajisebutu, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said the commissioner averred that the suspect will soon be charged to court after the conclusion of investigation. He cautioned that since the matter involved life, it would not be proper to rush through the investigation.