The contributions of three educationists to the development of their communities have earned them honour from the Bradley University in the United States. Mrs Abiodun Owolabi, principal, Federal Government Girl’s College, Sagamu; Mrs Eunice Akinnifesi, principal, Federal Government Girls’ College, Ikirun, and Kolade Giwa, proprietor of a private school in Ore, Ondo State, were conferred with honorary doctorates of the university at the University of Lagos Conference Centre. The African Representative/Coordinator of Bradley University, Prof Pius Kayode Jegede, said the trio deserved honour for the promotion of education at the secondary school level. Mrs.  Owolabi was conferred with Honorary Doctorate in Science Education Management. Others were Mrs. Akinnifesi and Dr.  Giwa. “Bradley University confers the Honorary Doctorate Degree after satisfactory examination of their contributions to the community, state and country and personal qualifications and religious experiences,” Jegede said. Owolabi was elated about the honour, which she said was a fitting reward after completing her master’s degree in flying colours.  She said back then, she was not motivated to do the PhD, despite her teachers’ encouragement because of the poor pay of lecturers and instead chose to remain a secondary school teacher. She expressed delight at being honoured with Mrs Akinnifesi, her friend of many years. “Dr Akinnifesi and I met at the Polytechnic, Ibadan.  And since that time we have remained sisters.  We served the same time in Benin; we started work at the same time at the FGGC Benin; we had our children at the same time. I was glad we were considered together,” she said. With this recognition, Mrs  Owolabi said she would work even harder. ‘’The achievement that I have already laid gave me the opportunity to be recognised.This will spur me to do more,’’ said the principal. Responding on behalf of the recipients, Dr. Akinnifesi praised the management of the university, especially its African Representative and Dr. Babatunde Williams, its Council member, for the honour. She said the award would further spur them in their drive to continue to contribute to the development of the society.