The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has stated that women are playing major roles in the growth and development of Nigeria. He also hailed the contributions of women to humanity, as the world marked the International Women’s Day yesterday. Peterside, who is also the Deputy Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, noted that women had greatly contributed sweat, industry, creativity, grace and intelligence to the emergence of generations and industrial revolutions that helped to shape humanity. The NIMASA chief, on Thursday through his media team, in an online statement, stated that any country that desired to make progress without giving due recognition to women was doomed. He paid glowing tributes to Nigerian women who had challenged the status quo and risen to the pinnacle of every profession. According to a United Nations’ (UN’s) report, one in three women experience violence in their lifetime, while 830 women die every day from preventable pregnancy-related causes, and only one in four parliamentarians worldwide are women. Peterside, a former member of the House of Representatives, also reiterated that in all the positions he had held, women were given equal consideration like their male counterparts, assuring that he would continue to support every platform that seeks to promote the good of women and their emancipation. He tasked those occupying different positions in and outside government to give women the leverage to achieve their dreams in life, insisting that women are the bedrock of any progressive nation and that any achievement they make reflects on the society.
Quoting from a former first lady of the United States, Eleanor Roosevelt, who stated that: “No one can make you feel inferior without your consent,” the NIMASA chief urged Nigerian women not to be deterred in their quest to make the changes they desire in the society. He said: “The APC-led Federal Government has created many platforms, policies and programmes aimed at giving women the opportunities to become whatever they desire in life, in addition to giving women sensitive positions.” Peterside, who was the governorship candidate of the APC in Rivers state in 2015, assured that an APC-led government in Rivers would give women equal opportunities in decision-making policies and activities, as well as providing the leverage to lift women out of poverty and contribute to the socio-political and economic wellbeing of the state. 