At 80, Chief Festus Adegboyega Onigbinde has not lost a tiny bit of his whippy tongue. A reporter’s delight any day, the two-time Super Eagles coach shares his upbringing, life lessons, works with NFF, CAF and FIFA and down- to-earth views on the state of the nation. It is vintage ‘Chief’ as he compressed his life journey from a ‘village boy’ to international recognised football instructor and coach into an hour interview with TAIWO ALIMI. Excerpts: How do you feel at 80? I feel good. I don’t feel any different. I am blessed with good health and I thank the Almighty for that. I feel good. So what is the secret? Being a sportsman has helped me. It keeps me fit because there is no way that you can coach others that you would not be involved in it too. But, there is more to it. Scientists have proved that people grow older more from the mind than the other part of the body. If you keep malice, begrudge people, and pay too much attention to negativity; you are poisoning your system. Of course, they will degenerate. That is what I will say is part of the secret of my healthy life. I bear no malice. I have no enemy. Most importantly, I say and do what I feel is right. No matter how you feel. That keeps my mind very free and healthy. Do you have any fitness regime? My life is full movement. How long have I been a sportsman? You won’t believe it if I tell you that, even now, I still coach. And, how can you be coaching without exercises, without keeping fit? It is not possible. Then, I find way to keep fit around the neighbourhood.  I have friends living some kilometres away. Instead of driving, I walk to their places. I also move round my place here. I also give myself some physical activities. What about your diet? I don’t have any special diet. I am what you call omnivorous. I take anything. I have never had a course to be told to take less salt or sugar. Less than a month ago, I was with my family doctor for check-up. After taking all the vitals, my BP was 100/60, which I consider to be going into hypo level, even more than hyper level. And the reason is that if Sunny Ade brings all his music under my bed, it doesn’t stop me from sleeping. I will sleep. You have to accept one thing, that we are created to create problem and to solve problem. So, no problem can weigh me down. If anybody has any ill-feeling with me, I want it to remain in his head and not transfer it into my own head and that does not stop me from relating pleasantly with him. That is my life. This idea, has it always been with you or it was inculcated as you grow older? I cannot remember an occasion that when my father or my mother got wild because of some other people’s headache. My father was quiet, intelligent; some of the time when bad things are happening, he even takes his eyes off it. Maybe, another day when that issue comes up, that is when he would refer to the former incidence. It is the same thing for my mother. I remember only one occasion when my mother gave me a good beating. That day, we went out and I drank a cup of palmwine that got me tipsy. I did not intentionally take it. Custom demands that as the youngest man in the group, I had to serve the undiluted palmwine, and by custom, when you serve, you have to take the first cup and report back that the wine is good. I took that one cup, and by the time I got back home I was behaving somehow. My mother lured me into her room and gave me some serious beating. And that is why up till now I am a social drinker. That is the only time that I remember that she beat me and that left a lasting impression on me. So, it not a new thing, even in my work as a coach I meet all kinds of people. Mind you, before I became a coach, I was a teacher for about 20 years. I taught in the primary, secondary and teacher training, and these institutions you meet with different types of children. Thank God, I went through the systematic teacher training system. I did my grade 3, 2 and 1 and all these things were part of our education in teacher training college. And, that was why a year ago, I sent a paper to the presidency highlighting that the standard of educational, that has fallen, was due to the abolition of teacher training colleges. That indicates that we no longer have professional teachers. Everybody is complaining. Three days ago, I read that 83 per cent failed the West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) examinations. How do you explain that? Going through the teacher training also prepared me, in addition to my humble background. What is your blueprint for education in Nigeria? Well, we have to go back to the old system of training our teachers. Of recent, a state government asked teachers to take Primary Four exams, and we know what happened. Many of them failed. Unfortunately, when the government decided to deal with these teachers, people started protesting, so, where are we going? So, when you want to produce quality students, you must first produce quality teachers. You can’t give what you don’t have. People don’t actually appreciate what training a teacher involves. In this same room, we were discussing this issue with some friends and one of them said what is the relevance, once you now the subject, teach it to the pupils, and I told him it is more than that. For example, if we are here and some masquerade just appears drumming and dancing outside. What would be the reaction of your people? They would want to see what is happening, and what would be the reaction of the teacher? You push them back, probably beat them because you are not a trained teacher. A professional teacher would now better. He would encourage the pupils to appreciate the music, by taking them out to see them and when they are outside there, they are learning. The way people are dancing and the song they are singing. Some of them would even want to ask questions. Why is this like this, why is that like that? They are learning. That is not all. By the time they get back to their classroom, what would be their attitude? They have satisfied their curiosity and they are ready to listen to you attentively. That is an example of professionalism in teaching. And unless we go back to that or find a way of replicating those teachers, there will be trouble. You can get it right unless you do it right. And there is another problem. By the time Nigeria went into private educational institutions, Nigeria was not ready for it. You have people who are running private schools today, just for the money; from the primary up to the university level. And there is no adequate supervision. I remember in those days, two months before an inspector would come, they would have been notified and you would have the management of that school preparing for that visit, and keeping the school clean. But, we don’t have that anymore. Everybody does what he likes. There is no control. So, when you set a standard, there must be a system of monitoring that full compliance is kept. I know we have the Nigeria University Commission, but how much do they ensure that our universities keep that standard. We have Ministry of Education, but do they still operate the way they used to. Then, the ministry will supply the syllabus, and they would come occasionally to see how you are conforming to the regulation. Today, in Nigeria, even if the inspectors still go round, what will happen? They would be bribed to write favourable report about that school. Sometimes, they don’t even turn up at all once they have been settled. I’m afraid for the future of this country and some of the time I feel like shedding tears for this country. God gives us all the potential to be a great country, but what are we doing about it? Take for example, my profession (football coaching), how many thousands of football talents do we have wasting away in the rural areas of this country? But, there is no system to identify them. Not to talk of polishing them. The system is not there. In your years of coaching, which one did you enjoy most? Is it as a youth coach, in the clubs or national team? I always enjoy more, maybe because I am a trained teacher, working with the young ones.  I enjoy seeing them develop. I love it. And that was why in 1983-1985, the first time I handled the national team, I did not invite any foreign-based player. They were all local players, local boys. It has an advantage. These local boys are young and they would be ready to do what you want them to do. In December 1975, we worked with a team and I was trying to correct one player there, and he retorted ‘that is how I have been doing it.’ I want players that are teachable. When I was going to the World Cup, I started preparation at home. At any rate, the old ones who were playing in Mali threatened that they would not report, until they saw the team taking shape that they started reporting in ones and twos, and, eventually, some of them played their dirty games. I love watching children develop, which gives me that happiness that I’m doing something great. Twenty years as an educationist, something you claimed to love so much. Yet, you dumped it for football? Is coaching not teaching? (Laughter) I’m still in the same profession.  Candidly, if you have a flair for developing people, it can be at any level or profession. After teaching for 20 years at primary, secondary and higher institution, what more do I want? And all along while I was teaching, I was also coaching as a game master. So, it is more or less a continuation. Apart from your parents whom you always talk about, what are the other things or people that moulded you to becoming who you are today?   The background is very important. Then, if you are lucky to meet the right kind of people, and you are receptive to their ideas, you will develop. The teachers I went through in my primary schools were model teachers, including the headmaster, and I learnt a lot from them. Coming into football, in 1958, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo was in London with the other political leaders to discuss Nigeria’s independence. And there were some Nigerian sportsmen who were operating in the United Kingdom (UK) and one of them was Teslim ‘Thunder’ Balogun. He invited him to come back home as a coach in the then Western Region Sports Council. He came back that same year and he was touring the region, which extended to Port Harcourt, Asaba, looking for football talents. He spotted me at Ife and was trying to lure me to Ibadan to come and play. But, that was not possible because I was already a Grade 2 teacher earning about 10 pounds a month. If I came back to play an important match and win, they would probably give me two shillings. What would I have done with that? However, he kept in touch with me and was always inviting me to Ibadan. Then, as God would have it, I did my teacher Grade 2 course in Ibadan at St Luke and that brought us more together, especially in the second and final year when I became the coach and captain of the school football team. I would invite him to come and assist me. That year in 1961, Balogun organised the first real coaching course in Ibadan and made it mandatory for me to attend. I was a student and I thought leaving my studies for three weeks could affect me, but he told me that he saw some qualities in me that would make me a successful coach. He even exaggerated by saying that some of these qualities he didn’t have. That was how I attended my first coaching course in June/July 1961. You will agree with me that was an influence. He gave me the encouragement and the opportunity to start. Then, in Yoruba land, there is a saying that ‘egbe buburu ba iwa rere je’ meaning, if you keep bad company, you are likely to be influenced. So, if you are careful the kind of friends you keep, you will have some good influences on your life. And that is why the English says: ‘show me your friend, and I will show you who you are.’ I have said it before that criminality in this country is youth-oriented. People say because there is no job. If there is no job, is killing and robbing people a good alternative? The company you keep matters a lot. I like to influence in a positive way too. And that is why even in my profession, I am sometimes ostracised, because they see me as a non-conformist. And I don’t regret it. I smile happily and move on. What are your opinions about the new order in both CAF and FIFA? Well, I think it is natural for changes to come. People say that the only thing that is constant is change itself. One should expect it to happen. But the problem is, these people taking over, have they been patient enough to learn from the older ones? That is the problem. You want to apply a clean break, starting from zero once again. Is that progressive? I think that is the problem. I got information few days ago that one of the programmes that I was involved with at CAF level, a developmental programme geared at grading all African coaches. Before we did it, we went to Europe and got UEFA developmental programme, got that of America, Asia, used that to evolve our own African thing. Right now they are talking about dumping it and going back to the old order simply because it would serve the interest of some individuals. It is unfortunate. How much do you enjoy working with FIFA? Oh! Wonderful! And the way it came is what actually got me excited. In 1984, I took Nigeria to Cote d’Ivoire Africa Cup of Nations and in spite of problems, I came back with silver. That was the highest Nigeria would achieve playing outside Nigeria. That was the first time a Nigerian coach was taking Nigeria to the Nations Cup. And, I did not have a presidential handshake when I came back. Coincidentally, the present president of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, was military Head of State, then. I remember that on the day we played the final, somebody just came into the dressing room and said he had a message from the head of state. He wished us well and when I came back the authority did not create an atmosphere to thank him for that. That is why up till now I’m looking forward to when I would come face to face with him, and tell him ‘a belated handshake sir’ (laughter). I need my handshake. I would request for my handshake. My reward thereafter was my removal. Up till now I have not been told why I was removed. If working under that condition which I worked, came back with silver, I thought How do you feel at 80? I feel good. I don’t feel any different. I am blessed with good health and I thank the Almighty for that. I feel good. So what is the secret? Being a sportsman has helped me. It keeps me fit because there is no way that you can coach others that you would not be involved in it too. But, there is more to it. Scientists have proved that people grow older more from the mind than the other part of the body. If you keep malice, begrudge people, and pay too much attention to negativity; you are poisoning your system. Of course, they will degenerate. That is what I will say is part of the secret of my healthy life. I bear no malice. I have no enemy. Most importantly, I say and do what I feel is right. No matter how you feel. That keeps my mind very free and healthy. Do you have any fitness regime? My life is full movement. How long have I been a sportsman? You won’t believe it if I tell you that, even now, I still coach. And, how can you be coaching without exercises, without keeping fit? It is not possible. Then, I find way to keep fit around the neighbourhood.  I have friends living some kilometres away. Instead of driving, I walk to their places. I also move round my place here. I also give myself some physical activities. What about your diet? I don’t have any special diet. I am what you call omnivorous. I take anything. I have never had a course to be told to take less salt or sugar. Less than a month ago, I was with my family doctor for check-up. After taking all the vitals, my BP was 100/60, which I consider to be going into hypo level, even more than hyper level. And the reason is that if Sunny Ade brings all his music under my bed, it doesn’t stop me from sleeping. I will sleep. You have to accept one thing, that we are created to create problem and to solve problem. So, no problem can weigh me down. If anybody has any ill-feeling with me, I want it to remain in his head and not transfer it into my own head and that does not stop me from relating pleasantly with him. That is my life. This idea, has it always been with you or it was inculcated as you grow older? I cannot remember an occasion that when my father or my mother got wild because of some other people’s headache. My father was quiet, intelligent; some of the time when bad things are happening, he even takes his eyes off it. Maybe, another day when that issue comes up, that is when he would refer to the former incidence. It is the same thing for my mother. I remember only one occasion when my mother gave me a good beating. That day, we went out and I drank a cup of palmwine that got me tipsy. I did not intentionally take it. Custom demands that as the youngest man in the group, I had to serve the undiluted palmwine, and by custom, when you serve, you have to take the first cup and report back that the wine is good. I took that one cup, and by the time I got back home I was behaving somehow. My mother lured me into her room and gave me some serious beating. And that is why up till now I am a social drinker. That is the only time that I remember that she beat me and that left a lasting impression on me.