There is anxiety in the Oyo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The supporters of two chieftains, former Governor Rashidi Ladoja and Seyi Makinde, who are struggling for the control of the party, are locked in a battle of mutual suspicion and distrust. Ladoja has threatened to defect from the platform. Can the troubled chapter survive the crisis? BISI OLADELE examines the implications of the disunity on the party as it prepares for next year’s elections. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Oyo State is addicted to crises. As it is struggling to put behind it the Makarfi/Sheriff rift, the troubled chapter is being torn apart by the struggle between former Governor Rashidi Ladoja and a chieftain, Seyi Makinde, over the control of the party machinery. Ladoja and Makinde, an engineer like the former governor, recently returned to the party, following reconciliation with aggrieved stalwarts. Ladoja left the fold in 2011. Makinde left in 2015. Both are the main strong leaders of the party with mass appeal. While Ladoja dumped the PDP for the Accord Party, shortly before the 2011 general elections, Makinde left for the Social Democratic Party (SDP), shortly before the 2015 elections. Another chieftain, Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala, also dumped the party for the Labour Party (LP) in 2015 and later defected to the All Progressives Congress (APC) after failing to win the governorship election. He has not retraced his steps. While Akala rejected the offer to return late last year, the former PDP governorship candidate, Senator Teslim Folarin, left for the APC. The development left Ladoja as the leader of the ‘new’ PDP in Oyo State. His leadership was based on his pedigree as a former PDP governor, senator and a chieftain with the highest number of followers in the party. But, the unfolding events show that the bloc led by Makinde has become a threat to Ladoja’s plan to be the party’s arrowhead. Following the breakdown of talks on the sharing of positions in the State Executive Committee, the two blocs held separate congresses in Ibadan, the state capital, on November 4, last year. Ladoja’s supporters held their congress at the Watershed Events Centre, Old Ife Road. Makinde’s held its  congress at Baptist Secondary School, Oke- Ado, Ibadan. In Makinde’s group  are Senator Hosea Agboola, former leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Mulikat Adeola-Akande, Alhaji Hazeem Gbolarumi and Bose Adedibu. With Ladoja are Senators Ayo Adeseun and Olufemi Lanlehin, former Minister of State for Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Chief Jumoke Akinjide, Senator Gbenga Babalola and Hon. Muraina Ajibola. The Makinde camp elected astute politician Chief Jacob Adetoro as State Chairman. Chief Kunmi Mustapha was elected Chairman by the Ladoja bloc. Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials attended the factional congress held by Ladoja’s supporters. INEC shunned the congress held at Oke-Ado.The Public Relations Officer of the commission, Mr Ayodele Folami, said INEC did the right thing by attending the congress organised by the Ladoja faction, having monitored its activities from ward congresses. A former deputy governor, Gbolarunmi, who belongs to the Makinde faction,  said the crisis was borne out of Ladoja’s plot to produce all members of the State Executive Committee. It was learnt that only one slot was given to the Makinde faction by Ladoja in its original plan, which prompted the former to hold a parallel congress. To avert the danger of plunging the party into another intractable crisis, the national leadership released a harmonised list last month to placate the Makinde faction while retaining Ladoja as the leader, whose camp retains the highest number of key positions. But, the decision threw the former governor and his supporters off balance. They threatened to leave the party again. Ladoja viewed the sharing formula as another assault on internal democracy, saying that future decisions may be unilaterally taken against his interest. But, Makinde was happy, saying that it was a good bargain. It got 12 out of the 26 slots. Having got a good deal, all is well. But, to the Ladoja, the future is uncertain. The Makinde faction is particularly pleased that Ladoja will not contest as governor in next year’s   election as he has publicly promised. The harmonisation of the State Executive Committee has raised a dust that may not settle in time. It has aggravated the suspicion that the PDP, unlike the Accord Party, may not be another cosy home to the former governor and his supporters. Ladoja left the PDP in 2011 when it became obvious that he was no longer in charge, although he was still the governor. As the Accord Party leader, he called the shots. In fact, PDP leaders appealed to him to return becaue of his political strength. But, as things stand now in the party, Makinde and other chieftains have succeeded in slicing Ladoja’s powers. The balance of power will determine who picks the governorship ticket and other positions in the next year’s election. Although the former governor is yet to announce his next move, it is clear that he is reviewing the situation along with his supporters. Ladoja is planning to regain his full strength, ahead of the polls. Makinde, on the other hand, is basking in the euphoria of comparative advantage. His camp is likely to get majority of the slots. But, the faction cannot survive without Ladoja’s. If the camps can manage their differences, the party is likely to go far in the next elections. But, it appears that mutual suspicion and distrust will make them to work at cross purpose.  Already, Ladoja’s faction has called passed a vote of no confidence on the Southwest zonal chairman, Dr Eddy Olafeso. It accused him of colluding with others to frustrate Ladoja. Mustapha, the party chairman, said the decision became necessary because Olafeso, who could have intervened by finding out what was happening in the party, took the matter to the National Working Committee (NWC) in Abuja. He disclosed that the proposal to share the 26 state offices lacked the approval of the NWC and the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party, adding that it was a secret agenda between Olafeso and others, which prompted the national chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, to warn against tampering with Oyo PDP executive as currently constituted. The chairman admitted that the ambition of some peoppe to get the tickets for elections led to the crisis. He advised them to elevate the interest of the people of the state who desired a change above their personal interests. Mustapha said: “The day we shared the offices, we did not do so on the basis of factions, but among the five political parties that came together to form the new PDP, namely the old PDP, Accord, SDP, Labour Party and AD. “While the PDP got 13 offices, the Accord Party got only six, the SDP, three, the Labour Party, three, and the AD, one. Seyi Makinde can’t say he has not got any slot. He has three of the SWC members given to the SDP. “But, Secondus told us he would not be a party to anything that is illegal. We received a call from Abuja that I should see that I bring five people each from Ladoja’s faction and five from Seyi Makinde’s faction. To me personally, I see that as an insult. “We did the ward and local government congresses successfully and there was no faction and there was no rancour. We did not have any problem because the arrowheads of the five parties were appointed coordinators to handle the congresses in the wards and councils. “We formed a committee of 33 people. But Eddy Olafeso unilaterally increased the number to 47, until he was vetoed by the Senator Ahmed Markafi-led National Caretaker Committee (NWC). “Makinde himself conducted the congresses in Ibadan North East Local Government Area. Honourable Mulikat Akande-Adeola did the congresses in Ogbomosho North and South councils. Senator Hosea Agboola conducted those of Itesiwaju Local Government Area, while Chief Sharafadeen Alli handled Ibadan North Local Government Area. “People are yearning for a change in Oyo State and we feel our coming together will bring about the change. If all of us can’t come together, if Ladoja joins us we will win the election. But these people don’t want Ladoja from the onset and they are still on it. “All that is happening now is just to frustrate Ladoja out of the PDP. But they will not succeed by the grace of God. “We have told the national headquarters to leave us alone. We will deliver the state. I am exonerating the national chairman, Secondus. But it is the legacy of Markafi that others are trying to destroy. “We worked hard to bring Ladoja to PDP unsuccessfully. But, it was during Markafi that this was achieved. We know Ladoja has the masses on Oyo State behind him and politics is a game of number. They don’t want Ladoja, but we want him to be the rallying point for Oyo PDP.” The list ceded 14 slots to Ladoja’s faction while 12 went to Makinde’s faction. The positions of State Chairman, Women Leader, Publicity Secretary, Legal Adviser, First and Second Vice Chairmen went to Ladoja while the position of State Secretary and other positions went to Makinde. Makinde said he  has a lot of respect for Ladoja, pointing out that,  if he had his way, he would avoid any disharmony over the harmonisation. A chieftain, Prince Dotun Oyelade, said called for unity, saying that crisis will tear the party apart. He added:  “As pragmatists, what party leaders must do is to dig deep into the recess of unity and look at the bigger picture. Will our people forgive us if we commit another horror mistake and allow the APC to continue its punishment of our people through misgovernance and misplaced priorities that have left the most susceptible masses at the hand of poverty? “We cannot clap with one hand and we must focus on the larger objective instead of allowing ourselves to be weakened by internal crisis. “As a major stakeholder, I have volunteered myself to ensure that I do all in my power to achieve what we failed to achieve in 2015 and I am convinced that it is God’s own project.” 