The 21 obas enthroned in Ibadan metropolis last year have said former Oyo State Governor Rashidi Ladoja cannot stop them from wearing beaded crowns because they have appealed the judgment that sacked them. Ladoja had attacked the obas on a radio programme on Monday, asking them to stop wearing beaded crowns and parading themselves as obas because of a court verdict that nullified their enthronement. But rising from a meeting at the Oja’ba palace of the Olubadan of Ibadan yesterday, the new obas assured the former governor that they would not stop wearing their crowns because their appeal against the January 11 judgment meant that the status quo ante remained. They accused Ladoja of vendetta, saying he was opposed to their elevation because he did not succeed in the review of the Olubadan Chieftaincy Declaration when he was governor. They said Ladoja was always sponsoring crises. The obas urged Ladoja to stop his opposition to Governor Abiola Ajimobi, who they said had succeeded in many areas above him. Addressing reporters after the meeting, Oba Tajudeen Ajibola, the Osi Balogun of Ibadan, noted that what Ladoja said was inconsistent with the law. He said: “There was no declaration that we should not wear our crowns. We have appealed the judgment. I wore my crown to Kano and no policeman can arrest me because of that. The status quo remains since we have appealed the judgment. What Ladoja is in court over is mere ruse. “The Olubadan of Ibadan is our father. Ladoja is only fighting a war of vendetta. On December 5, 2005, Ladoja made a publication in Nigerian Tribune where he had appointed 47 obas in Ibadan. It was signed by Chief Ayodele Adigun on December 23, 2005. The fact that he was unable to carry it out but Governor Ajimobi was able to do it is what is paining him. Ajimobi meant well. We have been crowned and nobody can change that.” Buttressing the position, Oba Amidu Ajibade Salaudeen, the Ekarun Olubadan, said: “We have been crowned and nobody can remove it. Why didn’t Ladoja implement what he had published? No governor has ever done so much as Ajimobi. Former Military Governor David Jemibewon crowned Oba Adebimpe, just as Ajimobi has done for us. “Oba Saliu Adetunji, the Imperial Majesty and Olubadan of Ibadan, is our father, and we appreciate that. But whoever wants to destroy the peace of Ibadan will not succeed. “We appeal to Ladoja to please cooperate with our governor for peace to reign.” Oba Owolabi Olakulehin, the Balogun Olubadan, remarked: “Everywhere Ladoja is, he always want to destroy it… Since we have gone to Appeal Court, the status quo remains. So, nobody can restrain us from wearing our crowns.” Oba Lekan Balogun, who is the Head of the Olubadan-in-Council, urged Ladoja, who he described as “my other brother,” to “let bygone be bygone and allow peace to reign”.          