The efforts of the All Progressives Congress (APC) stakeholders at both national and state levels to resolve the lingering crisis in the Kogi State chapter of the party seem to have failed. JAMES AZANIA examines why the crisis, which has pitched Governor Yahaya Bello and his loyalists against the Audu/Faleke/Ametuo-led state executive council, has proved intractable. THE warring factions in the Kogi State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) appear unwilling to compromise. Despite efforts by stakeholders to unite the fold, all the sides to the crisis remain obdurate. The crisis started the moment it became obvious that Alhaji Yahaya Bello was going to be governor. The death of Alhaji Abubakar Audu, the party’s governorship flag bearer in the 2015 election just before the party was declared winner of the election, created a lacuna. The framers of the electoral law did not envisage a situation where a party’s standard bearer would pass away in the process of the election. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had declared the poll inconclusive. Bello who came second in the governorship primary was later to emerge as the APC candidate, thus foreclosing the chances of the running mate to the late Audu, Hon. James Faleke, stepping into the shoes of his former principal. From thast moment, “things fell apart and the centre could no longer hold”. From the litigations that ensued, to Bello’s choice of appointees, to the perceived exclusion of those that worked for the party’s victory at the polls and subsequent moves to upstate the Alhaji Haddi Ametuo-led state executive council, labelled ‘Diaspora APC’, the distraction caused has been enormous, even as the bickering among the warring factions remains unrelenting. All along, Bello has schemed to put in place a new party leadership that will be loyal to him, but with the extension approved by the APC National Executive Committee (NEC), of the tenure of the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun-led National Working Committee and state executive committees of the party for another one year with effect from June 2018, all that would have to tarry a while. Governor Bello who briefed newsmen last Wednesday, midway into the weekly state executive council meeting, said the decision was taken in line with Article 13 of the party, which allows the NEC to exercise the powers of the National Convention. He said the decision to elongate the tenure of the NEC and its state counterparts was taken to avoid any confusion in the operation of the party ahead of the forthcoming general elections and to allow the Asiwaju Ahmed Bola Tinubu-led reconciliation committee to carry out an effective job. With the development, Governor Bello’s survival strategy, particularly his bid to organise council elections, has been jeopardized. The Ametuo-led faction dominates the state executive council, because it has the support of 39 out of the 51 members of the group; though those loyal to the governor continue to exert themselves. The governor had in a recent petition passed a vote of no confidence on the members of the executive, accusing them of anti-party activities. They appeared before a disciplinary panel at the zonal office of the APC in Lafia, Nassarawa State, where they denied all the allegations. The Ametuo group and other stakeholders affiliated to it, including the member representing Kogi West at the National Assembly, Senator Dino Melaye, had in time past passed a vote of no confidence on the governor, from outside the state. At the disciplinary panel, Ametuo accused Governor Bello of anti-party activities, alleging among other things that after he lost the party primary in 2015, he worked for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, Captain Idris Wada, during the November 2015 governorship election. Ametuo said that the petition against him lacked merit and that some of the signatories were ghosts. He said: “Hon. Taufiq Isah who has been appointed as Ijumu Local Government Area (LGA) Caretaker Chairman signed as party chairman, while Osanaiye Taiwo who died in 2015 signed as Secretary of the council. Haruna Isah could not have signed as Lokoja LGA APC chairman, because he has been appointed as a Special Adviser (SA) to the governor. “Our governor, Yahaya Bello, joined the APC in February 5, 2015, when it was obvious that President Muhammadu Buhari was going to win the presidential election and at a time when we had concluded all rallies. We had toiled day and night under the rain and sunshine from 2014; through membership registration exercise, congresses, conventions, primaries, rallies and all elections in Kogi State. Those of us who made these victories possible are still much intact and focused. We are still prepared to recover the lost grounds for our party in the state to repeat a resounding victory for President Buhari and recapture all the legislative seats in 2019. We therefore request that this petition be thrown into the dustbin for lack of merit.” The zonal leadership however announced the sack of Ametuo and 38 other executive members, saying their removal was recommended by a report from the zonal disciplinary committee. In his reaction the decision, Faleke described it as a sham, insisting that money exchanged hands ‘to do the governor’s biddings’. He said: “Yes, I read in the newspapers that the state executive has been dissolved. Only yesterday morning, it came to our knowledge that the North Central chairman collected money to carry out an illegal dissolution. I maintain that it was not possible, because in the first instance only the National Working Committee (NWC) can recommend the dissolution of state executives which must be ratified by the NEC. So, if a committee was set up, my expectation is that the recommendations of that committee should have been passed on to the NWC before any action is taken. It is the same NWC that caused the havoc that we are having in Kogi today. Is it now that the president is making peace in the party that such a thing should come up?” He described as unfortunate the idea of the zonal leadership relying on a petition written by the Bello group against 39 members of the state executive. The Speaker of the Kogi State House of Assembly, Prince Mathew Kolawole who expressed optimism that the ruling party would successfully put its house in order however blamed the state party exco. for allowing the crisis to fester. He said: “It is unfortunate where we are today that the crisis in our party, especially in Kogi, still lingers among members of the executive. The executive members have refused to accord the governor his right of being the leader of the party. Hence, they undermine him with derogatory comments and insults. “I sincerely believe that what has a beginning must surely have an end. The tenure of the executives as at today is coming to an end gradually and I believe that in party politics the governor is number one. Governors are party leaders in all the states and our own cannot be an exception. He remains the party leader; come rain, come sun, till he ceases to be the governor. Even when efforts were being made for reconciliation, the utterances of some of the executives were not encouraging. “These are people who believe they were there before he came and so, they want to oppress him with insults. Those things will not help anybody. The governor remains the leader of our party and I am loyal to him to the core, because I am a party man. It is a party mechanism, but I can tell you the APC is together in Kogi State.” The APC National Secretariat rejected the sacking of the Kogi exco., saying that the NWC had nothing to do with it. The party’s National Publicity Secretary, Alhaji Bolaji Abdullahi, dismissing it. He said: “Our attention has been drawn to a story on a national television that the state executive committee of the APC in Kogi State has been suspended. We want to state that this action does not emanate from the NWC or any of its organ so empowered to do so. “Although there are issues within the party in Kogi and the NWC has empowered a committee to investigate and make recommendations, it has not been appropriately briefed on the outcome of the committee’s work and therefore has not taken any decision.” Governor Bello was to constitute a parallel executive to replace the allegedly sacked one, a move that now appears ‘dead on arrival’. The Kogi APC imbroglio was to assume another dimension with the recent visit of the party’s National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, to the state, ostensibly in a show of support for the governor Oyegun graced the Lokoja mega rally organised to receive sundry defectors from other parties, a move that many read between the lines. Even in the face of glaring fracture within the Kogi APC, Odugie-Oyegun chose to overlook the issue. Rather, he was full of praises for the governor and the state chapter of the party. The APC National Leader and Chairman of its Reconciliation Committee, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, was to point out that Odigie-Oyegun compounded the problems of the party, with the role he played in Kogi. Tinubu, in a letter to the President, accused Odigie-Oyegun of complicating the onerous task of reconciling the factions in the Kogi APC, particularly and the nation in general. With the most recent one year extension of the Ametuo-led state executive council, the situation in the Kogi APC can at best be described as detente.