The Senate Tuesday warned critics of Bills passed by the National Assembly to desist from misinterpreting such Bills. The warning may not be unconnected with the ruling of a Federal High Court which restrained it from taking further action on the controversial Electoral Act amendment Bill, 2018. The upper chamber noted that such alleged misinterpretations of passed Bills, “breeds roadside Appeal and Supreme Courts entities who always see Bills passed by the National Assembly as either self-serving or infractions on extant laws of the land.” It said that the critics, most often than not fail to participate in the process of passing the Bills even when opportunities are created for participation. Making the warning in his remarks at the one day public hearing organised by the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters on three separate bills,   the Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki made the remarks at a public hearing organized by the Senate Committee on Judiciary, Human Rights and Legal Matters for then consideration of three Bills. Saraki noted that it was unfortunate that critics of Bills passed by the National Assembly were never present at legislative forums for the necessary cross fertilisation of ideas. Represented at the event by Deputy Senate Leader, Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah, Saraki said that the Senate does not take preconceived position on the Bills before they are passed. He listed the Bills as Legal Practitioners Act (Amendment) Bill 2018; Data Protection Bill and Facial Mutilation Prohibition Bill. He said, “No particular position has been taken in respect of these bills. Relevant stakeholders were invited to make input to the Bills but unfortunately ardent critics of laws made by us are not here to make their inputs. “These critics are no doubt, roadside appeal misinterpreting our laws and by extension turning the decision of the National Assembly upside down as being experienced with one of the bills recently passed and being litigated against. “Our appeal to these critics is to stop misinterpreting our laws and make themselves available at the public hearing stage of passing such laws.” Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) Abubakar Malami was absent at the public hearing. Malami was represented by Barrister Yusuf Abdullahi from the Office of the AGF. Chairman of the Committee, Senator David Umoru asked Abdullahi why the AGF was absent from the event Abdullahi told the committee that the AGF went to court in respect of the litigation against the Electoral Amendment Bill 2018. He said the AGF Office has a contrary view on the intendment of the Legal Practitioners Act (Amendment) Bill. He noted that it is the view of the AGF Office that certain clauses in the Bill would affect the operation of state counsels. President of the Nigeria Bar Association (NBA) Abubakar Mahmoud (SAN), however said that proposed amendments to the Act were necessary to address the archaic nature of the Act having been enacted in 1962. He said, “The move by the Senate to amend the Legal Practitioners Act through an amendment Bill is a welcome development because to us, that would help in bringing the needed reforms  for the review of regulation of the legal profession.” 