Three young people between ages 18 and 30 who convince the viewing public beyond reasonable doubt of their ability to communicate effectively will win a combined prize of N3.5 million at the speaklikeachampion TV reality show which will air from July. The search is on for the 20 housemates who will compete for the ultimate prize (N2 million for the first prize; N1,500,000 second prize, and N500,000 third prize). The brain behind the competition, Abiola Salami, who unveiled the programme on his birthday last Monday, said the 90 days the participants would spend in the show would not only expose them to how to communicate but challenge them to think critically, develop views about societal issues and learn to express them in ways that make sense so that regardless of whether they win, they learn. “Many people just talk but few communicate.  What we are doing is throwing the spotlight on this skill and helping everyone to communicate.  Our target for this show is people between 18 and 30.  Available data suggests that the average age in Nigeria is 17.9 years – thus any conversation about peace, progress and productivity for the country should be targeted at developing the productive capacity and competence of this demography – hence the need to the develop the most important skill among millennials. “Twenty people will make it to the house.  We will have 50-50 gender parity – 10 competent males and 10 competent females.  They are studying together, learning and growing. There will be a minimum of 15 courses they will learn.  We are creating people with content, not just celebrities,” he said. Giving the timeline for the competition, Salami said online application to enter for the show will close month end – followed by auditions in six locations nationwide between April and May.  This will be followed by a pre-show in June after which the participants will be in the house for the show between July and September.  The competition will end with a media tour of winners. During their time in the house, Damilola Oluwatoyinbo, one of Salami’s partners on the project, said their mindsets would likely change because of exposure to quality information. “We are looking at a 90-day indoctrination process where you are being exposed to accountability, strategy, customer service…We’re streamlining the energies of these people along core values that  we need to build this nation,” he said. Another partner, Oludare Akinlaja, said by organizing a programme to engage the youth, Speaklikeachampion was addressing a social problem. “There is a problem with communication in this country.  For us to have healthy soceity where proper discourse takes palce, we must communicate properly.  You cannot be empty to communicate.  Communication brings thinking.  What we’ve done here is to stimulate the culture of reading and research.  We want to help people start to think.  For us, it is more than just speaking,” he said. 