Members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), members under the auspices of Lagos East Senatorial Districts General Assembly, have endorsed Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for a second term. Party faithful converged in Epe, a Lagos suburb, and passed a vote-of-confidence in Ambode, after which they unanimously endorsed the governor to continue in office beyond May 29 next year. A party chieftain, Olorunfunmi Bashorun, moved the motion to endorse the governor. He was seconded by the senator representing zone, ‘Gbenga Ashafa. The assembly urged the governor to look beyond his present attainments and continue with the task of launching the Centre of Excellence as one of the best cities in the world. Former Speaker of the House of Assembly, Adeyemi Ikuforiji, said the governor has recorded unprecedented feat in his first term, noting that Lagosians expect him to keep the pace in his second term. He said: “With the benefit of hindsight, Epe is the first to endorse Ambode for the second term. This is in recognition of the marvelous work the governor has been doing. The people expect more from him when he gets the second term. They want him to continue the good work in road construction, health delivery, education and security. These are some of the priorities of Lagosians and they expect it to continue. “We, therefore, call on all to shelve whatever misgivings they hold, and in the spirit of national reconciliation in the APC, unite and ensure that the party re-enacts its winning streaks in the coming election.” Senator Ashafa said the General Assembly in Lagos East was happy with the governor’s records, adding that the district was proud Ambode had not disappointed Lagosians. He said: “We have given him the go-ahead; we’ll mobilise the people to support him. I am very confident that the governor will surpass his present record when he gets the second term. I am therefore calling on Lagosians to rise up to the occasion during the election.” Chief Lanre Razak urged Lagosians to re-elect Ambode because four years cannot be enough to get the best from any government. He said: “Epe is now comparable to New York and this has also been replicated in other parts of Lagos. What I can only say is that Ambode could be compared to an onion which gets better as you peel off each layer. He deserves another term.”