Former Senate Deputy Minority Whip Gbenga Aluko,has urged All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirants in Ekiti State not to see the primary election as a “do-or-die affair.” He said: “Developing the attitude of sportsmanship at the primary will allow the party to form a united front to defeat Governor Ayo Fayose and his preferred candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola.” Aluko, who is one of the aspirants, said he will make sacrifices to ensure that his party wins the promosed governorship and presidential polls. He said Ekiti will be motivated to prepare for the presidentila elections, if the APC wins the July 14 governorship election. Aluko spoke in Ode Ekiti, headquarters of Gbonyin Local Government Area, during a meeting with eligible delegates. He warned against triviliasing the zoning of governorship ticket to the South Senatorial District, describing it as a big issue in Ekiti politics  . Aluko said: “I am not seeing the governorship ticket as a do-or-die affair, but I know I am an aspirant to beat anytime. But, we must do President Buhari proud and enhance his second term with this election, that is what I believe in. “I am close to the grassroots and I see the delegates as the owners of the party. This is why I have always been treating you with respect. I know there are leaders in the party, but your voices count and can override the power of anybody. “I know you are going to vote at the primary, I will support whoever you vote for because you own APC and that is the sacrifice we can make for our party to survive. But I am sure that you will vote for me to the fact that I have the capacity to win for you.” He warned against dividion in the chapter, there is life after a political  contest. Aluko added: “This election is an opportunity for us to defend our common interest, which is to reclaim power from PDP  and not an opportunity to fight one another. “The election is important to APC because it will go a long way in deciding many things. It will help President Buhari’s second term bid and also dispel the allegation from PDP that Nigerians have rejected our party”. The Director -General of the Gbenga Aluko Campaign Organization, Hon. Dapo Karounwi, said zoning is sacrosant, describing those canvassing against zoning as selfish individuals. He added: “Two or three of the APC aspirants are from my town. They came to me and I told them it is not yet time, because they are from the central. “In the spirit of justice , fairplay and oneness, we must all support someone from the south to get the ticket and win for our party and hat person is Senator Aluko.”