The American University of Nigeria ( AUN ) has partnered with Marlboro College, United States, to facilitate student exchange between the two institutions. The partnership, Executive Director, Communications and Public Relations, Daniel Okeke, in a statement on Monday in Abuja, would also help to enhance educational experience and cross-cultural understanding of students and faculty at both institutions. The statement said AUN President, Dawn Dekle and the College’s counterpart Dr. Kevin Quigley signed the Memorandum of Understanding on behalf of both institutions during a visit to AUN in Yola, Adamawa state. According to the statement, the partnership is also expected to cultivate engaged learning between students and faculty from AUN and Marlboro College through student exchanges. It noted that the partnership would provide for other joint academic endeavors, such as summer programs or faculty exchanges of mutual benefit. President Dekle, was quoted to have said: “American University of Nigeria is partnering with the Marlboro College learning community because of Marlboro’s unique liberal arts approach and intentional’ structure of the school. The mission and values of Marlboro mirror our AUN philosophy of education, which is ‘complete education’ and meant to develop academics and skills through coursework and practical training. “The World Studies Program, Clear Writing Requirement, and Town Meetings at Marlboro allow students to forge deep friendships with other students who have different backgrounds than their own, and allow them to understand how a learning community operates and their own place and responsibility in that educational environment. “I hope our AUN students embrace the opportunities offered through our partnership with Marlboro College, ready to engage in courageous conversations and form lifelong bonds with everyone.” President Quigley said: “Marlboro is committed to offering students international experiences that expand their horizons and launch them into a life of meaningful work,” said President Quigley, who serves on the Board of Trustees at AUN. “We already have partnerships in China, Mexico, Germany, Slovakia, and the Czech Republic, as well as with domestic programs, and we are thrilled that our first collaboration in Africa is at AUN.” The statement said Mr. Quigley, a former President and CEO of the National Peace Corps Association, had worked with AUN Founder and Nigeria’s former Vice President Atiku Abubakar and a former National Security Adviser to President Jimmy Carter, the late Robert Pastor. He launched the Harris Wofford Global Citizen Award which recognizes individuals whose lives were influenced by their interactions with volunteers, leading to a life of service to community and country. In 2011 at the 50th anniversary of the US Peace Corps, Atiku Abubakar was honored with the Global Award for his contributions to higher education, community development, and democracy in Africa. “AUN is an ideal partner for Marlboro, with a focus on arts and sciences, but also technology and entrepreneurship, in the interest of future sustainable development,” said Maggie Patari, director of global learning and international services at Marlboro. “We are fortunate to have this new partner providing the skills and leadership to help students address the social and economic challenges in the region, and the world,” Mr. Quigley, said.