Neymar has  told Barcelona that he wants to return to the Nou Camp just hours before his Paris Saint-Germain side crashed out of the Champions League to Real Madrid. The Brazilian has been unsettled in the French capital since joining in the summer for a world-record £198million fee. He has now decided that a move back to Spain is what he wants and has made his former club aware of his interest in a possible return, according to reports in Spain. However, Mundo Deportivo report that the Brazilian forward opted to inform them of his wishes just before PSG were knocked out of the Champions League by Real. Goals from Cristiano Ronaldo and Casemiro sealed a 5-2 aggregate win for Zinedine Zidane’s side in their last-16 second leg in Paris on Tuesday. Reports claim that Neymar misses his former team-mates and admits he was stubborn in trying to come out from Lionel Messi’s shadow. He also didn’t expect the level of Ligue 1 to be so inferior to La Liga. Neymar knows Champions League glory is key to his hopes of winning the Ballon d’Or Neymar is currently recovering from an operation on his foot in Brazil after suffering a broken metatarsal last month. He has been out of action since picking up the injury to his right foot after finding himself on the receiving end of a bad tackle against Marseille on February 25. Having had successful surgery in his homeland, Neymar will be assessed by PSG in six weeks to determine when he will return to training. Neymar joined French club Paris Saint-Germain on a contract that will run until 2022, and was offered the number 10 jersey by Javier Pastore as a “welcome gift”. Some analysts believe the constant talk about Neymar being in the shadow of former teammates Lionel messi prompted him to seek sojourn elsewhere with a view to maintaining and enjoying his identity. The desire to equally win the prestigious Ballon d Or award is also one which he thinks will better be realised if he steps out the usual two horse race between Messi and Ronaldo.