LAGOS  Police Chief Imohimi Edgal yesterday ordered the audit of  exhibits kept at the  State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID),  Panti, Yaba, asking those who diverted or converted such items to return them forthwith. He said it was a criminal offence to divert or convert exhibits, warning that those caught would face the music. During his  visit to the department, Edgal chided  Investigating Police Officers (IPOs), who  demand what he called ‘’mobilisation fee’’ from complainants in order to  arrest suspects. He  advised the IPOs to channel such demands to their sectional heads or the Deputy Commissioner of Police (DCP) in charge of the department. The commissioner decried the dearth of professionalism in the department, querying the deployment of policemen recruited under Works Department in the SCIID. According to him,   SCIID operatives will be profiled to weed out   those without business there. Directing the DCP in charge of SCIID, Mrs. Yetunde Longe, to start the profiling immediately, Edgal said some people got to the unit through the backdoor. He said: “There must be audit of all the exhibits. Many exhibits both miscellaneous and vehicular are now in the hands of some unscrupulous policemen here. They have diverted and converted them. It is a criminal offence and I pray none of you is caught in that act because the consequence will be terrible. “Every personnel here must be profiled. We must restore the  SCIID to its pride of place. That is why you see a policeman not able to handle a case file because he has not been converted. “If you were recruited  as dog handlers, tailors, barbers and you are here, you are not on general duty because you have not been converted. Return to the Works Department, where you came from.” Edgal condemned those who falsified their deployment dates so as to stay in the SCIID, noting that as policemen, there was need for them to serve in other departments to become versatile. Mrs. Longe promised to  reposition the SCIID. The police chief paid a surprise visit to Sabo Division and interrogated all suspects in the cell. Of the five cases there,  Edgal directed the re-investigation of two and the prosecution of the others .