The Catholic Archbishop of Ibadan Metropolitan See, Archbishop Gabriel Abegunrin has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency exercise his power as the leader of the entire country and quickly call to order, the rich Fulani men to stop funding the herdsmen killing innocent people at will. The cleric who noted that it is sad and even sadder that shedding innocent blood is now a continuous events in Nigeria as well as the indiscriminate blocking of roads in the heart beat of Abuja and Ibadan by Fulanis herdsmen cows is a terrible thing. Abegunrin made the disclosure while addressing newsmen at the occasion of the Ibadan North Denary Cathedralticum programme held at Sacred Heart Catholic Church, Ilupeju, Ibadan, Wednesday. Pointing out that, this is not the first time “we will be having Fulani in our midsts,  but events since the inception of this regime under President Muhammadu Buhari calls for rethinking and proper analysis. “Is it because their man is at the helms of affairs that is why they are sacking people indiscriminately from their abodes? They cannot be the owners everywhere. This incessant harassment, lawlessness being carried out is destroying this government so much. “They are more than terrorist, attacking people in their homes at night, maiming and killing them is more than terrorism. The act, if not quickly checked, this country may not be speaking and relating as one again. We are now leaving as a stranger in our land, it is terrible and uncalled for”, the cleric warned. He advised the Federal Government to copy the ranching system as been practiced in advance country for the development of agriculture in Nigeria rather than what is happening now. According to the cleric, the Cathedralticum event is an occasion to remember the less privilege in the society. Goods, properties and fund were also gathered and shared to the needed individuals. He further stressed that Nigeria needs “prayers at this crucial time so that calamity will not occur and for it to continue to be united as one family once again.”  