The Kaduna State Government says 10,000 young farmers in the state would be empowered to boost production in Maize, Rice, Soybeans and Poultry in the 2018 crop season. Gov Nasiru El-Rufai made the disclosure in a message to the flag-off of the 2018 fertilizer sales, held on Thursday in Turunku, Igabi Local Government area. The Newsmen reports that the state in partnership with Flour Mills of Nigeria and TAK Agricultural Solution would offer 50,000 metric tons of NPK fertiliser to farmers at  N5, 500 per bag this season. El-Rufai represented was at the event by the Commissioner for Agriculture and Forestry, Daniel Manzo-Maigari. “The state is collaborating with Central Bank of Nigeria ( CBN ) in the implementation of Accelerated Agricultural Development Scheme, where more than 10,000 farmers mostly youth are targeted to be empowered in production of maize, rice, soybeans and poultry. “The state is also working closely with multinational agencies and the private partners such as DFID,  Synergos,FAO, OCP Africa,  GIZ,  USAID, TAK Agro,  and WACOT to revolutionize agriculture  in the state,” he said. El-Rufai noted that although the state has comparative advantage in agriculture, the sector had been neglected with very little or no investment, especially in the provision of vital inputs to farmers. “The present government has made the issue of providing quality and affordable inputs to the state farmers a top priority. “The subsector is dominated mostly by wet season farming and some irrigation based production. “Most farmers currently produce cereal crops such as maize, sorghum, millet and rice during the rainy season. “Also not in doubt is the fact that Kaduna state is the largest producer of maize, ginger and tomato in Nigeria, exporting substantial quantities to other states. “Therefore any intervention aimed at enhancing production and to arrest post harvest losses will ultimately increase farmers’ productivity and income,” the governor said. According to him, the government would continue to facilitate availability and accessibility of fertilizer across the state. “The state government will continue to support the growth of the agricultural sector which is the mainstay of our economy through the provision of inputs such as fertilizer, improved seeds, agrochemicals and machineries.’’ He disclosed that the state Fertilizer Blending Plant set up in collaboration with OCP Africa, a Moroccan company, will be inaugurated on May 1. The governor said his administration had established a 350km shelter belt across five local governments of Ikara, Makarfi, Kudan, Giwa and Birnin Gwari to arrest desertification. He assured farmers of adequate security during the farming season, as of recent the farmers were forced to abandon their farms due to incessant kidnapping. Earlier, the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Aminu Shagali, represented by the Chairman, House Committee on Agriculture, Kasimu Iliyasawa said the committee would monitor the fertiliser sales in their constituencies to ensure that the commodity gets to actual farmers. The speaker urged administrators of local councils to ensure that the fertiliser get to farmers in good time. NAN