…Solid as ever Of the 46 Non-Life Insurance Companies in Nigeria, Law Union & Rock (LUR) Plc certainly stands out as one of the strongest, most reliable and most customer-centric insurance companies. As one of the first generation insurance companies to open in Nigeria more than six decades ago, Law Union & Rock Plc has maintained its excellence in risk underwriting. With a rating of A- from Global Credit Rating of South Africa Plc., this implies that Law Union has high claims paying ability relative to other insurers in Nigeria. This rating from GCR also means that the company’s Capitalisation is likely to remain within a strong range over the rating horizon, supported by sound internal capital generation, strong liquidity profile and adequate claims cash coverage. Despite the harsh economic operating environment of 2017, Law Union & Rock Insurance Plc. against all odds recorded a premium of N4.25 billion for the year ended 31st December 2017.  The risk manager has maintained its consistent improvement since the new strategic plan of the company which was unveiled in 2016. The Managing Director, Mr Jide Orimolade said that through efficient underwriting practices yielding an Underwriting Profit of N1.06 billion, Law Union has been able to streamline operations to ensure prompt claims settlement and unpredicted customer service delivery. He disclosed that the company has Total Assets in excess of N10 billion and Shareholders’ Fund in excess of N6 billion, Cash at hand of about N4 billion, Investment Securities of approximately N2.4billion and Investment properties of roughly N1.4billion. In 2017, the company achieved a profit after tax of N848 million. This shows that the company is in strong financial position to meet any and all future financial obligations, he added.  Our Products At LUR, the Customer always comes first. We are constantly looking for innovative ways to improve our service delivery and value propositions to our customers. Through our continuous product innovation Law Union & Rock has designed a bouquet of retail products which are tailored to meet the needs of the public and cut across all classes of Nigerians ranging from low to high income earners. Apart from the traditional insurance we have special e-products which are Home Guard and I-Care, Travel Card Insurance, Doctor-on-cover Insurance, i-Salute insurance and GPA-4-Schools Insurance. These products can be assessed through any of the company’s agency network and its website for ease of accessibility. The organisation has also developed various E-payment platforms to enable clients pay easily and avoid the rigors previously associated with premium payments. Customers can either pay in any bank of their choice, through Quickteller, POS terminals or Webpay. In 2018, Law Union & Rock will become a major player in the Digital Marketing space by creating content to sensitise the public about the importance of Insurance. This is the Company’s way of giving back to the Insurance Industry to help improve the low penetration rate prevalent within the Insurance Industry. All this in line with the company’s strategic initiative to create value for stakeholders, improve customer intimacy and achieve operational excellence.