A Lagos High Court yesterday sentenced a self-style “site engineer” and estate agent, Babatunde Habeeb, to 1,230 years imprisonment for a N28 million housing scam. Justice Oluwatoyin Ipaye convicted Habeeb, also known as Babatunde Salaudeen, of 82-counts of conspiracy and obtaining the cash by false pretence from 101 accommodation seekers. The judge sentenced Habeeb to 15 years imprisonment for conspiracy and 15 years on each of the 81 counts of obtaining under false pretence. The sentences, totalling 1,230 years, will run concurrently, meaning Habeeb will spend 15 years in jail. Each sentence, which was without a fine option, will start running from March 12, 2015, when he was arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The court held that Habeeb conspired with his older brother, Alhaji Ishola Salaudeen, and obtained the cash under the pretext of renting out 13 apartments to the complainants. The 13 apartments are in a building at 59, Oriola Street, Alapere-Ketu, Lagos, owned by Alhaji Salaudeen. Justice Ipaye also ordered that a one-storey block of flats be forfeited to the Federal Government. The judge directed that the building be sold and the proceeds shared among the complainants. According to her, this would send a strong signal to would-be property fraudsters. The judgment sparked jubilation among the complainants, who danced and sang outside the courtroom. The siblings were arraigned and granted bail by an Ebute-Metta Chief Magistrates’ Court in 2013 but Alhaji Salaudeen jumped bail. Alhaji Salaudeen is  facing a similar charge before Justice Lateef Lawal-Akapo of an Ikeja High Court. Habeeb was  re-arraigned on December 16, 2015 before Justice Ipaye on an 82-count charge. He pleaded not guilty and was granted bail. But during the trial, he admitted receiving the cash in tranches of N500,000, N450,000, among others. The convict, who was arrested at a construction site in Mushin where he was working as a bricklayer after he absconded, testified that he was warned by his elder brother not to tell the victims that the 13 apartments had already been given out. Habeeb, however, explained that he was merely working for his brother. He declined knowledge of a ploy to dupe prospective tenants. But in her judgment, the judge said his denial of the offences was inconsistent with the weight of evidence tendered by the EFCC. On the count of conspiracy, the court observed that the seven prosecution witnesses’ testimonies  identified Habeeb and Alhaji Salaudeen as partners in crime. Justice Ipaye held: “The defendant was the point-man in the scam. I am therefore satisfied that the defendant and his brother acted together in the scam. The judge noted,  among others,  that Habeeb’s number was the only one displayed on a billboard mounted in front of the house, advertising the then uncompleted building as vacant. She observed that although there were only 13 apartments in the building, Habeeb obtained money from more than 101 prospective tenants. Justice Ipaye held: “I am persuaded by the overwhelming evidence before the court, which has not been discredited…and which I verily believe persuaded the complainants to part with their hard-earned cash totalling N28m. “The prosecution has proved beyond reasonable doubt, counts two to 82 of the charge. “I find you Babatunde Habeeb, also known as Babatunde Salaudeen, guilty…of obtaining money by false pretence.” Before her judgment, the judge considered an allocutus from the defendant, who pleaded for leniency  as he had, among others,  learnt his lessons in prison custody. 