We all have scars, and all of those scars are twinged with memories. I do have scars, from my early years. Deep cuts from heavy falls on pavements, bruises from falls on the field, a tear from a glass table in a parlour, burns when I tried helping mum out in the kitchen, I’ve literally lost count of it all. Oh yeah, I had one recently, when I  had a surgery. This one’s way bigger than every of the scars on my skin. The thing is, I know the story behind each one of them. Days before I had the surgery, I and the doctor in charge got talking. I had been placed under observation, because they were kinda unsure of what was really on with my system. I gave him my ‘very sad’ look every time he walked into the ward. I had high hopes of him coming in to say ‘hey, we discovered it really isn’t a big issue yet, you’re discharged’. That didn’t happen. Back to our small talk, he was telling me they might have to carry out the operation eventually, if the pain I was feeling persisted. He made this statement I’ll always remember, ‘You’ll be fine at the end of it all, trust my abilities and God’s. Cuts do heal but you give it time. It’s all that required’. I was scared, hell yeah!  But I loosened up a bit, after he said those words. Scars mark the skin permanently. Due to the traumatic procedure in which they are formed on the skin, It sure takes time to heal. It did take time honestly, I can vividly remember. I just couldn’t contain the joy I felt exploding through my veins, the very day the nurse told me my dressings for the wound won’t be necessary anymore. We all carry scars believe it or not. It might not be the ‘dark distinctive spot’ on your arm. But the ones scattered around our hearts. Emotional ‘wounds’ best defines them. They don’t heal up quickly, some take our whole lifetime before turning into scars. Scars make us thankful in ways that’s beyond normalcy. Just mere thoughts of how they came to be on that clean/spotless surface makes you appreciate God more. You’re stronger, delicate but more willful, bolder and more graceful in the way we carry them. And so we never have to hide them. They are testimonies unspoken meant for the world to see you’re a wonder.  You’re a survivor who bore those pains. But like light bursting through the dark, you outshone darkness and defeated it. You became the wonder everyone couldn’t just overlook, cos you shone so bright like the sun that’s never ignored…. You became MADE. Those scars made ‘You’ you and brought you this far.