Former Minister of Education Prof. Tunde Adeniran has said lack of internal democracy triggered the  exit of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains to the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Adeniran said the party offers hope for Nigerians who are disenchanted with the way and manner PDP and the All Progressives Congress (APC) had managed the affairs of the country. He described the SDP as “the third force and evolving coalition of progressive forces to bring about positive change in Nigeria.  The former minister said the party would  restructure  the country. Adeniran spoke  yesterday in his Orin-Ekiti, Ido/Osi Local Government hometown during an interactive session with SDP members ahead of the July 14 governorship election in Ekiti State. Adeniran, who is also former Ambassador to Germany, quit PDP with personalities like former Information Minister Prof. Jerry Gana and former Deputy Senate President Ibrahim Mantu, over crisis that trailed the December 9 National Convention. The former Education Minister contested the national chairmanship seat, which  Prince Uche Secondus won. He said the party has embarked on aggressive membership mobilisation that would make Ekiti a launch pad  to gain national prominence. Adeniran said: “PDP lacks internal democracy and that has been the party’s greatest challenge and may end up being its undoing. We tried to correct them, we tried to put them on the path of sanity, but they refused. “We believed in change and transformation of the democratic system,   where human dignity and other virtues can be protected. “SDP is a third force and evolving coalition of progressive forces that has become a force to reckon with. Nigerians are yearning for change, because so much has gone wrong in this country. Nigerian youths have seen the party as an appropriate vehicle and they are embracing it. “What we intend to do is to give effect to what we believed in, I mean  to sanitise the political system where the rule of law, justice and fairplay can be embraced to promote internal democracy. “Let me say this, no political party can bring the desired change when   the  internal democracy is tampered with , because you can’t build something on nothing”. Adeniran said SDP is coming to restructure the country and allow true federalism to take the centre stage to end the reign of nepotism  body polity. “We are going to restructure this country because it was built on adefective and lopsided foundation. Our own restructuring in SDP will bring healthy rivalry among states and break the yoke of unitary  system. “In an attempt to restructure, we won’t promise what we can’t do. We have seen our people going hungry in the midst of abundance, but we     will revamp the agricultural sector through commercial farming to make     Nigeria the food basket of the nation. “We are going to make education free and compulsory up to the secondary level while the health sector will be made affordable for all  citizens”, he added. Expressing confidence that the PDP and the All Progressives Congress(APC) will be hit with gale of defections, Adeniran said many of the gladiators in the two political parties are already fraternising with the party. “What we intend to do is to make Ekiti a litmus test to what is going to happen in the larger Nigeria in 2019. “After winning Ekiti, we are going to win in Osun, banking on the supports of the youths who are seriously in need of paradigm shift to     make the country a great nation that we all desired”, he said.