THE police have arrested two Islamic clerics popularly known as alfa and a businessman for alleged attempted kidnap of a girl in Ipaja, Lagos. Alfa Isah Idris and the businessman,  Abubakar Abdullahi, were paraded  yesterday by Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal at the Lagos Command Headquarters at GRA Ikeja.  The other cleric, Alfa Bagudu Bello, from Kaduna, was not paraded along with them. Another suspect, Alfa Abubakar Ibrahim,  was said to be at large. According to the police, the suspects were arrested after Bello, who was contracted for the job, leaked it to the girl’s girl, Alhaji Salisu Idris, a businessman. Edgal said Bello told Idris about the  the plot when he realised that they were from the same town. But Bello told reporters he  did not know Idris, adding that he was never told it was a kidnapping job. He said he was contacted by Idris, his fellow alfa,  to come to Lagos for a business, adding that he was first taken to Ibrahim’s house at Ikorodu to keep his luggage before he was taken to a hotel in Ipaja. Bello said it was while he was at the hotel that Alfa Idris told him about the plot to kidnap the businessman’s daughter. He said he was told the businessman  refused to pay them after a deal. Bello said: “When he told me, he said we should go and spy on the man’s house. He said as an alfa, I will have unhindered access into the man’s compound and I should use that opportunity to kidnap his young daughter. “I felt bad when he said it. I knew I was not going to do something like that and so, I played along with him. After we left the house, we went to the hotel and he said he was going to look for money for my feeding. “That was when I left the hotel and went to tell the man that some people are planning to kidnap his daughter. That they brought me from Kaduna for that purpose and that I was not ready to do something like that. “He did not believe me and so, I told him to send two people behind me to call Alfa Idris. He sent the people and when I called him, they heard it all. I did not know those he sent were policemen. That was how Alfa Idris was arrested and the police also caught the other man.” Asked why he plotted to kidnap Idris’ daughter, Alfa Idris said he was coerced by Abdullahi and Ibrahim to do it or lose the N6.3 million loan he gave them. He said he usually prayed for them, adding that Ibrahim brought Abdullahi to him for success prayers. Alfa Idris said: “I used to pray for them. Abdullahi said he did a business with Alhaji Idris and that he has not paid him. He told me because I asked for the N6.3 million I loaned him for the business but he said the man has not paid him. “I told him the Mobile Policeman Commander I borrowed N2.5 million from was disturbing me and that he has even arrested me for his money. “I also used his house documents to borrow another N2.5 million through the commander’s brother. Then, I borrowed N1.3m from our neighbourhood. The N5 million I borrowed was money they gave me to do storage business for them. “But after giving them the money, they did not bring it back and when I was disturbing them, they said I should help them kidnap the man’s daughter or they will not pay me. “Since I could not do it, I contacted Bello and brought him from Kaduna. I told him when he was in Lagos that the business I want him to do was kidnapping and that was how he told the police and I was arrested. “Abdullahi and Ibrahim paid me N100,000 to kidnap the girl. They were supposed to pay me N500,000 for the job. They still owe me N6.3million.” Edgal said: “Undercover operatives of the command who were out on intelligence gathering, met one Alhaji Salisu Idris of 7b, Ipaja Road, who narrated how some people had planned to kidnap his daughter for mundane reasons. “Based on his complaint, Bello was arrested. He revealed during interrogation that he lives in Kaduna, that Isah Idris contracted him to kidnap the daughter of Salisu Idris. When he arrived in Lagos, Isah Idris introduced him to one Abubakar Abdullahi and Ibrahim Abubakar. His job was to kidnap the girl and hand her over to the Abubakars. “The reason he was hired was because he is an Islamic scholar just like Idris, who contracted him. By this reason he would have unfettered access to the house of Alhaji Salisu Idris, who built a private mosque in his compound situated at Ipaja. “All Isah Idris needed to do was to take him into Alhaji Salisu’s compound to worship at the mosque so as to point the girl out to him. However when Bello was eventually introduced to Alhaji Salisu Idris, he revealed the plan to kidnap his daughter, consequent upon which the latter alerted the police who subsequently effected his arrest. “Asked why he had a change of plan, Bello revealed that on arriving at the mosque, he discovered that Alhaji Idris was his town’s man who had been good to him and many  of their people in the past, even though the said Alhaji Salisu Idris doesn’t know him.”