Technology is taking the lead in every facet of life. To win in the marketplace, businesses must innovate or they die. To succeed, businesses must adopt new technologies, introduce new products and ferret out new partners to expand. All these increase security risks to the business and if these risks are not mitigated, security breaches caused by data loss and intellectual property theft can cause significant damage to a company’s brand and reputation, LUCAS AJANAKU writes on how to play safe. Globally, Information Technology (IT) trends are adopted by businesses to increase productivity, profits, and efficiency and lower operating costs. Therefore to be competitive and relevant in the marketplace, firms must not only innovate to survive and thrive, they must also be confident that their data, applications as well as customers, are secure. Security must be an integral part of any innovation programme. Without the security component of innovation programme, businesses run the risk of data breaches, customer dissatisfaction and damage to the brand. The cost to businesses with respect to data loss, revenue and disruption of operations has increased. According to Ponemon Institute’s 2016 Cost of Cyber Crime Study & the Risk of Business Innovation,  there is a rise in businesses’ revenue losses  yearly. Consequences The gamegroup.com says the average data security breach takes less time to pull off than it does to prepare a cup of coffee. In fact, 93 per cent of successful data breaches occur in less than one minute; yet, 80 per cent of businesses take weeks to realise a breach has occurred. There are many costly consequences of compromised data. This is why 86 per cent of business executives believe cyber security threats, such as weak data security, are increasing becoming a source of grave concern. Speaking during Micro Focus Secure the New Roadshow in Johannesburg, South Africa, Micro Focus SECURE Portfolio Sales Manager for sub-Saharan Africa, Marianne Van der Pluym, said: “The impact of cyber threats can be as devastating to businesses as natural disasters.” The world is feeling economic pressure as a result of cyber-attacks, with Norton describing cybercrime as “a silent global digital epidemic”. Van der Pluym said: “Last year, override malware took down Ukraine’s power grid, meaning that cyberattacks can affect critical infrastructure. Cybercrime can also affect major institutions, like the Bangladesh Bank who lost $81 million when its SWIFT software was hacked. In 2015, the European Aviation Safety Agency had to ground 10 planes as a result of a cybersecurity breach.” The impact of data breaches on business reputation can be as catastrophic as the financial loss, as evidenced by attacks on global companies such as Equifax, Yahoo, and Uber, which lost share value, and consumer and investor trust as a result. Revenue loss Significant revenue loss as a result of a security breach is common. Studies show that 29 per cent of businesses that face a data breach end up losing revenue. Of those that lost revenue, 38 per cent experienced a loss of 20 per cent or more. A non-functional website, for example, may cause potential customers to explore other options. But any IT system downtime can lead to work disruptions. Brand reputation damage A security breach can impact much more than just your short-term revenue. The long-term reputation of your brand is at stake as well. For one, you don’t necessarily want your emails leaked. In most cases, you need these emails to remain private. However, customers value their privacy, too – and breaches often involve customer payment information. Potential leads will be hesitant to trust a business with a history of shoddy data security. Intellectual property loss Loss of revenue and damaged reputation can be catastrophic. However, in some cases, hackers will also target designs, strategies, and blueprints. Businesses within the manufacturing and construction industries are more prone to this threat. Smaller businesses tend to believe they won’t get hit. But 60 per cent of hacks target small businesses. This is because they’re easier to attack. Losing intellectual property can impact the competitiveness of your business. Some rivals would not hesitate to take advantage of stolen information. Hidden costs Surface-level costs are just the beginning. There are many hidden costs related to breaches as well. For instance, legal fees may come into play. Also, you may need to spend more on PR and investigations, not to mention insurance premium hikes. Regulatory fines are another reality that many businesses overlook. In 2015, for example, the FCC slammed AT&T with a $25 million fine. This was a result of a breach that led to the disclosure of information related to thousands of accounts. Online vandalism Some hackers fancy themselves as pranksters. In these cases, a security breach might only lead to few word changes on your website. While this seems relatively harmless, it can actually cause a lot of damage. Subtle changes are harder to notice. For example, a hacker might change a few letters or numbers on your contact page. They may also add vulgar content to some of your webpages. Way forward Data breaches are more common today than ever before. In 2016, the number of global data breeches increased by 86 per cent compared to the previous year. Cyber-attacks are continuing to grow in both frequency and severity, and as businesses become increasingly digitised, security has become more important than ever. Two of the biggest global risks for the year, as identified by The World Economic Forum (WEF), are cybersecurity, and data theft and fraud – which topped the list alongside climate change and natural disasters. These high-profile data breaches have alerted organisations to the importance of safeguarding their data and networks, both now and for the future. “It isn’t that easy to protect your enterprise’s data anymore. Good IT security strategies can be very effective in protecting networks, but cybercrime has evolved to a new level of complexity, and we now need a universal approach,” said Van der Pluym. Micro Focus, in partnership with Mybroadband, offers steps to be taken for businesses looking to protect their data. These are: Govern, secure identities Use complex passwords and different passwords for different sites, don’t click on unknown links in emails, only visit secure sites, and be wary of public Wi-Fi. Understand, manage data Protect your data with encryption, monitor your network diligently, and back up regularly. Protect data while preserving its format. Format-Preserving Encryption (FPE) securely encrypts structured data while preserving the original formatting of the plaintext data. Secure, govern apps access Continuously monitor changes in application risk, perform deep security scans, and protect applications in real time. Use analytics-driven decision making to respond to threats Real-time information and analysis of security events as they occur allows for quicker threat identification and mitigation. To enable businesses to easily implement these steps, Micro Focus has developed an information risk platform – an open, intelligent, and comprehensive approach to “Secure the New”. “Our information risk platform offers a layered approach to ensure that enterprises have a deep, postured response to security. We can help you to conquer your digital transformation and deliver security intelligence and risk management at the core of everything you do,” Van der Pluym said. The solutions comprise a best-in-class, enterprise-grade security platform with built-in scalability and analytics to drive security. These innovations include native, real-time log parsing, security data enrichment and normalisation; built-in security analytics and enhanced dashboards; intelligent real-time event data from Azure Active Directory to SIEM solutions; data-centric security hosted by AWS; and secure app testing both in DevOps and in production.