•Group creates awareness on free IVF, endometriosis Why is it that couples who benefit from In-Vitro Fertilisation (IVF) do not  acknowledge it, but would rather go to religious gatherings to testify that it was a divine intervention? This is one of the questions agitating the mind of Mrs Tola Ajayi, the Clinic Manager of Nordica Fertility Centre, Ikoyi, Lagos. Speaking to The Nation  ahead of the centre’s 10th Anniversary, Mrs Ajayi said when such beneficiaries do not  tell others about the efficiency of IVF, but would rather attribute it  to divine grace, other fertility-challenged couples, especially women, who might have passed the age of conception, woud not know about IVF. “That alone is misleading and fuelling wrong assumption; as such couples will keep on believing that one day, it will be their turn, rather than coming forward to explore the options of assisted reproductive therapy (ART), especially IVF,” Mrs Ajayi said. She, however, agreed that everything about IVF’s success is divine because God is the great power that allows the implantation to take place. Quoting Deuteronomy 29: 29, Mrs Ajayi said IVF is backed by God because He gave its knowledge to man. “The secret things belong to the Lord our God, but the things revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may follow all the words of. So, generations yet unborn will still come, and improve on IVF. ‘’Likewise Psalms 115: 16 says the highest heavens belong to the Lord, but the earth he has given to mankind. The New Living Translation puts it that the heavens belong to the LORD, but he has given the earth to all humanity. So, all these suggest that there is nothing to be ashamed of in IVF as a practice or beneficiaries. ‘’Babies born through IVF are normal healthy children that can be celebrated anywhere. Not disclosing benefits of IVF as a beneficiary keeps so many other potential beneficiaries in the dark, which is not too good, as they will keep on hoping against hope of that miracle pregnancy instead of taking a proactive step to enrol for IVF.’’ Meanwhile, Nordica Fertility Centre and Fertility Treatment Support Foundation has announced Free Fertility Treatment Programme (FTSF) for couples. Speaking in Lagos, a Trustee of the Foundation Dr. Abayomi Ajayi and Mr. Onuora Molokwu, an Executive Member, said this year, the foundation would give out free treatments to 20 couples, who need treatment but are unable to afford it. According to them, the high cost of fertility treatment has remained a challenge for many couples and this has denied them the opportunity of accessing fertility treatment and the joy of completing their families. Molokwu said FTSF was encouraged by the results from its previous interventions in free fertility treatment, which have resulted in over 150 couples receiving free fertility screening and treatment. He urged interested couples to visit the foundation’s website or its social media handles to get information on how to apply. He urged well-meaning individuals and firms to join hands with the FTSF initiative to enable more couples enjoy the joy of parenthood. FTSF started operations as a non-profit organisation in 2008 with a mandate to provide free fertility screening and treatment to couples with a compelling infertility story, but are financially challenged. Last year, the body gave five couples free treatment. Of this number, two have been confirmed to be pregnant while one is scheduled to have a pregnancy test next week. “This year, we are planning to do 80 free screenings, from where we will select five couples every quarter, making a total of 20 for the year that will qualify for free treatment,” Ajayi said. And should endometriosis be the challenge, Ajayi said help is here as Endometriosis Support Group Nigeria (ESGN) is offering an opportunity to create awareness that will stem the tide of silence suffering. Ajayi, the Founder of the Group, said: ’’ It gives me pleasure to announce our programme of events for this year. This year, we are going to make significant in-roads to expand the awareness level of this condition among people across the country.” He said the group was working on partnering the private and public sector organisations to help reduce the ignorance around endometriosis as it severely affects the quality of life of sufferers, including  their relationships, noting that it is a common cause of infertility. Ajayi descibed endometriosis as a condition in which tissue that normally lines the uterus — the endometrium — grows outside the uterus, typically on the ovaries, fallopian tubes, intestines or other areas in the pelvis. “In the past 12 years, we have championed this cause in Nigeria, and we have raised the consciousness about the condition among sufferers, medical practitioners, media and the general public. We believe this is a critical issue that needs to be addressed. ‘’Endometriosis, as you may be aware, is a debilitating condition which affects one in 10 women. It is, however, characterised by late diagnosis as most physicians tend to miss it,” he added.