 She walked away from her marriage with golfing legend Tiger Woods with a whopping $100m settlement. And Elin Nordegren has put her custom-built Florida mansion which she bought with the settlement on the market for a whopping $49.5m. The Swedish former model, 38, who divorced the adulterous golfer in 2010, following a six year marriage, purchased the sprawling 25,878-square foot oceanfront home in Seminole Landing, North Palm Beach in 2014. The palatial home comes complete with 11 bedrooms, 15 bathrooms, three half bathrooms, and spectacular ocean views. Inside the master bedroom, there are his and hers bathrooms, a walk-in closet, three fireplaces and a balcony perfect for watching the sunset over the Atlantic ocean. Each of the four uniquely decorated guest bedrooms includes an en-suite bathroom and walk-in closet The luxury living quarters also include a formal living and dining room with envy-inducing sea views, along with a walk-in pantry. A further striking feature of the property is a statement soaring staircase illuminated by a three-storey Swarovski crystal chandelier. A mammoth outdoor swimming pool with waterslide and spa, lounge areas with fire pits, a putting green and a half basketball court are set in the estate’s 1.4 acres of land. The property has a rooftop terrace which offers breath-taking views of the ocean, along with a temperature controlled wine cellar, home cinema, fitness centre, catering kitchen and a four-car garage. Making the property perfect for entertaining, it also encompasses a Cabana house and guesthouse with two, two-bedroom apartments. The estate replaced a 17,000 square foot home built in 1932 that Elin bought for $12.2 million but had to tear down because it was riddled with rot. Before demolition began in 2011, she gave Habitat for Humanity a month to salvage anything they wanted from the property. Woods and Nordegren were just shy of their sixth wedding anniversary at Thanksgiving 2009 when police were called to their Orlando home. Woods had smashed his car into a tree during what appeared to be a lover’s spat. Within days, stories about Woods cheating on Nordegren with dozens of strippers, waitresses, porn stars, lounge hostesses and groupies led to their divorce in mid-2010.