•Late minister  in autobiography: politicians need primary profession FORMER Minister of Foreign Affairs, Ambassador Mathew Mbu has revealed in his autobiography that ex-Presidents Umaru Yar’Adua and Goodluck Jonathan did not prepare for presidency, leading to their failure to perform in office. He said it was unfortunate that former Rivers State Governor Peter Odili, who was ready to lead the nation in 2007, lost to the “antics of a mischievous individual”. Mbu said Jonathan became myopic with Ijaw agenda and could not tackle corruption. The former minister said corruption was one of the leading reasons for the nation’s political and economic failures. He said politics should not be treated as a profession in Nigeria but as a vocation. Mbu’s views are contained in his autobiography which will be launched post-humously on April 10 in Abuja. The book is titled: “M.T. Mbu: Dignity in service.” The ex-minister, who died on February 6, 2012, had left the manuscript of his autobiography which the family decided  to publish to honour him. The family confirmed that the autobiography was ready for publication before he passed on. The excerpts said: “The South-South got recognition when I championed the South-South People Assembly. We campaigned for the presidency. It was clear to everyone that Dr. Peter Odili from the South-South zone was ready to provide leadership. “However, the PDP primaries of 2006 was a fiasco of internal democracy. Jonathan was made the running mate to Umaru Muas Yar’Adua in that convention. Dr. Peter Ofili, our prepared candidate was betrayed by the party hierarchy. “Personally, I was sick because of the antics of a mischievous individual, who had hoped that things would degenerate to a level that would lead to crisis and a declaration of a state of emergency. “We are all mortals, President Umaru Musa Yar’Adua could not accomplish much, not just because he was sick, but also because he was not prepared for the demanding office of president. That was equally of Jonathan as vice president. “When Yar’Adua eventually passed the way of all mortals and an unprepared Jonathan became president, Jonathan suddenly forgot that he was the president of Nigeria and became obsessed with the Ijaw nation propaganda with a selected few. That was not the idea of the South-South presidency I championed. It does not mean a narrow agenda, rather a national service from this forgotten zone.” The book added: “The obsession of Jonathan with certain characters kept me away from the presidency. A Yoruba man, Olusegun Obasanjo influenced his nomination as vice president; Dora Akunyili, an Igbo woman, intervened in the Federal Executive Council for the transfer of power to Jonathan. Pastor Tunde Bakare of Save Nigeria Group, made the Senate headed by someone from the Middle Belt, to initiate the doctrine of necessity. So, why the obsession with a myopic agenda based on Ijaw propaganda? “I deliberately wanted to stay away from the administration of Goodluck Jonathan. In the game of politics, you only engage in exclusion when you fail to fight for your rights. Jonathan was excluding himself and his presidency was heading for precipice. He needed to reorganise himself and strategise. Politics is not a charity, if you fight for what is your right, and you cannot protect it, it will be taken from you.” But Mbu said he sent advisory to Jonathan when it was necessary in order to guide him. He said: “My distance from Jonathan was not complete incommunicado. I did advise him to properly articulate his agenda and reduce the bogus listed items to three: (1) free and fair election, (2) security and (3) reduce the quantum of corruption that is visible within the corridors of power. “If these are achieved, Nigerians in their ingenuity will fashion out the rest in no time. I proposed this to him because these are intrinsically democratic dividends. No other system of government can deliver them thoroughly with checks and balances.” On corruption, the ex-minister said it was behind the nation’s political and economic failures. The excerpts said: “The second point I proposed to the administration of Jonathan to be tackled immediately was corruption. Corruption is one of the leading reasons for the ongoing political and economic failures. In our active days, corruption like it is today, never existed. In broad terms, corruption is the abuse of public office for private gains.” He said politics should not be treated as a profession in Nigeria but as a vocation. Mbu said: “Politics to me, is not a profession, it is a vocation… I have always maintained that all those who aspire to elected public offices need a primary profession. Most of the time I served in public offices, I did return to my profession as a lawyer. “So, I cannot comprehend why someone will claim politics as a profession and accept being introduced as a politician. If you are called to serve, do not abandon your profession, whatever it is. “Politics is always there for you; it is not a profession, it is a calling, if you want to go into it.  