National Teachers Institute has built the capacity of 3,700 Primary School Teachers nationwide in a bid to improve education standard in Nigeria, just as the Institute urged states to cascade down the training in their states.
NTI Director General, Prof. Garba Dahuwa Azare said that the Institute built the capacity of the 3,700 primary school teachers, drawn from the 36 states of the Federation and the FCT.
He noted that the capacity building was on four thematics areas of language communication skills, effective classroom management skills, basic classroom teaching methods and techniques, as well as ICT.
Addressing the closing ceremony of the training workshop for the teachers on Tuesday, the NTI boss urged the states ministry of education and state universal basic education boards to sponsor the step-down training so that large number of teachers can benefit.
“It is our hope that the participants will do the needful by stepping down the training to the teachers that were nominated. This reminds me of the need for all the stakeholders, especially the state ministries of education and SUBEB to step up efforts in that direction,” he said.
The NTI DG further reiterated the need for increased teachers in-service training programmes for the overall development of educational sector in Nigeria. He said until government, through the relevant agencies face the issues of teachers quality, quantity and retention, no significant headway can be made in revolutionising the sector for better performance.
Chairman of the Occasion and Minister of State for Education, Prof. Anthony Anwukah, in his keynote address, described the workshop as a successful outing. He said that NTI has given a good account of itself in the execution of the programme over the years. “The Federal Ministry of Education is working closely with the Institute to ensure a hitch-free conduct every year.”
Akwa Ibom state Commissioner for Education, Prof. Victor Inoka, in his remarks, lauded federal government’s effort in making the nationwide capacity building workshops for teachers an annual event and reiterated his government’s determination to partner with the institute in upgrading their teachers.