Burna boy has been one of the most consistent and prominent artistes in recent times on the Nigerian cum African music scene. His third studio album titled OUTSIDEis an attestation to the above fact. Although personally, I’d rate the body of work 8/10, the diversity of sounds is impressive. I’m most impressed by the music production and it’s not surprising because Burna Boy has always been a connoisseur of picking great beats. Burna Boy’s lyrical prowess aren’t dimmed on this project either. This album sums up Burna Boy’s retrospect of his life back in Nigeria and how events over time has seen him loose friends on his rise to prominence. This is his reintroduction to the world as an artiste who is poised to go beyond the negativity of his background and prove that he is worth the hype. The first track off the album is “More Life”, one of the songs that Burna Boy submitted for Drake’s last album of same title. The song explores his desire to enjoy and get more out of life against all negativity. He then introduces the world to his birth place, the city of Port Harcourt, Rivers state in “City Vibrations” where he talks about the different activities that define the city like Bole (roasted plantain) and Fish. This song will definitely have the city vibrating. The tempo switches with the African percussions and lead riffs of “Koni Baje” a prophetic declaration that his ever blazing musical fire will never die out. The first feature off the compilation comes next and J-Husbrings his fervor to complement Burna boy on “Sekkle Down” a romantic dancehall joint that gets you in that party mood. Next up is “Where I’m From” a song that gives further insight on life in Nigeria. This is a pretty relatable song for most youths in Africa. The second featured artiste is Lilly Allen on “Heaven’s Gate”. This song is a blend of afro and what Nigerians call an “Indian vibe” and Lilly totally came through with her high pitched adlibs and verse. “Ye” sees Burna tap into his connection to the Afrobeats legendFela biting off “Sorrow, Tears and Blood”. Burna invites Chopstixx on the production of “Giddem” a bouncy dancehall rhythm. “Streets Of Africa” is an animated trap song that portrays the happiness that resonates in the spirit of Africa. Julz and Burna boy link up in style on “Rock Your Body” which was one of my favorite singles of 2017. The shakers and bassline will definitely have you rocking on the dance floor. “Devil In California” is pure R&B awesomeness. “Calm Down” sees J5 and Burna Boy create a minimalist dancehall masterpiece. “Outside” the title track features U.K. singer, Mabel on an EDM song which further exposes Burna Boy’s already undisputed versatility. OUTSIDE was release on the 26th of January under Atlantic Records and is available on every music platform. This album definitely a great update to my already buoyant Burna Boy playlist. I hope you enjoy this album as much as I did.