For proper administration of Lagos State, there is need for top quality service from workers to both government and residents of the state, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has said. Ambode who spoke during a workshop tagged: “Building Values and Sound Human Relations Skills in Lagos State Civil Service” was represented by Commissioner, Lagos State Ministry Of Establishments, Training, and Pensions, Dr. Akintola Benson in Lagos. He said the workers must work without negative traits, practices and mindsets with values and the human relations skills that are vital for maintaining and renewing the effectiveness of the Lagos State Civil Service He stated that the objective of the workshop is to inculcate and sharpen the vital interpersonal human relations skills and values that officers of the state civil service require to properly and fully serve the government and the people of the state. He stressed that the ministry is charged with the responsibility for ensuring the adequate exposure of the Lagos State Civil Service to knowledge on an on-going basis. He also said that the governor is irrevocably committed to all matters relating to the Civil Service in the State. He said: “From time to time, we find people who wonder why this administration devotes so much resources and efforts to trainings such as this. The answer to that is the welfare of the people is the ultimate law. Governments who deny this assertion do so at the risk of ruining their stewardships and the trust of the citizens in governance. Furthermore, employers who deny this run the undeniable risk of ruining their enterprise and the trust and devotion of their employees. “Of the many wise employers living by this noble ideal, the state government is one of the most notable, if not the foremost. The passionate and unrivalled dedication of the Lagos State Government to the welfare of its workforce both during and after service cannot be denied. In furtherance of its dedication to this ideal, the governor mandated the Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions to embark on a continuous training of the officers of the state civil service in order to ensure the delivery of top quality service to government. “The Lagos State Civil Service is desirable of having officers with two skills sets of hard skills and soft skills. For instance, as an officer of the Lagos State Civil Service, you will attain better performance heights if you possess good communication skills. Again, your department will become more effective and efficient if you can work in a team and collaborate. The Lagos State Civil Service wants people who play well with others and can effectively work as part of a team.”   