Over 500 residents of Umuahia, the state capital who are customers of a ponzi scheme operator (Digital Currency) located at the Umuahia Urban Plaza along Club road have been thrown into confusion and tears as the scheme operator closed business abruptly with millions of customers’ cash in its possession. The Nation gathered that the ponzi scheme which became operational in January this year closed shop, leaving many people who had come to claim their money stranded and confused as they (customers) met the shop of the operator under lock and key. It was learnt that some of the customers who had come to claim their money had attempted to break the shop after several attempts to reach the official phone number of the scheme operator failed but were repelled by the officials of the plaza. One of the victims who simply gave her name as Glory told our reporter that her friend was paid last week before the unfortunate incident. Glory who claimed to have invested about N50, 000 in the scheme said she was due to be paid 10% of her investment after one week, only to meet their shop closed. “I actually did the MMM thing, but after what happened, I decided not to get involved in anything ponzi again. My cousin who invested twice and was paid persuaded me to try my luck. After having listened to her and other persons who also testified to being paid by the scheme, I decided to try my luck. “I came here this morning just like every other persons who were supposed to be paid today only for us to meet their shop locked. Many people have gone, it is just a few of us that you are seeing here were still waiting to see if there could be miracle. Their number Glo line has not being going and that is the only line that you can reach them on.” Another victim who corroborated Glory’s statement claimed that she invested N200, 000 into the scheme and wondered why she has been so unlucky with anything associated with ponzi and lottery. “Others played MMM and Gethelp and were paid. But when I tried my luck in MMM and gethelp, my money went missing. Now, I have tried my hands on this one and yet they have made away with my money. This is a money I was hoping to use to buy some of the things that I would need for my saloon shop after being assisted by my brothers to raise some money for the saloon project. My life is shattered and I don’t know what to do at this moment. What really surprised me was that they were paying people even when I made my deposit. But what happened and why they suddenly closed shop is still a surprise,” a source who gave her name Gift stated.