Lionel Messi was the difference between an impressive Chelsea side and a place in the Champions League quarter-finals. It was the view taken by both sides after the game on Wednesday night including the coaches. “He is a fantasy player who has seen Barcelona through here, Messi is responsible,” said Conte while Valverde added: “Our attacking play passes through him and he makes any move better for us.” Against Chelsea, Messi scored two goals and set up another. He is in fine form at the moment, and while he has always been a key player, he has been particularly decisive recently. This was a performance that gives further credence to the idea that Messi, as lauded as Cristiano Ronaldo may be, is the finest player on the planet. It was, in fact, the type of display that marks him out as a generational player, and arguably the greatest of all time. The supporters at the Camp Nou witnessed l Messi’s 99th and 100th Champions League goals during the 3-0 victory over Chelsea and the player spoke of his joy after the match. He explained that he is delighted to have reached triple figures, while he also analysed the match. “I’m happy to have reached 100 goals in such a beautiful competition, but the important thing was to move forward in a difficult match against a team with lots of really good players,” he said in a surprise media appearance with UEFA. “We managed to score early and this was important. “I’m happy with how it all happened. “This was a tough match and we were strong as a team. “When we scored the third then the tie was practically ours.” When told that Antonio Conte had praised him in his press conference, Messi had some words of thanks for the Italian coach. “I didn’t hear him, but they told me what he said and I thank him for his words,” the No.10 said. “I am happy for how this night has ended and for reaching the quarter-finals, which is what we wanted.” Next up for Messi and his teammates is Sunday’s match against Athletic Club, before an international break. WHAT & HOW  MESSI DID IT THE MAGIC From the off he was sensational. The problem with Messi, as Chelsea found out, is it is impossible to know where and when the danger will come. He is the ultimate floater. Man marking him is a waste of a player, because he can be so quiet for the majority of a 90 minute game. Then, suddenly, over the course of five seconds, he can turn an encounter on its head. He passed it into Ousmane Dembele, whose one-two didn’t come off — it reached Luis Suarez instead, but Messi’s movement meant he had already found a pocket of space In the first two minutes there was little to suggest the impact he would soon make. There was a touch on the edge of the box. The diminutive Argentinian was mainly in the wide areas. And then the moment came. He picked the ball up on the right and fed it into Ousmane Dembele. Messi was immediately off the mark, making a brilliant run on the outside of the Chelsea defence on the assumption that Dembele would play a one-two with him. That did not come off, but the ball ricocheted to Suarez, who knew to feed Messi in. Even then it seemed an impossible angle for Messi to score from. Especially on his weaker right foot. The impossible becomes improbable where Messi is concerned, though, and a nutmeg later he had scored. How could Chelsea have stopped him for the first? In reality, they could not. His movement was too good. The passing play was too good. And the shot, while benefiting from a slightly questionable attempt to save it from Thibaut Courtois, was essentially inch-perfect. Barcelona’s second also owed everything to Messi, but in a completely different sense. This is what people picture when they imagine the 30-year-old at his absolute best. It involved the sort of jinking run that leaves excellent defenders on the floor, pining after Messi and the ball like a forlorn war-time lover left on a station platform as the train pulls away. The move stemmed from a Chelsea mistake, in the same butterfly effect sense that Messi’s display was caused by the invention of football. Cesc Fabregas flapped in midfield, passing the ball towards Andreas Christensen. Messi clocked that the ball was took short and charged towards it. Even so, it was tough to see Christensen not reaching it first. That was the case until Messi got a toe to it and managed to completely take the Dane out of the game. He leapt over Christensen as he fell to the floor. Again, though, Cesar Azpilicueta looked the favourite to reach the resultant knock forward. Not when Messi is charging. He took another brilliant touch to play it around Azpilicueta, dribbled to the edge of the box and then paused for just a moment. That was enough for Dembele, undoubtedly on the periphery of his vision, to get to the edge of the area. And Messi’s perfectly weighted ball — which managed to completely take four Chelsea defenders out of the game — teed him up for the first goal of his Barcelona career. The last goal speaks again for Messi’s ability to turn it on in seconds. Again, a loose pass in midfield fell to a Barcelona man. But Messi was on the extremes of the game, well away from where any danger may bubble up. His run soon changed that. Unmarked, he makes a move behind Luis Suarez, who knows his team-mate will be on the way. The Uruguayan then feeds Messi, who has four Chelsea defenders ahead of him. The reality is that he should not then be able to score himself. Individual brilliance or not, very few players on the planet would be able to do it all themselves from that position. Messi is one of the few. He made every member of the Chelsea back-line look foolish, going around the outside of them before striking it low and beyond Courtois. The movement was brilliant. The dribbling was even better. And the finish was clinical. The entire performance just spoke for the stillness and speed at which Messi operates. He can go from innocent amble to red-alert danger in half a second. It’s why words struggle to sum up what he does. For much of a match, it is very little. But all you can remember are the times when he does it all. Compared to the rest of football, he is an alien. Even if Chelsea do launch that space programme, and end up exploring the universe, they will struggle to find anyone better. 