 Former Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Sarafa Tunji Isola, on Friday disclosed that the unending legal battle in the Ogun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was the reason he left the party to join the All Progressives Congress (APC). Isola who is the Baba Adinni of Yorubaland, said he could no longer cope with the PDP in Ogun State  which kept doing the same thing same way, believing that a different outcome would emerge. The  Secretary to the Ogun State Government from 2003 – 2007, who made this known in a statement in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, recalled that it was the protracted legal battle and factionalisation of PDP that led to its defeat in 2011 general elections in the state. He noted that he arrived at the decision to leave PDP after wide consultations with his followers and associates. “I am leaving PDP because of the unending legal battle in Ogun state; this leading to protracted crisis in the party. “You will recall that the same legal battle was responsible for the failure of the PDP in Ogun State in Year  2011 general elections and the  electoral defeat of the party in Year  2015. “It is very clear that If you continue to do the same  thing, same way, you can’t get a different result. Moreover, an intractable crisis less than one year to general elections will spell doom for the party. “Having decided to leave PDP, I embarked on wide consultations across the country, particularly in Ogun Central Senatorial District on the next line of action. “Across the nation, the general opinion of my associates is that a former minister should play politics in a party with national spread. In addition, all politics is local and the opinion of leaders and various  political stakeholders in Ogun Central is to  join APC. “The reason they adduced is the face – lift of Abeokuta, the state capital and the infrastructural development of Ogun State by the APC government led by the Senator Ibikunle Amosun-led administration,” Isola stated. 