 The Lagos State Police Command on Wednesday denied allegations that a missing Osun State University Student, Yemi Olaniyan was last heard from while he was at Ojodu Division. A viral social media message had alleged that Olaniyan, a final year Accounting student, went to the police division on the night of Tuesday, February 28. He was said to have been a first timer in Lagos and had come to submit some documents for his Industrial Training (IT) at one of the offices of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). Olaniyan, according to the report, finished late and went to Ojodu Police Station, explained his predicaments and told the cops on duty he wanted to spend the night there, so that he could travel back early the following day. “The policemen attended to him and requested for his name, his ID card and some other documents to make him identifiable, which he presented. “He afterwards called one of his colleagues in school, to inform him that he would be staying overnight at the police station at Ojodu. Nigerians, that was the last time we heard from Olaniyan Yemi,” the report stated. Continuing, the writer said they went to Ojodu Berger police station two days later and the policemen denied they saw Olaniyan. Reacting to the report, spokesman for the Police Command, Chike Oti, a Superintendent (SP) advised relatives of the victims to go and report the case at the nearest station for investigation. Oti said: “The Lagos State Police Command hereby states categorically that Olaniyan Yemi was never a guest at Ojodu Police Station as alleged. There is no record to show that he was at any police station in Lagos either as a visitor or a detainee. Besides, no police station in Lagos operates as a guest house. It is not allowed. “Going forward, the command wishes to advise the concerned family to report a case of missing person to the police so that the matter can be thoroughly investigated. For instance the detectives would want to know which of the ICAN offices in Lagos the missing person went for the submission of his document because there is no ICAN office close to Ojodu Police Station. “Secondly, it was stated in the write up that the missing student is a first time visitor to Lagos. The detectives would like to know if arrangement was made for him to contact anybody on arrival. Please hurry up and report this matter to the police because time is of essence.” 