Just as anticipated Wednesday’s UEFA Champions League match availed football loving Nigerians to experience good football. Heineken Viewing centres in Lagos and PortHarcourt were filled to the brim hours before the commencement of the Camp Nou match with people taking vintage spot to view the projected television screens for the live matches of the day. Some Playing Game before the match The fans at the centres were enough to give a sense of how dearly Nigerians hold good football to their heart. As gathered no viewing centres was vacate during the match either at the cities or hinterlands across the country just at the Heineken viewing centres. Images made available from some Heineken viewing centres across the country captured the Nigerians excitement for good football and an ambience of a serene viewing centre. An area view of the View centre as the fans settled for the Match Day The fans at the centres were enough to give a sense of how dearly Nigerians hold good football to their heart. As gathered no viewing centres was vacate during the match either at the cities or hinterlands across the country just at the Heineken viewing centres. Images made available from some Heineken viewing centres across the country captured the Nigerians excitement for good football and an ambience of a serene viewing centre. Some were drinking ahead of the match The viewing centre The fans at the centres were enough to give a sense of how dearly Nigerians hold good football to their heart. As gathered no viewing centres was vacate during the match either at the cities or hinterlands across the country just at the Heineken viewing centres. Images made available from some Heineken viewing centres across the country captured the Nigerians excitement for good football and an ambience of a serene viewing centre. Some fans showing excitements when the match eventually started. The drama of the night started few minutes before the match; Lionel Messi was seen nonchalantly practicing a free-kick into the top corner of the net for his warm-up while other players were pacing around the pitch. There and then the whole atmosphere charged up. Just as Nigerian as millions of Chelsea fans same can be said for Barcelona and the numbers of those who watched the match despite it was not his/her club playing cannot be counted. A Barcelona fan celebrating Messi’s first goal. A Chelsea fan obviously not pleased Some of the fans who were analysing the game Two happy Barcelona fans also celebrating Messi The football fans in Port Harcourt and Lagos were once again treated to a night of thrilling moment at Sok Bar and Lounge, GRA, Port Harcourt and Ember Creek, V.I, Lagos as they shared the moment with Heineken beer , Both venues were transformed into premium Heineken UCL viewing centres for the simultaneous broadcast of UEFA Champions League matches between Barcelona and Chelsea FC, and Besiktas vs Bayern Munich. It was an echo of excitement from the first half which saw Lionel Messi score about about two minutes eight seconds into the half till when a round of games and quizzes anchored by the compere at the Heineken Experience centre who spent time teasing fans of one team and the other was conducted. . It was the fastest goal of the Argentine’s career. Disappointment was seen all over Chelsea fans at the Heineken Experience Center in Lagos.   Despite Chelsea‘s effort of matching the Spanish team on the field of play, there seemed to be nothing to show for it. At exactly 20 minutes into the first half, Dembele scored his first goal for Barcelona. The first half ended 2:0 in favor of Barcelona. The dramatic first half was followed by another round of games and quizzes anchored by the compere at the Heineken Experience centre who spent time teasing fans of one team and the other. Coming off a scintillating first half, Messi scored yet another goal in the 63rd minute, puting the Spaniards squarely in the UEFA Champions League Quarter finals. The game ended with a 3 – 0 score (Aggregate score of 4 1). While Bayern Munich mauled their way through their game against Turkish juggernauts, Besiktas. Bayern sailed to the Quarterfinals with an impressive aggregate score of 8 – 1. The stage is now set and the actors are all getting ready, as the Quarter Finals of the 2017/2018 UCL becomes the next scene in the ultimate football drama. Soccer fans in Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt can look forward to experiencing more of the drama of UEFA Champions League as Heineken will continue hosting fans in these cities throughout the 2017/2018 Champions League season