A youth wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria, under the aegis of the Southern Youth Wing of Christian Association of Nigeria (YOWICAN) has called on the Federal Government and security agencies to adopt all necessary measures for the immediate release of Liah Sharibu who is still being held captive by Boko Haram. Sharibu, was among the 110 school girls abducted the Boko Haram terrorists in her school in Dapchi Yobe state but was not released with other girls because of her refusal to renounce her Christian faith. In a press release made available to newsmen recently, the Southern Youth President, Barr. Oluchukwu Nnabugwu, stated that “religion is a personal decision and should not be a determining factor for the safety of anyone in the country as being imposed by the Islamic group, Boko Haram”. He further enjoined the CAN to demand the release of the names of the five girls that reportedly died in captivity, adding that compensation should be paid to the bereaved parents. Barr Nnabugwu also condemned in strong terms the politicization of the abduction and release of the innocent Dapchi schoolgirls and called on the Federal Government to set up a high power judicial panel to investigate the abduction of the school girls with a view to unmasking those behind the heinous crime and make them face the full wrath of the law. He further urged all Christians to pray for the safety of Sharibu, while praying for a “miraculous shake up in Boko Haram camps that will truly decimate their terrorist activities”. The group also tasked the Federal Government to call for dialogue between stakeholders and cattle rearers in order to end the continuous clashes and killings of farmers by Fulani herdsmen. According to Nnabugwu, “since the present administration led by President Mohammed Buhari is greatly investing in agriculture to improve the country’s economy, there is utmost need for the implementation of ranching system as it is globally practiced and acceptable”. “The country is developing; Nigerians should adjust to the global practice and standard of cattle raring, saying that human life cannot be compared with anything including cows”, he submitted.