Following recent defection of some prominent leaders from PDP to SDP, Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, examines how PDP is reacting to the development IF feelers emerging from many quarters within the opposition party is anything to go by, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) sees the recent defection of some of its chieftains, led by former Information Minister, Professor Jerry Gana and former Education Minister, Professor Tunde Adeniran, into the Chief Olu Falae-led Social Democratic Party (SDP) as a fresh challenge to its bid to unseat the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from the presidency in 2019. In the same vein, strong indications continue to emerge to the effect that the Uche Secondus-led party is not resting on its oars to ensure that the exit of the defectors did not destabilise its plan to win the next presidential election. According to very reliable party sources, the leadership of the party, determined to checkmate possible mass defection as predicted by Gana and Adeniran while explaining their decision to dump the PDP, is putting several measures in place in all its chapters across the country. The Nation learnt from a source in the National Working Committee of the party that although Gana and Adeniran were part of those who felt aggrieved after the last National Convention of the party, their defection from the PDP was not anticipated. Consequently, the party has set machineries in motion to prevent further exodus from its fold of members who disagreed with what happened at the convention. “The PDP is jolted by the development and sincerely, it came to us, leaders of the party, as a big surprise. This is not because these party leaders defected; it is more because their defection signaled the failure of our reconciliation efforts after the last National Convention. Professors Gana and Adeniran are foremost chieftains amongst those with grievances arising from the last convention. “I can also tell you categorically, though I am not authorised to speak on this matter, that these two and others who defected with them, were met by our Reconciliation Committee, under the leadership of Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State. They assured him of their readiness to stay put in the PDP. It is because of these that the party is jolted by their unexpected defection,” our source explained. The Nation also gathered that a high powered committee made up of largely members of the Board of Trustees (BoT), has been put in place to see how the two chieftains and others can be talked into returning to the party ahead of the 2019 General Election. “We have our fears. These are prominent chieftains of the party with followers, allies and supporters. We cannot be comfortable with their exit. You are asking an obvious question. You know the answer yourself. “We want them back and we have put machinery in motion to see how we can still do that ahead of the next election. This is not a good time to lose such chieftains to the opposition. More so when we understand that this is a ploy to weaken us. Let me tell you that a committee made up of largely members of the Board of Trustees (BoT), has been put in place to see how the two chieftains and others can be talked into returning to the party,” our source added. In a statement that confirms the resolve of the PDP to stem a possible bandwagon effect, Governor Dickson insisted that Gana and Adeniran, must be cajoled to the return to PDP. The Bayelsa State Governor added that the most rational thing for all PDP stakeholders to do now is to start a process of building consensus and reaching out to players across party lines with the PDP leading the coalition to wrest power from APC in 2019.  A growing threat? Adeniran had, while explaining his reason for leaving the PDP, with his supporters to join the SDP, indicated that he and Gana are not the only party chieftains tired of how the party is being administered. It would be recalled that Professor Adeniran was a PDP national chairmanship candidate in the December 9 Convention of the party, and Professor Gana was one of his staunch supporters. “I left the PDP for the SDP with my supporters for good reasons. Most importantly, I left because there is no internal democracy in the PDP. It may interest you to know that Prof. Jerry Gana has also left the PDP for the same reason and we are not the only people who feel the party is not being administered properly,” Adeniran, who said he is not likely to return to the PDP, explained. The former PDP chieftains and members, mostly from the South-West and North-Central zones of the country, led-by Gana and Adeniran, in a surprise move early in the week, joined the SDP, which recently announced that it is merging with the Balarabe Musa-led Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), the Peoples Salvation Party (PSP) and the National Intervention Movement (NIM), to form a mega party. There are also task that former President Olusegun Obasanjo’s Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM), may be interested in the mega party arrangement being championed by Falae and Balarabe Musa. The Nation learnt that PDP leaders see the development as a threat that should not be ignored even before Gana and Adeniran jumped ship to join the mega party train. According to reports, others that left their parties for the SDP include former Military Administrator of Katsina State, Sen. Joseph Akaagerger; ex-Governor Saminu Turaki of Jigawa State; and ex-Minister of Defence, Dr. Olu Agunloye; a former Deputy Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Hon. Dare Emiola; former member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Junaid Mohammed; Senator Bassey Ewa Hensaw and a member of the House of Representatives, Hon. Olamide Oni. Reports also have it that Hon. Dipo Olaitan (a former leader of the Alliance for Democracy in the House of Representatives); a former Speaker, Oyo State House of Assembly, Kehinde Ayoola; Amb. Yemi Farounbi; leaders of the Middle Belt Forum; Mr. John Dara as well as some prominent leaders of the National Intervention Forum, led by Dr. Tafawa Balewa, have all signed up for the new mega party arrangement. To underscore their seriousness with the emerging political arrangement, leaders of the mega party coalition and the new entrants, at a marathon meeting during the week, signed a Memorandum of Understanding at Ladi Kwali Hall in Sheraton Hotel, Abuja. The MoU was jointly signed by Falae (for SDP) and Prof. Gana for the defectors under the auspice of the Movement for a New Political Order. The signing of the MOU was done amidst speculations that not less than five serving governors and 35 senators are rearing to dump their current political parties to join the mega party arrangement. According to the National Publicity Secretary of SDP, Alfa Mohammed, proxies of these governors and senators have been attending the party’s meetings though their principals are yet to join the SDP officially. “At the appropriate time, we will disclose the identities of these people but for now, we are keeping everything secret. 50 civil society organisations had embraced the SDP in a coalition aimed at unseating the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in 2019. The mass movement of prominent politicians from both APC and PDP to the SDP last Thursday was a kick starter for the chunk of other politicians and civil society groups eager to join the SDP. “In the next two to three weeks, the mass movement into the SDP will become more pronounced, especially at the national and state Houses of Assembly and I am sure that the party will soon become the majority at the National Assembly. Also, the national secretariat of the party had directed all state offices to commence registration of new members at ward levels and local and state congresses would be held soon before the national convention,” National Publicity Secretary of the SDP, Alfa Mohammed, said. A chieftain of the SDP, Dr. Olu Agunloye, said the party remained the only viable alternative to deliver real change to Nigerians. Agunloye, a former minister, noted that SPD had the programmes to move the country forward, with its focus on delivering development through good governance. He described as a good development the defection of two former ministers, Prof. Tunde and Prof. Gana from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the party. “The coming of Prof. Adeniran and Prof. Gana is a good development for the party. These are accomplished Nigerians and they would surely add value. But these two personalities are not the only prominent people that have joined the party. Just two days ago, a governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Party (APC) in Adamawa State joined the party with about 16,000 of his supporters. “So many people have also indicated interest to join the party from across other political parties; we are expecting more people soon. Our party would welcome people who were ready to align with its vision to reposition the country and not people who were coming just to seek tickets for their aspirations. Our party had commenced registration for interested Nigerians across the country ahead of the 2019 elections.”  The Atiku factor The Nation also gathered that some leaders of the PDP, especially PDP governors, are more worried over the development because of recent talks linking former Vice President Abubakar Atiku with the mega party arrangement being championed by the SDP. According to party sources, there is growing anxiety within the PDP over fears that should Atiku move to SDP, more prominent chieftains will follow suit. “Those who are opposed to Atiku’s ambition within the PDP are even more worried. They are worried for two reasons. One, they are worried that should Atiku join the SDP, more PDP chieftains across the country will dump the party and go with him if urgent efforts are not made to prevent such a development. Secondly, they are worried that an Atiku as the presidential candidate of the SDP in 2019 will affect the chances of the PDP in the election. “They don’t need to be told that such an arrangement will divide the support base of the opposition and brighten the chances of the APC winning the election, especially if the ruling party fields Buhari again. There is no candidate the PDP will field that will defeat Atiku everywhere in the north. And since these people don’t want to give Atiku PDP ticket, they also don’t want him to get the ticket of any serious party,” our source said. While talks about some of his known supporters joining the SDP, especially in the North-East and the South-West continue, the camp of the former Vice President, who dumped the ruling APC and re-joined the PDP last December, has not made any statement on either the SDP or the mega party saga. An aide of the presidential aspirant, who spoke to The Nation on condition of anonymity, said he is still studying the situation. “Just as you are hearing and seeking clarification, we are also hearing many things. Alhaji Atiku Abubakar himself is hearing many things. He is a factor in the politics of this country, so it is normal for people to discuss and speculate about him and his aspiration. However, I can only tell you that he is still studying that entire situation and scenarios. He is a chieftain of the PDP till this morning, that I can also say,” he said. On the speculations that SDP was in talks with Abubakar to join it, Agunloye said he had no knowledge of the moves. He stated that Atiku, just like other Nigerians, was free and welcome to join the party. “Atiku is free to join our party. He is welcome to join us. I worked with him at the cabinet of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, and he is a man I respect a lot,” he said. Similarly, Mohammed will neither confirm nor decline SDP’s link with the former Vice President. Asked whether Atiku and or his associates are among those who have secretly aligned with the new mega party arrangement, the SDP spokesperson said the party was home to the former Vice President adding that he did not need to “knock at the door before entering the party.” “The SDP is home to all Nigerians, including former Vice President Atiku. But I need two to three weeks to confirm the issue of the former Vice President as it concerns our party. However, it might interest you to know that many prominent politicians from Adamawa States have joined us,” he said.