 Global Sportswear Company Puma on Monday revealed the away kits for its national team’s Federations to be worn at the 2018 World Cup – all of which are white. The new kits will be paraded during the ‘International break this month and beyond,’ Puma announced in a statement on Monday. They will be introduced for the first time in the upcoming international friendlies, with Switzerland confirming they will debut their new away strip when they take on Greece in Athens on Friday, March 23. Uruguay, Switzerland and Puma’s newest partners Senegal and Serbia, will wear the jerseys at this summer’s global showpiece. The new stylish kits have been designed for 10 national teams, with four coming from the African continent; Ghana, Ivory Coast, Cameroon and Senegal. The other countries – all of whom did not qualify for the World Cup in Russia this summer – are Austria, Italy and the Czech Republic. Despite Nike receiving backlash for templating and creating boring Euro 2016 kits, Puma have not been deterred to strip back to basics with these latest simple and ‘clean’ designs. However, each strip does feature design elements that represent each nation individually. For example, the Austrian kit uses the Coat of arms badge, which consists of a double-headed eagle and broken chains to symbolise the nation’s liberation. Czech Republic, Ivory Coast and Ghana make up the rest of the nations with the new jerseys According to Puma, each design also incorporates the brand’s evoKNIT thermoregulation technology delivering an enhanced moisture management and adaptive cooling system that helps create the perfect on-pitch body temperature. Following the unveiling of the kits, Puma’s Teamsport Creative Director Stefano Favaro said: ‘When our federations step out on to the pitch, they all play with a nation’s support, and a passion for the crest that adorns their chest. ‘With this clean, contemporary design statement, we wanted to strip back all the noise and elements that stand between our teams, players, and crowd to celebrate what they play for, the badge, the flag, and the fans.’       