For Nigeria to fully harness its potential among communities of economic nations and foster citizenry prosperity, the Federal Government must realign its economic restructuring plan and national resource recovery schemes in lieu of global best practices of digital economy and tech driven streaks. Chief Executive Officer of SystemSpecs, John Obaro who made this submission at the recent Kano-Lagos Economic and Investment Summit, reiterated that digital integration is key for the nation’s recovery from recession. According to Obaro, “ICT generally can best be summarised as efficiency or optimisation of processes. To get out of the recession, we need to look at our processes and how they can be reviewed and optimised.” According to Obaro it high time government payment scheme at all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) be automated for seamless engagement with the masses and investors and invariably reduced the chances of manipulation and tendencies of corrupt practices. If this is fully integrated in the state government scheme across the federation, Nigerians would begin to feel the impact of government in the society as leakages would be stifled and outflow would be vehemently controlled. However there is the need for qualitative education for a digital Nigeria to be achieve and Obaro opined change in technical education scheme for Nigerian youths. He explained, “A lot of things are changing. For instance, there are now robots in the world. Instead of teaching people carpentry for instance, teach them how to build robots that will do carpentry. It’s a high-level skill but if you don’t do it other countries will.” “The kind of skills that most people need is just to help them be comfortable with technology; to be able to use it. However, there are people in the core tech areas, who have to develop the tools that will aid technology enhancement. There are also people in the political class that need to be ICT friendly for us to be able to have a proper ecosystem. “If the legislative framework cannot put in place a structure for the development of ICT, the professionals will find it difficult to stand on their own.” The Lagos, Kano Economic Summit seeks to create a common platform for exploring, expanding and developing areas of economic development and investment. And present at the forum were business leaders, captains of industries, politics and culture leaders, including Vice president, Yemi Osinbajo, Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, Africa’s richest man, Aliko Dangote, Oba of Lagos, Rilwan Akiolu and the Emir of Kano, Sanusi Lamido.