Moscow will retaliate against a series of expulsions of Russian diplomats from European countries and response with regard to each case, a source in the Russian Foreign Ministry told Sputnik on Monday. “There will be a mirror-like response. We will work it out in the coming days and give our response with regard to each country,” the source said. The European Council President Donald Tusk announced that 14 EU member states decided to expel Russian diplomats over the poisoning of former Russian double agent Sergei Skripal in the UK. The U. S. also expelled 60 Russian diplomats in a coordinated response to the poisoning of former double agent. The U.S. also ordered the closure of Moscow’s consulate in Seattle. Russian President Vladimir Putin has adamantly denied any Russian state involvement in the incident. The former spy, Sergei Skripal, 66, and his daughter Yulia, 33, are in hospital in critical condition after being found unconscious on a bench in the southern English city of Salisbury. The elder Skripal was convicted of selling Russian state secrets to Britain in 2006 and was traded to Britain in a high-profile spy swap four years later. British authorities have said the Skripals were attacked with a Russian-developed nerve toxin identified as Novichok Canada is expelling four Russian diplomats over the poisoning of an ex-spy in Salisbury, U.K., prompting harsh condemnation and the threat of retaliation from Russia. Canada’s action will cover seven Russian personnel in all, including four members of Russia’s diplomatic staff posted at the Embassy of the Russian Federation in Ottawa or the consulate in Montreal. “The four have been identified as intelligence officers or individuals who have used their diplomatic status to undermine Canada’s security or interfere in our democracy,” Foreign Affairs Minister Chrystia Freeland said in a statement. As well, three applications by the Russian government for additional diplomatic staff in Canada will now be denied. Freeland called the March 4 nerve agent attack on a close ally and partner of Canada “a despicable, heinous and reckless act” that potentially endangered the lives of hundreds. The steps have been taken pursuant to the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and to the Vienna Convention on Consular Relations, she said. The UK announced it was expelling 23 Russian diplomats earlier this month. Various countries announced they were making the same move in solidarity on Monday. These are: EU countries: France (4); Germany (4); Poland (4); Czech Republic (3); Lithuania (3); Denmark (2); Netherlands (2); Italy (2); Spain (2); Estonia (1); Croatia (1); Finland (1); Hungary (1); Latvia (1); Romania (1); Sweden (1) Ukraine: 13 Albania: 2 Norway: 1 Macedonia: 1 Iceland has also announced it is suspending high-level dialogue with Russian authorities, and its leaders will not attend the World Cup, which starts in Russia in June