Former House of Representatives member Hon. Bimbo Daramola is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State. He spoke with EMMANUEL OLADESU in Lagos on the proposed primary, his chances and how the party can win the June 14 poll. WHAT are the conditions that may not make you to contest again? There is no condition on the planet, except death, that may not make me contest for the election. I did not stumble into it. I consulted and in my extensive consultations, I took cognizance of the fact that I am not a man of myself. I am a man made by the party. My political pedigree today is as a result of what this party has done to me. The party sent me to the House of Representatives. I first consulted with the Almighty God. I consulted my wife and my family. I consulted myself. It took me more than six months. The wife of one of our national leaders told me we cannot afford to leave Ekiti the way it is. Then, I took it up. I went to my oga, my brother, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. I said this is what is going on, what is your take? From there, some weeks later, I called Otunba Niyi Adebayo. I said this is what is on ground, what is your position sir? I went ahead with these consultations. Everybody said, gleefully, that it was the nice thing to do. They were not playing to the gallery. Is it my consistency in the party? Service to the party? They said as a former member of the House of Representatives, you are eminently qualified. It has been 20 long months. We have spent so much money. We have redefined how to campaign. Our campaign mantra is simple: restoring the lost Ekiti identity. People, both young and old, have bought into it. Yesterday, we gave out jamb forms to our youths. They said only Bimbo can do it. The PRO of the party described me a Bimbo, the dynamite. He said only Bimbo can do it. So, what will make me contemplate turning back? How are you now preparing for the primary? I am preparing. I am ready. Only yesterday, we met 1, 460 delegates, who gave us the children we gave JAMB forms to in the second edition. In one year, I have physically, working with my entire team, touched the homes of indigent Ekiti people. One of the beneficiaries of last year said ‘I scored 291 in my JAMB exam. I would have wasted my brilliance, if Congressman Bimbo Daramola have not given me the JAMB form. Who has consciously invested in the lives of young people as I have done? So, I am ready. You are many in the race. How can we avert a rancorous primary? It may be inevitable, if the primary is not mega transparent. Not one name on the list of delegate must change. Not one name on the list of delegates from 177 wards, from 16 local governments must change, whether they are dead or they have left the party. We mutually agreed about that. The ones who are dead, we said we will not replace. The ones that have left the party, we said we will not replace. By extension, we are united on this. The names of the delegates are known to the 33 contestants. If there is any difference on the list, there is no need for the election to proceed. Because the integrity of an election is not validated by its end product. It is by the process. So, from the beginning of the process to the end, there must be transparency. Look at what happened in Anambra. The billionaire watched it like this. There was no need for protest before the shenanigans took over. By the standard that the APC has laid, Ekiti cannot afford to do anything less. If there is an inclining to suggest that the list has been tinkered with, it will spell disaster.