It is pain in Spain for Chelsea as Barcelona book the final spot in the quarter-finals of the Champions League. Antonio Conte shakes hands with his Chelsea players but saves his warmest hug for Barcelona superstar Lionel Messi after the match. The two cover their mouths as they engage in conversation. “Come to Chelsea, pleaseeeeee,” Conte probably said to him. Chelsea’s Champions League dream is over! They’ve gone toe-to-toe with Barcelona tonight and had their chances but it’s Barcelona’s night. A clinical performance from Lionel Messi was the difference They book their place in the draw for the last eight, which takes place on Friday at 11am. Chelsea Chelsea wing-back Marcos Alonso tells BT Sport: “They have Lionel Messi and I think they were the better team even though we competed well in both games. If we concede easy goals and miss the chances, then it is very difficult against this team. “We knew they have top players and we cannot give them one metre because they can create and score. We were a little bit unlucky with he first two goals, we hit the post three times, had so many chances in both games. We have to improve and when you lose, you have to train and get better. “They were not comfortable in the first half and we just missed the chances. It could have been 2-2 at half time but at 2-0 in this stadium, against this team, it is not easy to come back.”  BARCELONA 3-0 CHELSEA (AGG: 4-1) Chelsea’s Champions League dream is over! They’ve gone toe-to-toe with Barcelona tonight and had their chances but it’s Barcelona’s night. A clinical performance from Lionel Messi was the difference They book their place in the draw for the last eight, which takes place on Friday at 11am. 90: There will be TWO minutes of added time… 90: CROSSBAR! Rudiger rises highest at the far post but sees his header crash back off the crossbar. It just hasn’t been Chelsea’s night tonight. Lionel Messi Goodnight. Chelsea leave gaps at the back which Barcelona exploit. Lionel Messi shows rapid pace to break into the box, past Victor Moses and drills a shot in between the legs of Thibaut Courtois. That is like a dragger through the heart. Ton up. It is Messi’s 100th Champions League goal and he lifts his metaphorical bat in the direction of the adoring home supporters. 62: BLOCK! More brilliant build-up play from Chelsea, who work the ball to Alonso in some space on the left edge of the Barcelona penalty area. Alonso swings a left boot at the ball but his shot is blocked by Pique who throws his body at the ball. 61: SUB! Another Barca change and it’s Busquets who is coming off. He is replaced by Andre Gomes. 60: Moses gets himself into a good position on the right but his cross is poor. It’s straight at Alba, who is able to clear. 57: Willian drives at the heart of the Barcelona defence. He has Alonso to his left and Giroud to his right. The French striker attempts a run through the middle but he;s not on the same wavelength as Willian, whose pass misses its intended target. 55: SUB! Barcelona make the first change of the night as Iniesta, who was an injury doubt before the game, is replaced by Paulinho. 53: Once again, Chelsea are having their moments in this game. Can they take a chance to get the nerves jangling at the Nou Camp? 50: PENALTY? Willian slides the ball through for Alonso, who is in on goal. He beats the offside trap and his next step is to get a shot away. However, he goes to ground as Pique looks to win the ball back for the hosts. The referee waves away the Chelsea appeals and Giroud is booked for his part in asking for the penalty. In fairness to the referee, the replays show Alonso to have gone down rather easily. 49: WHAT A TACKLE! Alonso gets set to swing a left boot at the ball but Dembele slides in with an important tackle to deny the goalscoring opportunity. 48: A mix-up between Courtois and Azpilicueta almost gifts Suarez a goal. Courtois atones for the error though sticking out a boot to make a smart save. 47: An early chace for Willian to get a shot away but Umtiti is in the way for Barcelona. Chelsea get us back underway. Can they pull off a remarkable comeback? Barcelona 2-0 Chelsea (agg: 3-1) Chris Sutton Ex-Chelsea striker on BBC Radio 5 live So so close from Marcos Alonso he got the pace on it and Marc-Andre ter Stegen couldn’t get close to it. That’s agonising for Chelsea. They have had their chances in the first half. I think Chelsea have performed well but if you make mistakes at this level you get found out. HALT TIME: BARCELONA 2-0 CHELSEA (AGG: 3-1) That’s it for the first 45 minutes. Chelsea have a mountain to climb after the break after goals from Messi and Dembele but they’ve had there moments in this game. They haven’t taken their chances whereas Barcelona have been ruthless in front of goal. Ousmane Dembele Rex Features Oh dear. Another error, punished again. One thing you cannot, CANNOT do is give the ball away to Barcelona, especially to Lionel Messi. The Argentine picks off Cesc Fabregas in the centre circle and Chelsea are on the back foot thereafter. Messi reaches the edge of the box, he can have a shot himself but elects to roll the ball across to Ousmane Dembele. Can the Frenchman grab his first Barcelona goal? He can indeed, with aplomb, riffling a strike high into the top corner. Mountain to climb now.  Having fallen behind, Chelsea respond well and gain a free-kick down the left. Willian whips it in, low towards the front post, and it almost sneaks in via a deflection, but hits the sidenetting. Lionel Messi Obviously him. This is a terrible goal to concede and so early in the match. Lionel Messi tries a one-two with Ousmane Dembele but Marcos Alonso fails to clear the ball from inside his own box. It drops back to the Argentine – you don’t want that – and he slips a right-footed finish in between the legs of Thibaut Courtois and into the net. It was a very weak shot. Often so reliable, this is a moment goalkeeper Courtois will want to forget. 1: KICK-OFF! Here we go! The atmosphere is electric as Barcelona get us underway.  Chelsea will “have to suffer” in the second leg of their Champions League last-16 tie against Barcelona, says Blues manager Antonio Conte. Lionel Messi’s equaliser cancelled out Willian’s opener in the first leg at Stamford Bridge. “For the manager, for every coach, it is not simple to sleep a lot, especially before these types of games,” said Conte. “I hope my players also have the same excitement [as me]”. Chelsea will hope to take inspiration from their 2-2 semi-final draw at the Nou Camp in 2012, giving them a 3-2 victory on aggregate. That year, under Roberto di Matteo, Chelsea went on to win the trophy, beating Bayern Munich on penalties in the final. Conte said: “You must be excited to play this kind of game at the Nou Camp. A lot of my players have never played in this stadium and we want to try to do our best. “In the first leg, we played a really good game and it was almost perfect. That was against a team that I consider one of the best in the world. “But when we made a mistake, we paid for it. The final result of that games gives a great advantage to Barcelona. “We know very well the philosophy of Barcelona. For sure they want to dominate and play their football, to score and to win the game, and we have to try to do our best. “We have to concentrate, to stay with your head on the pitch in every moment and to know that there are moments we have to suffer. Not only Chelsea, but every team who plays Barcelona has to suffer. “They have to be compact and when you have the ball you have to have the feeling in your heart to create the chance to score.” Barca coach Ernesto Valverde added: “It is a very important game. It is down to the player. It is a game you can only play if you are 100%.” Chelsea defender Antonio Rudiger is available again after missing last Saturday’s win over Crystal Palace, while the Blues have no other injury worries. Head-to-head Barcelona Chelsea 