What well over 10 million children are out of school in Nigeria is a source of great worry to stakeholders in the education sector in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The development they said is inappropriate, not encouraging and will no longer be acceptable, adding that time has come for government at all levels, international organisations and the private sector to ensure that the primary underlying causes of exclusive and inaccessible nature, bad structure and system in virtually all primary and secondary schools in the country are  surmounted. Speaking at the launch of the FCT draft Policy on Inclusive Education in Abuja, a representative of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), Mrs. Lilian Odey said that of the 10.5 million out of school children in the Country, an estimated 7 million of them are children with disabilities. Odey said: “This projection is in line with World Bank and WHO that persons with disabilities constitute about 15 per cent of populations in developing countries and that between 80 to 90 per cent of them do not gain access to basic needs of life especially basic education.” She explained that the conferment of the education of children with disabilities to very few poorly staffed, poorly equipped and outdated special schools, very low public awareness on issues of inclusive education, inadequate institutional and human capacities required to implement inclusive education and inadequate poor implementation or non- availability of appropriate legal and policy framework. Are issues that need immediate answers?The FCT minister, Malam Muhammed Bello said it is unfortunate that the disabled and physically challenged in Nigeria’s society are discriminated against even if not deliberate. Represented by the FCT Secretary for Education, Senator Isa Maina, Bello stated: “There must be a deliberate, conscious and concerted effort to integrate the differently able Nigerians into all facets of society starting of course, with education, we must chart a new orientation, that which sees ability in disability, we need to build confidence and acceptability in the consciousness of our society particularly our children.” FCT Secretary for Education, Senator Isa Maina who was represented by the Director  administration and Finance, Mrs. Eunice Okechukwu assured that in spite of their physically challenges, some of the children are enormously endowed with talents and skills that must be harnessed for the overall development of the nation. 