The Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) has stated that its reinvigorated SON Act 2015 is aimed at revamping the nation’s ailing industries while also creating an enabling environment to attract both local and foreign direct investments into the country. The Director General, SON, Osita Aboloma, explained that with the proper implementation of the SON Act 2015, the business community and industries would grow, bringing about massive job creation and employment, while also creating emerging market for certified Made-in Nigeria products globally. The SON boss stated that concerted efforts were being made to bring back the industries that hitherto dotted the landscape of Lagos, Aba, Port-Harcourt, Ibadan, Benin City, Kano, Kaduna and other cities in Nigeria, stressing that the standards body is currently deploying the use of standardisation and quality assurance to boost Nigeria’s industrialisation drive. Aboloma, who was represented by the Director, Inspectorate and Compliance, SON, Engr. Bede Obayi, at stakeholders’ sensitisation programme on SON Act 2015 in Lagos, said the essence of ease of doing business initiative by Federal Government is to drive business and industrial growth across the country, stating that creating an enabling environment would promote steady growth and development. “With standardisation, we want to ensure industrial growth, we need to make Nigeria emerge as an investment destination and hub in sub-Saharan Africa. With solid industrial base, Nigeria could become the next global economic powerhouse, following the footsteps of the Asian tigers. We want to attain economic diversification from oil to non-oil economy via rapid industrial growth.  We, at SON, want to empower and strengthen the growth of MSMEs. We have already started doing this, we are granting waivers to over one million SMEs on their products registration and certifications. We must endeavour to put in place structures and policies that would enable us to be exporting finished goods than raw materials,” he said.