Visionscape Sanitations Solutions has refuted claims that its name is included in the revised environmental laws of Lagos State. An online medium, Premium Times had in a news report quoted an opposition politician in Lagos who claimed that Visionscape was included in the environmental laws of Lagos. But in a statement released by Visionscape, the company says it rejects the statement it describes as false. “Visionscape Sanitations Solutions has learnt of the false report circulating in the media regarding the inclusion of its name/parent company name in the recently ratified Environmental Law of Lagos State. “The above statement is false and the Visionscape Group and Visionscape Sanitation Solutions strongly reject this statement in its entirety. “While Visionscape chooses not to engage routinely in reference to defamatory statements, the company has deemed it necessary to state unequivocally that neither Visionscape Group nor any of its subsidiaries have ever been written into or named in the laws of Lagos State or any other states in Nigeria. To allude to this implicitly or explicitly is calculating and mischievous and divisive.  “ The company said media outlets requiring accurate information about its operations can send an e-mail to comms@visionscape.group. In a related development, a chieftain of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Demola Olarewaju has apologised for claiming that the name of Visionscape Sanitation Solutions was included in the Lagos State Environmental Law enacted in 2017. Olarewaju, in an interview he granted an online newspaper, Premium Times, had claimed that Visionscape was inserted in the law, and castigated the State Government for deliberately giving undue advantage to a private firm. In the interview, Olarewaju had claimed authoritatively that: “Visionscape was specifically mentioned in the new environmental law,” and went on to criticise the House of Assembly for passing the law with the insertion of a private firm. In his twitter handle, @DemolaRewaju, the politician admitted sending out incorrect information, and apologised for the error. He said: “Apparently, the information I passed in this interview wasn’t accurate. Visionscape isn’t specifically in the environmental law which I am yet to receive but I’m assured by trusted sources that the information is incorrect. “Apologies to those who follow me. The error is regretted,” Olarewaju tweeted.