Governors in the north have given their support to ranching being planned by the federal government as solution to the farmers/herdsmen crises in the country. However, they are open to other suggestions that can end the incessant killings associated with the conflicts. They spoke after a meeting of the Northern States Governors Forum in Kaduna yesterday. Its Chairman Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima said after the meeting that cattle ranching will aside solving the security challenges, increase the productivity of the cattle and enable the herders have uninterrupted access to education and healthcare. The forum said: “We are not opposed to cattle ranching; we are not opposed to adopting solutions to our problems. We are willing to embrace new modalities,” he said. The governors also urged the Federal Government to declare state of emergency on drug abuse across the country. Reading the communique, he said: “The Forum particularly discussed the lethality and widespread nature of the spate of communal clashes and emergent criminal activities like kidnapping and armed banditry in various parts of the Northern states. “The Forum, after a thorough and meticulous analysis of the incessant crisis between farmers and herdsmen especially in Benue and Nasarawa states, as well as other associated security challenges and the various factors that directly or indirectly contribute to the worsening situation, resolved to; render full and unequivocal support to the Federal Government in its unwavering commitment and dogged determination to address the multifarious security challenges in all parts of the nation. “The Forum extends its support to the Federal Government for the measures put in place to resolve the lingering clashes between farmers and herdsmen. Implementable and viable strategic measures should be initiated by governments at all levels, to forestall future occurrence of any form of communal crisis.” The Forum also called for, “articulate and comprehensive plan for intervention to those states affected by the lingering crisis and strongly admonish political, religious and ethnic jingoist to avoid imputing religious, ethnic and political coloration to such conflict. “The Forum was disturbed that the phenomenon of drug abuse seems to be escalating with its attendant physical and psychological consequences, notwithstanding the various measures initiated by governments at various levels to stem the tide. The meeting noted with utmost concern the growing and widespread nature of drug abuse, especially among our youths and appealed to all the relevant authorities to step up efforts in combating the menace. “The meeting specifically called on the Federal Government to declare state of emergency on drug abuse, in the country as part of renewed efforts to deal with the scourge. It also urged the Federal Government to provide all the necessary funds and equipment to the relevant agencies like NAFDAC and NDLEA in their unrelenting fight against drug abuse.”