It is a natural thing to want to continue the family’s business. For most rich families who have had a high rate of success; the most important gift is not just coming into inheritance of the huge fortune- every child has that privilege. The most important gift is managing the wealth and transferring the secrets of the trade that has been sustained from your father to your yet to be born children. That trend is the rarest and most important gift in family owned businesses. However in this survey conducted amongst automobile mechanics in Ile-Ife, Osun State, Nigeria, the situation is not the same. Most parents don’t want their children to succeed them. Or better still, most parents who have learnt the trade are not willing to cajole their children to learn the trade and hereafter succeed them. This survey carried out by a total of six Obafemi Awolowo University Students of the Faculty of Education establishes the fact that not all parents support their children in taking after them in the family business. The research carried out by Sanusi Ridwan Olatunde, Akinbode Ismail Olanrewaju, Osuala Chinyere .C, Adekunle Abiodun Olusegun, Olabamiji Afolasade .A, Oyelade Oluwakemi Tosin contains the views and attitudes of the population of twenty (20) automobile mechanics towards their children’s entry and re-establishment of their existing family occupation. The location of the automobile mechanics being along Ede road and Ibadan road. The case study focused on the off springs of automechanics. The survey was in two parts; Respondent knowledge on occupation and the respondent view or opinion on children’s attitude. In the survey, all the respondents made it clear that they didn’t inherit the business from their forefathers. Only one was said to have inherited this occupation from his father. 17 of the respondents chose to learn this trade themselves, while 3 just got absorbed in the system. Only one of the respondent completed secondary education, the rest were in Primary and Secondary school when they commenced. As the duration in the business spanned between 61 – 10 years with 61 years being the longest and 10 years being the shortest. 13 respondents felt the work could be combined alongside schoolwork, while 7 respondents felt otherwise. 13 out of the 20 children of all respondents were interested in the automobile business. 7 children were not interested, based on matters relating to interest and coming of age. 10 parents said they forced their children to watch the work because they felt the business was lucrative, however the other 10 did not force their children to watch them work because they didn’t want them to be confused or distracted. This also goes further to lend the fact that these parents were not interested in their children succeeding them however, with experience from a higher institution, the parents believed their children would make headway with the business. Of the total of 20 respondents that spoke, only 12 children of the 20 respondents were enrolled in a tertiary educational programme.