The Police in Sokoto State has confirmed the arrest of a Nigerien, Idi Abdullahi, for parading himself as a military personnel. Abdullahi was intercepted by a crack team of Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS). He was found in possession of a pistol and pump action with 7 rounds of live ammunition and 76 rounds of cartridges respectively. Other items recovered from the suspect include an axe, two mobile phones and six SIM cards. The spokesman, Cordelia Nwawe, who paraded the suspect, said Abdullahi claimed to be in Sokoto for hunting, but investigation showed that such arms were not used for hunting. She said: “He is not for hunting, and we found him with a Kasea motorcycle, Army camouflage uniform and an international passport. “He claimed to have license and permission of his country to bear the arms.” Abdullahi said Ibrahim, a policeman in Niger Republic, bought the arms for him and obtained the license through Sule of Niamey, Niger Republic. The spokesman also announced the arrest of Aminu Abubakar, a.k.a Sheshe Baba, for impersonation and turning his home to a mini- police station. Sheshe, according to Nwawe was arrested on March 12. He had been on the run before now. She said: “We found the suspect with a police uniform which he uses to extort money from the public. Our investigation showed that he was dismissed, but now uses his uniform to carry out his activities. “A police shirt, sweater and a t-shirt were recovered from his home.” Umar Muhammad Mabera was also nabbed for impersonating Senator Abdullahi Danbaba Damboa’s aide and collecting money from parents, saying the Senator was offering 50 per cent scholarship to students. He works with Illela Local Government Area. “He has been to three schools telling students to tell their parents, who in turn gave money. He has been to Success Academy, Global Kids and Blue Crescent schools, where he issued tellers as receipt to his victims. “The parents reported to the police and we swung into action, leading to his arrest. “All suspects would be charged to court after investigations,” she added.