The Bank of Industry (BOI) and some private companies are already getting the nod from the Technical University (Tech U), Ibadan to build workshops and factories on the university campus with the aim of building technical capacity of its students. The Vice Chancellor of the institution, Prof. Ayobami Salami, disclosed this in an interaction with reporters yesterday. He also revealed that the pioneer students of the institution will matriculate next Friday, adding that the Chancellor, Dr Tunde Afolabi, will also be installed the same day. Salami said the partnerships being undertaken by Tech U was to fulfill its aim of concentrating on both practical and theory in its academic training. According to him, BOI has already expressed readiness to work with the institution while many private companies have submitted proposals on partnerships. He said the landscape of Tech U campus will become and industrial hub within the next three years to the full advantage of students. Already, Salami said the students are being trained in entrepreneurial studies as well as French classes to make them versatile in another foreign language. The Vice Chancellor emphasized that the appointment of Dr Afolabi as the Chancellor underscores the seriousness of the Oyo State Government in ensuring that Tech U delivers a different model of university education in Nigeria. According to him, the chancellor is a geologist whose company plays in the oil and gas sector in Nigeria and the United States of America. Salami revealed that about 150 students will matriculate on Friday, stressing that the number far beat the original forecast of 50 pioneer students. He attributed the success to Tech U’s to acceptance by members of the public. He said the number could grow as many students were still completing the process of changing institution of choice because Tech U commenced activities four months after the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) was written. The institution currently runs the faculties of Natural Sciences and Engineering.