The Nigeria Police Force has said none of its personnel is owed salary or allowances. The Force has also described as untrue the report that Policemen attached to the Presidential Villa, Abuja protested over unpaid allowance since 2015. The Nigeria Police Force in a statement in Abuja on Monday said no personnel of the Force has complained over unpaid salary. An online media had reported that Policemen attached to the Villa protested over unpaid allowances since 2015. The Force through it spokesman, CSP Jimoh Moshood said contrary to the report, no Policeman in the Villa or across the country protested at any time. The statement reads : “The Force wishes to categorically state that salaries and allowances of Police Personnel across ranks throughout Police Formations, Departments and detachments including those attached to the Presidential Villa are being paid as at when due, and on time. “Special and ad-hoc duties allowances are also promptly paid on completion of such duties.” Reacting to the report, Moshood said: “The report was carefully studied and was found out to be outright falsehood, unfounded, mischievous and fake news. “There was no time the Policemen in the Villa or anywhere else in the Country protested over any issue relating to payment of allowances or whatsoever. “Nigeria Police Force is a disciplined organization and its personnel are not allowed to engage in any act that can subject the Force to public ridicule or embarrassment.” It further reads: “It is incumbent on the Force to educate the writer of the report that Police personnel’s emolument includes salary and other allowances, and in addition all personnel of the Force enjoy insurance and assurance cover provided for by the Force and the Federal Government to cater for recognized and some unrecognized risks they are exposed to while carrying out core Police duties on daily basis. “Also, no Senior Police Officer in the Villa or anywhere else mismanaged or infringed on payment of allowances meant for the Police Personnel serving in the Villa. “It is pertinent for the public to know that no Police personnel serving in the villa has complained officially or otherwise of unpaid allowance since 2015.” The Force urged the media to always verify facts before publishing in order not to cause panic, tension and misinformation in the minds of the Public. 