High profile dignitaries including the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo; his wife, Dolapo; National Leader All Progressives Congress (APC),  Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; Osun State Governor,  Rauf Aregbesola;  his Ekiti counterpart, Ayo Fayose; former governor of Osun State and former interim national chairman of APC Bisi Akande;  yesterday witnessed the funeral  ceremony of the father-in –law to a former Commissioner of Information and Startegy in Lagos State, Mr Dele Alake, Pa Emmanuel Elegbede. A former governor of Ogun State, Otuba Gbenga Daniel and ex-Minister of State for Defence, Mr Musiliu Obanikoro attended the funeral service held at Araromi Baptist Church on Moloney Street, Lagos Island yesterday. The list also include the Secretary to the Lagos State Government, Tunji Bello; Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Kehinde Bamigbetan, his wife Fatima; Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief, Vintage Press Limited, publishers of The Nation, Victor Ifijeh; the Daily Editor of the newspaper, Gbenga Omotoso;  Managing Director/ Editor-in-Chief, Vanguard Newspaper, Gbenga Adefaye; Managing Director, News Agency of Nigeria, Mr Bayo Onanuga; ex- Commissioner for Finance,Lagos State, Wale Edun; popular lawyer and human rights activist, Femi Falana (SAN); a former senator representing Lagos West, Tokunbo Afikuyomi; Chief Executive Officer, Lagos State Ferry Services, Paul Kalejaiye and Hon Daniel Kalejaiye, among others. In his sermon, Rev Shola Idowu  urged the children to follow the footsteps of their father. He described Elegbede as a man that lived for the service of God, nothing that his life his worthy of emulation. “Baba has died and has gone to rest in the bosom of the Lord. We all will die someday. We must live for God.” Pa Elegbede was buried at Vaults and Gardens in Ikoyi. He was 89. Guests were later entertained at  Harbour Point on Victoria Island. Until his retirement, he was on the board of directors of both Vono Plc  and Nipol Plc. He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth, children,  grandchildren and great grandchildren. Osinbajo described Elegbede as a good man whose life is worthy of emulation. He urged his children to emulate the good life their father lived, saying he has gone to rest in the Lord. “The last time I saw him he was still strong and I never knew he would be leaving us so soon.” Bamigbetan said Elegbede showed love to all those around him “He encouraged his children to show kindness to everyone and many of them are doing so up till today. He was committed Christian that lived a good Christian life. He was compassionate.” Alake said his father in law was a detailed and organised man, adding that he lived a good and outstanding life.” “He wrote with his hand writing his biography and the order of his obituary.  He organised his passage and we are doing today what he wrote down. He wrote down the names and phone numbers of those he want us to contact when he takes his last breath. He wrote down names of individuals, institutions, organisation and clubs. “He had the details of all his children and grandchildren. He has details of me more than I do of myself.” He added that his father- in- law left with them the legacy to be meticulous, accountable,  transparent, serious and jovial. Elegbede’s first daughter, Abosede Adebiyi said her father was a loving and caring husband and father.  “He was disciplined, God fearing and he brought us up in the way of the Lord. He taught us how to be well organized and that in whatever we want to achieve in life, we have to dream about it, write it down in a paper and follow what we have written down.” She added that he was a jovial father, he was disciplined and he made sure all his children were well educated.  “He took good care of us all and the extended family. He is a powerful man and always encouraged us to know God is on our side. He was a man of many parts. “He taught us honestly and made sure all his children are organised.  He has records of all his children. I pity my mother more because she will miss him much more. They have been together for 66 years. His legacies of honesty and organisation will live on for life in us”.