After five days of almost non-stop reading, Olubayode Treasures Olawunmi got a well deserved rest, courtesy of GTBank at the WheatBaker Hotel, Ikoyi, Lagos. The 40-year old is waiting to hear from the Guinness World Record whether his attempt to surpass Nepalese Deepak Sharma Bajaan’s 113 hours 15 minutes record for the longest Marathon Read Aloud was successful. He spent 122 hours from Monday to Saturday at the Herbert Macaulay Library last week attempting to break the record – enjoying only two-hour breaks every 24 hours (five minutes each hour).  During the period, he read 23 books – six more than the Nepalese – to various people who visited the library, even at odd hours of the night, to cheer him on. Mrs Abisoye Balogun, Project Manager, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) unit of the bank, said at an interview on the third day of the attempt that once confirmed winner, Olubayode would get N1 million from the bank. She said the bank, which also renovated the library, got involved to promote the reading culture. To this end, it mobilised resources to support Boyode’s attempt, including providing the logistics for the filming and timing of the attempt and its transportation to the London office of the Guinness World Record for assessment. “We are trying to promote reading in Nigeria.  There is a decline as to the way Nigerians read, write, and basically to the whole literary space.  So when he wrote to us that he needed our support, we thought it was a good idea,” she said. Mrs Balogun said many of the books Olubayode read were by Nigerians and Africans in a bid to promote Nigerian authors. “We are trying to promote African books, we are trying to promote the Nigerian authors, not necessarily based in Nigeria,” she said. Last Thursday, which was the World Book Day, Oluboyode read to various groups of school children who visited the library. The library’s children section which Mrs Balogun said was recently re-stocked, was also opened for young children to read. 