The Managing Director, Federal Roads Maintenance Agency, FERMA, Engr. Nurudeen Rafindadi, has assured early completion of the Abuja – Kaduna road in no distant time. He said all hitches preventing free flow of traffic on the road will be addressed. Speaking during an inspection of projects along the road, Rafindadi said the Abuja – Kaduna highway like other roads in the country, is undergoing maintenance repairs under the FERMA’s 12 weeks intervention programme. “This road is so crucial because it is the gateway to North Western zone of the country,” he said. According to a statement issued on Wednesday in Abuja, the following projects are presently being executed along the carriageway to ease free flow of traffic. They included, Pavement Maintenance Work at Dikko U-Turn Ch. 19+900, Provision of Double Pipe Culvert and Washout Reinstatement Ch. 25+800, Shoulder Reinstatement at Taffa Ch. 29+399-Ch.31+200, Reinstatement of Washout Ch. 15+500, Pavement Maintenance at 2nd Dikko U-Turn Ch. 20+200.” According to the statement by FERMA Director of Communications and Public Relations, Mrs. Maryam Sanusi, Dikko U-Turn has been known to be notorious for constituting serious hindrance to free flow of traffic; with multiple failed sections and washouts. “The Agency is currently restoring the failed sections along this bad spot and overlaying of the entire stretch,” he added. In his remarks, Triacta Project Manager, the contractor handling the project, Mr. Gwuas, said “the work has reached an advanced stage and in the matter of weeks, there will be free flow of traffic along that particular section”. The FERMA MD was also at Tafa Trailer Park. “This section along the Abuja – Kaduna road has been the traveler’s nightmare, because the shoulder has been eroded due to indiscriminate parking of Trucks.  They deliberately park on the carriageway thereby reducing the available lane for motorists. This often leads to serious traffic jam. “The Agency is reinstating the eroded shoulder and also constructing over 1km additional lane on both sides of the carriageway. This will help in removing the Trailers off the carriageway which will eventually allow for free flow of traffic along that axis. “The MD bemoaned the bad attitude of truck drivers who parked indiscriminately along the road. He said from a survey, between Abuja and Kano, tankers drop 5 drums of oil on the road cumulatively everyday and this chemical degrade the pavement, making it to wear off easily,” the statement reads. However, he called for special infrastructure and facility to serve as trailer park along road corridors. This according to him, should be a collective effort from all the stakeholders in the road sector. This will get these Trucks off the highway.