LT-GEN. Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma (retd) is arguably one of Nigeria’s most influential citizens. Only a few Generals command the kind of national attention that is accorded to him. Whether in government, religious or business circles, when he talks, people listen and take him seriously. Since the counter-coup of July 1966, Danjuma, 80, has been a participant and a key player in major decisions that have affected the country. Though he retired from the military close to 40 years ago, he still commands a lot of respect. In a country where money and power are well sought-after attributes, the retired military General and oil magnate cannot be easily ignored. He has an estimated net worth of $1.1 billion as of 2015, according to Forbes. That is why his recent admonition that Nigerians should defend themselves against the killer herdsmen, rather than depending on the armed forces, generated controversy. Danjuma, who made the declaration during the 10th anniversary of the Taraba State University, Jalingo, said the bandits were doing everything possible to destroy the beautiful cultures of his state, Taraba, which he described as a miniature Nigeria. His words: “You must rise to protect yourselves from these people. If you depend on the armed forces for protection, you will all die one by one. The ethnic cleansing must stop now. Otherwise, Somalia will be a child’s play. I ask every one of you to be on the alert and defend your country; defend your territory; defend your state, because you have nowhere else to go. The armed forces are not neutral. They are conniving with the armed bandits that are killing people.” In what appeared like reprisal attacks, the state had witnessed clashes between herdsmen and farmers, which resulted in the death of many indigenes. The herdsmen had alleged that about 800 of them were killed on the Mambilla Plateau, a charge the Taraba State government denied. The Middle Belt states of Plateau, Benue, Kogi and Nasarawa have also witnessed similar attacks by bandits identified as Fulani herdsmen. So far, mixed reactions have greeted the 80-year old Danjuma’s utterances. In its response, the military described the utterances as an unfortunate statement coming from a highly distinguished statesman. The army Public Relations Director, Texas Chukwu, said the military has embarked on demilitarization of the Northcentral and that anyone caught in possession of arms would be dealt with. In view of this, the army warned Nigerians not to listen to the advice of the statesman, adding that it is the responsibility of the military to protect the citizenry. Elder statesman and Second Republic politician, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai, flayed the retired General for venting his frustration in the media, instead of adopting a reconciliatory approach. His words: “Danjuma has just celebrated his 80th birthday anniversary. In my own thinking, anybody that reaches the 80th birthday and above should not speak in the manner he did; that language does not belong to him. An 80 or more-year old person is supposed to imbibe the idea of reconciliation, rather than inciting one group against the other. “Since it is not a matter between two individuals, but one group against another, telling one group to defend itself amounts to killing their opponents. Eventually this will lead to anarchy, because the other group is not likely to fold its arms and watch. At the end of the day, it will not solve any problem. So, I will advise him, as his senior in age, to be a gentleman. I know he is a military man, but even among military men, there are gentlemen. “The other point he made is that the military has been aiding the herdsmen attacks. Even if that is the case, he should have handled the matter differently. Given his status as a one-time Chief of Army Staff, former member of the military ruling council and former Minister of Defence, he has a privileged position; he has access to the entire military hierarchy. He can summon all the people in leadership positions in the armed forces today and they would listen to him. “He should have collected all the evidence that the military is backing one group against another and present it to the military authorities. If he had done that, I believe they would have taken action. He is not an ordinary person like you and me, who would vent his frustration in the media. He has access to Buhari and all the military hierarchy in Nigeria. Rather he went public with his accusation that the military is aiding herdsmen attacks without adducing any concrete evidence to support it. It is in bad taste for him to vent his frustration in the media.” Some observers have, however, advised the government not to dismiss the allegation that the recent killings in the country are ethnic cleansing. Rather, such observers advised the government to take his words with seriousness, by investigating it to determine its veracity or otherwise. This is particularly because the statement has been corroborated by Danjuma’s kinsmen. A lecturer in the Department of Political Science, Federal University, Wukari, Taraba State, Dr. Godwin Dappa, believes Danjuma’s statement is coming at the right time, considering the unfolding events in the state. He said: “You need to experience what is happening in Taraba State for you to understand; human beings are being slaughtered as if they are cows. It has come to a stage where individuals and groups would be required to protect themselves from such attacks. The Middle Belt axis has become a terror zone and people living there are no longer finding it easy to go about their businesses, especially non-Moslems. “It is now a trend in the Middle Belt area. People don’t sleep at night; we sleep with one eye closed and the other eye open. Before you know it, there is an attack somewhere; people are killed without any provocation or justification. People who have been living together peacefully have suddenly become enemies. “It is difficult to comprehend the motivation behind it, particularly now that we have started to notice some steadiness in our democracy. Sustaining our democracy is not just about uninterrupted civil rule; it also goes hand-in-hand with the protection of lives and properties of citizens.” Dappa said the statement should not be seen as an attempt to incite a group of people against another. “It is a wakeup call, to alert every Nigerian, not only the people of Taraba State and the Middle Belt in general, but every Nigerian, to repulse any attack, whether from herdsmen, kidnappers, Boko Haram or Niger Delta militants,” he said. On the justification for self-defence, when the military is already on ground to protect citizens, the lecturer said: “Let me tell you that the military takes order from above. The military appears to be backing the herdsmen; that is why when you arrest one of them today, the next day he will be released with order from above. I have a lot of military personnel as students in my class and I constantly speak to them about this matter. I often ask them why the herdsmen are released two or three hours after being arrested and the answer is usually, Prof. it’s order from above. “That is why many of us living and working in Taraba are no longer comfortable with the deteriorating security situation.” Dappa said the bone of contention is the dominance of who owns the land. He said: “The Christians in the Northeast states of Adamawa, Gombe and Taraba are minorities in the region. What is happening now could be compared to what happened during the defunct Ottoman Empire, when there were constant invasions of territories occupied by so-called unbelievers. “So, do not be surprised that TY Danjuma made the statements that were attributed to him recently; he probably knows what he is talking about. He is an elder statesman. He is also a former Chief of Army Staff and a former Minister of Defence; therefore he is an expert in security.” At a training programme in The Nation’s premises on Wednesday, human rights lawyer, Mr. Femi Falana (SAN), said Danjuma cannot be accused of inciting Nigerians to violence, because he was only alluding to a section of the 1999 Constitution, which allows a citizen to defend himself in the face of unlawful violence, particularly if government is unable to protect such person. Quoting Section 33 (2) of the Constitution, he said: “A person shall not be regarded as having been deprived of his life in contravention of this section, if he dies as a result of the use, to such extent and in such circumstances as are permitted by law, of such force as is reasonably necessary – (a) for the defence of any person from unlawful violence or for the defence of property; (b) in order to effect a lawful arrest or to prevent the escape of a person lawfully detained; or (c) for the purpose of suppressing a riot, insurrection or mutiny.” The Chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption, Prof. Itse Sagay (SAN), also backed the advice by the former Minister of Defence and an elder statesman, that Nigerians should defend themselves against killer herdsmen. Sagay told The Nation that the law allows Nigerians to defend themselves from being massacred. He, however, urged the Federal Government to investigate Danjuma’s allegations. He added: “General Danjuma did not say that the military is incapable. But he accused them of bias and not protecting the people deliberately. That’s a very, very serious accusation. “And this is coming from such a senior man in Nigeria’s military – probably apart from former General Olusegun Obasanjo and General Yakubu Gowon, he (Dajuma) is the most senior former military officer we have – and he’s a man who has tremendous influence. He has held important positions – Chief of Staff, Minister of Defence – so, he won’t speak lightly. So, his allegation needs to be investigated. “If there are elements within the military doing this, then the government has to take immediate steps to deal with them and put people who are responsible and patriotic in the positions.” On whether it would lead to anarchy, he said: “It’s not an illegal measure for Nigerians to defend themselves. If you look at our criminal law, there is the principle of self-defence. If someone attacks you and you feel endangered, and you defend yourself, and in the process you kill the person, the fact that you were defending yourself is a complete defence to any charge. The right already exists. “So, I think what General Danjuma is saying is that instead of each individual exercising that right, they should begin to exercise it collectively in their communities. I think that’s reasonable too. There is breakdown of law and order if you’re in your house and someone comes and kills you. I think there will be less danger of breakdown of law and order if that person knows that the next time he comes to your house, all your neighbours would gather and stop him. So, I think it’s worse for people to lie down complacently doing nothing while they’re being massacred.”