 It’s one of the most iconic photos of such a global superstar.Four years ago, Cristiano Ronaldo smashed home Real Madrid’s fourth in their Champions League rout of Atletico Madrid to claim the famous trophy at Estadio da Luz in Lisbon, Portugal. Upon doing so, he whipped his shirt off to reveal his considerable physique during his celebration. His son, then three, will have a limited recollection of that famous night in Ronaldo’s home country, but he has brought it all back to life with his own rendition of the famous celebration. Ronaldo on Thursday took a snap of his son in the gym, with Jnr striking an incredibly familiar pose. The Portuguese superstar wrote: ‘Jnr say daddy I’m gonna be like you!!! What do you think??’ Ronaldo was rested for Tuesday’s clash as Real slumped to a shock defeat against Espanyol. On Saturday Ronaldo and Co welcome Getafe to the Bernabeu but the Portugese striker could be rested again ahead of the midweek Champions League second leg tie against PSG. Meanwhile Real Madrid chief Florentino Perez is out to make smooth run difficult for Ronaldo at the Bernabeu after speculations that he plans to offload as many as ten players including the duo of Gareth Bale and Karim Benzema who have blended well with Ronaldo and have helped in winning back to back Champions league in 2016 and 2017. Perez is said to want Bale gone because of his repetitive injuries, while Benzema has only netted three league goals all season. However, the president will have to reinvest in his squad to provide Ronaldo with other partners, and injured Paris Saint-Germain’s Neymar is thought to be his top target. Diario Gol add that goalkeeper Keylor Navas is another that is expected to be shipped out – David De Gea or Thibaut Courtois are touted as his successor. Isco has struggled to impress when given the chance and he will be also be one of the first heading out. The futures of Raphael Varane and Mateo Kovacic are up in the air and could be moved on to make room for new signings.