•Police parade student, ‘madman’ for alleged robbery A 40-year-old man,  Ibrahim Sheu,  arrested by  Rapid Response Squad (RRS) operatives for selling Tramadol and other addictive stimulants to pupils, yesterday said he sold about six sachets a day. Sheu was arrested with his  son, Farouk, 23 , after undercover RRS operatives busted them at Itire, Lagos. It was gathered that the suspects usually lurked around schools, where the pupils came to them to get the drugs. But Sheu denied lurking around schools, insisting that the pupils usually came to his shop to buy two capsules of Tramadol. He said: “I don’t use to go to any school. The children  come to my shop to buy Tramadol. I sell two capsules for N30 to them. I sell about six sachets everyday. I only sell to those in secondary schools. Primary school children used to come but I don’t sell to them.” Parading the suspects, Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said they were arrested after officials of the  Ministry of Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation (WAPA) got information that some primary and secondary school pupils indulged in hard drugs in the area. Edgal advised parents to be  vigilant and carry out surprise checks on their children. Also paraded was  Olaniyi Oluwatimilehin, 23 , who allegedly stole an Iphone-8 and N230,000 in a shop, as well as a mentally unstable man, Johnson Oyahere, 35, found with a toy gun under Eko Bridge. Oluwatimilehin, a Gateway Polytechnic student, committed the alleged offence on February 16, at about 10:20am, at 13, Aina Street, Ikeja. According to the police, he was captured by a Close Circuit Television (CCTV) and the footage was posted on the internet. Edgal said: “The technical crew of the command, RRS, travelled to Wasimi in Ogun State, where the suspect was located and arrested him. The stolen phone with his sim card already inserted was recovered from him. “Upon careful examination of the phone, it was discovered that the suspect was discussing the possibility of escaping out of the country with one of his friends.” Edgal said RRS operatives posted on Eko Bridge arrested Oyahere. “The officers noticed he was trying to hide an object in his trousers’ pocket. Before you could say jack, he began to walk away pretending to be mentally unstable. “The team arrested and searched him and a black plastic toy pistol, which is a perfect prototype of a Berretta pistol, was recovered from him. “The public should be vigilant because not all persons who appear to be mad may be actually mad.”