All roads led to the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU) Sports Complex for the All Niger State Students’ Football Tournament. The event was organised by the National Association of Niger State Students (NANISS) to foster unity among ethnic groups. MAHMUD ABDULSALAM and HAMZA ABAGA (200-Level Mass Communication) report. For three weeks, academic activities were suspended at the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU) in Lapai, Niger State. Lecture rooms and offices were all deserted, as members of the staff and students relocated to the school’s Sports Complex to participate in the maiden Inter-Local Government Soccer contest organised by the IBBUL chapter of the National Association of Niger State Students (NANISS). There were 20 teams of students representing their local government areas. Each contested with the other in the group and knock-out stages, leaving four teams from Paiko, Bida, Lapai and Kontagora local governments to slug it out at the semi-final stage. To get to the final, Paiko team worked hard to edge Bida team out of the tournament with a lone goal, while Lapai team saw off Kontagora with a 4-2 win in a thrilling penalty shoot-out. At the final match, enthusiastic students and members of the staff from the competing local councils thronged the Sport Complex to cheer their teams. The final match was graced by the Emir of Lapai, Alhaji Umar Bago Tafida (II), who was joined by the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Muhammad Nasir Maiturare, to perform the ceremonial kick-off. It was a fierce contest among players of the opposing teams, as the game was goalless 35 minutes after the match began. Each team deployed skills in defending its side against the other, leaving the spectators enthralled. Paiko team striker, who spotted sky blue jersey with white stripes, took a long-range kick from outside the goal area, but the Lapai team goalkeeper punched away the ball. This excited the crowd. Moments later, the rapturous crowd went wild when the Lapai team striker dribbled his way into the Paiko team’s goal area, deceived the goalkeeper with leg-over and scored a goal. However, the goal was disallowed after the striker was adjudged to be at an off-side position by an assistant referee. Amid enthusiastic chanting from the spectators, the Lapai team’s attackers worked out a pass from the midfield, which broke the defence of the opposing team. An error by the Paiko team’s defender, who failed to clear a back pass, gave the Lapai team’s striker an opportunity to hijack the ball and netted a goal moments before the first-half ended. During the second-half, the Paiko team equalised after the referee awarded a penalty kick in its favour. At 87 minutes, the Lapai team striker put the game beyond redemption of their opponent, when he calmly placed the ball into the net. The match ended 2-1 in favour of the Lapai team. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Lapai team coach Abdulhafiz Ndanusa said his side deserved to lift the trophy, having put up a “good performance” at the beginning of the tournament. He praised the team members, saying they showed the best attacking strategies. He said: “The formation we used all through the game made our opponents to be confused at every encounter. This ensured our victory at each stage of the competition. At the final, both teams showed great skills and amazing attacking prowess. It was glaring that my boys were no match for their opponents. This is the reason why they emerged triumphant. I must commend our opponents for their fighting spirit.” In his address before the match, Prof Maiturare hailed the NANISS officials for initiating the tournament to promote unity and sportsmanship among students, noting that the competition would become a source of inspiration for talented youngsters aspiring to become professional footballers. He said: “Sport events such as this are beneficial in many ways. It will give students the opportunity to refresh and reclaim their confidence to embrace the challenges they may face in the course of their studies. It is not out of place to say future football stars have been discovered. I urge other students’ associations to emulate the Niger State students’ union in this respect.” The VC pledged the management’s commitment to promoting sports, assuring the students that the school would give attention to football. Special Guest of Honour Comrade Ahmed Yusuf, who likened the competition to Spanish El-Classico, described the final match as “memorable, highly-explosive and a classic encounter”. Yusuf, who is also the chairman of the Niger State Football Association, praised both teams for putting up a good performance and adhering to the rules of the game. He urged the school management to invest in sports, saying it would help to develop students’ mental and physical capacity. If sustained, Yusuf said, the tournament could be a ground for breeding professional footballers. Bello Egigogo of Lapai team was named the Most Valuable Player (MVP) of the tournament, while Muhammed Bida of the Bida team emerged the Highest Goal Scorer, having scored eight goals. Muhammed said his feat boosted his morale to further pursue his goal of becoming a professional footballer. He dedicated his achievement to his team mates. The Emir expressed joy that youths in the state were rising above their religious and ethnic differences to promote unity, love and peace through the football competition. He said: “Let me tell you that the Lapai emirate council is proud to be associated with the school and students on several programmes being held to promote peace. The supports the emirate will be giving to noble activities, such as the football tournament, will be immeasurable. I will personally engage the youths on the need to embrace programmes that will improve their means of livelihood. This would take them away from crimes.” Alhaji Bago urged students to hone and showcase their soccer talents by partaking in sports contests beyone their campus. He, however, admonished them not to lose focus on their studies, describing education as their primary aim in the school. The highpoint was the presentation of the trophy to the first prize winner – Lapai team – which also received N100, 000 cash. The second prize winner – Paiko team – got N50,000 cash. Yusuf pledged N100,000 to NANISS and N5, 000 each to the Best Goalkeeper, MVP and Highest Goal Scorer to encourage the students. NANISS president Hamza Tatiko expressed delight that the competition fulfilled its objective, which, he said, was to promote unity and cooperation among members of the association. He hailed the school and the emir for supporting the event. He said: “Beyond the tangible monetary incentives and awards given to the outstanding players, this tournament has strengthened the bond of friendship, love and brotherhood among students of Niger State who came from diverse ethnic groups and religious background.” A student, Umar Ibrahim, said the competition eased off the academic tension that enveloped the campus. “Many students would resume for lectures with refreshed spirit,” he said.