The Chief of Army Staff (COAS) Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai Monday inaugurated a committee to look into record-keeping of arms and ammunitions across its 17 units and formations nationwide. Lt Gen. Buratai said the exercise across all Nigerian Army formations remained highly valuable to the Nigerian Army, noting that the process is being carried out annually and as at when necessary. Inaugurating the committee at the Army Headquarters, Abuja, the Army Chief said the Nigerian Army has an existing procedure for checks and balances in which formations and units render computerised arms returns for accounting purposes. But regretted that the laid down procedures have over time been jettisoned or compromised for various reasons. He said: “The Nigerian Army has procured different types of arms for the conduct of training and operations. We have discovered that some of these weapons were delivered straight to various theatres of operation without following the proper process of documentation and accounting. “This has sometimes resulted in double accounting by many formations especially those involved in counter-insurgency and other military operations in aid of civil authority. “The resultant effect of these improper arms handling has necessitated the need to reconcile and constantly update returns in line with data bases held at Army Headquarters.” Gen Buratai urged members of the committee to go round all the Nigerian Army units, formations and verify their arms holding in other to have accurate records in various depots and arms stores. According to him the committee’s report would complement the existing accounting procedures with a view to enhancing efficient planning in support of ongoing Nigerian Army operations. He said: “As committee members, you have all been carefully selected based on your proven record of integrity and meticulousness. “I have no doubt that you will all do a great job and I have directed AHQ DAPP and the various formations to provide you with all the necessary logistics required for the completion of assigned tasks. “You are enjoined to visit all units and formations in your areas of assigned tasks and render a comprehensive report on completion of the verification exercise. “Let me hasten to add that arms and ammunition issues are secret matters, hence you are to treat this assignment with the seriousness and secrecy it deserves.” 