The Lagos State Government yesterday declared Thursday as work free day in the state. A statement by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Mr. Kehinde Bamigbetan said it will enable Lagosians come out en masse to welcome President Muhammadu Buhari, who is on a two-day visit. The statement urged residents to adhere to the security guidance earlier announced to make the visit as peaceful and orderly. Announcing traffic diversions and alternative routes ahead of the visit, Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal, at a briefing in Alausa, Ikeja, said adequate preparations have been made to mitigate the impact of the road diversions on residents, while access would be given to any emergency situation. Edgal, who addressed the briefing alongside heads of security and emergency agencies in the state, said while in Lagos, the President would commission the new Ikeja Bus Terminal, attend a colloquium in honour of national leader of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, and as well as embark on tour of the Eko Atlantic City, among others. He said: “To ensure smooth, security-free visit of the President, we would need to do some diversions. Some certain roads will be closed at certain times; some diversions will be made but I want to use this opportunity to appeal for the support and understanding of Lagosians that this temporary road closures and diversions might cause a little inconvenience.” He listed the areas to be affected to include Bank Anthony Way in Ikeja, Agege Motor Road, a section of Eko Hotel Road in Victoria Island and Old Marina in Ikoyi axis. Buhari will inaugurate the world-class Ikeja Bus Terminal built by the Lagos State Government. The terminal, which is behind the Ikeja rail line and about 1km from the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, will connect 22 routes and transport a projected 70,000 commuters daily. It is one of the 13 terminals being constructed across the state in the first phase of the project. The one in Alapere was inaugurated yesterday. The one at Tafawa Balewa Square (TBS) has also been completed. Buses to service the Ikeja terminal will come from the over 5,000  acquired by the  government, which have started arriving in the country.