Members of the Association of Nigerian Market Women and Men of Ajah Ultra Modern Market, Ajah, Lagos State, have endorsed Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State for the governorship election taking place next year. The Babaoja of the market, Alhaji (Chief) Rasaki T. Odunlami, during a press conference in his office in Ajah, said the decision to endorse the governor was taken as a result of his great achievements which are in all parts of the state. “Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is a knowledgeable politician and great governor. He has done a lot  for the people of Lagos State. His projects are all over the state and these are projects which are highly beneficial to all Lagosians. “Apart from his marvellous performance in the area of embarking on useful projects, he has worked hard to secure the state. Lagos is very peaceful. Everybody is going about his or her business without harassment. Governor Ambode deserves praise and cooperation of all residents of Lagos state. “The people of Eti-Osa are very happy with the governor. He did a lot for us here. He gave us the Jubilee Bridge and other projects we are very proud of. We are grateful to him, and I can assure him of the support of market men and women in Eti-Osa,” the Babaloja said. Alhaji Odunlami also appealed to the governor, on behalf of market women and men of Ajah Ultra Modern Market, to open up the market by linking Baale and Sulu Baale Streets with the Lekki-Epe Expressway in order to make the market accessible to people. “I am begging our good and understanding governor to open up Baale and Sulu Baale Streets which have been blocked with a fence, separating the market from the expressway. Before the construction of the fence, people could gain access to the market easily through the streets from the expressway. But now, it is not possible. “We are losing our customers to other markets around, and market women and men are relocating to other markets. It is difficult for motors bringing in goods to access the market. “We also need pedestrian passages on the expressway for convenience and safety of the people of the area generally, Alhaji Odunlami said. After the conference, jointly handled by Alhaji Odunlami and Prince Sanni Akinsemoyin R. A. Olugbani, there was a rally during which market women and men carrying placards commended Governor Ambode for his achievements and implored him to open up the market. All the market women and men interviewed lamented their suffering as a result of the fence blocking the two streets and appealed to the governor to bring comfort and progress to their lives by graciously granting their requests.