 Egypt midfielder Mohamed Elneny has signed a new long-term contract with Arsenal  The 25-year-old joined from Basle in January 2016 and has since made 65 appearances for the Gunners. The length of his new deal was not disclosed. ‘We’re pleased to announce that Mo Elneny has signed a new long-term contract with the club,’ Arsenal said. After penning his new deal Elneny took to twitter, writing: ‘Officially we will be together for a longer time, in order to reach what we started, and to put Arsenal in its deserved spot in Europe and the whole world.’ Boss Arsene Wenger said at the start of the season: ‘He is a fantastic boy, we love him here. His best years are in front of him. ‘It took him some time to adapt to the intensity of the games and I think he was not aggressive enough for the Premier League (initially). But now he has added that to his game.’ Officially we will be together for a longer time, in order to reach what we started, and to put arsenal in it’s deserved spot In Europe and the whole world Elneny began his senior career with El Mokawloon in Egypt’s top flight before moving to Switzerland with Basle in 2013. He was in the Egypt squad which qualified for this summer’s World Cup for the first time in 28 years. He has scored two goals for the Gunners, in his first campaign in a 3-1 loss at Barcelona, and this season in December’s 6-0 win over Bate Borisov. Elneny helped the National Under-23 team qualify for the 2012 Olympics where he played in all four games as the team reached the last eight, and were knocked out by Japan. He Was in The Egypt Squad in Africa Cup of Nations 2017 in Gabon, Which finished as Runner-ups. The Pharaohs currently in super shape coupled with the killer form of Liverpool ace Mohammed Salah are looking forward to impressive outing in Russia, the third time they will be participating in the ‘world cup after 1934 and 1990 editions. In continuation of preparation for the World cup Egypt last Friday took on Portugal in an international friendly that ended 2-1 in favour of Portugal.  The team will continue the build up with another friendly against Greece on Tuesday. Other shape up matches being planned will be against Kuwait and Belgium respectively before the world cup where Egypt have been pitched against Uruguay, Russia and Saudi Arabia.