Former President Goodluck Jonathan yesterday called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the All Progressive Congress (APC)-led federal government to revisit the 2014 national conference’ report. He said the report of the conference, which he convened as a President, remained the panacea to the myriads of agitations, protests, killings, provocations and clamour for reforms in the country. Jonathan spoke yesterday at the mega rally tagged ‘Restructuring the Nigerian Federation’ organised by leaders of Pan Niger Delta Elders Forum (PANDEF), Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Afenifere and Middle Belt forum under the aegis of Mass Alliance for Inclusive Nigeria (MAIN) Front. The former President insisted at the mega rally, which was held at the Ox- Bow Lake Pavilion, Yenagoa, Bayelsa state capital, that the implementation of the Confab report was the only way out for Nigeria. Jonathan, whose address was read by Senator Nimi Barigha Amange said: Nigerians had to dialogue to avoid the opposite action which could bring about destruction to lives and property and the very thing that holds us together as members of the Nigeria federation.”The former said he took a decision to convene the 2014 national conference as a response to the yearnings of Nigerians for reforms to make the Nigeria federation work. He said:  “In convening the national conference, I had my mind trained on establishing polity that would work for our people and further unite our country, the one that would close the gaps along tribal, ethnic and religious lines. “Until Nigeria comes up with an acceptable way of running the country there is every likelihood our nation would continue to witness agitations and protests from groups and ethnic nationalities that believe rightly or wrongly that they have been handed the short end of the stick. ”The goal of the 500 member conference made up of young and old; diverse people from all walks of life as true representatives, of different interest groups in our country was thoroughly and fully discussed and agreed on every issue that has for long agitated the minds of Nigerians on how best to run the federation. “This they did to the best of the abilities and to the satisfaction of most stakeholders as decisions were uniquely reached by consensus. Recent agitations, clamour and proffer of solutions have not radically departed from those findings. “To me it is a confirmation that the 2014 Confab report needs to be looked into by the authorities. I believe the Confab report contains recommendations that provide answers to most of those questions that agitate the minds of Nigerians today.” Governor Seriake Dickson insisted person calling for the restructuring of Nigeria are the true lovers of the country, adding that all over Nigeria there are cries for justice. Other speakers at the event organised by the PANDEF Leader, Chief Edwin Clark,  such as President- General of the Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nwodo (Jnr) and a chieftain of Afenifere, Chief Ayo Adebanjo commended Dickson for hosting the rally. They declared readiness to rescue Nigeria from collapse saying that nothing short of restructuring of Nigeria was acceptable. 