Ekiti State All Progressives Congress(APC) governorship aspirant Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele has called for unity in the chapter as it prepares for the primary. He said crises may be an obstacle to victory at the poll. Bamidele said the desire of the APC family is to reclaim power from the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) in Ekiti State, warning agents of division to desist from their activities. The aspirant lamented that some aspirants’ loyalists and members of the party have been deploying the social media and the existing APC platforms to discredit one another. The former federal lawmaker said  members would still have to come together after the primary to work for the victory of the party, adding that no individual can win the election independently of other chieftains. Bamidele, who spoke at his Iyin-Ekiti country home at the weekend,  exuded confidence that the party  will, win if members allow civility to reign in their ranks. He said: “In 2015, the APC as an underdog won the presidential poll. Though, President Muhammadu Buhari’s electrifying popularity and irresistible personality played a major role in the historical victory, but the unity among members all over the 36 states of the federation also helped in no small measure. “This is the same situation the APC is in Ekiti. We are in opposition and we need cohesiveness to be able to wrest power from the PDP. “Making incendiary and derisive comments about ourselves when we are supposed to see the PDP as a common political foe we must defeat will take us nowhere in this election. “I have heard some members making insinuations that I had conceded to deputy governorship ticket with Engr Segun Oni. Some said I had a secret pact with Dr. Kayode Fayemi. The latest news has been that I have decided to renounce my ambition to boost Senator Babafemi Ojudu’s aspiration. Bamidele added: “I have heard some aspirants branding others as unmarketable, I have heard some describing some notable members and even a national officer as an outsider in APC. “All these sinister and deleterious political moves might impede our desire to take over Ekiti, except we begin to see ourselves as one and the time to do that is now”, Bamidele advised. Bamidele urged the deputy chairman of the party, Chief Kemi Olaleye, to check the excesses of members who have turned themselves into online monsters, thereby destroying the unity of the party. He said the party can curb their activities by invoking sanctions. Bamidele stressed: “I support that those who maintain hard stand after being cautioned by the party’s top hierarchy should be sanctioned. “APC is a party guided by constitution and it shouldn’t trivialize issue that could disunite members, particularly at a time we are approaching a critical election like this. “Ekiti and Osun governorship elections are strategic to our party. They will determine so many things in our party and it will help in sending a  signal that APC is still very strong, acceptable and remains a movement in the country’s political hemisphere.”