Commonwealth Youth Games gold medalist, Itsekiri Usheoritse will be making his senior international debut at the 2018 XXI Commonwealth Games and the member of the Nigeria’s men’s 4X100 relay team believes the squad would not be intimidated by the pedigree of Jamaica, England and Canada. The 2016 African Youth Championship 100metres finalist told NationSport on Wednesday from their training camp in Abuja that he was excited making the team particularly with the selection of more home-based athletes in the 37-man athletics team. “I am particularly thrilled with the selection for the games because it gives everybody equal opportunity to make the team. Now the home-based have the chance to prove themselves at the games and for me it is indeed a wonderful experience that I will be making my first international senior appearance at the Commonwealth Games,” he said. “As a member of the 4X100metre relay team, I know we are capable of beating teams like Jamaica, England and Canada for the title because they are men like us and we are well aware of their pedigree but we will not be carried away by the global status. We will go into the track and give our best hoping that our best will give us the best result at the end of the day. With the quality of coaches and training we have been undergoing in the Abuja camp, I am sure we will do well and return home with a medal,” the Delta State-born sprinter added. Aside from aiming for the medal in Gold Coast, Usheoritse said he hopes to use his debut to get exposed to top class race and garner more experience ahead of this year’s African Championship holding in Nigeria later in the year. “I am so happy and my feeling has been so awesome since I realized that I will be part of the team to Australia because representing Nigeria at such big event is a rare privilege particularly when you are selected among the millions of people. Having featured at the youth level for the country, I cannot wait to enter the track for my first senior international competition,” he said. 