Niran Adedokun, author of the book, ‘Ladies Calling the Shots,’  the Pencil Film and Television Institute (PEFTI) and filmmaker Temitope Duker have marked the 2018 International Women’s Day with a session on “Expanding the frontiers for women filmmakers in Nigeria” recently. Held at the Isolo, Lagos campus of PEFTI, the event which tagged along this year’s IWD theme of ‘Press for Progress’ had students from the host school, the Royal Arts Academy, Surulere, the University of Lagos and the Lagos State University, Ojo in attendance. Adedokun, while welcoming guests said that following the reception of his book which highlights the work of female filmmakers in the country, “my friend Temitope Duker and I thought it important to create avenues for aspiring females to learn lessons about how to start off, stay the course and finish well in the business of filmmaking. We then approached PEFTI for a collaboration to explore the occasion of the International Women’s Day and that is why we are here.” Other guests at the event included veteran filmmaker Dr. Don Pedro Obaseki, Vice President of the Association of Movie Producers, (AMP), Mr Foster Maydieu, former Chairman of the National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), Faith Eboigbe, Judith Audu, Omowumi Dada, Paul Utomi, Opeyemi Olusanya and  Bolatito Sowunmi who once played the role Miss Pepeye in the popular TV comedy Papa Ajasco. A panel comprising six female film directors, namely, veteran Remi Vaughan- Richards, Ema Edosio, Adeola Osunkojo, Grace Edwin-Okon, Belinda Yanga-Agedah and Vanessa Nzediegwu were  backed by veteran actor and President of the Guild of Directors in Nigeria, Fred Amata in a panel of discussions targeted at mentoring the students and other aspiring filmmakers. Tope Oshin, who was also expected at the event but apologised for her inability to make it, sent in a video where she discussed the topic: “Secrets for the journey: withstanding the storm.” Writer, Cinematographer, Director and Editor, whose debut self-produced movie, ‘Kasala’ is due for release, Ema Edosio, spoke about how she has continued to reinvent herself and the fact that a woman cannot excel in isolation. “I did not get to where I am because I am a woman but because I am one of the best,” she said. Remi Vaughan-Richards, director of the documentary ‘Faaji Agba’ and other works focused on social change spoke about how she transited from an artist on the set of production into a multitasking practitioner who can write, direct, film and edit her work while Belinda Yanga Agedah, director of the popular ‘Romance is Overrated’ advised that the path to making authentic movies as a director is telling stories that come from the soul. For Adeola Osunkojo, known for ‘Diary of a Nigeria Couple’ and a number of other productions, it is paramount that aspiring practitioners start out wherever they are and with whatever they have. Given the advantage of social media, she encouraged talented people to shoot their stories with their phones and put out on the various platform from where they get noticed. Grace Edwin-Okon, director of the wave-making ‘Pepper Soup,’ spoke about the importance of mentorship giving the difficulties she experienced at the beginning of her career. And to gain the support of family, especially spouses, Edwin-Okon said “being the best at what you do and proving to those around you that you can pull it through with hard work is essential to winning the support of even the most hardliners.”      