The immediate-past Commissioner for Health in Kano state under the tenure of Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, Dr. Abubakar Labaran was on Thursday arraigned before a Kano High Court sitting at Audu Bako secretariat over alleged misappropriation of  N47, 168, 000.00 scholarship fund. The Nation reports that Dr. Labaran was also a member of the state Scholarship Committee that handled funds made for tuition fees and allowances of Kano state indigenes studying in Mansoura University, Egypt. The Presiding Judge, Justice Aisha Rabi’u Danlami, however, granted the accused person bail, in the sum of N200, 000 and two reliable sureties on like sum. The Nation reports that the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission dragged Dr. Yusuf before the court to respond to a three count charge. The state anti graft agency slammed the accused person with a three-count charge of Criminal Breach of Trust, Disobeying Administration direction and Corrupt Practices. According to the prosecution, the former Commissioner, while in office  acted in contrast to the provisions of Sections 315 and 123 (a) of the Penal Code  Law, adding that, his action further violated the provisions of Section 24 sub-section (a)(1) of the Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission as amended. The prosecution led by Bar. Mahmud Balarabe, tendered the Charge Sheet and Summary of Evidence before the court. The accused person denied the allegations contained in the Charge Sheet as his Counsel, Bar. Nuraini Jimoh, urged the court to admit the accused person into bail. He informed the court that, the accused person is already on Administrative Bail. In her ruling on the bail application, Justice Danlami declared that, “although the three charges leveled against the accused person are criminal offences but they are bailable, hence, this honorable court has granted the accused person bail in the sum of N200,000 and two sureties on like sum.” The case was adjourned to April 30, 2018 for hearing.  