President of Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Amaju Pinnick, has assured the Super Eagles of $2.8m ahead of their participation in the World Cup in Russia. The NFF boss stated this during the inauguration of Western Nigeria Football Forum Office located at the famous Cocoa House in Ibadan on Friday. “NFF is generating a sum of $2.8million for the Super Eagles outing in Russia 2018.We have to support them to succeed. We cannot afford to fail at the Mundial,” he said. Football stakeholders in the South Western Nigeria are organising the forum in collaboration with Dawn Commission in order to revive the fortune of football in the region. The NFF president said that the football house was monitoring the performances of Super Eagles players in their respective clubs, adding that the likes of goalkeeper Francis Uzoho, Kelechi Iheanacho and others are being monitored in their clubs in readiness for the World Cup. “Also, we have assisted Oghenekaro Otebo to move to Las Palms FC to ensure that he plays in strong league where he could play against world-class stars like Leonel Messi,” he said. Pinnick, who unveilled the new office of the Western Nigeria League Forum described the innovation as the future of Nigeria football. “I must commend the emergence of Western Nigeria Football League. It will form the future of Nigerian football. It is a pacesetter for other regions and it will assist in the discovery of new stars,” he said. Amaju, who promised to furnish the new office of the Forum, said that once again South West which produced the likes of Segun Odegbami, Muda Lawal, Felix Owolabi and Sam Ojebode has always been the pacesetter. “Ibadan the headquarters of South West is noted for its first in television, radio and university establishment. This is another first the zone has recorded,” he said. The First Vice President of NFF and Chairman of Lagos Football Association, Seyi Akinwunmi, who traced the establishment of the forum to a meeting held by stakeholders at Abeokuta in 2015, said the integration was in line with NFF Statute on regions. “It is not going to be a kind of discrimination, but something being done to engender regional integration and also help promote grassroots football, as well as produce future stars,’’ he said.