 There was massive turnout of voters in Saturday’s local government elections held across the 18 local government areas despite the boycott by the Peoples Democratic Party. Ten other political parties participated in the elections. Sensitive materials arrive some polling units like Ward five in Uromi, Esan North East local government. Voting started in many polling units as early as 8am. Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Agriculture, Prince Joe Okojie, who voted at about 10am at Uromi Girls Primary School said the massive turnout was a reflection of the peoples’ trust in the APC led Government. Prince Okojie noted the non-participation of the PDP in the election was a sign of the final defeat of the PDP. Okojie said the people want a replication of Obaseki’s wake and see performance at the local level. Governor Godwin Obaseki who spoke after he voted at about 12.30 pm, the election was peaceful.said many supporters of the PDP have defected to the ruling APC in almost all units and wards across the state. Obaseki stated that the opposition PDP was no longer existing in the state. His words, “I think it is logical because every politicians aspires from his unit and if you do not give him the opportunity he will seek it from outside. So that was what happened. We can confidently say that the opposition party is none existence in Edo State. “This is a precursor to 2019, Edo State as you see it is on lock down for APC. So may be the contest will be outside Edo State but Edo State is an APC state. “What has happened is that the councillors themselves, the candidates, have gone out to mobilize people. I had challenged them that the votes they obtained in their election must be bigger than mine when I ran for election. “I have been monitoring the distribution of materials since morning, reports reaching me says that things have gone on smoothly”. At Iyamho in Etsako West Local Government Area, immediate past Governor of the state, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole,  said the local elections was a confirmation of the final liquidation of the PDP in the state. “You can see people are celebrating democracy at the grassroots. They are more interested in local elections because that is the man they can see everyday. You can see people are keen to vote. “With this election, We have just completed the liquidation of the PDP. There is no further proof of that liquidation other than that they have on their own admitted to defeat. They don’t regard the people who vote for them at the grassroots. They have my sympathy. This was the promise that from a party that used to arrogantly rig people out and ask you to go to court. “We have demystified them and enthrenched one man one vote which is an area they don’t have competence. They are not used to voting, they are used to writing results. It shows for them they are ready to spend in the big elections. That they are not interested in the elections for local people reveal their character. I feel fullfiled that in my lifetime, the PDP surrendered without a blow. “Their going to court was an excuse to their members that the are alive.” At Ologbosere Primary School voting centre, Ikpoba-Okha Ward 7, with 39 units, the turn out of voters was impressive, just as it was at Itohan Secondary School voting centre, Ikpoba-Okha Ward 6. Secretary to the State Government, Osarodion Ogie and Hon Ehiozuwa Agbonayinma described the election as peaceful and urged those remaining in the PDP to join the APC.