Following fear that the battle for the succession of Governor Rochas Okorocha has put a knife on the things that held the leaders of Imo Government’s Rescue Mission Team together, Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, takes a closer look at the top leaders of the group fighting for the APC’s ticket to contest for the governor’s plum seat THEY are the leaders of Imo Rescue Team, the favoured political sons of Governor Rochas Okorocha, who dominated the political theatre of Imo State in the last seven years of Rochas’ administration. Until the current quest for the governorship ticket of All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead 2019 elections, they were members of what observers described as the most solid political family in the South-East state in the recent years. But today, as the late Prof. Chinua Achebe would have put it, the quest to succeed the outgoing governor has, “put a knife in the thing that held this once united family together” and as a result, things have fallen apart. The Nation investigation shows that the front liners in the political family currently associated with desperate battle to succeed Okorocha include: Eze Madumere Until recently, most members of the Rescue Team and other observers have taken it for granted that the Deputy Governor, Prince Eze Madumere, is Governor Rochas Okorocha’s preferred successor. Insiders and informed observers of the All Progressives Congress-led state government of Imo State said he is both favoured and positioned to succeed his political mentor. Besides being one of the oldest associates of the governor within the ruling political family, and a noted achiever both as Chief of Staff and now Deputy Governor, he is a known confidant of Owelle and is highly favoured by what some analysts call the “zoning factor.” This is because he is from Owerri zone, the only senatorial district in the state yet to produce a governor since 1999. But since the governor spoke about the age factor and went further to confirm his endorsement of Uche Nwosu, notwithstanding that Madumere and other members of the political family had declared; it seems the rhythm of the game has taken a new tone. Everyone is watching closely to see how Madumere will fare in the impending battle. Acho Ihim Rt. Hon. Acho Ihim, a lawmaker from Umuonyeneri Village of Umualumoke in Okigwe Senatorial Zone, is the Speaker of Imo State House of Assembly. His ambition to succeed Governor Okorocha is not new. Known to be very close to the state Chief Executive, unconfirmed sources alleged that it was Okorocha that personally promised the state chief lawmaker, very early in his administration, to hand over to him. As a result, Ihim has done everything within his power to ensure a warm relationship between the executive and the legislature in the state. Ironically, his passionate support for Okorocha has also been the source of his criticism amongst his colleagues in the House. For example, during the 2017 budget face-off between the state lawmakers and Okorocha, Ihim’s colleagues came hard on the Speaker, accusing him of abandoning them because of his governorship ambition. Born in 1962, Ihim is however more than 50, the age limit Okorocha recently gave as the limit for his likely successor. This added to the fact that Okigwe may not be favoured by the zoning formula and the governor’s current endorsement of Nwosu, has raised doubts on Ihim’s governorship ambition in 2019. It remains to be seen how he would react to the development. Uche Nwosu Although Chief Uche Nwosu, from Umunwokwe, Eziama-Obaire in Nkwerre Local Government Area of Imo State, is today mentioned more in the media as the anointed governor’s son-in-law, whose major claim to the high office is his marriage to the governor’s first daughter, a Director in the state Ministry of Land told The Nation this week  that Nwosu achieved so much in the ministry. “There is no doubt that his stay at the Lands Ministry here is remarkable because it witnessed the digitalisation of Lands records and issuance of Certificate of Ownership (C of O) to land owners within a reasonable period of time. This has helped so much to abolish the activities of illegal land speculators who had hitherto defrauded unsuspecting members of the public,” he said. His critics however said amongst the top aspirants for the office, he is possibly the least experienced politician. A member of the Rescue Mission, who said it would not be safe to disclose his identity, said “he may have the ears of the governor more than the others and may have studied and understood the governor’s mode of governance, but we, as a group, are concerned over his political experience. You don’t need to be told that he has not played politics as much as the other aspirants within the political family. Dismissing such fears however, a top government official in the state said on Thursday, “As you know, Owelle Rochas Okorocha knows us all and can tell what each of us is capable of doing, politically and when it comes to governance. Notwithstanding the accusation that he has publicly chosen his son-in-law, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, among other members of the Rescue Mission family because of family sentiment, we, the members of the family know Owelle enough. I can tell you that if the governor feels his son-in-law is not capable, he will not chose him. “Of all the influential members of the governor’s Rescue Mission Team being considered to succeed Okorocha, it may not be wrong to say that Ugwumba Nwosu commands the largest followership among other contenders for the governorship seat in the governor’s camp because he has endeared himself to the youths in the state through his philanthropic dispositions,” the director said. Besides these three other members of the family who thought they were favoured by the governor and had allegedly invested heavily in setting up political structure include Hon. Chike Okafor, a member of the Federal House of Representatives and former Commissioner for Finance; Sir Jude Ejiogu, a former Secretary to Imo State Government and former Chief of Staff to the Governor; and George Eche, the Secretary to the State Government, among others. With Okorocha’s recent indorsement of Nwosu, observers, who believe trouble awaits the family, are keen to see how the governor will reconcile his men and keep the family united ahead of 2019 elections.