•Governing Council meets with parents today Students’ Union Government (SUG) leaders of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) have vowed to resist moves to hike tuition fee. The union leaders spoke when they met with the Dr Tunji Abayomi-led Governing Council, following speculations that the government was planning to hike the fee. SUG President Olawale Ijanusi, said the union leaders met with members of the Governing Council behind closed door to discuss the matter. The meeting, he said, lasted five hours. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the meeting was to seek students’ support for the proposed fee hike. Olawale said: “During the meeting, we had a long discussion, which resulted into arguments, disagreements, and misunderstanding on the basis for the government to increase fees. We will not agree with any plan that seeks to impoverish students and our parents.” It was said that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu is proposing a fee hike of N200,000 for undergraduates. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the students’ leaders showed their opposition to the plan when members of the Governing Council hinted the students. Olawale said: “We were made to realise in the course of the meeting that the governor only entertains a proposition of a minimum of N200,000 for undergraduates, which the students’ union leaders frankly disagreed with.” After deliberations, CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the Governing Council accepted the stance of the students’ leaders and promised to report the outcome at the intended intented with the governor. The council also said it would meet with the parents to discuss the issue. In a statement, the council said: “The Pro-chancellor and chairman Governing Council concluded that he would meet with the governor and relate our position and plea to him. The Governing Council will be having a meeting with parents on Thursday, March 22, at the Obasanjo Multipurpose Hall.” The SUG leaders urged students to be law-abiding and support the union in rejecting the decision to hike school fees.