Drug abuse has done a lot of unredeemable harms to people, particularly youths, Ogun State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Babatunde Ipaye, has said. The commissioner made the remark during a sensitisation programme help by the state’s Ministry of Health in collaboration with the Association of Lady Pharmacists (ALPs) Ogun State Chapter  to educate youths on the dangers inherent in the use of illicit drugs. Speaking at the event held at the Pharmaceutical Services of Nigeria House, Abiola Way, Abeokuta, the State Commissioner for Health, Dr. Babatunde Ipaye said drug abuse has done a lot of unredeemable harms to people, particularly youths, saying the programme would serve as one of the interventions aimed at discouraging them from taking illicit drugs. ‘’Let me start by saying that this programme is very imperative at this time, considering what is going on in our society, drug abuse has done a lot of harm to our people, particularly the  youth. This programme is organised to orientate youths at all levels about the menace of drug abuse in the future and promising career of our upcoming generation,’’ Ipaye said. Speaking at the occasion, the Chairman, Ogun State Drug Abuse Control Committee, who is also the Director of Pharmaceutical Services, Ministry of Health, Pharmacist Olufemi Fafiolu, said the State government in conjunction with the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) was fighting against the intake of hard drugs so as to have a society free from moral decadence. He enjoined parents and guardians to always be vigilant and observe uncommon developments and behaviour in their wards, such as bloodshot eyes, wide voice, rugged looks, sagging etc, saying such observation would help in determining whether their children or wards are engaging in unwholesome acts. In her remarks, the Chairperson, Association of Lady Pharmacists, Mrs. Bose Idowu, lauded the state government for its unrelenting effort towards ensuring a drug free society, said apart from preventive measures put in place by ALPs, it was also building a rehabilitation centre in Abeokuta to help people who are already addicted, urging the well- to- do in the society to assist in order to have drug free communities. Delivering a lecture, the Principal Staff Officer, National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Mr Sardauna Abdullahi, submitted that drug abuse was one of the global challenges which many countries of the world are trying hard to tackle, adding that, the use of illicit drugs has led to various social vices like terrorism, kidnapping, rape and cultism, saying, unless drastic solution was given, the socio-economic and political future of our great country would be in jeopardy.