On-Air-Personality, Adekeye Esther, popularly known as Cutekimani, recently emerged as the only female that made Top 17 Young Social Media Influencers. Expressing her thoughts on entrepreneurship, she speaks with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI about the lack of effective utilisation of social media on the Nigerian youths, among other issues. ARE you contemplating going fully into acting? I have always been an actress, from nursery school. I’ve featured in a few adverts, stage plays, and even after the early days of ‘Tinsel’, ‘Mom and I’ series with Ufuoma McDermott and a few Yoruba movies, so yes acting is one of the fields I would still love to explore. How do you help the youths on how to make well use of media? Asides having open sessions where I moderate or a panellist, lots of people send me emails, DMs and even call me, I share my wealth of experience with them. How do your followers react when you talk about some issues that they are indifferent to? Everyone is entitled to their opinion, but as a thought leader in my field, there’s need for decorum, so you would hardly find me commenting on sensitive issues and even when I do, there’s always a caveat. Everyone is on a learning course and I believe my followers follow me for education, information and entertainment, so they are open minded. What stands you out from others? I grew from radio to online. My brand has a human face and being one of the foremost female social influencers, I carved my niche way ahead of time. How do you react when your posts generate negative comments? Getting negative comments is inevitable. You can only control what you post; you cannot control people’s reactions. But if your comments are demeaning, obscene or hateful, I will delete and block you. How do you make money as an online influencer? I’m the Managing Partner of Estol Africa, an influencer marketing agency that prides itself in building meaningful relationships and social advocacy, with its network of influencers in Nigeria, Kenya and Ghana. So we have lots of online assets; from the ‘Kimanioffair’ tweetchat which has been around for over three years and has interviewed about 100 celebrities in and outside the country. We also have our website, we have our Talent PR arm, then, of course, Estol Africa. All of them are under the EstolProps Media Group What’s your thought on entrepreneurship? Is it learnt or innate? Entrepreneurship is just a polished word for a hustler, and I tell you, no one learns to be a hustler, it is inborn. The first thing you need as an entrepreneur is a drive, before the skills. Even if you didn’t have the skills, the drive will push you to acquire skills. So entrepreneurship is innate. How did the name Cutekimani come about? While in Unilag, I used to work for a campus magazine, ‘Bif Magazine’, where I would dig up dirty stories, stories about the ‘bad guys’, molestation, bribery, and social vices in school. So, for security reasons, I needed to have an abstract name that could never be traced back to me. I also had a radio show where I used to dish out lots of scoop about the ‘Under G’ activities on campus; I also had a different on- air name, this went on and on till I graduated and went to Port Harcourt for NYSC. My on-air name was Fantasia, so I approached Mr Gibson Lee who was the director of Silverbird TV. He interviewed me, asked for my name, I told him and he said so now that I am in Port Harcourt what name would I like to bear. I started looking up the ceiling. Then he gave me 30 minutes to come up with a name. I just told God I wanted something that defined me that was African, interesting & hip. I went on Google and started searching till I found Kimani, an Ethiopian name that means Smart, sexy and successful. When I told him he said oh cute, and I was just blushing. On my way home that morning, I bought my first blackberry phone, after charging for six hours, I started toying with the apps and there I discovered twitter, tried signing up but @kimani was taken, it gave me different options but I didn’t want numbers so I tried @cutekimani and voila, it was up. How did you venture into media and PR? I started with PR, when I established Estol Props Media in 2011. The first person who gave me an opportunity to handle PR was Koffi the comedian, who entrusted all of worker man movement to me. This was even before I met Olamide. Since then, I have worked with various artistes in the industry like Olu Maintain, Chuddy K, W4, Harrysong, Olamide, and Chidinma. I have also worked with some big brands. It was rumoured that you and Olamide were an item at some point? First of all, Olamide is one of the few brothers I have in the industry; he’s so much of a brother that he knows my parents and every member of my immediate family. So, if that qualifies as being an item, then yes. I am one of the firm believers of Olamide’s works and so it was easy to take up his music and propagate it. It didn’t even feel like work, it still doesn’t feel like work. How have you been able to gather and maintain your social media followership? It took me years to build, and it takes strategy to maintain. When I got my first smart phone, Twitter was one of the inbuilt apps and so I started exploring. I was in Port Harcourt then and I believed it was a Lagos thing so I reached out to a friend who had about 40 followers then to put me through and give me shout outs, follow back Fridays, follow trains and all. I started growing bit by bit, returned to Lagos and every time I was on radio I enjoined listeners to follow me. I sent BCs on BBM, invited my Facebook friends and boom, it started growing more rapidly and that’s one of my strengths, I grew from offline to online. As a strategist, which of the social media platforms is your favourite? All of these platforms are work tools for me, so it’s not about me anymore. And as a social media influencer, you need to have your own strengths, you definitely can’t conquer all of the social media platforms so it’s best to own at least three, and own them well. That’s why when we run influencer engagements for brands, we use various influencers per platforms because we realise an influencer might have active 100k followers on Instagram and a little over 5k active followers on twitter. Some are Snapchat lords while some have owned LinkedIn or even their blogs. You will always catch me on Twitter and Instagram before Snapchat and Facebook or even LinkedIn, but at the time I figured I needed to also have a platform where I daily inform people beyond social media, so I started my website. Do you make it a point of duty to post online every day? Yes, posts go up on at least three of my social media pages every day. In fact, as a social media influencer, you should have at least two posts on your Instagram daily, be active on Twitter between 6:00am and 12:00am and be active between 8:00am and 6:00pm on LinkedIn. I have account managers who also manage my account especially when I am on a trip or when we have events to live feed from, just as I also manage accounts for brands and individuals, meaning you cannot be off social media for any reason during the work period. It’s so serious that at least one of my account managers travel with me just to ensure we don’t go offline.