Chief Donatus Dunu, one of the victims of alleged billionaire kidnapper, Chukwudumeme Onwuamadike alias Evans, yesterday narrated to an Ikeja Special Offences Court how he was kidnapped and how he escaped from his abductors. He made the disclosure while he was being led in evidence before Justice Hakeem Oshodi by the Director Public Prosecution (DPP), Ms Titi Shitta-Bey. Dunu told the court that he spent 88 days in the kidnappers’ den situated in Igando part of Lagos before he escaped. He said: “I closed from work around 7.30 pm when an SUV double-crossed me in Ilupeju and a man came down from the car and pointed a long gun at me. “He dragged me down, pushed me into the booth of their car and covered it. “I found myself in their den, and during an interaction with their chairman, Evans, on the phone, he threatened that it was only God that could save me from their hands, and that no man would ever find me even if they killed me.” He said one day, after spending 88 days with the kidnappers, he overheard them discussing what should be done to him. “I overheard one of the kidnappers tell others that the best option was to kill me since my brothers were not acting fast in paying the one million Euro ransom they had demanded. “But after I prayed in the midnight of the Thursday before the Friday they scheduled to kill me, I wrapped the bedspread in the room where they kept me round the shackles on my legs like the one used to chain mad people, and the padlocks opened up. “I quietly went out of the room where they kept me. I found the kidnapper guarding me in deep  sleep on a three-seater in the parlour. “I walked to the kitchen and found the door and the protector open. I eased my way through loose locks and surprisingly found a ladder in the compound that aided my escape into the next compound. “On the day I jumped into the next compound, which was also a bungalow like the one I was kept in, I sustained injuries. “In addition, I was looking very unkempt and haggard.” He said when the couple who lived inside the compound into which he  jumped saw him, they were scared. He said: “They threatened to call security in the street or the police. I told them to call the police. But just when they were about to do that, electricity went off and they abandoned me and went back to sleep. “At that time, I realised that the kidnappers had started looking for me, so I hid somewhere in the compound till morning. “The couple woke up to see me and decided to call the street chairman. But before they could do that, a young man of about 24 years old flogged and chased me out of the compound. “I got to a nursery school around the kidnappers’ den and the corporate guards there didn’t still believe my story. “Somehow, another man who listened to my story decided to call my wife and cousin when I gave him their numbers.” Dunu said it was only his  cousin’s phone that connected and they spoke. “So the man became convinced  that I was not a thief. He then took me to Idimu Police Station from where they contacted Ilupeju Police Station where my brothers initially logged complaint of my kidnap. “From there, we went to Anti-cultism and Kidnap in Surulere, and from there to the Lagos State Police Commissioner’s office, from where all us went to the kidnappers’ den. “Thereafter, I was taken to Police House in Lagos where I saw Evans and the second defendant. Also at Agege police station, I saw the fourth defendant known as Congo, who is from my home town. “At the meetings, they pleaded that I should forgive them, that it was devil that pushed them.” During cross examination, the counsel to the 1st, 2nd and 4th defendants, Olukoya Ogungbede, reminded the victim that he wrote in his statement at the police that he was kidnapped in April but told the court that it was in February. Dunu  responded that it was a mistake. Justice Oshodi has adjourned the matter till May 11, 2018 for continuation of cross examination.