An Ikorodu Magistrates’ Court, Lagos, Friday resumed the trial of a lawyer, Dayo Abudu, who was accused of slapping a police Sergeant, Serifat Tiamiyu, at the Area N Police Command, Ijede, Ikorodu. Dayo, 40, was arraigned on February 2 before Mr R. O. Davies on a four-count charge of assault, obstruction, breach of peace and threat to life. According to Prosecuting Inspector Aminu Isaac, the defendant committed the alleged offence on January 20, on a piece of land at Gberigbe Area of Ikorodu. Isaac alleged that Abudu assaulted and slapped Tiamiyu while she was performing her lawful duties. He said: “The police stopped his clients, Oladipupo Ahmed and Taiwo Adetu from working on a piece of land whose ownership is being investigated by the police. “The defendant instead went to the police station to harass the police officers on duty and did not allow his arrested clients to write a statement, thereby causing obstructions. “He also sent a text message to one Inspector Yetunde Fasuba, threatening her life if she continues investigations on the matter.” The offence contravened Section 174,117(1)(2),168(d)and 57(b) of the Lagos State Criminal Code Laws, 2015. Abudu pleaded not guilty. His counsel, Ladega Adetayo, protested Abudu’s innocence, saying his client was wrongly charged. Magistrate Davies granted Abudu bail on self-recognissance At the resumption of proceedings on friday, the magistrate urged both parties to “allow peace to reign.” He said: “Laws allow encouraging settlement in this kind of case. If care is not taken, there might be a battle between the Commissioner of Police and Nigerian Bar Association (NBA).” The prosecutor agreed with the magistrate but warned that if the defendant refuses to opt for settlement, the matter would be tried. READ ALSO: Inside story of Mushin mayhem On January 20, Abudu told The Nation that it was the police that assaulted him. Abudu said: “Sergeant Serifat held and tore my clothes while the other officers were beating me and dragging me to the Area Commander’s office. “Sergeant Moroof Omo-Ikuaye threatened to kill me with charms and he went back into their office, brought out a concealed handkerchief and used same to wipe my face and quickly returned it to his office. “I was seriously intimidated, harassed, molested and treated like an armed robber. My Infinix phone was broken, while the screen guard of my Tecno phone was also broken. “I was asked to write statement about what happened and a file was opened for that,” Abudu said.