Workers of West African Glass Industry WAGI, under the aegis of the Chemical and Non Metallic Products Senior Staff Association (CANMPSSA), of Nigeria have called on the governors of Rivers and Bayelsa states to come to their rescue and save their jobs and the company from being sold by few individuals. WAGI is jointly owned by Rivers and Bayelsa state but located in Trans-Amadi Industrial area of Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. In a joint “Save our Souls” statement in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital on Tuesday,  by WAGI labour Union executives, including the chairman,   junior staff union and addressed by the chairman of the Senior staff union,  comrade Agbozu Dinipre , they alleged that few workers of the company being led by one Emmanuel Kany, are making frantic efforts to save the company, have purportedly got court order to sale it. They noted that the company has been going through challenging priod which led to its temporary shutdown but said an investor has indicated interest in reviving it and also absorbing the workers but regretted that Mr. Kany and his group are frustrating the planned take off of the company with undue litigation, as a ploy to canvass for a buyer. They appealed to Governors Nyeson Wike and Seriake Dickson to quickly intervene and stop Mr.  Kany and co. from carrying out the evil plan. They lamented the hardship the workers and their families had faced since the closure in 2009 and said the suffering would be worse if they allow Kany to sale off the property and sack all workers, expressing the expectations to get their jobs back when it is reactivated. According to the group, process to reopen operation under the new investor has already begun with the release of the first trench of the workers’ terminal benefits that were not paid before the company closed down and called on the Governors to ensure the company was saved from the activities of these  “disgruntled elements who have no good intentions for the states and the South-south region.” theysaid, They further said, ”WAGI is the first glass industry in the then Eastern region built by Micheal Okpara in 1964 and presently a joint property of Rivers and Bayelsa states, should not be allowed to be treated like an orphan that can be sold without anyone asking questions. “Meanwhile the investor has begun the payment of the workers entitlement by releasing N40 millions part payment as agreed and more than half of the workers have already collected what is due them. “The issue is that Mr. Kany told the Enugu court that he instituted the suit on the grounds that he was the vice chairman of WAGI labour Union branch, which is not true. Kany is our colleague and a senior staff though,  but he holds no position both in the company and the workers union.” he stated. Speaking further said, “The amount he claimed in his suit is completely at variance with what the workers were demanding from the state government, while the union was claiming N317 million as our due benefits, he went to court and claimed the sum of N695 million as the same workers terminal benefits. “What we are saying categorically is that Mr.  Kany is not in any way the representing WAGI Labour Union, not even in the court and the purported judgement he allegedly got from Enugu industrial court. Kany is an impostor,  impersonator, though a colleague,  but he holds no office in CANMPSSA.” he insisted. He reiterated the hopes and interest of the workers in having the company revived and their employments restored and not the clamour for sale by Kany and his cohorts, and called on Governor Wike to come to their rescue, stressing that with the planned expansion by the current investor,  the company when it comes up to full swing would be capable of employing  over 1000 person both in direct and indirect jobs. “We are concerned with WAGI coming back on swing,  and presently efforts are seriously on to achieving that but for Mr.  Kany’s court action which is frustrating the progress. “Mr.  Kany has no right,  permission of the workers to represent us in any way,  those discussing with him for the sale and purchase of WAGI should be warned to steer clear,  the company is not for sale,  WAGI is government property and no individual has the power to trade the company, joint property of states. “I want to use this opportunity to call on the governors of Rivers and Bayelsa state to rise up to the occasion and stop the illegality that is about to take place in WAGI to save the commonwealth of the people of the states, but instead collaborate with the new investors to reactivate the place to create jobs for the teeming unemployed undugenes of the state and citizens of the country at large.” Howeve Mr. Kany could not be contacted for his reactions as his mobile telephone line could not be traced as at the time if filing thus report.  