Woman rights activist, Dr Joe Okei-Odumakin, on Wednesday called for more laws to protect women from further attacks. Okei-Odumakin, who is the President, Women Arise for Change made the call in Lagos at the 2018 International Women’s Day celebration with the theme: “Press for Progress.’’ The event was organised by All Nigerian Council for Women (ANCW) in various labour unions in the country. Reviewing attacks on women, the activist expressed concern that Nigerian women had continued to suffer various abuses because of inadequate laws to protect them. According to her, inadequate implementation of gender violence laws has made it difficult to abate violence against women in homes. “There should be gender parity and government at all levels must address the insecurity in the country as women and children are at the receiving end,’’ she said. Contributing, Mr Issa Aremu, President of Industrial Global Union urged women unite and ensure the protection of their rights. Aremu said political leaders should endeavour to deliver on good governance and improve common wealth rather than allow the populace to suffer. He said women were being disenfranchised in so many ways, adding that the economic status of Nigerian women must be transformed for the better. Aremu also said efforts should be made to protect the nation’s territorial integrity by ensuring the safety of all citizens. “The Federal Government should ensure that the kidnapped Chibok and Dapchi girls are rescued without further delay,’’ Aremu said. Mrs Oluchi Amaugo, Chairperson of the NUPENG Women Commission, said International Women Day’s celebration sought to recognise exploits and achievements of women. Amaugo said such recognition had acted as catalyst to spotlight gender equality. She also urged the women to continue to press for progress toward gender parity and fight against violence and harassment. She said that all women should continue to speak against killings and kidnappings of women and girls going on across the country. International Women’s Day (IWD) is celebrated on March 8 every year to commemorate the movement for women’s rights. The first observance of the Day was held on Feb.28, 1909 in New York, while March 8 was suggested by the 1910 International Woman’s Conference for the event to become an “International Woman’s Day. NAN 