The three communities of Iko Esai, Owai and Ifumkpa in Akamkpa local government area of Cross River State have cried out over the alleged destruction of their forests and farmlands by the state government without any compensation for the construction of the proposed 275km superhighway. Addressing reporters on behalf of the communities in Iko Esai community, the Village Head, Obio Arong Owan; the Clan Head, Aita Obhort Nelson Etan; and the Secretary of the Council of Chiefs, Mr Oyama Okorie, lamented the government embarked on the project without consultinh them, thereby making life difficult for them. Okorie, who read an address on behalf of the communities, said:  “Shortly after the ground breaking ceremony of his excellency, the president of the federal republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari on the 30th day of October 2015, to commence the construction of the 275.344km, Calabar-Ikom-Kastina Ala super highway project in cross river state. Without delay the government of cross river state mobilized machines to communities and began clearing of farms, and economic trees which are the major income base of the inhabitants. The people Owai, Ifumkpa and Iko Esai were also not left out. This was done without consultation and compensations to affected community landowners. No inventory was taken by the government of the number of plants and crop destroyed. Until this moment, no plan has been made by the state government to pay compensation to affected communities and individuals. ”With the clearing of trees, and destruction of forest and farmlands our sources of livelihood especially regarding women and children have been destroyed, as most of our women and children now resort to begging for survival with high incidents of youth restiveness and crime due to idleness and lack of reasonable sources of income in most of the affected communities. The untold hardship occasioned by this exercise has left us with nothing but pain, increase in number of school dropouts as parents can no longer pay their children’s school fees and severe infringement on our right to living by the destruction of sources of livelihood. ”The commencement of the superhighway without following due process was met with stiff opposition and outcry by communities and NGOs, which resulted in the stop work order given by the ministry of environment on the project. The EIA has been written four times with no significant difference between the first and the fourth one. The federal ministry of environment out of compassion finally decided to grant conditional approval to the EIA with 23 conditions to be met within two weeks. ”As a community, we are not aware of any of the conditions that have been met by the government of Cross River State. Not even the condition that direct them to consult with the communities involved and pay compensation. ”The vice president of Nigeria in one of his official visits to Cross River State in his speech promised the federal government support to the project. This position of the vice president we know is as a result of the misinformation the vice president got from the state government. ”At the time of this briefing the cross river state government have mobilised machines to resume clearing on the proposed superhighway around Akpabuyo axis even when there is no formal approval of EIA from federal ministry of environment and the fulfillment of the 23 conditions. ”There is no community that is against development but for any development to take place, there must be an alternative measure for survival of the citizens especially when it has to do with land acquisition. “The government should be compelled to pay compensation to communities and individuals affected by the bulldozing already carried out. “The government should embark on massive regeneration of cleared lands in order to restore the ecosystem. ”The status of the EIA after the expiration of the 2 weeks deadline for compliance to 23 conditions should be made public. ”The government of Cross River State should liaise with NDDC and other relevant federal government agencies or international partners to provide support for agricultural ventures introducing less expensive agricultural processing methods like the renewable energy agricultural processing equipment.”