Hon. Bolanle Agunbiade is Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly. The lawmaker represents Ikorodu Constituency 1 on the platform of the All Progressives Congress, (APC). Tobun, who is a ranking member of the legislative House, in this interview with Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, speaks on among other issues, the endorsement of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for another term by various individuals and groups within and outside the state. Excerpts: As a principal officer of the State House of Assembly, what do you make of the frenzied way people are going about endorsing Governor Akin Ambode for another term? I think we should take a good look at the endorsements for us to understand why it is being done. As we speak, it is as if the good people of Lagos have collectively decided to keep the governor on the job beyond 2019. Simply put, it is because he has performed. All the people and groups endorsing him gave that same reason and we can all see his achievements speaking for him. In all of his numerous achievements, which we can see and feel across the nooks and crannies of the state, he has been stylish and meticulous in manner he runs the affairs of the state. Even the opposition in the state has agreed that Ambode has delivered on his election promises. He promised to make Lagos work for everyone and he has done that for all to see. One major thing I believe endeared him to Lagosians is his style to always feed the people back on his activities. Since he came on board as governor in May 2015, he has strategically embarked on periodic town-hall meetings, where he often hears the pains and challenges directly from the residents with a promise to alleviate their sufferings. And such promises are often instantly kept, most times immediately on the spot. It is this people-oriented approach to governance that the people cannot do without. They want more of it and they are saying so without mincing words. They are saying even if Ambode is thinking about not running again, he should perish the thought because Lagos still needs him in charge. Because there are still a lot to do, we still want a man like Ambode in charge. But there are talks that he is not paying attention to some parts of the state while concentrating on a particular area. Let me ask you, as a journalist can you please tell me one part of Lagos where Ambode is either not working or planning to commence work? It is common knowledge that this man has turned the whole of Lagos to a construction site. While I will admit that the sizes of the projects differ, I want to say there is no part of Lagos that the governor has not done something. Is it the periodic road construction in all LCDAs we want to talk about or the various initiatives targeted at all round development? As the Majority Leader of the Assembly, I am in a position to tell you that the development projects and plans of the government is evenly spread across the state. Of course, some areas will benefit more than some others, but that is not enough to say he is neglecting any part of the state. Ambode promised to develop Lagos and that is what he is doing. But there have been complaints about some of his projects. Do you agree with such complaints? If we say somebody has not made mistakes, we are saying he or she is perfect. Nobody is perfect because nobody is God. Secondly, I will appreciate knowing the specific projects you say people are complaining about. It is then I can answer this question. But speaking holistically about his administration, projects and policies, he has done pretty well. People’s need and interest differ. So, what is applaudable to me may not be necessary to you depending on what our needs and interests are at a particular time. So, it is normal to see a few people complain about things that the majority are applauding. We should then say because of the complaints, such things are not good or necessary. One thing I know about Ambode is that he carries out projects and institute policies based on the needs of the people. I said it earlier, his regular feedback styles has really helped him to constantly feel the pulse of the good people of Lagos and understand what they need at every point in time. This is what guides him to meet the varying needs of the various parts and people of Lagos. Can you be specific about some of the things you are applauding the governor for? Where do I start from? Very importantly, he has been able to reduce insecurity in the state through provision of multi-billion naira equipment, including vehicles, motorcycles, bicycles, helicopters, boats for security. His support for the Police and other security agencies has helped in reducing crime in the state drastically. The newly introduced Neighbourhood Safety Corps is another initiative. This government has built hundreds of good roads, including across the length and breadth of the state with fly-overs at Ojodu-Berger, Abule Egba, etc. Apart from that, many schools had been built and rehabilitated in the state. I can go on and on. Finally, 2019 is around the corner, what is your own political plan? I will surely like to continue working with Governor Akinwunmi Ambode. This is a winning team that is delivering the goodies to the good people of Lagos State. Politics is about what you are able to use your position and mandate to bring to your people. I am happy today talking about what the government has been able to do in my constituency. As the Majority Leader of the Assembly, I was able to impact positively on the lives of my constituents and Lagosians generally. 