A Lagos High Court yesterday gave the  state government and the incorporated trustees of Association of Waste Managers of Nigeria (AWMN) two weeks to perfect their terms  of settlement. Justice Taofiquat Oyekan-Abdullahi directed them to meet on Saturday as well as March 14 and 16 to resolve  issues concerning  domestic waste management in the state. She noted that though  progress had been made, there was a need to get the litigants on the same page for a resolution. The judge ordered the parties to ensure that their terms of settlement is in the court’s file by March 20. The agreement could then be adopted as the court’s verdict on March 22. The AWMN otherwise known as Private Sector Participation (PSP) operators, filed the suit last year to stop the government from preventing its members from managing domestic waste. It claimed that the government intended to “take their job and give it to a foreign company,  Visionscape Sanitation Solutions (VSS) Ltd.” The co-respondents in  the suit are the Commissioner for Environment, the Attorney-General/Commissioner for Justice, Visionscape Group, VSS and ABC Sanitation Solutions Ltd. But the government, through its counsel S. A. Quadri, said, among others, that the claimants were former contractors whose contract had expired. It insisted that the claimants had no subsisting agreement to work with it. Last year, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode initiated the Cleaner Lagos Initiative (CLI) in furtherance of the Environmental Management Protection Law. At the resumed hearing of the case yesterday, the claimant’s counsel, Ebun-Olu Adegboruwa, said the parties ad been meeting to settle the case, but there were pending issues. Adegboruwa said the PSP operators were interested in keeping the state clean, but on certain terms and conditions. According to him, the bone of contention is domestic waste. He blamed ‘fifth columnists’ for the delay in reaching an agreement. Adegboruwa said: “The waste of people in residential areas – because of the volume and the number of the members – is critical to our settlement. “We have been in discussion with the Attorney-General. We believe that some fifth columnists are responsible for the delay of this settlement. “We believe that government will be sincere in addressing the fundamental issues that relate to domestic waste. “We appeal to our members, especially the PSP, to continue to keep the work of cleaning Lagos, picking waste and disposing them and not allow any sabotage of the CLI,” he said. Adegboruwa said if government had given the PSP operators the same support accorded Visionscape in form of soft loans and trucks, waste would disappear from the state. “We felt frustrated that we have been doing the job meritoriously for years and now, a foreigner has come, with the intention that we are not capable.”