A Former Commissioner for Special Duties in Delta State, Dr. Tony Nwaka, has lauded the efforts of the Buhari administration in its fight against corruption, saying it should be supported by all persons who mean well for the country. In a statement made available to The Nation, he also urged the Federal Government to deal decisively with the herdsmen/farmers issue, to silence the criticisms trailing the handling of the clashes. Nwaka, who recently defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC), said corruption has been a major bane militating against the development of the country. He said: “Let me state emphatically that the anti-graft war of the present administration at the centre is the main agenda that has endeared me to the ruling party. Yes, while some persons may say the anti-graft war is not near perfect, at least we should be happy that we now have someone in the person of Mr. President who has the courage and the genuine desire to rein in on the monster. “You will agree with me that corruption is one of the major problems that have plagued our nation for several decades now. Therefore, we should support the effort of Mr. President to reduce it to the barest minimum, if not stamp it out completely. For me, it is a step in the right direction, because it is obvious that with what is happening today, others who will come after Mr. President will have no option but to continue with the anti-graft war.” Nwaka, who was the Executive Assistant to Governor Ifeanyi Okowa on Education Matters, also enjoined the Federal Government to tackle the herdsmen/farmers clashes headlong before it degenerates. He said: “In fact, one of the commendable moves is the recent decision to visit the affected states by our dear President. While some may say it is almost belated, I believe there is no time that is late. What is important is that he is going to visit the affected states and the visits will no doubt help to ameliorate and assuage all anger.” Nwaka who called for unity among members of the APC in Delta State said it is necessary to present a united front, with the 2019 general elections drawing nearer. “This is one of my major desires for the party and I am determined to ensure that we bring a lasting peace to the party,” he added.