 A group of loyalists to former governor Adebayo Alao-Akala on Thursday urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to present the former governor as its governorship candidate in the 2019 election, saying he is the only joker to coast into victory in the much awaited poll. The group made the call at a rally held at the hilltop Premier Hotel, Mokola, Ibadan. Attended by former commissioners, members of the state House of Assembly and scores of supporters across the state, the group emphasized that the sterling performance of the party at the federal and in Oyo State necessitates the sustenance of the massive achievements of the Governor Abiola Ajimobi’s administration. The Akala Support Group also showered encomiums on the National Leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on the occasion of his 66th birthday. The group, in a communique issued at the end of the rally, said Akala should be called upon to contest in order to “satisfy the yearnings of the people in the state, it is imperative to make a clarion call on His Excellency, Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala to contest in the governorship election of Oyo state in 2019, so that the succor, humane posture, economic activities, infrastructural development that was once entrenched in governance of the state during his past tenure could be repeated with renewed vigor. The earlier mentioned criteria suit him best. “ It continued: “The joker to winning the 2019 Oyo governorship by any political platform is to present Alao-Akala because of serious yearnings for him by the generality of people in state. “The clarion call by this body should be immediately transmitted in a formal letter to His Excellency, Otunba Christopher Adebayo Alao-Akala. “There is need to locate the right person for Oyo governorship election in 2019. The candidate should be someone who can increase the pacesetting bar of Oyo State, someone who will sustain, equally re-order both social and political development of the state. “That, for a way forward in Oyo State in 2019 governorship elections, there is a need to separate the chaff from the wheat among the gubernatorial aspirants as it is presently an all -comer affair where political lilliputians are gladiating without individuals who have high pedigree in governance.” Those who spoke at the discourse include Oloye Adekunle Adebowale, a former Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) State Secretary Comrade Olu Abiala, one time chairman of the Nigerian Union of Teachers (NUT) Comrade Amuda Babatunde, Oloye Agbo Adeyemo, former commissioner, Mrs Kemi Jayeoba-Olorunsogo and Mrs. Falilat Adeyemo. Alao-Akala was Deputy Governor of the state from 2003 to 2007 and Governor from 2007 to 2011. He contested and lost in 2011 and 2015. 