Hon.Yahaya Baba Pate is the Acting Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna State. In this interview with ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE, he says Senators Hunkuyi, Shehu Sani and other chieftains behind the factional leadership of the party are disgruntled elements and contends that the governor will be re-elected in next year’s election without their support. What can be the cause of the crisis  rocking the Kaduna State chapter of the APC? Like I have always told the media, APC is one in Kaduna State, ably led by Alhaji Shuaibu Idris as the acting chairman, who was elected Deputy Chairman in the last state congress to elect state leaders in 2014. Shuaibu Idris was the deputy to the then Chairman, Architect Bala Bantex. When Bantex assumed the position of deputy governor, automatically; his deputy will become the chairman. That was how Shuaibu Idris became acting chairman and that is the position of the constitution and he is the one recognised by the the national leadership of our party. As I am talking to you right now, he is in Abuja attending the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of our party. They sent him an invitation letter about 10 days ago, and he is right there attending the meeting now, that shows that, he is the one recognised by the national leadership. So, as far as we are concerned, we don’t have faction in Kaduna. What we have are disgruntled members, who think the whole party and the APC government must tow their line of thought and action. We in the Kaduna APC are committed to seeing that the government of APC, led by Malam Nasir El-Rufai, deliver its promises to the people of Kaduna State and so far so good, our government has been fulfilling those promises in all sectors of governance. In education, for example, as serious reform is ongoing, teachers training rehabilitation and building of more classrooms, equipment of laboratories and so on. The same applies to agricultural sector and infrastructure development. These are what the APC government promised the people of Kaduna State and those are the things we are doing presently. If you say there is only one APC in Kaduna, why did a group of party stakeholders, including two serving Senators, break away? As I told you, they are group of ambitious people who think, it is only when you tow their line of thought that they will have peace with you. When you check their records, having issues with people is not a new thing in their record. Take for example Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi, he had problem with Makarfi, he had with Namadi Sambo, the late Patrick Yakowa and even Ramalan Yero. So, it is a common character in them. They want the present government to maintain the status quo of bad governance. We promised the people of Kaduna State a change from what was obtained before 2015 and that is what our government ably led by Malam Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai is doing in Kaduna State. Considering that these stakeholders have their own supporters, what do you think is the implication of this crisis as we approach 2019 general elections? I think, as far as the people of Kaduna State are concerned, we don’t have any problem. Our government is a popular government, because we are meeting the yearnings and aspirations of the people of Kaduna State. Our governor is a very popular governor in Kaduna State and beyond. If you see the kind of reception we receive whenever we visit any local government, because of the various developmental projects the government is taking to every nook and cranny of the state. Recently, we even registered 50,000 to 60,000 new members across the 23 local government areas. So, I don’t think we have problem of supporters. APC is the most popular party in Kaduna State and we are getting popular day by day, due to the kind of work the APC government of Malam Nasir El-Rufai is doing and President Muhammadu Buhari. Do you think Governor El-Rufai has handled the crisis well, being the leader of the party in Kaduna State? The Governor had no any personal issue with anybody, he discharges his duty according to the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria, he respects the party, he honours our invitation anytime we invite him. He has been here for meeting five to six times and he respects party decisions. So, I don’t the Governor has any issue with any of them. But, do you think reconciliation is possible? Is the party ready to reconcile with these members? As a responsible party and a responsible parent, our doors are always open for genuine reconciliation with any member. But mind you the members you are talking about have been given various degrees of sanctions; some are on suspension. Senator Hunkuyi has been suspended for six months, Shehu Sani has been suspended indefinitely and others have been expelled. Maybe when they become remorseful and seek forgiveness from the party, we might have a second look at their case. Where then is the place of the Presidential reconciliation committee led by Asiwaju Bola Tinubu? Well, as I said earlier, we are law abiding chapter of the party. So, the Kaduna State APC welcomes the presidential committee, we are ready to receive the committee and give Tinubu all the respects he deserves, but Tinubu committee will not stop the party in Kaduna from discharging its constitutional responsibilities. What we are doing is in line with the provision of the constitution, so I don’t think the committee will stop us from doing the right thing. We have to promote the promote and guide the constitution and that is what we are doing. Earlier, you said Alhaji Shuaibu Idris was the deputy to the former chairman, Bala Bantex. Where was S I Danladi Wada, the current chairman of the other faction, when Bantex was the chairman? Danladi Wada never contested in the 2014 congress that brought on board, Bantex and Shuaibu Idris. In front of me here is the certified true copy of list of aspirants in that congress, as certified by INEC. Here are the names of all those that contested, S I Danladi Wada never contested and as you can see his name is not on the list. So, how did he become Deputy Chairman as the Hunkuyi’s group is claiming. Also in our register, we did not register anyone known as S I Danladi Wada. We are the custodians of the party’s register and there is nobody by name S I Danladi Wada. In fact, how can somebody’s name start with initials? What does S. I stand for? S I Wada is an imposter, we don’t know his, he is not a member of our party. If the reconciliation fails, do you think you can win the 2019 elections? As far as we are concerned, we are getting supporters day by day. Our governor is one of the most popular governors in Nigeria, based on his track record of achievements. We are receiving supporters day by day from various local government areas of the state. So, with or without Shehu Sani or Suleiman Hunkuyi, we don’t have any problem come 2019. We are getting more members and we are getting senior politicians in the state joining the party; within the next few weeks, we will invite you to come and witness as we will be receiving large number of new members into the party, and I means in their hundreds and thousands. So, whether Sani or Hunkuyi leave won’t be a problem to us and we don’t have anything to fear.