THE House of Representatives yesterday resolved to probe the activities of the Special Presidential Investigative Panel for the Recovery of Public Property to ensure that it is in tandem with the law and conforms to best practices. The panel is alleged to be  interfering with the activities of the Code of Conduct tribunal. The resolution of the Green Chamber was sequel to the passage of a motion sponsored by Hon. Kingsley Chinda (PDP, Rivers) The SPIP recently  filed an ex-parte motion through a legal practitioner, Festus Keyamo, asking  the Federal High Court in Abuja to freeze all hidden assets belonging to the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu. Chinda, while moving the motion, noted the inauguration of the Special Presidential Investigative Panel (SPIP) pursuant to the Public Property Special Provisions Act, CAP R4 LFN, 2004 otherwise known as Decree No 3, 1984 with the commencement date of 31st December 1983. But the lawmaker said: “there cannot be two parallel agencies of government no matter the manner of operation undertaking the same functions in whatever guise or form. “This more so where the functions are so similar that the public are meant to go through repeated processes and procedures which may infringe on their rights and give rise to series of litigation and the consequential loss of revenue both in overheads and the execution of awards in the damages”. “Special Presidential Investigation Panel (SPIP) ought not to have been set up in view of the existence of such institutions as the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) and especially the Code of Conduct Bureau and the Code of Conduct Tribunal both created by law and supported by the 1999 constitution.” He added that there were economic implications of setting up multiple agencies with its ravaging effects on the revenue of government. Speaker Yakubu Dogara, in his ruling, said the House will set up an ad-hoc committee to investigate the modus operandi and legality of the SPIP. •PDP alleges persecution of Deputy Senate President THE People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged persecution of the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, in a property forfeiture suit filed against him by the Federal Government. A statement yesterday by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbodiyan, called on the government to stop hounding members of opposition parties. The Federal Government has approached the Federal High Court seeking to seize some properties said to belong to the lawmaker but which he failed to declare in documents he filed with the Code of Conduct Bureau. Some of the properties listed include houses said to be located in the United Kingdom, United States, United Arab Emirates, Abuja and Enugu. But the PDP, in the statement, frowned at the ex-parte motion filed by the Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property against Ekweremadu, saying it was part of a plot to silence opposition elements.