It is not the greatest love story that was almost never told like the Shakespeare secret affair but a journey of passion and grace. But the process of qualifying for the FIFA World Cup Russia 2018 was also as beautiful and some of the intrigues made it even more fascinating. The Super Eagles were well underrated after they failed to qualify for the 2015 and 2017 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) with the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) under a lot of scrutiny and their competence questioned. Those criticisms turned into fuel for the thick-skinned leadership of the NFF and they delightfully turned things around and delivered a precious sixth World Cup ticket for one of Africa’s biggest football powerhouse. Nigeria qualified for the 2018 World Cup in Russia in spectacular fashion ahead of favourites Algeria, Zambia and current African Champions Cameroon. NFF President Amaju Pinnick at an event captures the interesting details of how the Super Eagles achieved such a feat, engaging the services of German Coach Rohr at a time when coaching Nigeria was seen with disdain, playing the necessary politics and the Aiteo partnership which has provided financial security for the National Teams and NFF, reports CHIJIOKE EZEALI.  Planning ahead with Akinwunmi and Dikko I recall that I was asked “Do you think if (Issa) Hayatou is there we’ll qualify?” For two nights I slept and thought about it – Cameroon being in our group and this man is already 71 years old and possibly if he wins the elections that will be his last time. What about a parting gift to Cameroon off the field? We looked at Algeria, they had the best record – they had gone about 13 games unbeaten. Zambia were AFCON winner, then I saw a news that in the history of World Cup qualification, the group we are in was the toughest in the history of World Cup qualifier anywhere in the world. Three of them were AFCON winners and in very rich form. We looked at all these and said to ourselves that we must overcome these. Three of us (Shehu Dikko, Seyi Akinwunmi) held each other and said, ‘let’s go and let do it’ and thank God we did it and, today, we are in Russia. How NFF arrived at the choice of Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr The first thing we did was getting a new coach. Of course, we all remember Claude Leroy – to us it was a blessing in disguise. Because when we decided again that we wanted a coach, of course everyone knows that I’m an Arsenal supporter, so I reached out to Arsene Wenger for consultation for a coach. I tried to reach out to Gerrard Houllier and so many other eggheads in coaching and technical expertise and one name came to fore and that was Gernot Rohr. I remember, one of them asked “Will he (Rohr) want to leave his lucrative job with the German federation, heading one of their technical groups to come to Nigeria.” I was told he was a very comfortable coach; he has two hotels, he lives very well and he is very happy. Even at a point, he was going to coach Madagascar free of charge because his wife is from there. I prayed over it and believed he would come – that’s where the journey began. We called him and because I prayed – I believe in prayer; if you don’t, please start to pray because it is very important and the first thing he said was “if you offer me the job, I will try and redefine Nigerian football because you have huge talent. Where I worked before, we struggled with talent but the kind of talents you have in Nigeria is amazing and I will try but I’m not telling you that Iam going to do this or that but I’ll do my best. “But one thing you will do is support me because modern day football has a lot of off-the-field arrangements that impact on the field.” And I asked him what and he said: “We need a chiropractor, an Usthropath, a Yoga coach, a match analyst for defence, attack and midfield and everybody will have a major role to play.” I asked him: “What do you need a yoga coach for, no be Chinese we dey fight nah?” and he said to me: “Yoga training calms you down and gives you concentration.” Gambling over Gernot Rohr How are we going to fund this? It was difficult initially and looked impossible but we looked at ourselves and decided to take the risk for Nigeria because if you don’t venture, you can’t succeed. Good enough, Shehu Dikko is from Zaria, they love taking risk – we know the history of Zaria. Seyi Akinwunmi is the only one that is a bit Lagos boy but he is also an Isale Eko boy whether he likes it or not. Then me, a Warri man – our life is risk. So, we decided to throw our hat into the ring and take the risk. And one of such risks was me running for the CAF executive committee, so that we can play all the politics necessary. Another risk was that of the coach. He (Rohr) came for the interview after I bought him the flight ticket. The technical committee met at the office of the LMC while I and Seyi were in Lagos – then Shehu ran out to us immediately after the interview and said “President, this is the coach! Trust me; we are in the World Cup.” I swear to God that’s what he said. He (Shehu) said, “He (Rohr) is matured, calm and even while we tried to run him rough – he was calm and answered every question thrown at him 100%. So, president, please insist that you want this coach.” We got the report; it was ok by the then technical committee even though there was some off course, we understand, but we went ahead and employed the coach. It was tough at the beginning because the companies that promised us that they were going to pay for the service of the coach withdrew because there were fundamental changes at some top level. Aiteo rescued broke NFF In my area, whenever I’m jogging – I’ll look at one MD that is jogging around and jog behind him. I will just say, ‘I’m the NFF president and we are in a dilemma, can I follow you to your house or can see you later?’ At a point, I will say Seyi, give me N5, 000 and for the first three months it was very tough before the glorious days started coming and that’s the coming of Aiteo. And once they came in, they didn’t look back. As I speak to you Gernot Rohr has been paid to December 31, 2017. We have offered him a new two-year contract extension. All the details will be worked out by the legal committee and other relevant committee in the federation. We want to keep him because assuming he won the World Cup, don’t you think that the German federation will want him? We don’t want to be like Arsenal that waited until the last minute to sign Mesut Ozil. We want to be like Barcelona that gave Lionel Messi a new deal with three years still left on his contract. The combo with Akinwunmi and Dikko It was a very tortuous journey and the first step we took was when I won election into the CAF Executive Committee. Seyi looked at me and said: “President, I told you – you have won and we are going to qualify for the World Cup. So, all the necessary politics off the field you must play. Everything Nigeria needs to qualify, you will do.” Another thing that came to mind is when Shehu said to me: “President, we must look for money. We must make sure we interface with the government where necessary and make sure we don’t owe the players anything. Forget that they earn huge salaries, they have families, they have responsibilities in Nigeria – they see what is going on and don’t want to be part of failure after their playing days, so we must encourage them.” Of course, we interfaced with the government and thankfully they responded and made sure we paid A-Z. Young and gifted Super Eagles Who do you think in the premier league is better than Odion Ighalo in attack or better than Victor Moses? During our friendly against Argentina, Sergio Aguero begged to be removed from the game, so we must always have absolute trust and confidence in our players. The beauty about the Super Eagles is that they are more for the future than today. All our players revolve around 19-22 years. Look at our full backs, Ebuehi and Ola Aina, central: (William) Ekong and Leon (Balogun), look at our midfield and attack while people like Victor Osimhen are still coming. So, we have a rich future. We have a team already and this is the German model Seyi designed for me years ago. The German model of not just having a Super Eagles of today but one for tomorrow. Look at Cameroon and Cote d’Ivoire, they have just a team for team and that’s what affected them. So, we are also planning for the future. On the part of the federation, I’m not going to tell you that we are 100%, because we are not. I have my problem, the executive committee have their own problem, the secretariat has their problem – everybody has their own problem but because we have this problem, are you going to say every minute we should resign? So, I just want to crave your indulgence that we are out here, wanting to build, develop and strengthen football.