The Nigerian Society of Engineers, NSE, has urged the Federal Government to engage more indigenous companies to execute its projects across the country Chairman of the Calabar Branch of the Society, Engr (Dr) Nsed Akonjom, who made the call when a technical team of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing visited Cross River State to inspect interventions on Federal roads in the state, said Nigerian engineers are of the best standard and if the government continued to patronize them, they would keep improving. Speaking on the intervention work on the Ikot Okpora/Nyamoyong axis of the Calabar-Ikom Federal Highway, carried out by an indigenous company, Sermatech Nigeria Limited, Akonjom, described the work done as world class. He said, “It gives me so much pride that it is being handled by our members and the company, an indigenous one, itself handling the job is doing a good job. It shows that is the way to go. If our government continues to patronize Nigerian engineers, we would do better. This is a learning curve for everybody. Nigerian engineers are up there and I am very proud. “Everything here is 100 per cent Nigerian and I am very proud of it and I am happy that the government of President Buhari is looking seriously to make us proud as Nigerian engineers. Even materials are sourced locally. We can see the good quality of job by Sermatech has been excellent. “For people who are afraid of Nigerian companies, I would say it is just ignorance Nigerian engineers are well trained and have standards that we adhere to. “Nigerian engineers can do the best if we are given the opportunity. We need to be given the opportunity. It is compulsory that any nation that wants to grow must allow their engineers handle their infrastructure. “I thank President Buhari for taking the bold step on local content. Except you don’t have such knowledge within the country that you bring from outside, but I can bet you that there is no knowledge in engineering that is not here. We are still producing good engineers in this country. This road by Sermatech is evidence that we are doing well.” Engr Desmond Ewa who spoke for Sermatech, said they had competent hands and that all their workers and materials are sourced locally He said they mobilized to site even though they had not been paid yet because they were partners with the Federal Government.  