Lagos State House of Assembly has demanded an  apology from the police for the arrest and detention of an Imam and 400 residents of Mushin. It directed the Clerk of the House, Alhaji Azeez Sanni, to write the police that the apology be published in a national newspaper. The clerk will also condole with the police on the death of their officer in the February 28 raid on Alaka during which the alfa and others were arrested. The letter, Speaker Mudashiru Obasa directed, should also caution the police against indiscriminate arrest  and detention of people. The resolution followed a matter of urgent public importance brought by Sabur Olawale Olayiwola, representing Mushin Constituency I. According to Olayiwola, the police raided his constituencies on February 28 after the alleged killing of a police officer in Akala. He said the Imam was arrested on his way from the mosque along with over 400 residents. The suspects, he said,  were  taken to a mobile court and were about to be taken to Badagry Prison when he intervened. Governor Akinwunmi Ambode through the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice Adeniji Kazeem, the lawmaker added,  got them released on bail. Describing the matter as worrisome, he said, the Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal and his men should be  asked to apologise to the affected persons. Speaker Obasa, while commiserating with the police on the death of one of their officers, praised Olayiwola and another member Mrs Adefunmilayo Tejuosho for their efforts on the matter. “There is need for the police to be civil in their manner. They cannot continue to arrest and detain people anyhow. We commend the gallant men of the police and those, who lost their lives in the cause of protecting the people,  but some of their actions are not good enough. “It is not right to arrest people, display Indian hemps before them and detain them without proper investigation,” he said. Earlier, Tejuosho said it was painful that the police could treat the imam and others in such a manner. The people, she said,  should have been interrogated;  the innocent released and those found culpable  prosecuted. Majority Leader Sanai Agunbiade said there was procedure for arresting and detaining suspects. He said the display of Indian hemp with the suspects could not be substantiated, adding that suspects should not be presumed guilty before trial.