Senator Ovie Omo-Agege represents Delta Central District at the National Assembly. In this interview with Correspondent POLYCARP OROSEVWOTU, he speaks on the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari for next year’s election and the chances of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State. What informed Southsouth APC leaders’ decision to endorse President Muhammadu Buhari for a second term? We came together, deliberated and took into account promises that President Buhari made when he ran 2015 and the extent he has gone in fulfilling those promises. So, we came to a conclusion that the man has lived up to expectation. We believe that the interest of the Southsouth and the country at large will be best served, if the President is returned in 2019. It is on this ground we took that decision with all pride. We decided to support Buhari who has only four years to go under our constitution after which power will return to the South, instead of supporting a new candidate who will come and possibly do another eight years, in addition to Buhari’s four years. If you support anybody, either in the PDP or the APC, apart from Buhari, power will not come to the South until next nine years. But, as a southern politician, it is in our best interest to work towards returning Buhari in 2019. This will be the shortest and surest route for our eastern brothers to get the presidency, if they come out and give the kind of political support they gave Goodluck Jonathan in 2015 to Muhammadu Buhari. Hence, we are calling on our brothers in the five eastern states to support Buhari, so that their aspiration can come to reality in 2023. What is your assessment of President Buhari’s fight against corruption, against the background of the poverty in the land? There are a lot of things people need to understand. First, they should count their blessings and thank their God that Buhari won the 2015 elections, if not Nigeria would have been worse than Venezuela and Greece years ago. Our economy would have been worse than that of Zimbabwe. Since Buhari assumed office, people now think twice before committing crime, unlike the looting spree before his emergence, which has destroyed the economy. The rot created by former President Jonathan’s government is likely to take years to amend. Even Jonathan in one of his interviews said four years is not enough for a government to turn the economy around and make an appreciable impact on the lives of the people. Buhari inherited a bad economy when he assumed power. But the good news now is that we are out of recession, so Nigerians can now look forward for good things to come. Now we are convinced that if given another opportunity, of another four years, a lot of the laudable programmes that he has will better the lives of the youths and that of the downtrodden. President Buhari’s appointments have been widely criticized as being lopsided. What is your take on this? That is an accusation being peddled by the opposition party. I don’t believe in cheap blackmail. I was told few weeks ago by a top government official who was part of those that received the Catholic leadership when they visited Mr. President that Catholics make up about 60 per cent of the President’s cabinet. So, there are more Christians in Buhari’s executive council than Muslims and nobody is talking about this. That is the way it is in other sectors and that was why l said it is cheap blackmail. What is your take on the amendment of the INEC timetable? I was a member of the committee on INEC that wrote the amendment of the electoral reform. We wrote the bills and it passed through the first, the second, the third reading and through public hearing before it was ratified by the Senate and sent to the House of Representatives for concurrence. Because of the importance attached to that bill, we made arrangements to bring in the House of Representatives into what we are doing. We decided to use a common consultant, so that at the end of the day whatever output we had on the floor of the Senate will not be radically different from what will come out of the House of Representatives. We passed this bill in March 2017, almost a year now; it is only recently that the House of Representatives came up with their position. There are no fundamental differences with what they came up with, compared with that of the Senate. What shocked us is that during the consideration in the House of Representatives, a PDP member from Rivers State introduced a new amendment in Section 25 of the Electoral Act, changing the order of the elections; making the presidential election to come last. What worried a lot of us was that as at the time this decision was taken in the House of Representatives, only about 36 members were present on the floor of the House, which has 360 members. Now, I am not challenging whether or not they formed a quorum on that day. My concern was that a matter as fundamental as this should not be taken by just 36 people out of 360 members. Now, if it ended there, it would have been okay. But they introduced the same thing to the Senate. Of course, the moment it got to the Senate, a conference committee was set up, to reconcile the differences between the versions passed by both houses. Considering the pivotal role I played as a member of the Committee on INEC, I was expected to be a member of the conference committee. But, for reasons best known to the leadership, I was excluded. The six conferees went there with the position of the House of Representatives, changing the order of the elections. So, when the issue came before us in the Senate, we said there was never a time this issue was deliberated upon on the floor of the House of Representatives, because only 36 members present when this important matter was deliberated. So, we requested that the Senate be given the chance to deliberate on it. We were not saying whether it is good or bad, but merely that we should be given the opportunity to air our views on it, since we are in democracy. In democracy, majority always have their way, but the minority would also have their say. Because it is fundamental, we invoked provisions in our standing order to allow us to make that debate, but we were shut down and the Senate President refused us to debate about it. When our requested was turned down, we said the only option open to us, as contained in the standing order was to invoke something like the nuclear button, by asking everybody to stand up and answer his or her father’s name and vote as they see it. Why did you stage walkout from the Senate? I got up and raised a point of order, founded on order 73 of our standing rules, which the Senate President is permitted to make, by dividing the house and calling on each member by name to cast their vote. So, I got up and sought to invoke  it, but the Senate President over ruled me. But my joy was that if we were given the opportunity, we would have defeated them with 59 votes in support of Mr. President with that amendment in Section 25 of the Electoral Act, but the Senate President refused to rule in favour of a division. That was the reason that we staged a walkout. Laws are made for the benefit of the society; not to target some persons. The perception out there was that the Section 25 was targeted at stopping Mr. President’s re-election. I happen to be Buhari’s man and I don’t hide my own. That is why we want President Buhari to come back, since I  am his Southsouth coordinator in the National Assembly and I don’t hide my allegiance and cannot sit down on the floor of the Senate and watch laws being targeted at him to pass without following due process; that is what the entire imbroglio is all about. But now that they have gone ahead, I can assure you that the amendment will not see the light of the day, because they are trying to use it against Mr. President’s re-election in 2019. That assurance you can take to the bank. What is your take on the APC leadership tussle and zoning, particularly the governorship ticket? The APC, like any other political party, is made up of so many people with different tendencies and interests. So, you will always expect that interests will clash, as the party moves towards its primaries, but at the end of the day the party will present a governorship candidate; a popular one that can stand and defeat the PDP. But the issue of power rotation is alien to the APC constitution; there is nothing like zoning, consensus or power rotation in our party. The APC in Delta State will present the best candidate and it doesn’t matter if the candidate is from Delta Central, South or North. There is no zoning; everybody is free to aspire for the governorship ticket, since Deltans are yearning for a change, after 19 years of PDP miss rule. All those that intend to run for governorship, for Senate, for House of Representatives or the House of Assembly, should step forward, so that the electorates will look at all of us and decide who can best represent them. 