Super Eagles’ midfielder, Etebo Oghenekaro, is enjoying a new lease of life in the most populous city in the autonomous community of the Canary Islands following his recent loan move to Spanish club UD Las Palmas, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. It is indeed a new beginning for Etebo Oghenekaro, the Super Eagles’ all-action bustling midfielder, following his recent loan move from Portuguese club CD Feirense to Spanish club UD Las Palmas. The 22-year-old can be regarded as one of the most improved players in recent years after helping the national  Under-23  team to the U-23 Africa Cup of Nations triumph hosted by Senegal in 2015 where he also finished as the  top scorer with five goals including a brace in a 2–1 win against Algeria in the final. He was later crowned as the Most Promising Talent in Africa at the prestigious annual CAF African Footballer of the Year en-route to the Rio 2016 Olympics where he was part of coach Samson Siasia-led Dream Team VI that won bronze. As his life story goes, he was born in Lagos and began his youth career at Lord Honour F.C, a football academy in Warri. He was signed to the youth setup of Nigerian Premier Football League side, Warri Wolves, at the start of the 2012/2013 season. He rose quickly from the rank of the team and in 2015 received the Glo Wonder Goal award, for the best goal of the 2014-2015 NPFL season, which was scored against Bayelsa United in Benin. He scored three goals during Wolves’ 2015 CAF Confederations cup campaign. He was also pivotal to Warri Wolves finishing second in the 2015 Nigeria Premier League, and qualifying for the 2016 CAF Champions League. At the expiration of his contact with Warri Wolves FC at the end of the 2014/15 season, he joined CD Feirense as a free player in early 2016 and eventually made his debut in the Ledman Liga Pro on April 24, starting against Oliveirense and providing an assist in the 29th minute. He scored his first goal for the club in the 0-5 away dismantling of Academica Viseu and provided another assist against Chaves on the last day of the season with C.D. Feirense being promoted to the Liga Pro for the 2016-2017 season. But after a difficult start to the new season, Etebo, as he’s fondly called, became a loannee to La Liga side, UD Las Palmas, for six months. Where else can one look for a clean break than the city of Las Palmas? According to  a study carried out by Thomas Whitmore, director of research on climatology at Syracuse University  in the USA, Las Palmas ”enjoys  the best climate in the world’ and Etebo has admitted that he’s having a new lease of life in the most populous city in the autonomous community of the Canary Islands. “Professional football in Europe is about the same thing,” revealed Etebo who got the silver boot award as the second highest goal scorer in the 2012/2013 NPFL season. “Having played in Portugal for CD Feirense and playing now in Las Palmas is more or less the same thing; the only difference is the new environment and I’m enjoying my football here now. “Everything about life makes me happy and I can’t just be specific. But as a footballer, it is a thing of joy because you are using your God-given talent to entertain the people and also earn a living. It is a profession that gives people joy and such as a player, I need to be happy too,” he affirmed. Weeks back, Etebo got rave reviews after a stand-out performance against Barcelona where he held on to Lionel Messi like a leech as both sides ended the confrontation 1-1.  His performance, many believe, is a foretaste of what to expect at the FIFA World Cup Russia 2018 where the Super Eagles have been drawn against Croatia, Iceland and Argentina. “Everybody has been saying good things after our game against Barcelona, coupled with my good performance against Barcelona, but I don’t see it as something special,” Etebo in his usual modest way told our correspondent. “Football is all about the team’s effort and we did well as a team; I don’t think there is anything special about doing well against Messi.” Etebo admitted that making the Super Eagles’ cut to the World Cup would not be as easy as A-B-C, adding that he was ready to work his socks to be part of the team. “It is the dream of every player to be at the World Cup but it’s not my job to pick myself, rather it is the responsibility of the coach to pick me if I’m considered good enough for the team. “As a player, I will continue to do my best by working hard but it’s left for the coach to pick the best players for the Super Eagles. We have qualified for the World Cup and we have to go out there and show the best of Nigerian football. “Our focus at the World Cup is not going to be about playing against Argentina and Messi; we still have Croatia and Iceland to play against and we must not lose focus about that. We have to take each game very seriously and see how it goes. “Every friendly game we are going to play between now and June is very important, so that we can prepare well because we are going to still meet some tough opponents at the World Cup,” he predicted. Etebo has endeared himself to many because of his humility. Recalling his modest beginning before travelling abroad, he once shared the rationale behind putting up with his parents despite being a full-blown star in the NPFL. “You might be right to suggest that I’m a star as far as Nigerian football is concerned but I don’t see myself that way,” Etebo said in a 2016 file interview. “It may interest you to know that I’m still living with my parents and I’m really happy about it. “I have joy living with my parents and they have been source encouragement to me and they know the kind of person I’m and what I want. From day one, they know that I’m a straight forward person. I don’t like to hurt people and I don’t like anyone hurting me. I’m a very simple and straight forward person,” as he reflected about his career. On being voted Africa’s Best Talent in 2015 I want to thank God that I was considered and eventually picked as the Most Promising Talent in Africa due to my good form and performance in 2015. It was a very exciting one and I’m very happy about it. This was my first award on the continent and it is going to push me to do more; I’m not going to rest on my past glory. On being a cool and calm guy There is nothing anybody can achieve without discipline and patience. I always want to be calm and control myself no matter what I’m going through. This has really helped me to be focussed on my career and I’m not going to deviate from it. My family We are four children in the family. I’m the youngest and the only boy. My eldest sister is married with two kids; generally I have always enjoyed the support of my family in whatsoever I’m doing. They have stood behind me and praying that I can do well in my chosen football career. I’m really happy that I have the support of my family in doing what I’m doing; it is not everybody that is that lucky to have a very supportive family. My inspiration Growing up, I can’t say I was looking forward to play like a particular player or I wish to be better than a particular player. I have never given that a thought, rather I know who I am and I just want to be a better player. I don’t want to sit down and be thinking about becoming one particular player or that player; not that I don’t have a role model but I just want to strive and do my best all time. I have always admired Wayne Rooney, the Manchester United captain, though I’m an Arsenal fan. But I don’t define myself as wanting to be like Rooney.  PROFILE Full name: Oghenekaro Peter Etebo Date of birth: November 9, 1995. Place of birth: Lagos, Nigeria Height: 1.72 m Playing position: Midfielder Current team: Las Palmas (on loan from Feirense) Former Clubs:   Lord Honour FC; Warri Wolves Personal Honours: 2013: Silver boot as second highest goal scorer award in NPFL season 2015: Delta State FA Cup – Warri Wolves 2015; League runner-up NPFL – Warri Wolves; Glo NPFL Wonder Goal Award – 2015; Golden boot-Top scorer U-23 Africa Cup of Nations; CAF Most Promising Talent of the Year 2015   