For the first time in 14 years, the Federal Ministry of Education (FME) organised a workshop for teachers of 21 Federal Science and Technical Colleges (FSTC) nationwide last week. From Tuesday to Friday, the teachers were kept busy at the Federal College of Education (Technical), Akoka, Lagos, learning about equipment they might have locked up in their workshops because they lacked the skills. The ministry’s Technology and Science Education Director, Mrs Tina Eyaru,  said the training was the result of a survey on the needs of the colleges. She said the ministry found that as a result of the skills gap, many teachers skipped parts of the curriculum they did could not teach. “In 2013 and 2015, the Ministry conducted Needs Assessment of 21 FSTCs and some state technical colleges and the report revealed that the majority of the serving Technical and Vocational teachers have not participated in any capacity building programme since they were employed 10 to 15 years ago, and so were deficient in practical skills. Consequently, they are unable to use modern machines/technical equipment effectively and workshop/practical session topics were usually skipped by most of the teachers. “Therefore, the need to improve Technical and Vocational teachers’ practical and pedagogical skills for effective curricula delivery becomes imperative,” she said. Declaring the workshop open, the ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Mr Sonny Echono, underscored the importance of Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) to the country’s development and the government’s effort to equip young ones with skills that can make them self-reliant. “Our nation at this point in time requires our youth to be highly skilled in order to solve the problem of unemployment, insecurity and youth restiveness, thereby enabling them to be self-reliant, entrepreneurial, job creators and not job seekers. The importance of this retooling of TVE teachers can, therefore, not be overemphasized,” said Echono, who was represented by Ifeagwu Orji, the ministry’s Director Information Communication Technology (ICT). He urged the participants to teach those of their colleagues who could not attend. Principals of the unity schools in Lagos, namely King’s College, Queen’s College, Federal Government College, Ijanikin, FSTC, Yaba, and the Federal Government Girls’ College, Sagamu, lauded the training. “We are happy to be part of this programme.  Technology is the springboard for development.  we are in the era where the world has become a global village and Nigeria cannot be left behind.  You are the vehicles through which government policies should be implemented so pay attention,” Mrs Bola Abe, principal of Queen’s College, Yaba, said.