Thirty foreign airlines pay N985.5 million yearly to the Skyway Aviation Handling Company (SAHCOL) and the Nigerian Aviation Handling Company Plc (nahco Aviance) for towing their aircraft to the disembankment point for passengers, investigations have revealed. The amount is for ramp and ground handling for their flights out of the Lagos Airport. According to last year’s figures from the NCAA on passenger movement, international airlines operate about 30 flights daily  from the Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA). This implies that in 365 days the airport will process  10,950 flights. Ground handling firms charge $250 to tow an aircraft. Investigations revealed that airlines pay $2,737 million ( about N985,320 million) yearly to tow their aircraft into the finger. This amount excludes charges airlines pay for towing the aircraft as a result of flight cancellations, delays and repairs. A source said it was only in Nigeria that airlines towed their aircraft to the finger instead of taxing. Sources close to the regulators said the reason  airlines paid to tow their aircraft was because the fingers at the airports are not large enough to enable pilots park without damaging their aircraft. However,, airline sources said they preferred towing to reduce the emission of carbon. A member of the Aviation Roundtable, John Ojikutu, said fingers in many of the airports were built over 40 years ago without improvement. Ojikutu, who is the chief executive of Centurion Securities, said apart from the fingers at Abuja Airport, others were outdated and might not accommodate some aircraft if they taxied. This option, he said, puts many airlines in a tight corner, forcing them to tow their aircraft into the finger. “Some airlines insist on using certain fingers. For instance, in 2007, Airbus 340 had long winglet and Emirates was flying Boeing 777. The two of them chose fingers that were closer to each other to park. The pilot alone could not safely park the aircraft side by side  the other one. So, they parked outside and the towing vehicle came and towed them into the finger. “At other times, it is the type of aircraft and airmanship of the pilot that will determine if he parks by himself or tows the aircraft. The pilots most times do not trust the marshal’s directions, so they request for a towing vehicle to move it quietly into position,” Ojikutu added. He noted that there were also risks in towing an aircraft as the vehicles of the handlers sometimes hit the aircraft. ”If you hit the engine of a 777, it costs about $20 million. The Nigeria Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) should ensure handlers operate with insurance to cover their operations,” he added. Air Traffic Controllers in Nigeria President Victor Iyaro said towing of aircraft was often by request. ”The airlines have their reasons for requesting for grand handlers to tow the aircraft. They probably look at the financial implication. If the amount of fuel they burn taxing to the finger is higher, they ‘ll rather tow.” Tayo Ajakaye, NAHCo’s spokesman, confirmed that the ground handling companies helped the airlines to tow if an aircraft is not ready to fly. “If an aircraft is to be moved for another operation apart from the initial one, we tow the aircraft. For instance, if they cancel a flight at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) and want to use it for charter operations at the Murtala Muhammed Airport’s local terminal (MMA2), it will be towed there,” Ajakaye added.