The Commercial Vehicles department of Weststar Associates Limited – (Authorised General Distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria) has introduced Atego 1725 fire fighting truck into the market. This, the firm said, is in line with its philosophy to support firefighting operations. The Mercedes-Benz Atego Fire fighting truck comes with a double cabin laid-out for six people-driver plus one person in front and four others behind. It features Autonomous Respirators built into the seat backrests. The Pump compartment in this Atego Fire fighting vehicle is mounted between the cabin and the water tank made of aluminum profiles and coated with smooth aluminum with its Pump access door on the right side and with roller blind-type door located on the left of the driver’s side. The structure and fire fighting equipment are in accordance with MBR 14096 – for firefighting vehicles, setting the minimum conditions required for the design, construction and performance of the vehicle. Two tanks are within the inner compartment, one for water and another for LGE, with capacity respectively of 5000 litres of water and 500 litres LGE, fitted with internal longitudinal and transverse deflectors according to standards boost flexibility when driving in rough terrain. Weststar Associates Limited Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Mirko Plath, said the Mercedes-Benz’ fire-fighting truck is a genuine all-rounder with extensive equipment and technical payload to match specific needs and situations. “It is most suitable and will demonstrate high quality and reliability as a fire truck in Nigeria. It is available for immediate delivery through Weststar with up-to-the-minute aftersales support synonymous worldwide with the Mercedes-Benz brand,” he said. The Atego 1725 fire fighting truck is the perfect match for organisations striving to achieve total quality in fire protection solutions as it is equipped with a strong and robust 6.4 liter inline, six cylinder Mercedes-Benz engine that produces 245hp ensuring excellent performance, complies with Euro 3 emission standards ensuring a low level emission of pollutants and low fuel consumption. The dashboard of the vehicle supports economical driving by featuring a real time indicator for fuel consumption as well as an econometer, which indicates the most appropriate engine speed in every operating situation. Extremely hazardous fires require top-level skills and innovative agents. Twin-Agent Fire Suppression Systems provide proven technology to fight large flammable liquid and gas fires. This main capability distinguishes the Atego 1725 fire fighting truck from others in its category – combining dry chemical agents for rapid flame knock down and Aqueous Film Forming Foam (AFFF) for securing the fire area. Available with Class BC dry chemicals (Purple K or sodium bicarbonate) and your choice of 3 per cent or 6 per cent AFFF concentrate.