Life is full of challenges and there is no one who does not pass through strong mental states and who does not experience severe physical stress or spiritual turmoil at some points. Every now and then we may experience loss, failure, insults, fear, anxiety, disappointment, tiredness, desperation, etc.  Relaxation can help to break the power of these experiences over us.  Relaxation is important for wellness and sanity as well as for peace and harmony amongst humans, be it within the family or in the world. Bodily relaxation can be obtained through various means.  While sitting at a desk: a few seconds to minutes of relaxation can be snatched by changing sitting position and reclining, by getting up and stretching, by doing a simple on-the-spot body exercise to loose specific muscles or to work specific muscles, by repeatedly breathing in and out deeply, by having a “TV break”, by taking a snack, by having a conversation, by stepping out for some fresh air and sunshine, etc. Relaxation at the end of consuming tasks, especially duties done for deadlines may require a more deliberate and prolonged experience such as yoga, a long walk or running in a park, exercise at a gym, sports, hanging out at a club or social gathering or faith gathering, visit to a place of interest such as a museum or cinema or shopping mall, dining out, an extra hot or cold water shower, bath or Jacuzzi, etc.  Whatever we choose to do, it should be something we can afford, we enjoy, and that makes us feel good. The mind is the source of many things that we do that influence the world.  The possible products of the mind vary from creativity and innovations to strife and wars and the mind should be well taken care of. Parents have a responsibility to help children develop mentally. Young people may be educated without training in consciousness and adults themselves may reach advanced stages in career, social status, prosperity, etc. without improving in consciousness. For the mind to gain fitness or to retain wellness, it is important to try to sleep well – routinely as well as regularly in terms of timing and duration. This helps to service the brain, the material support for our mental activities.  During routine work and daily activities, momentary mental relaxations help the powers of insight, hindsight and foresight to feed one’s rationality.  A brief break on a first reaction to threat, rivalry, opportunity, etc., can help substitute primordial instincts with intelligent manners, a rebirth from animalistic to civilized behaviour. The ability to practice mental relaxation grows with age.  A proverb goes: “once bitten, twice shy”.  Indeed past mistakes can improve our rationality. For the mind not to work too hard, go too far, or get broken, we can make a break from what works us up and make soft landings with entertainment.  Television can be very effective in tempering the mind that is out of control: a comedy, a talk show, a reality show, a n interesting movie, a music video can help the mind come down from anxiety or rise up from depression.  Connecting with others on safe social media platforms may also be helpful in diverting our minds from stressors. These media can be used to share anything from music, videos, news, announcements, sports, and business opportunities, to family and faith matters. One can watch past episodes of favourite comedies or music videos on a tiny smartphone anywhere any time as long as there is Internet connectivity. (Hopefully there will be no stalker or molester in public places to disturb one’s peace or privacy). Activities such as reading and playing board games at home can also displace bad mental states by diverting our attention to something interesting or loved.  Travelling is a good way to change activities, environment, and companions for a while.  Travelling can be for a vacation or a retreat and it can be useful for bodily, mental, and spiritual breaks from usual stressors. Mental relaxation with these aids can help to nullify the effects of the environment on raw nature.  The effects of people and happenings on us that get us into states of hatred, anger, envy, vengeance, etc. that we commonly experience, can be nullified. Spiritual turmoil occurs within humans perhaps more frequently than physical stress or mental disturbances.  It is perhaps more difficult to recognize or deal with than the other types of stress.  Popular medicine teaches us that prevention is better than cure.  Indeed for spiritual turmoil, we can say, absolutely.  To prevent us from reaching or sustaining spiritual turmoil, we do need frequent recourse to prayer, routine times for prayer, or a habit of prayer.  Prayer can also be in song as Christians and some other religions do.  Mental relaxation can be by using music videos by Gospel artists and Nigeria has some soulful, dramatic, talented stars: Steve Crown’s “You are Great”; Sinach’s “Way Maker” or “I know who I am”; Joe Praize’s “Miracle Papa” or “Mighty God”; Lara George’s “Dansaki” and many more from all over the world can help us relax our minds prayerfully. The world has known spiritual giants.  Their words and quotes are available to feed our own spiritual wellness and fitness.  Having some books of inspiring quotes, Sacred Scripture including proverbs, other forms of reminders and motivation on our bookshelves or on our electronic gadgets can be a source of spiritual renewal and spiritual strengthening. Indeed those who work with computers can have a motivational page open in the background to peep into every now and then for sustained spiritual balance and potency.  The practice of spiritual relaxation helps us grow is discernment: the ability to know right from wrong, good from evil, truth from falsehood, friend from foe, etc. and thus to stay on the course of our destiny in life. Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis. For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635