Her style of play belies her ability on the court. She moves like a player who is not interested in the proceeding, someone who is just on the team to make up the numbers. But as a point guard, Dominque Wilson is expected to assert herself physically on the game. She is supposed to be tough during games either when taking the ball forward or stopping the opposition point guard from bringing the ball to her team’s side of the court. However, the native of Georgia relies more on wisdom to outwit her opponents rather than raw strength. Though she is not averse to being physical on the court, she, however, feels that basketball is 80 per cent brain work and 20 per cent grit. She exhibited these traits at her first professional tournament at the FIBA African Champions Cup for Women (ACCW) where she played for First Bank Basketball Club. The American endeared herself to the rest of Africa with her sleek style of play and propelled the Nigerian team to third place, finishing among the best five and winning the highest point scorer at the championship, deposing the likes of Lucas Italee Malina of Inter Club and Dongue Leia Tania do Bastic of Primerio Agosto of Angola. Having joined the team  at the start of the championship in Luanda, no one including  her teammates and coaches would have thought she would have so much impact .She even got to Luanda six hours before  the First Bank contingent as she  waited patiently to meet her  would-be teammates. In the first game, the  5.8 point guard led her team in scoring and deservedly  got the approval of Coach Peter Ahmedu to take over scoring duty. She was flawless from the three point line and delivered passes that led to more goals for his team. Her delivery from the free throw line was spot-on and immediately became the star of the team. But she was still not satisfied as she felt that she had more in her tank. Wilson became the main stay of the team and dictated the play throughout the tournament. Even when things were not going well with the team, her calm demeanour gave her team mates assurance that all will be well. “I am happy to come to Africa and play basketball. I hope I will become the player of my dream as I progress in my career,” she offered while sharing sundry matters with ADEYINKA ADEDIPE. Read on…  In the beginning As a kid, Wilson can be described as an ‘all-rounder’. She experimented with different sports and she became versatile: “Honestly when I was very little, I did a lot of different sports. I was the only girl in the family. I had my two cousins and my younger brother as companions. I had no choice, but to engage in different sport with them; I played soccer, did karate, American football, volleyball, did track and field and also engaged in cross country races.” As she advanced in age, she limited her participation to two sports – soccer and basketball. But again, she had a difficult choice to make. Eventually, she settled for basketball. She also had the blessing of her parent, which, she said, was key to her career. She said: “My parents were happy that I took part basketball but they were quick to point out that I had to take my studies seriously. For them, it was school first. They told me that I had to make good grades or else, I would have to stop playing. I also settled for basketball because I had a lot of friends who were playing the game so, I was encouraged to join them.” Going to high school After her elementary school, the 23-year-old moved to McEachern High School in Georgia where she had the opportunity to develop her skill in the game. The school had a good programme and Wilson was sure she would enjoy studying and playing basketball at the school. She also played AAU League during the summer, which also gave her the chance to showcase her talent to colleges who were on the lookout for talented players. “Georgia basketball is one of the best and it is very competitive,” she recalled. “ I played at the top level at McEachern and the high school league in Georgia was very competitive. We had a good basketball programme, which helped me develop my game. “During summer, I played in the AAU League for Georgia Peaches, Pistols and Athletics of Tomorrow (AOT), which also brought me in contact with the best high school players. I got all the exposure I needed to also improve as a players and it was also a competition where colleges pick players.” Due to her decent performance, her jersey was rested by the school authorities and rated one of the best players to have featured for the school.  She was rated a four-star guard by ESPN HoopGurlz, led the Indians to a state title and a No. 2 national ranking in her senior season and named first team all-state as a senior. She also led McEachern to four-straight state championship game appearances, reached the 1000-point plateau as a junior and averaged 13.0 points per game that season and graduated with a 3.7 GPA in science. College basketball Her splendid performance caught the eye of Arkansas where she schooled and played for one season 2011. At Arkansas, she made 19 starts and played in all 33 games for the Razorbacks. The team finished with a 20-13 record and made it to the third round of the Postseason WNIT. She averaged 6.6 points and 2.5 rebounds in 23 minutes per game and started 14 of the final 15 games of the season as well as averaged 8.8 points, 3.1 rebounds and 1.9 assists over that stretch. She scored in double figures on nine occasions, becoming the first Arkansas player since 2006 to score 17 or more points in three-consecutive games. She also had a career-best 19 points in a triple-overtime win at Alabama, added 18 points in a win over Missouri and 17 points against No. 8 Kentucky. In 2012, she transferred to North Carolina on scholarship. She also had several offers from Richmond, Duke and others, but she settled for North Carolina. According to her, she chose North Carolina because it was close to her home. She played in the ACC Atlantic Coast Conference. She, however, did not play in her first year at North Carolina because of NCAA transfer rules. Wilson was not bothered about her inactivity in her first year at North Carolina, but was focused on doing well as soon as she had the chance to get into the team: “I was not bothered about playing in the first year at North Carolina, but I was strong-minded and knew I will take my chance. I played with the likes of Myre Spence, Jennifer Mathron, Chelsea Nelson, Carlee Schumacher, Ashley Williams, Akhela Maize, among others.” Combining studies and basketball at North Carolina was easy as the school management ensured that their athletes did not suffer educationally. “It was not difficult to combine both (basketball and education),” she explained. “We had different members of staff that helped the team in the classroom. For school, we had tutors and advisers that helped us greatly. The coaches also make sure you had good schedule while on the road.” In her final year at North Carolina, Wilson was named All-ACC First Team in a vote of the league’s coaches, named All-ACC Second Team in a vote of the league’s Blue Ribbon Panel, started all 32 of the Wolfpack’s games, averaging 31.4 minutes, 13.9 points (led the team in scoring for the second straight season), 3.1 rebounds, 2.2 assists, and 1.6 steals per game. She finished the season ranked number 22 nationally in FT percentage (.867), recorded the fifth best FT shooting season in programme history and ends her career as the second most accurate FT shooter in programme history at 324-382 (.848). Despite playing just three seasons at North Carolina State, she ends her career ranked seventh in programme history with 163 made 3FG. She also Scored 50 points in her last two career games (23 in NCAAT win over Auburn and 27 in NCAAT loss at No. 14/15 Texas). She scored 10+ points 23 times during her senior season and 20+ points five times and ends her career with 84 games of 10+ points in 96 opportunities, ranking tied for ninth all-time, Wilson also made at least four FG in 19 of the Wolfpack’s 32 games and ends her career ranked 19th in programme history with 1,375 points scored at NC State. Coming to Africa After Upe Atosu left First Bank Basketball Club for the United States of America after the D’Tigress Afrobasket win in Mali in August, Coach Peter Ahmedu contacted former international, Mactabene Amachree, to help secure the services of a brilliant point guard. Amachree, who is Wilson’s agent, talked to her player and the family and a deal was struck. she secured her Nigerian visa late so she was told to join the team in Angola for the FIBA Africa Champions Cup for Women (ACCW). In Angola, she showed maturity and despite her young age and became the darling of the fans and little wonder she was voted among the top five and was also the highest score at the championship. She offered: “I got to know about First Bank BC through Amachree who I have known since I was in eighth grade. She played in the Women National Basketball League (WNBA), but now plays in Israel. “She contacted me multiple times about different teams but I had to figure out if I wanted to play because I was injured in my last season at the College. So, the priority for me was to get stronger but she convinced me to come to Africa to play my first professional tournament with First Bank. “At first it was overwhelming. The coach yelled a lot acting as if I had been with the team for over a month, not minding that I just joined the team. “I had to learn how to play with the team quickly. So, after training I thought about the plays so much because I knew I had an important role to play in the team. It was a challenging experience but I am happy I took the chance. I have reported back to her and we are looking into the future. Right now, I will stay in shape as I await my next move,” she added. Sport-loving family The Wilsons are a sport family. Her father, Damon played football at Georgia Tech, while her brothers were instrumental to her playing basketball. Her boyfriend, Dennis Smith Junior, plays for the Mavericks in the NBA. Wilson father is now a basketball coach and she is proud of him. Next move Wilson, who missed being drafted by a WNBA team, hopes to find her way into the European league in the nearest future: “I would have loved to play in the WNBA. I was contacted by Connecticut and Washington through my agent but their interest cooled off few days to the commencement of the league “I had to come to Africa to play for First Bank at the ACCW. Right now, Mac T (Amachree) is talking to teams in the Euro league and hopefully something good will come my way.” Playing for Nigeria After excelling with First Bank Basketball Club at the ACCW in Angola last November, Wilson is keen to play for D’Tigress, if offered a chance: “Playing for the Nigerian team would be fun fulfilling; I get the feeling that it would be a nice experience if one considers how good it was playing for First Bank at the ACCW. The players were friendly and accommodating and I’m sure of experiencing the same if I get to play for the Nigeria. “But as a pro, it is all about who pays more. I will come because I don’t turn down offers for no reasons. My decision will also depend on my mother and Mac T, who have been around the game for so long,” she enthused.