Grand patron of squash in Nigeria and former President, Olusegun Obasanjo will be the special guest at the grand finale of the 2018 Lagos International Squash Classics on Saturday at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall of Teslim Balogun Stadium. Obasanjo who has been an ardent supporter of squash in Nigeria and a player himself has confirmed that he would grace the final to lend support to the organisers of the championship. This was confirmed by the President, Nigeria Squash Federation (NSF), Boye Oyerinde, who said the presence of the former President attested to the quality of people in the sport. “We are happy that our former President and a major supporter of the sport – Chief Olusegun Obasanjo has agreed to grace the grand finale of the Lagos International Squash Classics and this is a sign of good things to come. We hope that more people will come and identify with the sport,” Oyerinde said. The NSF boss lauded the Lagos State Government for keeping faith with the tournament, adding that despite not staging the event in 2017, more players across the globe are still showing interest in coming to Lagos for the tournament. Oyerinde, however, lauded the local players for putting up good performance against their foreign counterparts. “Quality of play is really high and the turnout is great despite not hosting in 2017 coupled with the reduction in prize money. For our players, it will afford them exposure and ranking points for those PSA registered players. “Playing higher ranked players and doing quite well is the exposure our players need. They also need to play more matches like these to be able to rate their performance and understand that there is still work to do,” the NSF boss said. The tournament enters crucial stage today as the quarter-final matches in the men and women events hold. The $20,000 prize money championship is sponsored by the Lagos State Government and organised by the Lagos State Squash Association with technical support from the Nigeria Squash Federation (NSF).