It is scripturally axiomatic that things have a tendency of following a natural course of action, unless and until there is a divine shaking, which acts as a catalyst for it to be otherwise. When there is a divine shaking, stagnancy is lost to mobility, speed comes to sluggishness, the weak suddenly becomes strong, the hopeless starts to sing the song of hope, roads that have been declared as closed open, natural orders are suspended, power changes hands, the ignored are celebrated, servants are positioned on horses, the forgotten are remembered and there is a lift up from the pathway to the highway of life. The Almighty God took Prophet Ezekiel to a valley of dry bones and asked him if the impossible can ever be possible; that is, can clinically dead bones receive life again? To proof that there is no cul-de- sac in the things of this world with God (Jeremiah 32:27), He asked him to prophesy; and when he did, there was a shaking and dead limbs started to look for their skulls. What this means is that when there is a shaking, students will pursue the right courses and/or vocations they were created to pursue, graduates/employees will get the right employment, square peg workers shall be placed in square hole positions, employers will meet with the perfect employees, doors of humongous business opportunities shall open, brethren that are due for marriages shall be led to where they will meet their right partners, the physically incapacitated shall rise again and compulsory help shall not rest until they have located the needed commissions. When a divine shaking is provoked, as God has promised this season, God will lay sinews upon dead bones, He will follow it up with flesh upon them to cover the bones and resurrect the dead to proof to the world that He is the Lord. The Almighty God is saying that when He shakes the world for your sake, He would partner with you in whatever you do and wherever you go. God will send help to you from above and cover your nakedness. And, concerning your home, business, projects and commission, you shall never ever be put to shame. Where and when some are lamenting cast downs, you shall be positioned in Goshen to testify of lifting up (Job 22:29; Genesis 47:27; Exodus 9:25,26). Wherever you have been hated and forsaken such that no man comes to you, He shall make you an eternal excellency and joy of many generations (Isaiah 60:15). God will give you a voice over envious peers and powers of wickedness. You shall become like a maize seed inside an opaque bottle before chickens; they can see but can’t have access to, eat or destroy (cf Col. 3:3). Any attempt to destroy, harm or hurt you shall boomerang as the diggers of evil pits shall be consumed in their pits (Isaiah 49:26; Proverbs 26:27; Isaiah 43:4 cf Daniel 6:24) Don’t ever loose hope because it is never over until it is over. I have it on divine authority to announce to you that is not over with you yet. The Almighty God who lifted the siege over Israel with a shaking shall, during this season of lent, lift every siege placed on the lives of your loved ones and you. Your scarcity shall turn to flourishing. Powers that are saying that even God cannot help you shall see God at work in your lives (2 Kings 7). The custodian of your entitlements shall hear a deafening noise and instruct an instant release what belongs to you. All that once sang “Hossanah to the son of David” in your life but are chorusing “Crucify Him” today because things are untoward with you shall gather to tell the world “He is risen”, concerning you tomorrow, in the name of Jesus. To be a partaker of the divine shaking of this season, you need to take your gaze off men, not taking to mind how powerful they are in the schemes of this world and come to Jesus Christ in penitence and faith (Jeremiah 17:5-8; John 6:37), ask Him to forgive all your sins, make a commitment to live a life worthy of true believers, engage yourself more with philanthropic works, love the lovables without forgetting the unlovables and it shall be well with you in the name of Jesus Prayer: Lord, I come to you today, use what makes you the Almighty to intervene in my life and situation in the name of Jesus.