Life on Thursday gradually returned to many offices that had been affected by the three-month old strike of the Non-Academic Staff Union of Universities at the Lagos State University ( LASU ), Ojo. The Newsmen reports that non-academic activities commenced in the university following the suspension of the nationwide strike embarked by the Joint Action Committee ( JAC ) of NASU. A Newsman correspondent who visited the university campus in Ojo reports that life was bouncing back at the Administrative Block, Examination and Record Office and Faculty Offices, among others. Services such as electricity and water supply that had also been partially affected had also been restored in areas visited. Mr Albert Aguso, Chairman, Non-Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutions ( NASU ), LASU chapter, told the Newsmen that his members had resumed their duties. Aguso said the resumption was in compliance to the national directive to suspend the three month old strike on Wednesday evening. “We have resumed and all offices that were under lock have been re-opened, but because the national did not get across to us on the development until late night on Wednesday, some of our members could not resume. “We have, however, scheduled our congress for Friday, for proper transmission of information to our members on further directives,” he said. Aguso said the Federal Government’s offer to pay 11 per cent out of the outstanding arrears within five weeks of the suspension of the strike was not the best, but had been accepted by the non-academic staff. “It is good for us to always value time. Since the Federal Government knows what they ought to do, they would have done so, rather than allow the strike linger for so long. “Though the 11 per cent offered to us is unfair compared to what ASUU was offered, our national union thought it wise to accept it, just to allow the system running,” he said. Aguso urged the Federal Government to fulfil its promise within the stipulated time, to prevent the union resuming its suspended strike, which is unpalatable to the education system. Newsmen reports that the non-academic unions of universities embarked on the strike since Dec. 4, 2017 due to the inability of the Federal Government to implement a 2009 agreement with them. ‎ The affected unions are the National Association of Academic Technologists ( NAAT ), NASU and the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities ( SSANU ).‎ ‎ They bemoaned poor governance and administrative lapses in the university system, shortfall in payment of staff salaries and other issues which needed to be addressed holistically. The JAC Chairman of the unions, Samson Ugwuoke, announced the decision of the unions to suspend its strike at a briefing in Abuja on Wednesday. Ugwuoke said: “Based on extensive consultations with our various organs, we hereby announce the suspension of the strike action embarked upon by JAC with effect from March 14″. NAN