Methodist Girls High School, Lagos has won the maiden edition of Maritime Quiz Competition for Secondary Schools. Quiz moderator Mrs Violet Williams said at the end of the competition last Wednesday in Lagos that Mind Builders emerged as first runner up while Regency School became second runner up. Ten secondary schools participated. She explained that the rationale behind the competition was to expose the participants to the maritime industry and guide them to the “Career of the Future.” Williams, who is also the Principal Partner of Vow Ventures, said her firm had exposed the students to the shipping environment before engaging in the competition to raise their interest in shipping career. “We want to demystify the aspect of no-go- area in the maritime sector and we have discovered that some school owners do not know anything about shipping. “Shipping is a global and international business, and it is in the nation’s best interest to invest in the future by catching them young, thus making them economically and professionally children self-sufficient when they leave school. She said that the quiz would be extended to secondary school students  in  the South-East and South-South  of the country which have proximity to the sea before 2020. Director-General, Nigerian Chamber of Shipping Mrs Obiageli Obi, advised students interested in maritime career to study hard and explore the maritime industry, regardless of their biases. Mrs Obi urged the students to be disciplined and resourceful because shipping business is capital intensive but hugely rewarding. President, Women’s International Shipping and Trading Association (WISTA) Mrs Mary Hamman, advised the students to choose relevant courses to enable them to build career in the shipping business. She announced that the winners of the quiz would be exposed to all aspects of the  maritime industry within and outside the country. Women Governor Association of Licensed Customs Agents (ANLCA) Mrs Bola Muse, commended the organisers for enlightening the students She urged the organisers to extend the competition to other schools to enable Nigerian students understand the profession. Six students from the three prize-winning schools – Methodist Girls High School, Yaba; Mind Builders High Schiol, Alausa and ST +T Regency Schools, GRA, Ikeja, are to proceed on maritime sponsorship tour soon. Advising the students, Navy Capt. Abel Abuchi (rtd), said “We are trying to  encourage the students not just to be  lawyers, bankers but they can also be seafarers. “They can be captains of sea-going vessels or a Navy: all what they need to do after having their “A” level is to go to Maritime institutions such as Maritime Academy Oron, Certified Institute of Shipping and so on.” President, Women’s International Shipping and Trading Association (WISTA), Mrs Mary Hamman, advised the students to choose relevant courses to enable them build career in shipping.