At an event where the Federal Government gave various jobs tools to ex-inmates, the Controller General (CG), Nigeria Prisons Service (NPS) Ja’afaru Ahmed has said that the idea of jail term alone for every convict has become outdated. Ahmed said this in Abuja at the distribution of aftercare materials to 45 ex-offenders and the official takeover of the renovated Henry Akingba Medical centre at the NPS headquarters. He said the presentation of aftercare materials is part of NPS core mandate which is the reformation, rehabilitation and subsequent reintegration of prisoners back to the society. He said, “The world over, the idea of imprisonment for punishment alone has become primitive and outdated. It is our sincere conviction that incarceration is not the end of life for anybody, as every jail term if desired, can be used to transform the life of an individual and return him/her back to the society as a better productive and responsible citizen. “The effect of a successful reformation, rehabilitation and reintegration regime for Prisoners can certainly not be over emphasized. As you all know, this is one of the most potent means of crime prevention and control and also a means of breaking the vicious cycle of recidivism and prison congestion. “Trade tools distributed today cover barbing, carpentry, welding, hair dressing, tailoring and masonry among the so many other vocations Prisoners are exposed to, in our various Prisons. I believe the skills acquired by these ex-prisoners and the tools will offer them a more quantitative life through gainful employment and give them an opportunity to be employers of labour as we witness with some of their predecessors.    “As for the renovated medical center, I wish at this point to express my sincere appreciate to AIICO Multishield HMO for partnering with us in our resolve to give officers and men in the NPS quality, accessible and affordable health care.” The upgrade of the medical facilities, the NPS boss said could not have come at no better time than now: “that the government has improved our budgetary provision to enable us purchase a cache of drugs for both inmates and members of staff like never before, in the history of the service.” He commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the Minister of Interior, Lt. Gen. Bello Dambazau (rtd) for their commitment and generous support in providing the service with the necessary platform for better and efficient service delivery. He urged all the beneficiaries of the Aftercare programme to justify government’s heavy investment in providing these tools by working hard and being worthy ambassadors of the Nigerian Prisons Service. 