Two men in Kano and Nasarawa states have been jailed 10 and 14 years each for human and child trafficking. Yusuf Umar, 57, was sentenced to 10 years for sexually exploiting a 14-year-old girl. He was also fined N2 million by a Federal High Court in Kano. A Nasarawa State High Court in Guruku, Mararaba, arraigned a 48-year-old pastor, Bawa Madaki, on a two-count charge of fraudulently procuring two underage children (five and seven years) from their parents in Zango Kataf Local Government of Kaduna State. Head of  Press and Public Relations in the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP), Josiah Emerole  spoke yesterday. “A Federal High Court in Kano has sentenced Yusuf Umar, 57, to 10 years’ imprisonment for human trafficking offences. He is also to pay N2,000,000 fine. ‘’He will spend additional two years in prison if after the 10 years, he is unable to pay the N2,000,000 fine. “Umar, who hails from Nasarawa Local Government of Kano State, procured for himself a 14-year- old girl from the same state and sexually exploited her. ‘’The offence is contrary to Section 16 (1) of the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2015. “NAPTIP operatives arrested and arraigned him on March 5 on a one-count charge. ‘’When he was arraigned yesterday, he pleaded guilty. At the beginning of the case, the prosecution tendered two exhibits. “Delivering judgment, Justice Jude Kanyiot Dagat found him guilty and sentenced him. This conviction has brought the number of those convicted for human trafficking by NAPTIP to 341. “The agency has secured another conviction as a Nasarawa State High Court in Guruku, Mararaba, sentenced a 48-year-old, Pastor Bawa Madaki, from Kaduna State, to 14 years’ imprisonment for child trafficking. “The accused was arraigned on a two-count charge of fraudulently procuring two underage children (five and seven years) from their parents in Zanzo Kataf Local Government of Kaduna State. ‘’The accused subsequently sent one child to Lagos in an illegal adoption arrangement and the other to Abuja as a domestic worker, thus depriving their parents of the lawful custody of the children. “This contravenes Section 19 (e) of the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Law Enforcement and Administration Act, 2003 (as amended). “The case, filed on May 27, 2015, was transferred to NAPTIP by the Police, which acted on a tip-off. ‘’Officers of the agency thereafter moved in and rescued the children. The trial began on June 23, 2015, and on March 26, 2018, the court found the accused guilty. “Delivering judgment, Justice Haruna Offor convicted the accused and sentenced him to 14 years’ imprisonment without an option of a fine. “NAPTIP Director-General Dame Julie Okah-Donli hailed the tenacity of the prosecuting officers and the judiciary for ensuring justice. “She warned the public against illegal adoption and engaging underage children as domestic workers, who she said were often maltreated and abused by their employers.” 