Following the dismissal and the striking out of the suits impeding the audit of Oando, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) has informed the firm of Deloitte to proceed with the forensic audit. Addressing journalists on the development in Abuja on Tuesday, the Acting Director General of the SEC, DR Abdul Zubair, said “the Commission is committed to its primary mandate of protecting investors and will take all necessary steps to fulfil that mandate and uphold the integrity of the capital market.” He reassured the general public that “following the removal of the legal impediments, the audit of Oando Plc., will proceed in a transparent and thorough manner.” The forensic audit stated “will be completed within the shortest possible time and we have told the auditors to fast track the audit but do it in a professional way and deliver a neat job. Deloitte, he said has been given “their terms of reference and we expect that the outcome will be such that all will be satisfied.” The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) had in 2017 conducted a preliminary investigation of Oando Plc, based on petitions received from shareholders of Oando Plc., and a whistleblower. Based on some of the findings from the preliminary investigation, the Commission took steps to preserve shareholder value and protect the investing public.  Consequently the SEC placed the shares of Oando Plc on technical suspension and ordered a forensic audit of the affairs of Oando Plc. Subsequently, two lawsuits were respectively filed by Oando Plc., and some shareholders of Oando Plc, mainly to restrain the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) from effecting a technical suspension on the shares of Oando Plc and the SEC from appointing a team of forensic auditors to conduct a forensic audit of the company. Oando Plc. has withdrawn the pending lawsuit against the Commission by an application heard and granted by the Court of Appeal on March 05, 2017.  Also the application for withdrawal by the shareholders was heard and granted by the Federal High Court on February 21, 2018. 