Nsima Ekere is the Managing Director and the Chief Executive Officer of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC). Ekere spoke to reporters in Lagos on his experiences in trying to turn around the commission, to focus on its core mandate of creating an enabling environment for the development of the Niger Delta region. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI was there. HOW has your tenure been so far? I always tell people; we were a bit luckier than other boards or management that has come into NDDC. I say this because it took about five months after we were nominated by the President before we were inaugurated. So, that gave us some time to do a bit of stocktaking about the NDDC and come up with strategies to attack the issues. That’s how we came up with what we call the 4-R strategy to reposition and restructure the NDDC for maximum impact, maximum delivery. The first R has to do with restructuring the balance sheet. On assumption of office, we found out that the balance sheet was outdated. We had projects that were non-performing and some of them have been there for about 10 to 16 years. So, we decided to cancel them. We’ve done that twice; the first one involved about 624 projects worth over N200 billion and the second batch was about 400 projects worth a little over N100 billion. Effectively, we have being able to take out over N300 billion from the balance sheet. Going forward, we have also dedicated 70 per cent of the budget to ongoing projects. This will enable us to complete projects started by previous administrations. We have identified some of them that are priority projects and we intend to concentrate on completing them. The second R is to restructure the governance system of the commission. When we came in we decided to look at the systems and processes of NDDC in order to come up with a policy that allows NDDC to respect the extant laws and policies of government. So, we decided to streamline the governance system and introduce international best practices, by introducing technology in running the organisation. The third R is to restore the commission to its core mandate. What is it that government had in mind when it set up NDDC? Over the years, the NDDC started competing with local and state governments; struggling to buy chalk for classrooms, for primary schools and so on and so forth. We are looking at the bigger picture now. The emphasis now is to do big ticket projects that will aid regional economic integration of the Niger Delta. That is why you will see we are thinking of deepening the internet penetration in the Niger Delta. We are working with the Galaxy Backbone on that. Hopefully, with that, a lot of IT-based businesses will spring up or even be attracted to the region. We are also thinking of the Niger Delta Development Bank, to support the developmental efforts of the commission. Then the fourth R is to generally reaffirm our commitment to doing what is right and proper. We believe that if we can successfully implement these reform strategies, we would leave the NDDC better than we met it. What challenges have you encountered so far? We have encountered lots of challenges. First, there was institutional resistance to change, which is normal. A lot of people have become used to doing things in a certain way; they were not pleased that you are now demanding a new attitude. Secondly, you also have political interferences here and there. You want to go a certain way, but it may not be politically correct to do that. So, you always have to juggle and balance all of these issues. But, the major problem of the Niger Delta, which has affected the commission, if you ask me, is the attitude of some of our stakeholders and the youths particularly. They have this sense of entitlement that everything belongs to them. Previous boards and managements were bogged down by in-fighting. Did you experience such tendency? Well, I guess it is generally a management strategy. If you come in and you are not able to carry members of your management and board along in the way you run the commission, definitely you will have problems. It is a matter of engagement; you just engage people, try and get their buy-in to things you think you want to do. We’ve set up a Strategy Committee at management level and the three executive directors — that is, the two EDs and myself — always interface with the strategy team. So, there is this buy-in by all members of the executive management to the programmes and reforms agenda that we are driving. Then, with the board also, we have a representative from the Chairman in that strategic team. So, there is no disconnect between the management and the board. So, how are you dealing with the sense of entitlement of the youths? I have always said to the youths and to stakeholders anytime I am opportune to address them, that it is better to think of a sustainable economic model that we can use to empower our people. I don’t believe that you should just keep dashing them money. There was a time at the NDDC when there were like two to three protests every week, because they expect to be given some money when you are dispersing them. So, anytime somebody is broke in his house, he will come and protest, so that something can come. I stopped that. I made protests unattractive. So, when they come, you will allow them stay there the whole day, without giving them money when they are going. So, gradually the number of protests began to reduce. So, the protests you see now are those sponsored by some politicians for selfish reasons. One of the sustainable economic models we are coming up with to engage our youths is what we call The Niger Delta Enterprise Centres for startups, so that people with bright ideas can come into those centres. It is different from what we used to do before. Before now, we used to do a lot of trainings and empowerment programmes.  In other words, we called people, train them in various skills and at the end of the training, we give them starter packs to go and start their businesses. But, six months or one year down the line, you see the guy still unemployed; he would still be standing at the gate of the NDDC. What used to happen for most of them is that when they get those starter packs at the end of the training, they will sell it off and collect the money and after that they will come back and look for more. But, with the enterprise hub that we are thinking of doing now, we should be able to address that challenge. We are starting with one centre for now. We are partnering with SMEDAN. SMEDAN had what they call Industrial Development Centres (IDCs) all over the country before now. In the Niger Delta region, they have six IDCs. So, in partnership with SMEDAN, we will take their IDCs and develop them into enterprise hubs to engage our young people and help them to become entrepreneurs. Secondly, we are also in partnership with NEXIM Bank to set up a N5 billion export facility, targeted strictly at the agricultural value chain. We are also partnering with Innoson, a manufacturing outfit, to train a hundred youths. We are beginning to train a hundred people annually on automobile related skills. They will go to the facilities and learn how to assembly cars, fix and maintain cars and a couple of other things. Contractors always complain that NDDC does not readily pay for work done. The Senate has had to pass a resolution on the matter… We discovered that there was a lot of overtrading in the NDDC; they had much more projects than they can pay for with the available funds. That is why we have said that going forward 70 per cent of our budget would be dedicated to servicing ongoing projects, while only 30 per cent would be used for salaries, overhead and new projects. When you look at the NDDC Act, there is a financial provision which states how much and how the funding of would be structured. If the NDDC was able to get all the money that we are supposed to get under the Act, you will see that there would be enough to pay for those contracts. As we speak today, we have a shortfall of about N1.7 to N1.8 trillion from the Federal Government. In other words, the Federal Government owes us that much money.  If that money was paid, why wouldn’t contractors be paid? So, it is basically a funding problem. We receive about N5 billion in a month. By the time you pay salaries and overheads maybe you have N3 billion remaining. How can you use N3 billion and pay N1 trillion to contractors? Beneficiaries of NDDC post graduate scholarships have also been complaining of being abandoned…. We have paid up all NDDC scholars. When we came in, we discovered that there was a lot of hanky-panky in the scholarship thing. For instance, a master’s programme is supposed to last one year or 18 months in the maximum. But you will see an NDDC scholar who won the scholarship in 2007 for a master’s programme in the US or the UK still claiming scholarship in 2017. We had several cases like this. Somebody will win the NDDC scholarship, but will be in Nigeria and not in any school abroad and he is claiming money. So, that is why it was necessary that we froze that process, because we needed to confirm what really the issues were; who the genuine students were. But, unfortunately, in that process some genuine students suffered. We regret very much that some genuine students had their money withheld for a while. But the verification has been done now and we have paid up to date. We understand that there are plans to rejig the scholarship programme… We are thinking that scholarships shouldn’t be only for foreign scholars.  If you want to help people, Nigerian universities are also good. So, it shouldn’t only people schooling abroad that benefit. Secondly, we have very bright Niger Delta students who come from indigent homes and they really can’t afford even the undergraduate education. Your contractors were recently chased away from sites by the Akwa Ibom State Government. How did you resolve that issue? Unfortunately most of what happened in Akwa Ibom was political. We have engaged the government through the Federal Government. We hear there is a change of heart from the state government. Overall, we are trying very hard now to engage with the nine governors in the region, because we are not in competition with any of them. We have visited virtually all of them, except Akwa Ibom. Why have you not visited Akwa Ibom? We have been engaging them, hoping for an opportunity to visit the state. But, the reception has not been favourable and that is unfortunate, because I am from Akwa Ibom and I have served that state as deputy governor. So, the best interest of the state is always paramount to me. Akwa Ibom is the largest oil producing state in Nigeria and by NDDC policy it should attract the highest number of projects. That is not what the present board met on ground.  We have been magnanimous enough to want to redress this. We need the partnership and support of the state government to make this happen. It is not about me or the board; and it is not about politics. We at the NDDC believe it is the right and proper thing to do. And that’s the focus of the Board. 