Nigeria’s domestic and foreign debt stood at N21.73 trillion at the close of last year, according to the Debt Management Office (DMO). Of the N7.2 trillion Budget 2017, N1.6 trillion went into debt servicing. The statistics showed that nine per cent of the cash was spent on foreign debts servicing and the balance on domestic debts. COLLINS NWEZE reports that stakeholders are worried about the rising debt profile, especially where borrowed funds cannot be matched with physical or social infrastructure. THE rising debt profile as contained in the latest Debt Management Office (DMO) statistics is worrisome, some analysts have said. But the Federal Government has assured all that there is no cause for alarm. Finance Minister Mrs. Kemi Adeosun said the government was embarking on a borrowing spree to provide national assets to aid the growth of the economy. Mrs. Adeosun’s explanation came less than a week after the DMO statistics put the debt portfolio at N21.73 trillion as at December, last year. About N1.6 trillion of the debt, according to the DMO, was spent on debt servicing and that the debt stock rose by N1.327 trillion between September and December 2017. DMO’s Director-General, Ms. Patience Oniha, said the Federal Government’s domestic debt at the end of last year, stood at N12.589 trillion. The 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) had a domestic debt overhang of N3.348 trillion. The combined external debt of the federal and the state governments stood at N5.787 trillion. The new Debt Management Strategy (DMS), Ms. Oniha said, has brought about the restructuring of the debt portfolio, which “has resulted in reduced debt servicing costs, lowered interest rates in the domestic market and an improved availability of credit facilities to the private sector.” Explaining the motive behind the recent spate of borrowings, the DMO chief said: “It (borrowing) is essentially for financing capital expenditure and stimulating the economy. The funds injected through borrowing strongly supported the implementation of the Federal Government’s budget, which helped the country to exit recession in 2017.” Reacting to the DMO statistics, a former Executive Director in Keystone Bank, Richard Obire, said, when it comes to debt, what is important is not the figure, but the developmental projects that the borrowed funds are used to finance. Obire said: “I am not concerned about the size of the debt, but do such debts have the capacity for repayment? Also important is whether the debt is cash-flow friendly and of relatively low pricing. The problem with Nigeria’s debts is that when you look around, you will be searching for what the funds were used to do.” Obire said that at this level of borrowing, the road and electricity infrastructure, airport infrastructure, social infrastructure, such as health and education, and even broadband infrastructure, should be visible for all to see where the funds have been channeled to. “The problem with this high debt is that you cannot really justify the high borrowing. We need to channel the loans to productive sectors of the economy. “The government has to explain where the funds had gone to. Have you seen any new university, health care centre? I have not seen something dramatic. Overall, I have nothing against borrowing, but the funds must be channeled to good uses.”  Debt stock composition  The composition of the debt stock as at the end of last year showed that external debt was 26.64 per cent of the portfolio, up from 20.04 per cent in the preceding year. Domestic Debt was 73.36 per cent, down from 79.96 per cent in 2016. The key benefits of the restructuring of the portfolio, Ms. Oniha explained “are the reduction of the government’s debt service costs, lowering of interest rates in the domestic market and improved availability of credit facilities to the private sector. “The DMO repaid N198 billion Nigerian Treasury Bills (NTBs) in December 2017 with the proceeds of Eurobond issuances and the office has continued further implementation of the strategy this year, with the issuance of the $2.5 billion Eurobonds in February 2018, the proceeds of which is being used to repay maturing domestic debt, starting with N130 billion NTBs repaid on March 1. “The Total Public Debt (TPD) as at December 31, 2017, represents 18.20 per cent of Nigeria’s (Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for last year. This shows that Nigeria’s debt continues to be sustainable and is well within the threshold of 56 per cent for countries in Nigeria’s peer group,” Ms. Oniha stated. She assured Nigerians that the most important consideration for these borrowings was that the proceeds were being prudently applied to bridge infrastructure gaps occasioned by the decline in revenues. The figures showed that the DMS is achieving its objective of reducing the ratio of domestic debt in the portfolio, with a target of 60 per cent domestic and 40 per cent external. She said: “Our projection is that from two sources, the borrowing should be dropping in the medium term. The rate of increase will be much slower, and instead of borrowing 17-18 percent from the domestic market, we’ll do seven per cent from external sources.” Ms. Oniha said the government had to increase borrowing because the output and price of crude fell in 2014, which reduced government earnings and eventually plunged the economy into its worst-ever recession in 27 years.  Recession as a blessing in disguise  The government saw the recession which ended last year as an opportunity to widen its borrowing plan. There were approvals to borrow from the World Bank, African Development Bank (AfDB), Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA) and Export-Import Bank of China. The DMO has a mandate to facilitate access to the funds from the multinational agencies. The move came on the heels of an approval for a three-year external borrowing plan. The government’s plan was to raise about $5 billion from Eurobond market and multinational and bilateral lenders. Regarding foreign debt, the strategy is to borrow on non-concessionary terms for projects with self-paying capacity, and/or job creation potential, and on concessionary terms and grants for social sector projects. The Director-General of the West African Institute for Financial and Economic Management (WAIFEM), Prof. Akpan Ekpo, explained that budgetary allocations alone may be inadequate to finance the infrastructure deficit with dwindling oil revenue. Prof. Ekpo described the borrowing option the most viable; pointing out that Nigeria’s rebased (Gross Domestic Product (GDP) economy has given it the leeway to borrow more to bridge infrastructure gap. Ekpo said the government can also borrow internally to achieve the feat, even as he disclosed that internal borrowing is always short-term while external borrowing has longer tenor. Ekpo said the DMO has the capacity and constitutional role to advise the government on the available choices. “The World Bank rates are cheaper with longer repayment term. The DMO can also leverage on the Nigeria Trust Fund with the AfDB to get a better deal on the loans needed to fund developmental projects”, Ekpo said.  Between falling oil prices and borrowing  Nigeria has been grappling with economic crisis since crude oil prices dropped by about 43 per cent from an average of $100.35 throughout 2014 to an average of $65.20 presently. Specifically, the drastic fall in the prices of crude oil, which constitutes the largest component of the forex reserves has cut dollar earnings from about $3.2 billion monthly to about a billion dollar for the same period. Analysts believe that with the fall in crude oil prices, the government needs to borrow to support economic development, but the funds must be well utilised. Olakunle Ezun, a currencies analyst with Ecobank Nigeria, said the DMO works closely with the government to manage the national debts. He said although funds from the domestic bond market are more expensive than the international bond market, investing in the local bond market is also in the best interest of the economy. The FGN Bonds, he added, helps the government in the funding of its deficits in a non-inflationary manner while providing the benchmark yield-curve for pricing other securities/bonds. It also engenders rational management of government’s fiscal and monetary operations. Ezun said that the debts, if well-spent, will boost liquidity in the economy and investment in key sectors like agriculture and mining, among others.  Diversification to the rescue  As worrisome as the economic indicators may be, analysts described them as temporary and surmountable setbacks when the government’s policy on diversification of the economy begins to crystalise. According to them, after diversification, growth would no longer be determined by the prices of crude oil even as the country has been unable to exploit up to 25 per cent of opportunities in agriculture. They said: “We need to achieve internal food security and have the opportunity to export agro-based products in processed form. Imagine the variety of food stuff from savannah to the deserts, all the various legumes, roots and others that can be grown from these environments. “If we effectively exploit agriculture, if and as we are making progress in agriculture, firstly, the major consumer of our forex like agro-based raw materials, rice, fish, poultry, wheat, will be taken care of and government will save billions of dollars from these imports.” To them, the government’s ability to borrow from a domestic debt market also has some strategic value. Besides, domestic debt reduces the exposure of the country to exchange rate risks and the limitations of the size of foreign reserves. The independence, they said, lies in the country having the option to exercise the choice to borrow from internal sources, external sources, or a mixture of both. “Sovereign borrowing from the domestic debt market encourages the development of a functional bond market, with the scope to introduce different instruments, which will encourage the habit of domestic saving, intermediation and investment. Such a functional domestic bond market will be tapped by the private sector to raise long-term funds for investment in the real sector and infrastructure projects. Nigeria has developed a deep and liquid domestic bond market where funds of up to 20 years tenor can be raised,” they said.  Borrowing guidelines  By law, the government may borrow from the capital market, subject to National Assembly’s approval. The government at all tiers shall only borrow for capital expenditure and human development on concessional terms,” the DMO guidelines said. Any government, or its agencies, can only obtain external loans through the Federal Government and such loans must be supported by a Federal Government Guarantee. The guideline stipulates: “No state, local government or federal agency shall, on its own, borrow externally. State governments and their agencies wishing to obtain external loans shall obtain Federal Government’s approval-in-principle from the Federal Ministry of Finance.” However, the borrowing proposal must be submitted to the Ministry of Finance and the DMO for consideration. The proposal must state the purpose for which the borrowing is intended and its link to the government’s development agenda. It must also state the cost-benefit analysis, showing the economic and social benefits to which the intended borrowing is to be applied; cash-flow statements of the Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs), to ascertain their viability and sustainability. There must also be copies of the state’s executive council’s approval and the resolution of the State House of Assembly. Also, all banks and financial institutions requiring lending money to the federal, state and local government areas or their agencies shall obtain the prior approval of the minister of Finance and shall state the purpose of the borrowing and its tenor.  Govt bonds still get positive rates  The government last month announced that it priced its offering of $2.5 billion aggregate principal amount of dual series notes under its Global Medium Term Note Programme. The notes comprise a $1.25 billion 12-year series and a $1.25 billion 20-year series. The 12-year series will bear interest at a rate of 7.143 per cent, while the 20-year series will bear interest at a rate of 7.696 per cent, and, in each case, will be repayable with a bullet repayment of the principal on maturity. The offer is expected to close on or about 23 February 2018, subject to the satisfaction of various customary closing conditions. The country intends to use the proceeds of the notes for the refinancing of domestic debt. The notes represent the Republic’s fifth Eurobond issuance, following issuances in 2011, 2013 and two in 2017. The offer has attracted significant interest from leading global institutional investors with a peak order book of over $11.5 billion.  When issued, the notes will be admitted to the official list of the UK Listing Authority and available to trade on the London Stock Exchange’s regulated market.  The Republic may apply for the notes to be eligible for trading and listed on the Nigerian FMDQ OTC Securities Exchange and the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE). The pricing was determined following a series of short meetings and conference calls with investors. The Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, said: “Nigeria is focused on reducing the cost of our debt portfolio and ensuring we have the optimal mix between domestic and international debt. “The proceeds of the issuance, which would supplement the issuances we completed in 2017, will be used to re-finance domestic debt, which is high cost and short term, with lower-cost international debt, with a longer tenure. “We will have a range of Eurobonds in issue, encompassing five year, 10 years, 12 year, 15 years, 20 years and 30 years’ bonds, giving investors a full basket of options to participate in.” Commenting on the notes’ pricing, Ms. Oniha said: “With the successful pricing of our fifth Eurobond, Nigeria’s status as an Issuer of Eurobonds with a strong and diverse investor base has been further consolidated. “This time, Nigeria has priced a new 12-year bond at a yield of 7.143 per cent and a 20-year bond at a yield of 7.696 per cent, both of which are consistent in price with our existing portfolio. “I am particularly pleased that the issuance will enable us to refinance a portion of our existing domestic debt portfolio, with external debt at considerably lower cost, but also that the impact of the process has already led to a reduction in the cost of domestic borrowing, and so a double benefit for the cost of our broader debt portfolio. Lower domestic rates will also benefit corporate borrowers.”