It was a moment of joy and jubilation for the personnel and officers of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Bayelsa State. The beneficiaries sang and danced. Their efforts of risking their lives to protect the country’s critical national infrastructures particularly oil installations like pipelines did not go unnoticed by the Federal Government. In fact, 27 of them from grade level seven to 13 were elevated. Nineteen of them were promoted to the superintendent cadre while eight were taken to the inspectorate level. They had worked tirelessly and waited hopefully for their promotions. Indeed, they had reasons to celebrate. Therefore, in a brief ceremony at the state headquarters of NSCDC in Yenagoa, the promoted officers were full of appreciation for the gesture. The state Commandant, NSCDC, Mr. Godwin Nwachukwu, also rejoiced with his personnel. He congratulated them for their promotions describing their new ranks as deserving. “But this is a call for you to do more. Your new ranks have given you additional responsibilities. You have to show more commitment and work harder to justify your new ranks”, he said. Nwachukwu further asked others who are yet to be promoted to exercise patience and wait for their turn asserting that promotion comes from God. He, however, enjoin them to be diligent in their duties to the command. Also, the Deputy Commandant and Second-in-Command, I. C Chikere, who supervised the decorations of the beneficiaries, said the new ranks were added responsibilities. “To whom much is given, much is expected”, he said. Expressing his feelings over the development, one of the officers, Nnopu Chika, who was promoted from Deputy Superintendent of Corps (DSC) to Superintendent Corps (SC) pledged to justify her new rank through hard work. Also a beneficiary and Assistant Commandant, Uchechukwu Ofili, said he would deliver in any capacity. “The promotion has spurred me to a new level of dedication so i will not disappoint the corps or the Commandant-General. This is encouraging me to do more. “If the corps has chosen us to be decorated then it is expected that we should do more. The officers should wake up from their slumber, if they were not doing well before, they should do more now as the promotion is a form of wake-up call for them to perform better”, he said. 