The next generations of global leaders are up for an enormous challenge. The unemployment rate for young people between the ages of 16–24 is three times higher than it is for adults, with an estimated 71 million youth around the world looking for work in 2017. The needs are even greater among low-income and minority youth who encounter even bigger hurdles accessing education, skills training opportunities and jobs. This why LEAP Africa in collaboration with the Citi Foundation held its first roundtable stakeholders meeting themed ‘Significance of Mainstreaming Life Skills Education in Nigerian Secondary Schools’ last week at the Westtown Hotels, Lagos Nigeria. The meeting brought together 35 key stakeholders from the State Ministry of Education, Secondary Schools and youth focused NGOs to deliberate and share innovative solutions and intervention programmes that can be deployed to improve the learning outcomes for students in Nigerian secondary schools. The stakeholder meeting discussed the needs, approach, gaps, challenges and opportunities in the education sector with specific focus on Nigerian students from underserved or low-income communities. The purpose of education goes beyond acquiring technical skills, and that it is a powerful tool for changing the mind-set of children to live productively and ethically. Given the structural conditions that limit opportunities for social mobility, more can be done by educational systems in helping youth manoeuvre existing limitations and contribute meaningfully to society. The meeting opened with an opening address from Mr. Femi Taiwo (Executive Director, LEAP Africa) and Mrs. Lola Oyeka (Country Head of Public Affairs – Nigeria and Ghana, Citi). Their address reinforced the idea that the youth bulge provides an opportunity for the transformation of Nigeria through mainstreaming leadership and live skills training. The learnings from the discussion that will be deployed to improve the learning outcomes of young people in Nigerian secondary schools through the “Be the Change (BTC) programme.” Be the Change is part of Citi and the Citi Foundation’s Pathways to Progress initiative to prepare urban youth to thrive in today’s economy. Led by the philanthropic efforts of the Citi Foundation, and strengthened by the active involvement of dedicated Citi volunteers, the Pathways to Progress initiative supports programs that help young people build an entrepreneurial mindset, acquire leadership, financial and workplace skills, and begin to engage in the formal economy through a first job. BTC is designed to equip youth between the ages of 13 – 18 years with the leadership, life and employability skills required to achieve personal excellence, stretch their career ambition and help them transition into higher education, paid employment or profitable self-employment. BTC aims at reaching 450 students and 15 teachers in public schools in Lagos State from 2018 to 2019. The meeting moved for the adopting of best education/learning practices used in engaging young people. Unconventional methodologies such as video, dance, visual art, etc. are useful to improve learning and retention. It also highlighted how the Training of Trainer (ToT) model has worked and should be further encouraged to boost capacity of teachers. The group concluded that a broader perspective is needed in this discussion to drive policy where possible. It would be gainful to include participation of institutions such as the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) to such important discourse in subsequent stakeholder meeting.