Legal luminary and founder of Afe Babalola University in Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola (SAN), has urged well-meaning Nigerians to join him in promoting quality and functional education, industry, service and character as well as discipline in humanity. He said this would leave the society better than they met it. Babalola spoke yesterday at the brief ceremony that heralded the beginning of operation at the 400-bed ABUAD Multi-System Hospital in Ado-Ekiti, the Ekiti State capital. The eminent lawyer noted that if more well-to-do Nigerians channel their resources towards the establishment of quality universities and health facilities, there would be no reason for people to send their children to foreign lands for education or medical service. According to him, with the modern equipment in his nine-year-old university and the state-of-the-art equipment at his Multi-System Hospital, which was inaugurated on October 21, last year, the university has been rated Number One Private University in Nigeria by Webometrics, while the hospital has been primed to provide quality health care that would end medical tourism outside Nigeria. Babalola opened the doors of the hospital, which is managed by ABUAD and Aster DM Healthcare of Dubai, for a four-day procedures at discounted rates and free consultation from yesterday till March 24. He said: “I must make it clear that this hospital is open to everyone – the rich and the not-so-rich alike. We will run this place like we run our chambers where we handle the cases of the not-so-rich at minimal charges while those who can pay are made to pay. “In the short and long run, the rich and the not-so-rich will be happy. The rich will pay less than they would have paid going abroad for the same treatment, while we will be able to subsidise the cost for people on the lower rung of the ladder.” Those at the ceremony included Babalola’s wife, Yeye Aare Modupe; ABUAD’s Vice Chancellor Prof. Michael Ajisafe; his two deputies – Prof. Yekini Lawal (DVC Academic) and Prof. Smaranda Olarinde (DVC Administration); some members of the Board of Trustees (BoT) of the university; Dr. Gboyega Babalola, a member of the Governing Council of the university and the Catholic Bishop of Ekiti Diocese, Bishop Felix Ajalaiye.