The United Nations’ Children Fund (UNICEF) said malnutrition is on the rise among Nigerian children, especially in the Southwest. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes that proper breastfeeding with stable food can checkmate this trend. According to the United Nations’ Children Fund (UNICEF), malnutrition occurs when an individual does not get required nutrients from food. Children and infants are always at an increased risk of malnutrition. Children suffer from malnutrition as they need more energy and nutrients during their growth and development period. Malnutrition can have short- and long-term effects on children and infants’ health. Hence, it is important to know about certain types of food that help in prevention of malnutrition.  What problems does malnutrition cause?  According to UNICEF’s Nutritionist Specialist, Akure Office in Ondo State, Dr Ada Ezeogu, there are many side effects of not feeding well in children, especially wasting and stunting. Others are unintentional weight loss, tiredness and fatigue, muscle weakness, depression, poor memory, weak immune system, anemia, stunted growth, skin infections, hair loss, prolonged diarrhea and renal failure. “While stunting is a life sentence, wasting is a death sentence. Stunting, or low height for age, indicating chronic under nutrition is caused by long-term insufficient nutrient intake and frequent infections. Stunting generally occurs before age two, and effects are largely irreversible. These include delayed motor development, impaired cognitive function and poor school performance. Stunting is a failure to achieve one’s own genetic potential for height. It is a manifestation of the severe, irreversible physical and cognitive damage caused by chronic malnutrition early in a child’s life- often beginning before birth. While, wasting is low weight for length/height,” she explained. Dr Ezeogu said stunting is happening to 43.6 per cent of the estimated 40 million Nigerian children under the age of five (from an estimated population of 197 million) an estimated 17 million children in Nigeria under the age of five, have their bodies and minds limited by stunting. For Southwest, which has stunting rate of 19.4 per cent, the estimated number of under-five children stunted is 1.5 million. Childhood stunting is one of the most significant barriers to human development. According to her,  stunted children have suffered from chronic malnutrition early in their lives as a result of repeated infections, poor feeding practices and inadequate nutrition, which prevent babies and young children from getting the nutrients they need to thrive. “An estimated 20 per cent of stunting begins in the womb, with a mother, who is malnourished and is not getting enough nutrition she needs to support her baby’s growth and development during pregnancy. The effects of stunting last a lifetime. They include; impaired brain development, lower Intelligence Quotient (IQ), weakened immune systems and greater risk of serious diseases such as diabetes and cancer later in life. Stunting is almost always irreversible, but can be prevented by improving nutrition for women and children in the first 1,000 days.  Way out  Breastfeeding, Dr Ezeogu said is a sure way to defeat these conditions before six-months, while complementary feeding is introduced to complement the feeding from age six months to age two. “Breastfeeding short-term and long-term benefits are numerous. Short-term health benefits include fewer gastro-intestinal disorders and lower risk of sudden Infant Death Syndrome. There is also emotional bonding and loving relationship between mother and child. “Long-term health benefits are improved growth and development. Higher Intelligent Quotient (IQ). Lower risk of obesity. More emotionally secure. Improved cardio-vascular disease throughout life. Lower risk of childhood cancer (including leukemia) and a lower risk of diabetes. “Complementary feeding also has the potential to prevent stunting. Starting from six months, babies need other foods in addition to breast milk. Therefore, it is recommended to continue breastfeeding with complementary foods for up to two-years and beyond. Breast milk continues to be the most important part of the baby’s diet,” she said. To Dr Ezeogu, there are stable cereals and other foods that children can be fed with that are readily available in our communities. “When giving complementary foods, think about frequency of feeding, amount of food, thickness of the food, variety, active/responsive feeding and Hygiene. Not just feeding the child with pap, which little sugar has been added, but one can mix same pap with crayfish, millet and or groundnut. Having a nutritious diet is the key word,” said Dr Ezeogu. According to Family and Nutrition Director, Lagos State Ministry of Health, Dr. (Mrs) Folashade Folashayo Oludara, there is nothing as good as educating the public on how to feed a child effectively right from  the day of birth. Lagos State, she said, is advocating exclusive breastfeeding of babies without adding water, herbs or unprescribed drugs. Dr Oludara said it is only a healthcare giver that can recommend a drug for any child, adding that giving drugs like ‘Gbomoro‘ and others for teething are just not necessary. “Exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months is the gold standard and that is why the state government has allowed a six-month maternity leave for women. After this six-month, it is time to introduce adult food along breastfeeding the child in semi-liquid form. No need for tin or can foods “There are cereals, millets and corn that can be grinded with soybeans and dry-fish to get the powder form. After blending all these, store in a tight container. Thereafter, boil water and add the quantity that the child can feed on and stir. Let it boil and cook well. The food is ready. Feed the child with a spoon. The mother can also add egg,” explained Dr Oludara. She said when the family eats the child should be given some portion, “not removing from other peoples food, but the child’s portion must be prepared along with that of the family. That child is already a living being, who must be properly fed to forestall malnutrition, especially wasting and stunting”. “There should be consistent regulation of food. At 18months, the child can eat at the table. That will allow for monitoring of quantity of food intake,”she said. She upbraided mothers, who while eating push down some morsels into the child’s mouth. According to Dr  Oludara it is cheating and underfeeding the child. “A mother must give time to the child for proper feeding. When a mother is at home, the child should be allowed free access to breast-milk on demand, even while the mother is sleeping. The child knows how to lift the mother’s clothes and that is the sign for demand for the breast-milk. Children fed this way are always brilliant. Another point is to ensure proper breastfeeding. Some mothers are not patient. “When the child is placed on the breast, let’s say the child sucks for fifteen minutes, the child has only been fed with fore milk, which is majorly water. That goes for mothers with twins, triplets or quadruplet. So, when that child cries again he should be placed on the same breast so that he can now feed on the hind milk, which equates to solid food. And he will sleep well or play longer without disturbing the mother. Proper breastfeeding is an act that must be mastered,” she explained. 