As the World marks  the annual Glaucoma Week ,OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes that people should not take their vision for granted as eyes are among the most precious organs of the body. If one does not care about one’s eyes, one is at an increased risk of blindness. Before we get into specific nutritional factors, which benefit one’s eyes, it is important to address some of the dangerous lifestyles that can impact one’s vision. According to an iridologist, Dr Gilbert Ezengige, some natural, common-sense strategies that can help protect vision as one ages  include quiting smoking. Smoking, according to him, increases free radical production throughout the body, and puts one at risk for less-than-optimal health in many ways, including the risk of decreased vision. Caring for cardiovascular system High blood pressure can cause damage to the miniscule blood vessels on one’s retina; obstructing free blood flow. Dr Ezengige said one of the primary ways to maintain optimal blood pressure is to avoid fructose, as a research by Dr. Richard Johnson, chief of the division of kidney disease and hypertension at the University of Colorado, showed that consuming 74 grammes or more per day of fructose (equal to 2.5 sugary drinks) increases one’s risk of having blood pressure levels of 160/100 mmHg by 77 per cent. So, it is good to normalise one’s blood sugar. This is because excessive sugar in the blood can pull fluid from the lens of the eyes, affecting the ability to focus. And, it can damage the blood vessels in the retina, and obstruct blood flow. Eat plenty of fresh dark green leafy vegetables, such as spinach Studies have shown that a diet rich in dark leafy greens helps support eye health. And that those with the highest consumption of carotenoid-rich vegetables, especially ones rich in lutein and zeaxanthin, have increased vision health. Get plenty of healthy omega-3 fat A study published in the August 2001 issue of Archives of Ophthalmology found that consuming Omega-3 fatty acids protects one’s healthy vision. Unfortunately, due to widespread pollution and fish farming, fish is no longer an ideal source for omega-3 fats unless one can verify its purity. Avoid trans-fats A diet high in trans-fat appears to contribute to macular degeneration by interfering with omega-3 fats in one’s body. Trans-fat is found in many processed foods and baked goods, including margarine, fried foods like fried chicken and doughnuts, cookies, pastries and crackers. So, to protect the eyes, one must avoid trans-fats like the plague. Trans fat may interfere with omega-3 fats in the body, which are extremely important for the eyes’ health. A diet high in trans fat also appears to contribute to macular degeneration. Trans fat is found in many processed foods and baked goods, including margarine, shortening, fried foods like chips, fried chicken and doughnuts, cookies, pastries and crackers. Avoid aspartame Vision problems are one of the many acute symptoms of aspartame poisoning. Dr Ezengige said antioxidants are the greatest allies for healthy eyes. As the job of an antioxidant compound is to neutralise dangerous free radicals in your body, including your eyes. A few of the antioxidants that have been shown to be of particular benefit to the eyes include: Lutein, Zeaxanthin, Black currant anthocyanins, and Astaxanthin. These can be obtained in a health shop of repute. Lutein and zeaxanthin important for eyesight Dr Ezengige said Lutein and zeaxanthin are fat soluble antioxidnats, which are incredibly important for your eyesight. Lutein, which is a carotenoid found in particularly large quantities in green, leafy vegetables, acts as an antioxidant, protecting cells from free radical damage. Some excellent sources include kale, tomatoes, spinach, broccoli, brussels sprouts and egg yolks, particularly raw egg yolks. Egg yolks also have zeaxanthin, another carotenoid, in an equal amount to lutein. Zeaxanthin is likely to be equally as effective as lutein in protecting eyesight. It is important to note that lutein is an oil-soluble nutrient, and if one merely consumes the above vegetables without some oil or butter one can’t absorb the lutein. So, one must ensure  eating some healthy fat along with vegetables. Omega-3 fat supplement also good for eyesight A type of omega-3 fat called docosah-exaenoic acid (DHA) may help protect and promote healthy retinal function. DHA is concentrated in the eyes’ retina and has been found to be particularly useful in preventing macular degeneration, the leading cause of blindness. Omega-3 fats, including DHA, are found in tuna, herring, sardines, mackerel, flax oil and walnuts. Eating dark-coloured berries often also good In Nigerian super malls, one can also obtain different berries. He said the European blueberry, bilberry, are known to prevent and even reverse macular degeneration, and bio-flavonoids from other dark-coloured berries including blueberries, cranberries, raspberries and cherries are also beneficial. They work by strengthening the capillaries that carry nutrients to eye muscles and nerves. However, because berries contain natural sugar they should be eaten with walnuts and porridge to keep insulin levels low.