 Four-time British Olympic gold medallist Sir Mo Farah has raised alarm over racial harassment he received at the Muinich airport in the hands of Security personnel.  He uploaded his encounter with a security agent on in a video showing a security officer pushing him from behind The 47-second clip was streamed live on Farah’s Instagram account and then also uploaded onto his Twitter account with the caption: ‘Sad to see racial harassment in this day and age. 2018…!!! #airport #germany’ Farah was passing through the German airport as he returned to his training camp in Ethiopia. Although not mentioned in the video, Farah’s representatives said the incident occurred at Munich Airport. The clip begins with Farah apparently describing an unpleasant experience as he passed through security. Farah says ‘you won’t believe what has just happened’ and that he complained to the manager to no avail. He adds: ‘The guys were touching me up like crazy. Pure harassment. Pure, pure harassment.’ A security guard then walks up to Farah and begins to escort him away in the direction of the departure gates. Farah, who won the London Big Half on Sunday, was passing through Germany en route to his training camp in Ethiopia when the incident happened Farah says: ‘You don’t need to push me, I’ll go to the gates. ‘You can’t touch me. Stop pushing me.’ To that, the official replies: ‘I can touch you. Go to the gate, go to the gate.’ As he turns Farah around with a firm hand on his right arm, the athlete says: ‘Leave me alone’ and ‘You’re on Instagram live.’   The guard replies ‘I don’t care’ before walking away from Farah. Farah ends the clip by saying: ‘The way I was getting treated was ridiculous. You see all that guys? Unbelievable.’ Farah’s legion of social media followers left supportive comments after the video was uploaded. One wrote: ‘I love the way you handled it like a true champion.’ Another said: ‘Sorry Mo. No one deserves that experience! You personally handled that so well. This is one more reason why you’re a role model to so many.’ Some replies on Twitter questioned whether Farah had been the victim of ‘racial harassment.’ One user wrote: ‘I see harassment Mo, but I don’t see any racial element’ while another said ‘Where was the racism?’ But other users took issue with this. One wrote: ‘Comments here are rather sad. Black people constantly told ‘I didn’t see any racism’. It exists folk (even if you’ve not witnessed). Sad but true. Mo isn’t the kind of chap to fabricate or imagine.’ Another added: ‘He explained the racial incident happened before he started recording hence why he started recording.’ Farah edged out Kenyan Daniel Wanjiru in a sprint finish to win the inaugural ‘Big Half’ race in London. He is currently preparing to run the London Marathon next month and become the first British male winner since 1993. A spokesperson for Mo Farah said: ‘This afternoon, there was an incident at a German airport whilst Mo was travelling back to his training camp in Ethiopia. ‘Mo felt that the incident was racially motivated and that he was unfairly treated by the airport security staff.’ Munich Airport has been contacted for comment. This is not the first time Sir Mo has been the victim of alleged racism. In Christmas, he was attacked by racist trolls online after he posted a message of Christmas goodwill for his followers on Instagram.