The first rehabilitation centre for mental health patients has been inaugurated in Abuja. The rehab centre, Olive Prime, is a well-equipped, tastefully-furnished first mental health and drug rehabilitation 24-hour out-patient facility in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The design of the Centre was done by patients and clinicians. Wife of former Vice President, Hajiya Amina Namadi Sambo, and a former Senator Grace Bent were among the early dignitaries who inspected the facility. They both said the Centre which is the first of its kind in area of mental health and drug rehabilitation centre in the country would help in restoring the wellbeing of drug addicts and persons suffering from mental disorders. Mrs Sambo said drug abuse and mental ailments had been rampant in the country, especially in North. She added that her home state, Kano, is most notorious for drug and substance abuse in the region, and that many females are involved in the act. “As we are all aware, drug abuse or substance abuse is an issue now that is disturbing not only part of the North but the whole country, but it is saddening to say that the cases are more rampant in northern part of Nigeria, especially in Kano state; the state where I come from. We feel, as concerned citizens, we should all come together and see how we can arrest the situation. The most saddening part about it is the way the women are taking the drug, especially our young ones. I hope with such facility, they could come here and get desired attention they need,” she said. She said more of such facility should be built across the nation to assist persons with addiction to drugs and those who suffer from other mental health conditions. Mrs Sambo also called on the public and government to join hands together and stop the menace of drug and substance abuse in the country. A former Senator from Adamawa State, Grace Bent said public health facilities have failed Nigerians. “I don’t want to say that I’ve lost hope in the government health care system because this is very instructive for us today that the private sector is taking the bull by the horn because the government health care system has failed this country,” the former lawmaker said. She added: “Whether anybody likes it or not, when it comes to mental health care, it is appalling when you go to the (public) institutions. The private sector has taken it over. Nigerians must understand that it is not when you see people going naked that you say they have mental cases.  It will surprise you to know that 70 percent of Nigerians have mental cases, stress related problem, anxiety disorder, and depression. It is overwhelming. “Everybody is so afraid when you say ‘I am going to see a psychiatrist doctor.’ So many people are kitted, are well dressed. You will be shocked at their state of health. Their mental state of health is a disaster. So, Nigerians must wake up. You see a lot of people slump and die of stress-related diseases. You take them for all sort of tests, you cannot find anything… “I don’t have hope in Nigeria mental health care system. It is a disaster. It is only the private sector that is helping us. You have the consultants there. You have doctors that are sound…Our health care system is a disaster. Maternal health care system, mental health care system, everything is comatose. Nigerian government must wake up.” She expressed delight with the facility and said people in the country read meanings to visiting psychiatrists. Speaking on the centre, the former lawmaker said: “It is mind-boggling. It is out-of-the-box innovation on mental health care in Nigeria. It is a total departure from the usual one-angle perception on how you treat patients that have issue with addiction, mental health problem and so on. This is what you will liken to, in the world of beauty therapy, maybe like a spar, because it is going beyond what you call medical treatment for mental health cases. After the medical, what comes next? How does the patient continue to live a normal life? This is where you come to. And, it gives you a sense of wholesomeness. You are not seen as addicted to what you call medication. “In mental health care, you talk about, for example, depression. Depressed patients use anti-depressant. Here, you don’t have to. This place gives you a more natural way of coming through, pulling the addiction, pulling through anxiety disorder, pulling through depression. “It is not every patient that wants medication. With the machine I have seen here, it is a world-class setting, state-of-the-art equipment. Patient can come from all over the country, seek refuge, come here, get a whole feeling of wellness. Believe you me, this is the first of its kind in Nigeria.” Adedoyin Badejo, a Clinical Psychologist with the Centre stressed that the Centre is set to improve the physical, spiritual and emotional health of individuals and families affected by addiction and mental illness and to provide a bespoke service tailored to specific needs of every client utilising a unique evidence based, patient-centred approach, through outpatient care, education and counseling. ”We intend to provide support for our service ushers where we engage them in various psychological therapies and other complimentary activities which in the long term equips them with a more realistic and flexible form of recovery,” she said.