Will zoning play a major role in the Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary? Senior Correspondent OKUNGBOWA AIWERIE examines the preparation of the chapter for next year’s poll, the contenders, their strengths and weaknesses. Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC) is full of hope for a brighter future. The chieftains have returned to the drawing board. But, governorship aspirants on the opposition platform are divided by zoning. The contenders are mobilising for the party, ahead of next year’s polls. They have embarked on consultative visits to the nooks and crannies of the state to sell their manifestos. They bear messages of hope to their supporters. The aspirants include Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, Chief O’tega Emerhor, and Chief Great Ogboru. Some chieftains may still join the race as the elections draw near. But, can the APC spring a surprise? Can the party defeat the ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)? What is the chance of the party at the poll? According to observers, zoning will be an important factor during the contest. Will the party respect zoning in the state and concede the governorship ticket to a candidate of Delta North extraction? Will the APC throw the contest open for aspirants from the three senatorial districts? In Delta, zoning is a vexed issue. It reared its head at a meeting of Delta North APC chieftains. Following its resolve at a recent meeting at the country home of the Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachukwu, in Onicha-Ugbo, Aniocha North Local Government Area, the matter has become a divisive issue. Governor Infeanyi Okowa is from the North. In 2015, the PDP zoned the slot to the district. Since the governor is recontesting, APC leaders believe that his main challenger should come from the district. In its communique after the meeting, party leaders urged eligible aspirants from Delta North to make their ambitions known to the zone “at the earliest possible time.” According to them, “ from the inception of the Third Republic, the Central and South districts have successfully completed two gubernatorial terms and as a result, the right of the Delta North to complete its second term under the banner of the APC is only equitable.” They also resolved to “enlist the support of the other zones in Delta State to produce a saleable gubernatorial candidate of Delta North extraction”. Delta North appears to have the support of APC chieftains from Delta South. A source said the mood of Delta South APC leaders favoured a candidate from the North in the spirit of equity. During their meeting of March 4 at the residence of its chairman,Yemi Omaghomi,   Delta South leaders agreed to support Delta North governorship candidacy with the proviso that such a candidate will “do one term in line with extant power rotation in the state and allow the zone complete its two terms of eight years.” According to their communiqué, “Delta South APC notes that the request of Delta North APC is fair, just and equitable  as it guarantees all ethnic groups, particularly the minority ethnic groups in our dear state, fair access to the governorship seat of the state”. Some APC chieftains from Delta North extraction appear to have keyed into the idea.   Ojougboh, said he will abide by the resolution and serve for only one term, if elected as governor. But, some analysts said it is easier said than done. Ojougboh said his commitment one term is to give operative content to zoning, which will clear the path for the three districts to s complete two “gubernatorial tenures.” He said the arrangement should be preserved. Ojougboh is a former member of the House of Representatives from Ika Constituency. He is also a former PDP governorship aspirant.  He said his desire to contest the governorship election is borne out of a desire to rescue Delta State from the PDP’s misrule. Ojougboh said: “I want to make it clear that I am not contesting the Delta State governorship ticket just because I am from Delta North. I am not saying it must be me because I am from Delta North. I am not claiming superiority over anyone in Delta State. “I believe the APC must take power and all of us must make personal sacrifices, so that there will be change and if, however, you decide that I am capable and you elect me, I want to assure you that I will do only one term. I will not abuse the arrangement on the ground. I am a man of my words. I will do only one term.” Zoning is sacrosant in Delta PDP. The formula has guaranteed access to power to strong contenders from the three districts. Thus, the party believes that each district is entitled to two terms.  The implication is that Okowa will get the ticket unchallenged in the ruling party. The onus is now on the APC family to present a formidable contender from the North to compete for the number one position with Okowa next year. A leader of the party from Delta Central and former governorship candidate in 2015,  Emerhor, is is rooting for zoning. He is yet to declare his intention to run. But, during a consultative visit by Prof Pat Utomi to Evwreni, his country home, Emerhor said justice, equity and fairplay demanded that the ticket should be zone to the North. He said: “As an individual, I have decided along with committed APC leaders who really want change in Delta State that we will not do things the same way again this time because the opposition in Delta has not had this type of opportunity that is available to us today. “You will recall that in 2015, I ran for the governor of Delta State, and I still have the capacity to do that now. But, I took a decision not to run because the environment supports a different formula that excludes me, and that is why I am not out there consulting like others.” However, Delta Central APC has kept a sealed lip on zoning.  The fact that APC Delta Central has not publicly conceded the ticket to Delta North signifies a crack in Delta APC. Lack of agreement, according to observers, may spell doom for the party during the election. Although Ogboru, a prominent Urhobo politician from Delta Central, has not declared his intention to run, sources said he is eyeing the ticket. It is a life ambition for him. Sources said his ambition is causing disquiet in the party as he is unwilling to back down for anyone. Recently, chieftains of the party, including 22 local government chairmen and secretaries, converged on his Abraka country, Ethiope West Local Government Area, to unanimously endorse him as the sole candidate for the 2019 election. Despite Ogboru’s denial that the endorsement took place, many are wary of the antics of the charismatic politician A source said Omo-Agege, Richard Odibo, Ossai Abeh and others were present at the occasion. Reacting to the endorsement, the Coordinator, Light of APC, a pressure group, Ossai Abeh, said: “That is public opinion for you. The charisma and attraction of Ogboru to Deltans is well known the world over and what happened there was a tip of the iceberg and sample of public opinion.” However, the position of the Delta APC leadership is that it does not recognize zoning. Therefore, it will not champion the zoning of elective offices. The Chairman Delta APC, Mr. Jones Erue, also debunked the insinuation. He said: “We hereby make it categorically clear that our party has not zoned the governorship ticket to any zone, and has no intention to do so. “We are totally committed to and will strictly follow our party’s constitution in the choice of all candidates.” According to him, the party was averse to the zoning of any elective position because it breaches the party’s constitution. To further underscore the uncertainty and controversy over zoning, aspirants from the three districts have intensified their consultations and mobilisation, ahead of the primary. The aspirants-Ojougboh, (Delta North), Prof Pat Utomi (Delta North), Ogboru (Delta Central), Osiobe Okotie (Delta Central), and Emeka  Nwandiani (Delta North), andVictor Ochei (Delta North)-are not leaving anything to chances. The battle for the 2019 govrnorship ticket in Delta Central appears to be between forces who want political control  in 2019 and those who want to wait till 2023 elections, when it will be the “turn” of the Delta Central, going by the existing rotational or zoning arrangement on ground. 