The battle line is drawn between Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha and Senator Ifeanyi Araraume. The governor has anointed a successor. But, the senator, who is eyeing the seat, is kicking against it. Who blinks first? Correspondent Okodili Ndidi writes on the succeession battle in the Southeast state. Imo State Governor Rochas Okorocha and Senator Ifeanyi Araraume have resumed their hostilities, ahead of the governorship primary of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The rivalry may create crisis for the party, unless the national leadership intervenes to avoid doom for the platform. Araraume wants to succeed Okorocha. But, the governor has a preferred candidate. The senator is asking for a level playing ground at the primary, which he believes Okorocha cannot guarantee. The two have been locked in antagonism for a long time. But, they mended mences during the 2015 general elections when dumped the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), following the alleged manipulation of the governorship primary in favour of the former Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon Emeka Ihedioha. Araraume helped the APC, a party he had dumped earlier to win the election in his Okigwe Zone against the PDP. Shortly after the 2015 elections, the two political heavyweights became friends and as predicted, Araraume teamed up with Okorocha. In appreciation of the role played by Araraume in his re-election bid, Okorocha appointed his son, 30 year-old Ifeanyi Ararume (jnr) as a commissioner. To many observers, the appointment of the ex-senator’s son was a settlement meant to compensate him and dissuade him from joining the governorship race in the future. However the relationship later turned sour. Okorocha and Ararueme are strange bedfellows. Both went their seperate ways last year. The first sign that the relationship was heading for the rock was the removal of the senator’s son as a commissioner. Sources said the  senator rejected the re-appointment of his son, following the dissolution of the State Executive Council, to drum home the point that he was not placated by the appointment.  Instead, Araraume expected the governor to reciprocate the support he gave him during his re-election by supporting his governorship ambition. Okorocha had told party chieftains that he will support the  senator for any other political office, except that of the governor. But,  Araraume had remained resolute on his ambition. In Imo politics, Araraume enjoys a rich and enviable followership, an advantage he has always used to scuttle the plans of his party whenever he is denied or robbed of the governorship ticket. The battle line between him and Okorocha is drawn. Following the governor’s blunt refusal to support his ambition, Ararume is gathering his armies. The senator is even being supported by some members of the governor’s camp. The last straw that broke the carmel’s back was Okorocha’s endorsement of his Chief of Staff and son in-law, Chief Uche Nwosu, as his successor. This has rekindled the anger of the senator against the governor. Why they fell apart: Many believe that Okorocha and Araraume fell apart because of the governor’s refusal to support the senator’s ambition to achieve his age-long dream of governing the state. Araraume has been a victim of several betrayals in the past. Some people believe that Okorocha has a pact with Araraume to hand over power to him at the end of his tenure because of his earlier support for his re-election bid. But, no sooner has the governor got a second term than he stunned the senator with his declaration that anyone above 5o years will not succeed him in 2019. Araraume believed the age ceiling was targeted at him. He is in his late fifties. He wanted the governor to shift grounds, but without success. An adamant governor advised Araraume to return to the Senate, promising to support him. But, the senator is unperturbed. He summoned his loyalists, most of who were serving in the Okorocha administration. He directed them to pull out of the governor’s camp. Since then, the duo have been locked in endless diatribe. Irked by the confrontation, Okorocha  swore that Araraume will never succeed him. The governor’s supporters also denied any succession pact between him and the senator. However, they acknowledged that Araraume was among party stalwarts who contributed to the governor’s campaigns in 2015. Apprehesion in APC: The face-off between Okorocha and Araraume can be best described as the war of two elephants, which makes the grass to suffer. The APC is bearing the brunt of the clash, which has polarised the party to the extent loyalists of the   governor and the ex-senator have become sworn enemies. Some members of the State Executive Committee of the party are allegedly on the payroll of the senator. Sources said they no longer  attend meetings convened by the  chairman, Dr. Hillary Eke, who is perceived to be the governor’s staunch supporter. The governor was accused of plotting to sack those loyal to Araraume in the committee before the recent elongation of their tenure by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. The tenure extension was wildly celebrated in the senator’s camp as a boost to  his ambition. The fear of party leaders is the antecedents of the senator, who often works against his party whenever he loses at the primary. Although the governor had reassured the APC family that the party will do better without joiners like Araraume, but his strength cannot be ignored.  He contributed to the electoral misfortune of the PDP during the 2015 polls. OKorocha’s counter-plan: Okorocha is not being ignorant of Araraume’s style of politics. He has set up many  structures that are continuously serviced across the state. The governor is mobilising and empowering many youths who are active players in the electioneering process. The governor has also ensured that key positions are given to those who can deliver the party in their respective areas. A statement by the governor’s Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Sam Onwuemeodo, dismissed Araraume’s threat as inconsequential. He said the party is aware of the senator’s antics, adding that he will be contained. Despite these assurances, observers believe that the APC will be facing the battle of its life in next year’s elections, if the governor and the senator are not reconciled.