Seid Oshiomhole is the younger brother of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole. He is an aspirant for the House of Asembly. The politician from Estako West Constituency spoke with Osagie Otabor, on his ambition and other partisan issues. Why is the Edo State APC celebrating its victory at the local government polls that were boycotted by the PDP? The election went well. It was peaceful and calm. There was no fight and no trouble. The APC did very strong campaigns. The campaigns helped them to do proper awareness. They make the people to know the party is much on ground and committed to  the people. The PDP has a choice. It is their right to withdraw. The legislature has the right to their jobs. If we say whatsoever the state legislated is not good, it is as good as saying the state parliament has no job. We have to be very careful for issues we push for selfish interest. PDP has no capacity to match APC in Edo. Despite the economic problem which was caused by the PDP. People are not well briefed that the problems did not just start. The APC has made people to understand that governance is not for party but for the people. PDP are taking issues so personal because they felt they supposed to remain in power. They took their chances when they were in power, they never believe Nigerians can react. Why are you aspiring to be a member of the House of Assembly? I think it is my right to contest. I have a right to contest. I have a right to develop interest. I have not formally made any declaration, but people have said they needed me. I know I have what it takes to represent Estako West. But, your critics said you should step down because your elder brother is a former governor. Is that a constitutional matter? We must not allow personal interest to over rule our constitution. Even, if Adams is my father and he is a sitting governor, I have the right to be his deputy. If he is my father, I have the right to deputise for  him, but nobody questioned the fact that for the eight years Adams was governor, why were his siblings were not appointed or elected into offices. People always have interest. My aspiration should not bother anybody. All they need to look at is the constitution. We have to respect our constitution so that the system can be comfortable for us. It is high time we understood that the constitution is supreme. Whatever policy we are making should be constitutional. If we, as Adams family, were not interested yesterday and today, I know I have something to offer, I have the right to make contributions to good governance governance. What new thing are you going to offer to the people? The situation determine what to legislate. When we get there we should be able to know what to do. How do you feel when the PDP said your brother, Adams Oshiomhole, did not do well in office? How can they just wake up and say somebody did not do well? In our school days, they will specify the areas you did not do well but you see somebody going  to the media to say he did not do well. Those are personal interest. Oshiomhole made Edo people to understand that governance is not just about party celebration. I remember in the past, a state Governor will celebrate a three classroom building built by SUBEB. The community will cook but if you look at the level of construction you will see poor and substandard materials being used. The Governor will not be ashamed to commission such building all because he feels he is helping an individual. Did Edo people know that SUBEB can afford to build quality schools before the coming of Oshiomhole? We thought then that whatever a Governor does is not questionable. Oshiomhole personally supervised projects whether he has Commissioners or not. He made sure specifications are adhered to. The style of leadership in Edo has changed today. People should appreciate him because of that. He live with the people. He is never far away from the people. Oshiomhole was assessable and available and committed. Edo people will appreciate Oshiomhole in the future. We only appreciate people when people have exited. We are seeing Godwin starting well and we pray he takes Edo to a high level. 