The Beauty of Africa International Pageant (BAIP) has flagged off its campaign for 2018 with the theme, ‘Ambassador for tourism, peace and friendship’ at a recent press conference at their office on Allen Avenue, Ikeja, Lagos. In his speech, Kenneth Ighodalo, PR/Marketing Consultant to BAIP, said stakeholders should take advantage of the pageant to promote their goods and services. “BAIP’s 12th edition promises to be explosive as it is in partnership with the Federal Ministry of Information and Culture,” he said. “As expected, this year edition, will attract an audience of more than 20 million persons, at the pre-event, press conferences, camping and grand finale which will play host to the crème de la crème of the corporate world, top government personnel, showbiz gurus, celeb, brand owners, top models, fashionista and all credible stakeholders that matter in the industry. The grand finale is scheduled to hold on October 6th 2018, at Shell Hall, Muson Centre, Lagos.” Speaking, Mr. Daniel Opuene, President of BAIP, said: “Registration is officially open to all young Nigerian women who are between the ages of 17 to 26 years of age” at www.beautyofafricaint.org for registration.” Opuene said BAIP aims to align pageantry in Nigeria with global trends, attract investment and improve the local content of the Nigerian modelling industry and disclosed that screenings would take place in Abuja on July 14, Edo State on July 18, Enugu on July 21, Port-Harcourt on July 25 before berthing in Lagos on July 28. He said the star winner gets a brand new car, a cash prize, one-year wardrobe allowance and represents Nigeria at the Miss Tourism International 2019 finals while the first runner-up gets a cash prize, wardrobe allowance and represents Nigeria at the Miss Supranational 2019 finals. The second runner-up also gets a cash prize, wardrobe allowance and represents Nigeria at The Miss Globe 2019 finals while the third runner-up gets a cash prize and represents Nigeria at Miss Tourism Queen of the Year International 2019 finals and lastly, the fourth runner-up gets a cash prize and represents Nigeria at the Look of the Year 2018 finals. The winner and runners-up also get a one-year modelling/marketing contract.