THE increasingly crowded field battling to replace Ayodele Fayose as the next governor of Ekiti State, just received a different kind of aspirant. Almost all who have indicated interest in the governor’s seat have been male, now a new female challenger has tossed her hat into the ring. She joins the likes of Dr. Mojisola Kolade of the All Progressives Congress (APC) who has formally declared interest. In the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Biodun Olujimi’s posters have been sighted around the state  although she is yet to formally state her intentions. But real estate consultant and media entrepreneur, Princess Oluwatoyin Aladejana of the Aladejana royal family of Iworoko-Ekiti, is leveraging on more than her gender to make a case for suitability for the office of governor. The businesswoman who is aspiring on the platform of Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) has this to say about her aspiration in a piece titled ‘A Heartfelt Proposal to My Beloved Ekiti’: ‘I do have aspiration for that section of Nigeria called Ekiti. You may enquire: “What manner of aspiration does she have?” My simple answer is this: I aspire to see a certain kind of Ekiti. New;  Reborn;  Prosperous; Peaceful… And that is just the beginning. The vision is as clear as daylight before my eyes. Yes, I do aspire for an Ekiti of my dreams. I long for an Ekiti that is purposefully optimistic, solution-persuaded and courageous; an Ekiti that will not relent until her people attain spiritual, social, economic and psychological fulfillment. I picture an Ekiti of decently-grounded folks, tempered by a deep sense of responsibility towards the success of our collective, phenomenal heritage; with patriotic individuals who would therefore seek after her good, and only her good. I desire an Ekiti of intellectual achievement “firsts”; a state that maintains her cerebral soundness: that replicates the kind of brainy unassailability which caused the late Chief S. L. Akintola, Western Nigeria’s Deputy Premier in the heady First Republic, to acknowledge and assertively proclaim in the midst of his political campaigns that: “O ba di’we EKITI O ka o…” Translation: Par adventure a human being transforms into a book, the Ekiti indigene would read that individual.” I dream, yes, of an Ekiti where unemployment and lack are viewed as the inconveniences of our distant past, because the comparative advantage in natural and intellectual resources have been effectively harnessed; enabling each local government to be an independent economic hub that is self-sustaining –  by providing trading opportunities, employment and commercial prosperity to her immediate environment. This economic reality will be achieved through well-thought out public-private partnerships with patriotic, indigenous investors and their foreign partners. Igbemo Ekiti then becomes the incontrovertible rice milling and distribution center of Nigeria’s South-West, and her neighboring nations. I see a fountain of knowledge that encapsulates Igbole as the “Silicone Valley” of Sub-Saharan Africa. The irrefutable hub of innovative inventions and ever evolving brilliance… In truth, who could put a price tag on Ekiti life, or measure her ingenuity in fiscal terms? Our mind, our spirit, our imagination, our overall worth is priceless. We are fearfully and wonderfully crafted by God Almighty! We keep evolving in indisputably, superior leaps and bounds. We are unstoppable! I aspire for an Ekiti where the rule of law conscientiously subsists as the “Rule of God;” A place where her people can boast of stability in every facet of the life… administration in, and administration out.  After all we only change administrators not the constitutionally enacted systems… An Ekiti that fearlessly elects her own leaders without pecuniary considerations, but rather with patriotic zeal, integrity and love – knowing that the fate of generations to come depend on the quality of the choices they make. An Ekiti where love triumphs over all prejudices, where God’s limitless grace, our unconditional affection for one another, and zealous cooperation cause us to rise victoriously above our daunting challenges O! What delight it would be to live in an Ekiti that recognizes the futility of pointing accusing fingers at the failings of our leaders, but rather embracing their strengths, however minuscule; remembering that these great men and women, practically put their very own existences and that of their families on the line to ensure that our interests as “Ekitians” are substantially served. I fully subscribe to an environmentally conducive, bountiful Ekiti; whose luxuriant soil defies drought, desertification, and famine. The Ekiti with an unending row of trees set to capture harmful carbon dioxide, leaving us with wholesome air to breathe. I envision the awesomeness of living in an Ekiti where even a toddler understands the life redeeming benefits of recycling and, therefore, practices it as he tosses his empty coke can into the neighborhood recycle bin. How refreshing would it be, waking up to an Ekiti whose lush and lofty hills have become the majestic domain of sky high windmills with rotational prowess’ that call forth electrical power; to behold a “Fountain of Knowledge” where The Creator’s solar that keeps humanity warm is transformed by technology into energy that powers the day and illuminates the night. I could go on… Mere dreams? Not likely, if we can promptly snap out of our apathy and take the bull by the horns. If we can embrace with fierce urgency the needs of Ekiti now! How? By taking our own destinies in our hands. By firmly and decisively grasping the fast approaching relay baton from the hands of professional rogues masquerading as politicians and proceeding with precision to determine the sustenance of our prestigious heritage. Finally, precious folks! I propose a resounding toast to an Ekiti whose latter day glory far exceeds the former – in reach, depth, width and length. Ekiti a ro wa l’orun; ni oruko Jesu! Amin.