Highly experimental and unpredictable. A Disguise that gets movie lovers wondering how far one would go to sort after facts that lie in the ambitious curiosity of a never ending quest for knowledge. We in the hood, the Crithood found this subject matter quite interesting. Sadly, it requires more than an average thinker to get past the surface of this story. A Desmond Elliot film that gives an impression of a Renaissance Man of our time, highly in pursuit of intellects that explains human behavioural patterns in relation to the opposite gender. Hypothetically, uses the supposed scientists as a lab rat, without his knowledge, to satisfy a quest, that literarily opens a new chapter for society on the pages of a book. How far it goes, gets you thinking about how the human society cannot be paralleled to a single ideology, as the saying goes different strokes for different folks. An almost standard production, that clearly was executed on a solid budget, but reflects a failure in terms of professionalism. The director understood to a large extent the implication of this story and tried to the best of his ability, to lightly interprete a somewhat complicated subject, playing on exaggerated comic actions.  Some will refer to this technique as amateurish, using phallus as a tool for laughter, in a means of treating a rather philosophical issue on an ideological basis. The actors did not do so badly. The attempt at interpretation of these characters took a total transition specifically for the male and female lead characters, which is quite commendable. Only, it was noticed a number of times, some involuntary break out of characters; most especially as regards consistency in the ‘supposed’ American accent. The locations were smartly chosen and used. The picture is definitely quality, as shots were mediocre. The editing was a let down at some point during the course of the movie, as lip sinking was terribly done in a couple of scenes. Costuming was quite commendable. It could have been a standard movie, if some errors were avoided. The story of Disguise is certainly not the most popular in Nollywood, as the manner of presentation could be possibly difficult to achieve, in terms of the basic requirement of professionalism in portrayal of the disguise of the lead characters. Surprisingly, didn’t do so bad in the aspect of makeup that forms the premise for the story. A potential story, different and funny, engaging but eventually lacks a level of clarity that propels a state of confusion in the mind of an average audience, who battles between having an understanding of the story, as it is being told on the large screen and eventually reconciling the conclusion with an everyday reality as opposed to the realism. At the end of it all, this story lets you give a personal meaning to this subject, expressed in a script that attempts to mirror society from an artistic angle; which tried to effectively portray the psychological implication of the generic individuals at certain positions, as against the opposite gender. This was perceived as a level of prejudice mostly for the male gender over the feminine gender, as truly this is not far-fetched from the case of the present reality of society. However, our verdict does not encourage the perceived gender prejudice, as it may be misunderstood by many, seeing that the movie allows an opinionated freedom to its audience. A promising storyline, an average cinematography, bad editing, above average acting, impressive makeup and costuming, an overall average movie that could have been a standard production if professionally treated. It is quite interesting to see and funny too.