 18: Ederson called into action to come out and deal with a long ball over the top towards Hazard. The goalkeeper does well to flick it away from danger. 16: Chelsea are continuing to play four in midfield when they don’t have the ball, which is most of the time. Hazard is having very little impact on the match, he’s only had one touch. 14: CHANCE! Chelsea overplay in their own box and almost get caught out. It’s Fabregas who loses the ball with a pass backwards that’s cut out by Sane. He plays it inside for Aguero, who drives across goal and then shoots, but it’s blocked 12: SHOT! Sane has a swing at a low cross from the left but doesn’t make a good connection and drags the shot well wide. City yet to create a clear chance. 11: City are so comfortable in possession that Ederson wanders out midway inside his own half to get involved in a move. There’s no Chelsea pressure on the ball high up the pitch. 9: Pass, pass, pass. City continue to probe and press, looking for a way through. Chelsea are holding a decent shape though. 7: This game has started in similar fashion to Chelsea’s recent clash with Barcelona in the Champions League. Chelsea are sitting back, getting everyone except Hazard behind the ball and letting City enjoy most of the possession. 5: David Silva looking lively in the early stages as he drifts outside Fabregas in the box and pulls back a cross which Courtois dives out to claim. All City so far. 3: Not what Chelsea want – De Bruyne in space around 30 yards out and with time to turn. Fortunately for the visitors his ball through for Aguero is well cut out by Azpilicueta 1: And we are off. Chelsea in all blue, City in sky blue… FIRST HALF Pre -match Analysis See team news below for Today’s Super Sunday Premier League clash at Etihad. Chelsea plays away against title leader Man City The match goes live by 5pm local time.  Team to play Man City: Courtois, Moses, Rudiger, Christensen, Azpilicueta, Alonso, Drinkwater, Fabregas, Willian, Pedro, Hazard Subs: Caballero, Morata, Giroud, Zappacosta, Cahill, Emerson, Chalobah  Team to play Chelsea: Ederson, Walker, Laporte, Otamendi, Zinchenko, Gundogan, De Bruyne, D Silva, B Silva, Sane, Aguero Subs: Bravo, Danilo, Kompany, Stones, Jesus, Toure, Foden WHAT’S AT STAKE? With Manchester United not in action until tomorrow, when they face Crystal Palace on Monday Night Football, City can go 18 points clear at the top of the table with a win today. Results yesterday did not go in Chelsea’s favour as both Tottenham and Liverpool won. Antonio Conte’s side are now five points behind fourth-placed Spurs and seven behind Liverpool. 