The Director General of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Brigadier General Suleiman Kazuare has said that government Ministries, Departments and Agencies should not reject Corps Members posted to them as this violates the government. The DG stated this during the 2018 Corps Employers Workshop at the Education Resource Center in Abakaliki. He also warned that the scheme will not spare any Corps Employers or other persons aiding and abetting absenteeism and abscondment from service by Corps members. According to him, efforts at curbing absenteeism and abscondment is being frustrated by some Corps Employers stressing that this would no longer be tolerated by the scheme. “Let me remind you that a susbsisting circular from the Federal Government Ref: No: SGF. 15/T/ 90 dated 13th November 2008 which directs that Government Ministries, departments and Agencies (MDAs) should not reject any corps member posted to them”. “We have increased the number of regular inspection of Corps Members at their places of primary assignment while ensuring that absentee Corps Members are sanctioned. The scheme will not spare Corps Employers and other persons who may be found liable in aiding and abetting absenteeism and abscondment from service by Corps Members.” Kazuare who was represented by an Assistant Director at the National Directorate of NYSC in Abuja, Mrs. Grace Ugo Enege urged government establishments and corps employers to make budgetary provisions for the welfare of corps members rather than rejecting them. He also disclosed that the scheme have recorded great success in the online registration and clearance of corps members stating that this have further stemmed evasion of service and other unwholesome practices by the corp members. In her address, the Ebonyi state NYSC Coordinator, Mrs. Illuebbey Regina said though Ebonyi is very hospitable to corps members, more still needs to be done by Corps employers as part of their sacred obligation to create a conducive environment for the cops members to enable them render selfless service to the country. It is a known fact that corps members are adequately motivated, they perform excellently well in their duties. In view of the forgoging, it is also necessary to remind ourselves that corps members being mostly non-indigenes in the state of service need and deserve bountiful hospitality from their host communities to optimally discharge their duties. She said that the challenges of evasion of rejection, under-utilization and evasion of service need to be tackled for the improvement in the delivery of youth based intervention. Commissioner for Youth and Sports in Ebonyi state and State Chairman, NYSC Governing Board, Charles Akpu-Enika called for punishment of employers and officials who conspire to cover up corps members who are not on ground. “This ugly trend has negated the principles and practice of the service year as a platform for graduate Nigerian youths to offer one yearof unbroken selfless service to the Nation. I do hope sincerely that this is no longer the case as it is an aberration which must not be condoned”