Sweet Sensation Confectionery, Nigeria’s foremost quick service restaurant is rewarding its customers in this Easter Season. The restaurant has unfolded a harvest of thrills, frills, fun, food and assorted gifts for customers who visit the outlets this Easter Season. In a press statement signed by Emeka Ugbogu, head marketing, Sweet Sensation, the company stated that the 2018 Easter customers reward fiesta tagged ‘Easter Pick an Egg and Win’ promo is planned in conjunction with her Partners; Coca Cola (Nigeria Bottling Company PLC); a Multinational Beverage Corporation and UAC Nigeria PLC; a leading indigenous Brand in Food, Beverages and Real Estate Services. The statement noted that for Sweet Sensation’s customers and visitors beginning from Saturday March 31 to Monday April 2, there will be mouth-watering instant gifts. The three-day fun-packed, Easter Egg Pick and Win fiesta is scheduled for ten selected Sweet Sensation Confectionery outlets in Lagos and Abeokuta. The outlets are Ibara in Abeokuta (Ogun State), Festac 22 Road, Festac Apple Junction, Egbeda Akowonjo, Abule Egba, Ogba, Alagomeji, Ifako, Ketu and Ikorodu.  And to participate in the promo, customers should visit any of the selected outlets and buy from the wide range of Sweet Sensation’s mouth-watering and healthy meals worth N5000 and above plus a minimum of Two Pet Coca Cola drinks. “The excitement builds up as the Customer proceeds to pick an egg from the 15 colored eggs displayed on the counter. Any pick is a winner and the customer is rewarded with an instant prize. The selected outlets will feature popular DJs showcasing music of diverse and popular genre; to cater for the preferences of Sweet Sensation’s customers. There will be discounts on Ice Cream and other purchases as well as loads of freebies; Sharwamas, Cakes, Candies, Chocolates, free Face Painting for Children and other side fun attractions. “Sweet Sensation offers satisfaction and well-being through her wide range of healthy meals, pastries and free meal delivery services. To appreciate her customers; a series of promo events featuring customer reward schemes is held especially, during festive periods. The Easter Pick and Win Promo is another of such engaging, customer-centric reward schemes in appreciation of her customers’ loyalty and patronage,” it stated. The restaurant, therefore invites all customers and fun lovers to visit any of the selected Sweet Sensation outlets for the “Easter Pick an Egg and Win” promo or visit other Sweet Sensation outlets for an Easter fun time experience of great meals, pastries, cakes and ice creams at affordable prices and assorted freebies.