Experience was handy for Segun Toriola in his narrow 3-2 escape against Algeria’s Sami Kherouf in the group stage of the ITTF Africa Top 16 Cup holding in Nairobi, Kenya. From the start of the match, Toriola was in charge but things turned out the other way as the Algerians fought back to match the former African champion. Not ready to succumb to the Algerian, Toriola pulled some tricks against his opponent to win the encounter at 3-2 to the admiration of the Kenyan fans. “I am yet to understand the atmosphere in Nairobi because the high altitude is really affecting the balls. You cannot do any stroke because it can go out so you just have to be careful whenever you are playing your strokes. I must confess that it has not been easy for any player in this competition because the altitude is affecting the movement of the ball, so you have to play with caution,” he admitted. The seven-time Olympian however commended his opponent, saying, “I could remember he gave me a tough time in Morocco last year but I am sure he knows that he met a strong Toriola today. I was really ready for him but the altitude did not really me to play to my best.  I am sure any player that wins the competition will count himself lucky because it has not been easy in terms of the altitude.” Unlike Toriola, Edem Offiong was not that lucky against Algeria’s Lynda Logrhaibi as the former African champion fell 3-2 to the North African. From the start of the encounter, it was clear that Offiong was not in the game as she made several unforced errors to give the Algerian a 2-0. But the Nigerian rallied back to level up at 2-2. In the fifth game, it was as if the game was going in favour of Offiong but things turned around for the Algerian to end the encounter at 3-2. An excited Algerian lady told NationSport after her cherished victory, “I thought that beating Edem will be an impossible task for me because I have never beaten her in our previous meetings. But today, I was calm and relaxed because I had nothing to lose if she defeated me. I was just playing and enjoying myself. So beating Edem today is like defeating Oshonaike or Meshref because she is one the best players in Africa. I am so happy because this will motivate me in this competition,” Logrhaibi said.