In recent years, the nation has witnessed a recession in the fortunes of our education. The sector witnessed stunted growth caused by many man-made factors. When it became obvious that there is a failure in the standard of education, the society pointed fingers at teachers, policymakers, curriculum formulators and government for the poor delivery of knowledge, wrong policy and poor funding sector. While the nation is yet to proffer solution to the misfortune that hit our education, home-grown terrorist organisations have become another factor threatening development of education. Our schools have become the target of mindless violence by people using terrorism to achieve selfish objectives. For many years, terrorism was an alien word in sub-Sahara African countries, especially in Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroun. In the past eight years, bloodthirsty criminals have perpetrated large-scale carnage reminiscent of terrorist acts Vice-Chancellor (VC) of carried out in the Middle-East and the Western countries. In 2014, schoolgirls were abducted in their sleep in Chibok in Borno State, weeks after secondary school boys were brutally killed by Boko Haram members in Buni Yadi, Yobe State. Since rescue operation was slow, the nation was awash with reports that the girls were either married off by the terrorist group or sold into slavery elsewhere. Some of the schoolgirls were trained to kill or become suicide bombers. In the wake of these heinous attacks, the entire schools in the Northeast of Nigeria hurriedly closed down in fear of being attacked. Primary, secondary and some tertiary institutions had to close down indefinitely. Schools that are considered vulnerable to attack in other parts of the country took precautionary measures. Government and the people in the troubled region fought tooth and nail to ensure terrorist attacks on schools stop, but the situation has not changed till this moment. Terrorism does not only cause social injury to the society, it also thwarts the rights of humanity to a dignified existence. In a clime where terrorism reigns, there is no freedom of movement, free speech, education, liberty to life and happiness. More so, under international law, a crime against humanity is an act of persecution or any large scale atrocities against a body of people and is the highest level of criminal offense. On February 19, 2018 when the government was still making effort to get the outstanding Chibok schoolgirls out of the Boko Haram’s den, a replica of Chibok abduction played out in Government Girls Science Technical College in Dapchi, Yobe State, thereby bringing the country backward in its fight against terrorism. This heinous act has sent fears directly to school children, their teachers and administrators, drawing back the progress of education. The money which the government is supposed to use to fund education is being used to fight terrorism. Therefore, education has suffered under the current democratic dispensation more than any previous republics. Terrorism has threatened the government and kept the citizens on their toes, looking for a way out. Crimes similar to terrorism pervade the nation daily, while the repercussions of not addressing it stare us in the face every day. Assassinations, hired assassination, hostage taking, religious extremism, cultism, armed robbery, arson, herdsmen attack etc are other forms of crimes that have stunted the growth and development of our education. For us to have a stable education that will be beneficial to young people, they must be holistically addressed by the government. As observed by Hajia Aisha Alkali Wakil, the Federal Government and the National Assembly need to probe incessant abductions and the source of Boko Haram’s funding. The police must curb the proliferation of firearms and illegal weapons. Soldiers need to be stationed at vulnerable schools to stop attacks on education. Man’s inhumanity to man must be nipped in the bud for us to have a truly egalitarian society. 