In line with the theme for this year’s International Women’s Day, #PressforProgress, the founder of Amede Ajie Women Of All Ages Foundation (AAWOAAF), Princess Ezinwa Calista a Canada-based Gender Activist, has raised her voice against sexual harassment, sexual abuse and called for women empowerment on social media and in her weekly column, ‘I stand with girls,’ published in Imo State-based Horn Newspaper. She does so to encourage women to speak out and take action to improve gender equality, self-reliance and self-confidence. Responding to an email, Calista who lives in Canada shares her story with Chinyere Elizabeth Okoroafor. As a child, Princess Ezinwa Calista, was sexually, emotionally and physically abused by her relatives, people she trusted would protect her. And for a long time after, her concept of love was shattered. As a teenager growing up in her hometown Oguta in Imo State, she couldn’t understand what love was and how she was supposed to respond to love. “As a survivor of past abuse, I experienced difficulties falling in love, trusting men and relationships with others,” said the 47 year old Canada-based Behavioural Therapist. “These difficulties influenced badly on my relationships with partners, friends, family members and it extended to my children at a time. “I have never fallen in love before so I don’t notice when someone loves me naturally because people I believed would protect me as a girl child failed me. And this attributed to the reason why I dated married older men for some kind of security.” Feeling unloved and not being protected by her own family made her withdrawn without anyone to mentor her as she made mistakes. “Practically not being loved and protected by your own family can be hugely destructive to anyone’s sense of security and short-circuits all the positive messages and skills parents are supposed to be instilling in their children,” said Calista. “I was self-reliant from a very young age and most of what I know about life I taught myself, I didn’t have mentors and no one to rely on. Most of the mistakes people make in life can be generated from lack of good parenting and supportive environment.” Six months after Calista wrote her West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) exams at Oguta Girls High School, Oguta, Imo State, she became a mother at age 17. She was ostracised by her family and friends and had no means of income. She recalls handling the ups and downs of life as a teenage parent as difficult. “Many challenges I faced were people’s judgmental attitudes and continuing my education,” she said. “I needed family support and planning so I can overcome these challenges but it wasn’t there. I did not get any counselling or financial support as it’s applicable here in Toronto, Canada. I struggled to give my child enough attention. I was worried about getting a job so I can feed and provide for her and finding a job in my town was hard as well as finding affordable child care or nanny.” She narrated further. “I was so lonely and I completely forgot about my friends because I felt none of them loved me. As a teenage mother, I didn’t have much of a social life. I couldn’t relate to my old friends anymore and the things they talked about me were horrible. I was always with my daughter, going to bed at 8:30 pm and getting up at 6am to do house chores and be with my daughter.” When her daughter turned two years, Calista was recruited into the Nigerian Custom Services in 1991. She said working and raising her child as a teenager was her hardest challenge. “In truth, though, I think I was a great mom, and I know that my daughter is crazy in love with me. I don’t support teenage pregnancy because that is when a child should be learning and developing herself academically and mentally. But if it happens, parents should please learn to counsel and motivates that teenager. Because when a child is loved, educated and protected, he or she would make better choices and would face less negative challenges in life.” Princess who holds a Diploma certificate in Developmental Service and a postgraduate certificate in Behavioural Science is also optimistic about the development of Nigerian girl-child. Having been a victim herself, she believes that creating awareness of the ills of abuse in the lives of Nigerian girls will go a long way in curbing it as well as making mothers pay more attention to their children. “Child abuse happens almost everywhere in our society and it is easily overlooked,” said Calista who founded AAWOAAF in 2014. AAWOAAF educates and inspires mothers and girls via workshops to take leadership roles in gender equality at community level and beyond. It has empowered widows financially, supported less-privileged women and supported some girl children educationally in Oguta Imo state. “The girl child abuse should be taken seriously because of its adverse effects to the girl and the society. I know the trauma of abuse will dramatically affect a child’s ability to learn and commonly presents itself as behavioural difficulties in the classroom. It breaks my heart to see misunderstood students disengaging from school and failing through cracks just because of their circumstances. Children only know what they see, so we need to show them that there are other paths to take in life. To break the cycle, I’m sensitizing and inspiring many abused girls that they are not alone by empowering them to make positive choices and strive for a better future.” The ‘I stand with girls’ columnist who has chosen to be a champion of her gender talked about the importance of mothers to always protect their children as well as living good examples. “Based on my life observations while growing up, mothers should try to give cognisance to their female children as well as the male so that they can feel love and recognize love when they find one. Protect them by not exposing them to Uncle James and John. Parents should try to leave an exemplary life because good parenting and a supportive environment has the most significant impact on children’s overall well-being, academic success, and social behaviour.” According to Calista, AAWOAAF is set to embark on a financing a skill and trade training for women and youths in Oguta LGA soon.