Senators are under attack following the revelation by Senator Shehu Sani that a senator collects a monthly allowance of N13.5 million apart from a salary of N750, 000 per month. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the implication of the jumbo pay on the nation’s economy and the integrity of the National Assembly. NIGERIANS were outraged by the revelation that each senator takes home the sum of N13.5 million per month as running cost, in addition to the consolidated monthly salary of N750,000. The revelation made by Senator Shehu Sani, who represents Kaduna Central in the upper legislative chamber, has triggered widespread anger among Nigerians, who had always criticised the lawmakers for their selfish interests. A number of eminent lawyers and human rights activists have described the jumbo salary and allowances senators of the senators as outrageous, when compared with what their counterparts in other climes earn. They said the lawmakers are insensitive to the plight of the people they represent, who are mostly living in penury. They agree that the basic salary of the senators is modest, but say their allowances are outrageous and cannot be sustained by the Nigerian economy. Such analysts commended Sani for having the courage to make public the monthly emolument of his colleagues. The senator representing Kaduna Central said divulging the information on the lawmakers’ salary and allowances “is a moral issue”. He regretted that the National Assembly was being run with little accountability about how the money is spent. He said: “The National Assembly is one of the most non-transparent organs of government. It pricked my conscience and I decided to burst the bubble and open the National Assembly to public scrutiny.” He called for the scrapping of what he described an illegal payment, so that the National Assembly would be attractive to people who can contribute ideas. The salaries and allowances of the National Assembly members have been a subject of debate over the years. Sani’s revelation remained the first by a lawmaker from the Senate, since the clamour for a full disclosure of lawmakers’ earnings started. Irked by the bogus allowances received by senators, Second Republic lawmaker, Dr Junaid Muhammed, castigated the federal lawmakers for what he described as insensitivity to the general feelings of the populace, with their opulent lifestyle which is at variance with the economic situation in the country. Mohammed said: “It is unfortunate that the leadership of the country is now in the hands of people that have no feelings for the common people. They think of themselves and their families; they fix horrendous salaries and allowances for themselves at the expense of majority of Nigerians who can hardly afford a meal per day. This disproportionate allowance being paid senators is unacceptable.” He recalled that the jumbo pay for lawmakers was introduced by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) under former President Olusegun Obasanjo and that it was upheld by the Umaru Yar’Adua presidency and sustained by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. The Second Republic lawmaker said: “The PDP has monetised politics in this country; the elective offices are meant for the highest bidder. That is why people of integrity are very scarce in the National Assembly. The country is being blackmailed by these jokers in the National Assembly. None of them have done any serious job in their life. I pray there should be a revolution to clear all this mess and let’s see how many of them can survive it.” The Kano-born politician regretted that the 1979 and 1999 Constitutions empowered members of the National Assembly to fix their salaries and allowances. He added “It was a mistake that the constitution allow the lawmakers to determine what they earn. In a normal society or matured democracy, you don’t allow members of the legislature to fix their salaries. “In a civilised and rational society, the nation pays the people including lawmakers, based on the content of the service rendered and what the nation’s economy can afford. There is no justification for the outrageous salaries and allowances fixed by them. When the economy nose dives, the normal thing to do is to cut down the expenses and plug all the leakages in the system, so that the nation does not go bankrupt. The solution is that we should allow Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission (RMFAC) to fix the salaries and allowances of all public servants, including the lawmakers. “The constituency project is a conduit pipe for siphoning public funds. The lawmakers collect money for doing nothing; they collect allowances for oversight functions. It is unfortunate that what we have in the National Assembly today are people who are only interested in personal aggrandisement, rather than creating dividends of democracy for the people that they represent.” The way out, Muhammed said, is for the country to adopt part-time legislature. His words: “The constitution mandated both the upper and lower chamber of the legislature to sit for at least 108 days. The amount of work could have been done within three months. Already our lawmakers have been operating on part-time basis. They meet two or three days in a week; they go on recess for months. The job content does not require full-time legislators.” A senior lawyer, Malam Yusuf Ali, said there was no justification for the jumbo allowances collected by the lawmakers, because it was out of tune with the economic realities in the country. He said the allowance is insensitive, considering Nigeria’s minimum wage. Ali argued that there is nothing to justify the outrageous pay in a country where average Nigerians earn less than five dollars a day. He said if the economy is buoyant, it’s a different ball game; but morality and common sense demand we should do things in line with acceptable standard. “There is no reason we should add to the cost of governance,” he said. The lawyer said: “Even if there was no mass unemployment and if the economy were buoyant, such allowance was totally unrelated to our circumstances. It is very insensitive.” The legal luminary appealed to the lawmakers to have empathy for the common people. His words: “You can’t be on part-time and still earn this stupendous money.” However, Ali disagreed with the idea of part-time legislature, saying that plenary sessions is just one aspect of their duties. He said lawmakers hold committee meetings and carry out oversight functions. What is important is that our legislators’ earnings should reflect the state of the ailing economy, in the interest of the majority who are living in penury.” Lawyer and human rights activist, Mr. Monday Ubani, condemned what he called the ostentatious lifestyle of the National Assembly members. He said it is unfortunate that those elected to protect the interests of the people are insensitive to their plights; adding that they are feeding fat at the expense of the majority of Nigerians who struggle to have a meal in a day. Ubani said: “We can’t continue with this jumbo pay earned by senators and their counterparts in the House of Representatives. It’s time for us to take action and put an end to this mess that is making us a laughing stock in the comity of nations. Some of us may likely challenge it in the court. “I can’t imagine a person carting home N64 million apart from the basic salary every three months, simply because he’s a senator. The economy of Nigeria cannot sustain the greed of the members of the National Assembly who constitute less than 0.05 per cent of the populace.” Ubani agreed with the suggestion of part-time legislature. He said: “Already, they are operating on part time basis; they meet three days in a week. How many of them attend plenaries? What we see on the screen every time is empty chairs in both chambers. Our economy cannot sustain the flamboyant lifestyles of these senators. We should do away with one of the chambers.” But the Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Ogun State chapter, Alhaji Sikirulah Ogundele, did not see anything wrong with the senators fixing own salaries and allowances, adding that the senators invested a lot of money to win their elections and they must find a way of recouping their investments. “The bane of our democracy is that elections have been monetised,” he said. Ogundele advised the electorate to always cast their votes for people of integrity. He said: “They should look for those who are acquainted with their problems; retired teachers and principals would serve them better. These are the people that can accept a take-home of one million naira, rather than the moneybags who have no interest in serving the people. Until we start considering the credibility in electing our representatives, the moneybags will continue to dominate the National Assembly. Someone that is used to extravagance lifestyle will never change.” Lagos lawyer and activist, Mr. Femi Falana, said the unearthing of lawmakers’ jumbo pay should provide an opportunity for Nigerians to review the entire costs of governance. He said the Buhari administration owes the nation a duty to ensure that no political office holder is paid salaries and allowances that have not been approved by the RMAFC. He said Section 70 of the 1999 Constitution empowered the RMAFC to approve the salaries and allowances of the legislators. He regretted that the commission had never exercised this power by questioning the payment of the unauthorised salaries and allowances to federal legislators. Falana said the time was ripe for government to stop the jumbo salaries and allowances of federal lawmakers. He added: “The Buhari administration owes the national duty to ensure that no political officer is paid salaries and allowances that have not been approved by the RMAFC.” A legal practitioner, Mr Jiti Ogunye, said Senator Sani’s revelation has confirmed the long-held fears of Nigerians that their legislators are the highest paid in the world and that they have been short changing the people. He said: “They are not expected to use that elevated position to serve their own interest at the expense of public interest. They are not expected to allow their selfish consideration to override their commitment to abiding by the law.” To a student activist, Mr Uche Ejiofor, the bogus allowance drawn by the senators clearly show that they were not representing the people. He said: “I had always ignored the speculations about the legislators pay, but the fact that the revelation came from one of them and it has been confirmed by the Senate’s spokesman made me to believe that the federal lawmakers are living in a different world.” Ejiofor said the senators have confirmed that they are not on the same page with the executive in the quest for prudent management of resources and efforts towards economic recovery. He recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari and his deputy, Professor Yemi Osinbajo at the inception of this administration announced a 50 per cent salary cut as their sacrifice towards economic recovery. He added: “I had expected members of the National Assembly would follow suit, because the ruling party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), has majority in both chambers of the National Assembly.” He said the outcry wouldn’t have been if the legislators have been living up to the expectation of their constituents. He said Nigerians no longer see the lawmakers as people who are representing their interests. He said: “The people are angry, because they have not been getting a fair deal from the lawmakers. Nigerians must demand a review of the lawmakers’ allowances. We have not been getting a fair deal from our legislators. If a single person will be earning that kind of money in a country where the minimum wage is N18,000, something has to be done. We must insist on a review of this jumbo pay.”