Ini Dima Okojie is an actress, fashion enthusiast and former investment banker. The energetic lady is motivated by everyday activities. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she takes you into her world, some challenges encountered and others. WHAT inspired you to go into acting? I have always been intrigued by the art of acting; the fact that I get to assume a character totally different from who I am, which is quite interesting. I must say that acting affords me the opportunity to live someone else’s life and experience their reality for a brief period is quite a kick. Acting is such a thrilling experience I tell you. Let’s talk about your recent experience with The Royal Hibiscus Hotel It was a good experience; an awesome story well told and I got a chance to do what I love doing, alongside some of my colleagues and friends in the industry. What excites and motivates the things you do? On a personal level, I like to stretch myself. Whether it is learning a new skill, language, and acquiring knowledge, I am open to new experiences. Let’s talk about some memorable moments in your life and career A defining moment for me as a person was finding the courage to quit investing banking in 2013 and enrolling at New York Film Academy. That set the tone for my journey and everything that I am today. My defining moment as an actor was when I took on the role of Hadiza in ‘North East’. Taking on a northern character challenged me, it made me push myself, it allowed me find the balance of making bold choices but still with a subtle delivery. It also had with it lessons on culture, a different belief and a peek into the mind(s) of what happen s on the other side of the divide and how as different as we are, when we come together and blur the lines on the many things that ‘divide’ us, we create a beautiful symphony in unity. Playing Teniola Bhadmus on ‘Battle Ground’ is also a defining moment for me. The entire filming experience is different from anything I’ve ever done. Being on a daily show, you have to rely on your first instincts, everything moves very fast, it challenges me every day, and that’s the beauty of it. What are some of the challenges you’ve encountered? One of my biggest challenges was breaking into the industry. You hear a lot of Nos…I was eager to share what I had and put all of the knowledge I had acquired from film school into use. I was ready to work, and here I was faced with seemingly insurmountable obstacles, but that didn’t stop me. While I wasn’t working, I kept working on my craft and myself. As an actor, you never stop learning, you never have enough experience. How do you cope with them? When I did get an opportunity to work, no matter how big or small the platform, I threw my entire being into it. I was ready and I was ready to be even more ready. As an actor in this industry and as a growing industry as a whole, we’re faced with many challenges from available platforms from content to distribution. However, that resilient Nigerian spirit keeps you going; I never took ‘No’ for an answer. Who or wha t do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? What are some of the other things that occupy your time? My mother is the greatest influence in my life. She is instrumental to the drive that I thankfully possess. She gets me! I’m not afraid to share my dreams and aspirations with her. I remember being almost scared of telling her I wanted to veer into acting from investment banking. Surprisingly, she was and is still very supportive; she would make sure I was speaking to the right people as well as get the right training etc. She epitomises the strong African woman. Till date, if she sees an opportunity that will help better my craft or feels it is information I need regarding work, she will call my attention to it. Let’s compare when you started acting and now, what has changed? Let’s call it my growth process. I would say my growth process has been an interesting one; I’m constantly amazed by the characters I am offered; holding myself to a particular yardstick personally and professionally; meaning, asides myself, I have mentors and a team who advise me on how well or not I am doing professionally. The characters I choose to interpret in projects I’ve taken on over the years are a testament to my growth as an actor; being able to enmesh myself and unravel the character, whether as Hadiza in ‘North East/ Skinny Girl in Transit’ or Melissa in ‘Entangled’ or even Farida in ‘On the Real’, have all helped to give me direction and inspiration for the things that I do. What are some of the changes that you would like to see in the sector? Good question! From an actor’s standpoint, I will like to see more platforms and channels available to showcase and present the work thespians put in. I will like to see the necessary infrastructure in place to ensure the industry thrives. I will like to know we are operating in an enabling and not stifling environment. I will like to see things work and of course we all know that the pay can always be better. But from experience, we will have to get to a point where the ecosystem aligns to accommodate all these wonderful things. What is your definition of style? Style is what brings out your best self! What you’re comfortable in and what makes you feel great. There are two iconic quotes from equally iconic designers that typify my thoughts on what style is; “Dress shabbily and they remember the dress; dress impeccably and they remember the woman.”- Coco Chanel and “Fashions fade, style is eternal.” By Yves Saint Laurent What are some of the items that you treasure most in your wardrobe? Ah…that’s a tough one; there are several items that I treasure, from Fablane by Derin pieces to jewellery gifts to my most comfortable slides. There is just too many to mention. How do you relax? I am a foodie; so I love to go out and eat. And now that I am trying to make healthier choices when it comes to my diet, it has been even more interesting discovering ways to enjoy food the healthy way. What are some of the principles that you hold onto? Put God first in all you do. Never take ‘No’ for an answer and be the best in whatever you find to do. Hard work, determination and dedication are very important if you want to make it and stand out amongst your peers. The truth of the matter is that nothing good comes easy. The more you work hard at it, the better it becomes and in the process it actually becomes a way of life for you. Let’s talk about the people you admire and role models I am inspired by RMD’s consistency in the business. He is someone who has remained relevant in the industry for over three decades; that is something that sets him apart. I also admire Beyoncé’s drive. I have followed her career through the years and some of the things that stand out are her drive, her work ethics, how she constantly is pushing herself, experimenting with her music and not afraid to live her best life (smile). If you had to advise young people, what would you tell them? Don’t be afraid to dream, and don’t stop at just dreaming, do everything you can to make it a reality. What dreams did you have growing up? Growing up was very interesting and exciting for me. I attended Air Force Primary School and Air Force Comprehensive School for my elementary and post-elementary education respectively. I later went to Covenant University where I studied international relations. Upon graduation, I became an investment banker. I have always been good with numbers and finance so I found myself in an investment banking firm called Cardinal Supreme Partners. I worked there for a while. I have always nursed fantasies of becoming an actor since I was a child but I never thought that it was a realistic goal. I just wanted to go to school and secure a corporate job. After some time though, I couldn’t resist the passion again so I started looking for film schools that I could attend. It was a very tough decision to make because I was leaving certainty for uncertainty. Did your parents support the idea? I was initially very worried about telling my parents what I wanted to do, because I didn’t know how they would receive the news. The first person I told was my mother and she promised to support me. On his part, my father was also supportive, even though he was a bit skeptical at the beginning. I later quit my job and went to the New York Film Academy to study. I came back to Nigeria in 2014 and that was how this journey began. Looking back now, I am glad I took this step and there are so many potential in the sector that I would really love to explore. I come from a very close-knit family and I am the last of four children. I have always gravitated towards the arts since I was a child but I was also quite reserved. I was a little shy and it’s really ironical and funny that I am acting now. My childhood was really full of fun and I thank God for my family.