The National Judicial Council (NJC) yesterday named 60 new judicial officers, including two state Chief Judges, for 25 states of the federation. The two chief judges are Justice O.O.Akeredolu (Ondo State) and Justice Yakubu Gyang Dakwak (Plateau). Other appointees approved at the council’s just concluded 85th meeting in Abuja are: Justices Danladi Muhammed, Fatima Ahmed Tafida and  Bulila Ladukiya Ikharo,all of the Adamawa State High Court; Bassey Bassey Nkanang and  Uwem Freedom Ibritam, both of the Akwa Ibom High Court;Josephine Mbayan Ayua (Benue High Court); Imelda Etope Bassey, Obo Awusa Obo and  Emmanuel Ubua Agianpuye, all of the Cross River State High Court; Dafe Celestina Idise , Egwu Joe, Okorodas Anthony Ezonfade, Ideh Blessing Adaoleh and Edun Ajueyitsi Joshua, all of the Delta State High Court. Other new judges are:Justices Irobosa O. A. Omotosho and Aigbona T. Momodu, both of the  Edo State High Court; Kabiru Ibrahim Ahmed and Isah Muhammed Bargaja (Sokoto State Highj Court); Adamu Muhammed Kafin-Madaki (Bauchi State High Court); Joy Lynda Chiama Okibe, Veronica Chinyere Ajogwu and Esther Nnenna Nkechi Alukwu (Enugu State High Court); Musa Kyari Kachalla and  Karima Bulama Yusuf (Yobe High Court); Emeka Samuel Nri-Ezedi and  Obiora Azuka Nwabunike (Anambra High Court); Onwosi Uwabunkeonye (Ebonyi High Court); Pinheiro Yetunde Rukayat, Ogunjobi Olukayode Ola and  Soladoye Abiola Oladunni (Lagos High Court); Augusta Uche K. Chuku and  Ollor Godwin Osaronu (Rivers High Court); and Kabiru Umaru and  Habibu Mikalilu (Zamfara High Court). Eleven Kadis were appointed for State  Sharia Courts of Appeal as follows:Dr. Bala Musa (Jigawa); Sa’idu Usman Muhammad, Mohammed Lawal Omar and  Mustapha Sani Saulawa (Katsina); Oniye Adebayo Mas’ud (Kwara); Kasimu Yusuf and  Umar Liman Abdullahi Sifawa (Sokoto); Muhammad Shehu Turawa Shinkafi and  Kabir Muhammad Hafiz (Zamfara); Muhammad Sani Randale and  Usman Abdullahi S. Kudu (Kebbi). Also appointed are  Customary Court of Appeal judges as follows:Abimbola Ayodeji Olatunji-Daniel, Abdul Ganiyu Tajudeen Muhammad and  Oyafajo Mikail Afolabi (Oyo State); Legor Torbira Senewo, and  Onyiri Frank (Rivers State).