 Experience cannot be bought in the market and only those who have it can share it. That is the best way to capture assignment given to Super Eagles and Arsenal forward Alex Iwobi to share his thoughts on what it means to be an Arsenal player with new teammates Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang and Henrikh Mkhitaryan Mkhitaryan swapped Manchester United for Arsenal in a sensational swap deal involving Alexis Sanchez while his former Borussia Dortmund team-mate Aubameyang quickly followed him through the Emirates Stadium door. It usually takes a while for new players to bed into their new environment but Hector Bellerin and Alex Iwobi have made sure they settle into life in north London. Bellerin and Iwobi ask the new boys what the fans have been singing about them and they respond by flexing their vocalchords. The quartet then jokingly discuss who has the worst dress sense with right back Bellerin teased for his flamboyant style while Aubameyang also explains why he wore a white fur coat to a Dortmund game back in February 2016. Their discussion then turns to the players’ WhatsApp group where midfielder Mohamed Elneny is shamed for constantly sending messages. Iwobi then names Danny Welbeck as the biggest joker when it comes to sending banter in the messaging group. They then explain who the club’s biggest rivals are with the duo highlighting games against their London rivals as the ones to look out for – with Tottenham given special attention. The video ends with Mkhitaryan and Aubameyang learning London slang with ‘peak’ (bad), ‘peng’ (nice) and ‘madting’ (crazy)all explained to the January additions. Arsenal who have had a rough ride in recent times losing back to back to Manchester United, will be hoping wake on the right side bed on Thursday when the Gunners face AC Milan in the first leg of their last-16 tie in Italy. Arsene Wenger’s side then hosts the Italian giants at the Emirates next week. Aubameyang is ineligible to play in the Europa League but Mkhitaryan is available for selection.