Students from some tertiary institutions in Edo State gathered for a fashion show held at the University of Benin (UNIBEN). The show was organised by Evol Entertainment to promote entrepreneurship and fashion among youths . EZEKIEL EFEOBOKHAN (Pharmacy) reports. University of Benin (UNIBEN) was literally shut down on Friday when Evol Entertainment – a subsidiary of la Evol de moi – held its yearly fashion show on the campus. It was the sixth edition of the event with the theme: Healthy You. The show was sponsored by Nature Field Makers of Healthy Multivitamin. By 3pm, lecture halls were empty and hostels deserted as UNIBEN students and their colleagues from neighbouring institutions, such as Benson Idahosa University (BIU), Igbinedion University, College of Education, Ekiadolor and National Open University (NOUN), among others, trooped to the UNIBEN Indoor Sports Hall to witness what was described as the biggest fashion show in the institution. Security and protocol officers had a hectic time controlling the crowd trooping into the hall. At 5pm, the show started and the hall was filled. In his address, the chairman of Evol Entertainment, Dr Agogbuo Chigbo Joshua, said the show was initiated to promote youth entrepreneurship and also to provide a platform for youngsters to pursue their talents in fashion designing. He said the show offered a platform for young fashion designers operating from campuses to showcase their products to the world. Agogbuo praised members of the UNIBEN community for their “unflinching support” since the show was initiated five years ago, noting that many students had leveraged the platform to launch their fashion designing talents. He urged well-to-do individuals and the government to support the show by investing in the fashion industry. He said the fashion sector had the potential to generate gainful employment for youths. The show began with top fashion designers showcasing their products. Tete Clothing opened the stage with its classic African collections paraded by elegant models. Mck Daisy followed suit with its collections of stylish outfits. Its parade wowed the audience; the crowd screamed intermittently as photographers scrambled to capture the moments. Mac Topaz Clothing, owned by a UNIBEN alumnus, enthralled the audience with its collection of neatly-sewn Agbada (flowing gown) and other traditional attires elegantly presented by hefty guys. Other fashion designers that paraded their collections included Mrak A, Gee Collections, Thieves Fashion and 20Collections, among others. The show ended with a display of Clyopatra and Kings Collection by Clyde Harris. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, Phillip Obinna, a 500-Level Medicine and Surgery, hailed the organisers for the “epic show”. He said: “All I can say is that, the show is the best ever held by Evol Entertainment. I witnessed the previous edition, but I can confirm this is the best held so far.” Also, Clementina Iredia, a 300-Level Theatre Art student, said: “I am happy to have attended the event. I initially thought it would be boring, but this edition proved to be the best held so far. There couldn’t have been a better way to relax than to be at the fashion show.”