The Chairman and Chief Executive Officer  of Communication Trend Limited (CTL), a cable network service provider, Uzo Udemba, has said Nigerians  are honest people to do business with. Udemba spoke at the company’s third dealer award ceremony during which he handed over a Mercedez Benz utility van to an authorised dealer in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. He described Nigerians as God-fearing, straight-forward and trustworthy, and that the population of the bad ones was insignificant. He said this understanding followed his 25 years’ experience in business. Udemba said: “One thing I have learnt in business is that when you trust Nigerians they will trust you; when you give them good service, they will reorganise you. In Nigeria, we are not people who do not do things correctly, the bad ones are not too many. Majority of Nigerians are very trustworthy. “Our 25 years  journey in the provision of  pay TV service has made us to understand that truly majority of Nigerians are God fearing,  straight forward and can be trusted, and again if you serve Nigerians well they will trust you and do business with you.” He disclosed the plan by the company to empower all her dealers through capacity building in decoder installations,  servicing and programming to enhance their cable network business. He said added:“The the company has mapped out plan to empower it’s team of distributors beyond giving out vehicles to them. “We are working out a scheme to have you trained not just in installing decoders but also in servicing them as well as in programming, so you can understand how decoders work and function.” He noted that the company has already secured a federal government’s licence to build decoder assembling plant in the country. The construction for the facility will soon begin in Rivers State. He assured distributors that the company would ensure they did not lose out in the new phase of the company, stressing that the welfare and business growth of their distributors were paramount to the company. 