A few days ago, the Maritime Academy of Nigeria, (MAN), Oron hosted two strategic and supervisory arms of the government as part of its bid to structure and reposition the premier maritime training institution for global competitiveness. Edet Okpo reports. With words of commendation and strong vote of confidence by the National Assembly and Governing Council of the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron in Akwa Ibom State on the Rector, Commodore Duja Emmanuel Effedua (rtd),  there is no doubt that the Academy is set for a new dawn. In the last one week, the academy  hosted two strategic and supervisory arms of government, with each coming with lofty packages aimed at reinforcing the Federal Government’s determination to fast-track processes towards holistically restructuring and repositioning the premier maritime training institution for global competitiveness. On Wednesday, March 13, members of the newly inaugurated Governing Council, led by their Chairman, Chief Ademola Seriki, were at the academy on what he described as ‘’inaugural visit/facility tour and familiarisation with Management staff”. Conversely, the aim of the five-member Council comprising renowned maritime experts, technocrats and seasoned civil servants of high professional and patriotic pedigree, was to enable members see things for themselves and unveil their template of action in tandem with government’s blueprint. On, Friday, March 16, the House of Representatives Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration also came to the academy. The committee’s visit, on the other hand, could not have been said to be inaugural. According to Hon. Mohammed Bago, who led the committee, it was its “statutory oversight and supervisory functions over the Academy that fall under its duties”. It is on record that the committee has been visiting the academy almost quarterly. But last week’s visit, as Hon. Bago put it, was “to ascertain  to what extent the directives given on previous visits were complied with the what changes or new developments may have occurred since the last visit, and to deliberate on prevailing issues with the Rector as well as scrutinise his programme of action”. The volume of generous commendations freely poured on Commodore Effedua by the visitors were clear indications of how proactive, capable and meticulous the Rector has been in practically interpreting the Federal Government’s template  and other stakeholders for making the academy an attractive global brand. The rector has not only changed the hitherto dull physical outlook of the academy, but has utilised his leadership and administrative acumen in either adjusting or overhauling some internal processes that previously hindered productivity directly or indirectly. This is surprising because Commodore Effedua was a member of the defunct Interim Management Committee commissioned to develop modalities upon which the academy shall operate. The two inspection visits in one week simply conveyed the message on how committed and determined the Federal Government and stakeholders are about transforming the academy into a world class institution. It would be recalled that the Federal Government had last year engaged the services of an Interim Management Committee to fine-tune modalities for the needed changes  the academy required and thereafter made recommendations to the government. It is, therefore, gladdening to see how well the Rector understands the recommendations and how soon some of the best results have started to come. With what Chief Seriki saw during the visit, he expressed deep satisfaction on the state of some facilities in the academy and maintained that the institution stands a chance of becoming a global competitor if the needed changes were made in all ramifications and fast enough to let the impact be felt. He, however, stressed that attention must be given to obsolete equipment in some professional departments, such as marine engineering workshop, and nautical science. “We are greatly impressed by what we have seen; but I must also say that there is great need for improvement. Our intention is to leave this place better than we met it because we want to be part of the positive history of this academy. The Federal Government’s vision  for this academy is quite encouraging. However, we have a lot to do and all hand must be on deck. Support must be given to all arrangements and modalities put in place to towards the realisation of that goal,” the chairman maintained. He also said considering the level of innovation and sophistication in the global market, it was time cadets of the academy were exposed to the latest trends in the global space. “All we do  must be in tandem with the Federal Government’s template at holistic transformation of the academy and its products for global competitiveness. It is our resolve to negotiate with the National Assembly on matters of provision of facility, funding and other  relevant support for the effective running of the academy. More, really, has to be done in terms of upgrading of facilities. We must be seen to be doers not talkers,” the chairman urged. Chief Seriki praised the Federal Government for its commitment to fully translate the vision of the academy. He, therefore, unveiled the steps to be taken by the Governing Council. These will include effective engagement and functional partnership with maritime-related agencies and organisations in the oil and gas industry,  such as Mobil, NLNG, IMO, Ship Owners Association of Nigeria and NIMASA. Such partnership is to facilitate arrangement for the provision of facilities, technical services, capacity-building and engagement of qualified cadets from the academy. Places visited by the Governing Council during the inspection included Marine Engineering Department; Medical Centre; Jetty and classroom blocks. Others were the Academic Block, Mechatronics and Autotronics Laboratory, Strength of Material Laboratory, Thermodynamics Air-conditioning/Refrigeration Laboratory, Maritime Safety Department, Basic Course Centre; Auditorium and E-library/ICT Recourse Centre. The Council also inspected on-going projects in Phase 3, comprising staff quarters and hostel blocks. Members of the Committee were also praised the Rector for the chnages they noticed between their last visit and the current one. According to the Chairman, Mohammed Bago, it was obvious that Commodore Effedua understood the history and the circumstances in the academy and has responded to them with practical steps that pointed to a greater future. “Let me say that what we have seen today is a complete deviation from what it used to be. It is clear that deliberate steps have been taken to comply with earlier directives. On that note, I must on behalf of my committee commend the Rector for the strides he has recorded in so short a time and to encourage him not to rest on his oars until the battle is won. We are very impressed with the progress so far recorded.” Assuring the academy’s management of attention to critical matters,  Hon. Bago, however, made some recommendations for the smooth running of the academy. One of them is that the  academy’s staff strength may have to be reduced or some workers redeployed to where they are more relevant and productive than bloating up the system with workers, who had nothing useful to offer. The chairman’s further clarifications were that those due for promotion must necessarily be promoted; those due for retirement should be retried, and those found to be redundant should be amicably disengaged with due entitlements paid. According to Hon. Bago, “attention should be given to uncompleted and abandoned projects in the academy. Those projects built years ago and left halfway can be remodeled according to modern needs and necessities. It doesn’t  make sense to have projects scattered all over the place yet none is functioning. “That is why I insist that priority be paid to settling contractors as soon as they have delivered. There must also be a system of quality assurance and control so that projects can last for the purpose they were meant. The cardinal aim is the training of cadets for regional and global competitiveness; giving them all the leverage they need to excel; otherwise, we have failed and posterity shall not forgive us in that regard,”he said. Some projects recommended by the House Committee for remodelling included swimming pool, lecture theatre, E-library and resource centre and auditorium, and conversion of the abandoned Nautical Science block. Further reasons given  for the directive were that some of them had remained in that state for too long or were not of expected quality. To boost the Iinternally generated revenue (IGR) profile of the academy, the chairman also directed the Rector to convert some buildings to commercial use. Hon. Bago saw the academy as thriving on a triangle of gossip, bad people, and the progressives – all of whom, he said, should be identified by the management of the academy. The committee promised that it would use its office to create new windows for the rapid transformation of the academy and remove financial roadblocks that could hinder speedy attention to issues. The rector was also mandated to develop a plan of action and forward it to the committee for monitoring to ensure that he gets the needed support. Other Committee members on the visit included Hon. Solomon Adaelu, Hon. Muazu Lawal, Hon. Kabiru M, Achida and Hon. Fago. In his response, the Rector expressed  gratitude to the Committee for its passion and patriotic devotion to matters affecting the academy and promised to do all within his powers  to make the needed difference in the institution. He said he was happy that the House Committee could bear the pains to come down for sight-seeing. From the Academy Management were the Regimental Unit Commander, Capt. A. I. Yakubu, Deputy Registrar/Director, Public Affairs, Mr. Peter Netson, Acting Head of Bursary/Director, Finance and Account, Mr. Okon Bassey Okon, Director of Works and Services, Jide Kupoluyi, Procurement Officer/Director of Audit, Pastor Sunday Udoh, Chief lecturer/SA to the Director, Mr. John Adeyanju and Capt. Kponu, among others. At the end of the two high-profile visits, the conclusion was that the academy is, indeed, on its path to greatness, especially with the excellent vision and demonstrable capacity of Commodore Effedua.  