‘I felt my Nigeria achieved this’ When Bashir Dodo, a 29 year-old Nigerian Phd student at Brunel University, London stumbled upon a 2002 World Health Organization (WHO)’s report that said three out of the four major causes of blindness affect the retina and the least among them had 5million victims, he got motivated to find a quick solution. He was inspired to research on how to prevent eye disease through an early diagnosis of the retina layers. Explaining the concept that helped him form the new idea, Dodo who was linked via email, said: “Manual segmentation is not only subjective, but time consuming and tiring. The idea of the new method comes from the concept of perceptual grouping introduced by a psychologist named Werthemier in 1923. He highlighted the principles of how people interpret the world around them. This forms the basis of the gestalt law of perceptual grouping in phycology. We take the view that computer is a tool that simplifies tasks, and is therefore used to simplify interpretation of images. Image segmentation is an image analysis technique focusing on how to identify or group features/region of interest on an image. And I therefore thought if computer is a tool, then better methods can be developed taking some information from the background of how it’s done manually. Dodo demonstrated the new algorithm at the BIOIMAGING 2018 Conference, which was recently held in Portugal and was rewarded with the ‘Best Student Paper’ award at the event. According to him, achieving the new development was simply by utilizing the information and perspective of the above concept to propose a fully automatic method to identify layers of the retina. However, he stated that although there are other ways to identify layers of the retina. “It is of course worth mentioning that other methods do exist. However, our method provides better results and is really fast. It takes 4.25sec approximately to segment one image. The father of two hails from Katsina State and was born into a family of 16. He attended Ulul-Albab Science Secondary School, Katsina where he loves Religious Studies and Biology. These subjects he loves deal mainly with nature and the understanding of purpose of life at large. “The two subjects aided my decisions of what to prioritise in life” he said. After secondary school, he went to FTMS College, Malaysia where studied Software Engineering for his first degree and his masters in Computer Systems Engineering (Software Systems). FTMS College is an affiliate of University of East London. Dodo was however not overstressed to achieve the feat except the usual challenges faced by many foreign students in UK. He said no personal sacrifices were made in order to achieve this new development, saying: “My sacrifices are similar to that of most TETFund scholars here in UK, as the foreign exchange has affected our financial stability and ability to reach our full potentials. This has led to loss of focus and determination, considering the fact, we were sent by our country to learn, but not really been looked after, so that we may continue and return happily to help our country prosper as well. My personal sacrifice is mainly my family and sleepless nights, a sacrifice made by my lovely wife and two sons, as I didn’t really have much time, I usually come back late even in weekends. They were used to having me at home usually back in Nigeria.” Dodo who feels elated winning this project explains that it didn’t feel like it is a personal achievement. “It’s a product of consistency and not giving up; support of family and friends; endurance of scholarship difficulties and hard work. It felt like my nation has achieved this, because keeping the discouraging treatment aside, I am after all a representative of my nation wherever I go. In summary, it was a great feeling of “yes I’ve made it, and all the sacrifice by me and my family has paid off. It was a confidence booster, that we Nigerians can certainly achieve wonders. However, we need support from government and educational institutions to reach our potentials,” he said. Apart from researching, Dodo loves teaching which gives him sense of belonging. “I like researching and teaching. Teaching gives me sense of belonging as I feel I am really helping someone. I would really like to have impact to the growth of my nation because after all “there is no place like home”. I enjoy basketball, soccer, table tennis to list a few, travelling around to meet new people and explore different cultures. I enjoy been in company of people to share ideas and insights,” he added.