THE Lagos and Kano State governments yesterday signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for economic partnership and investment opportunities to create jobs for growth and development. The MoU was signed by Governors Akinwunmi Ambode and Abdullahi Umar Ganduje at the closing of the inaugural Lagos-Kano Economic and Investment Summit at the Jubilee Chalets in Epe. It will create a platform for exploring, expanding and developing areas of economic development and investment. According to the MoU, the two states agreed to expand their economic and investment cooperation, especially in governance, security, revenue (IGR), agricultural value chain, tourism, education, Information and Communication Technology (ICT) and skill development. Other areas include commerce – with focus on ease of doing business – as well as infrastructure in power, transportation and urban waste management. The objectives of the MoU include establishing a formal and flexible framework to expand trade and investment cooperation; fostering scientific and technological collaboration in emerging key sectors; strengthening communication; enhancing trust; boosting economic development and creating jobs. Under the agreement, the two states also set up a technical working group to oversee implementation of the MoU. Lagos State Deputy Governor Dr Idiat Adebule said the signing by Ambode and Ganduje was a testament to their commitment to collaborate in the best interest of residents. She said the two governors “are telling the entire world that collaboration, cooperation, partnership can always work to bring about economic sufficiency in our states and, of course, the entire nation”. The deputy governor described the summit as historic and successful. She said the programme witnessed presentations from experts, erudite minds, scholars from public and organised private sectors. Mrs Adebule said: “In this process, our minds have been availed with torrents of ideas, information, statistics, interpretation and above all vision and collaboration, leading to economic sufficiency. “I am convinced that the most valuable outcome of this engagement is the fact that we have governors who have vision and have the opportunity of sharing this vision. Today, we are not just sharing the vision but providing an enabling environment for this vision to be actualised. “Today, we have the political will; today, the political will has been demonstrated and it signifies the fact that we are ready for business. Lagos and Kano mean business and we are ready for business.”