Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun’s media aide Soyombo Opeyemi spoke with EMMANUEL OLADESU on the succession battle in the Gateway State. What  is the assurance that Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun and his team will not be distracted by the 2019 succession battle? That is a loaded question, with some slant to it. I agree 2019 is around the corner and there are lawful political activities here and there, not campaigns. But in my own state, governance has not come to a halt. As a matter of fact, the tempo of services to the people of Ogun State continues to increase by the day. Just recently, you read about the rice revolution in the state. Rice, of course, is a major staple in the country. I do not know of a house where rice is not consumed almost on a daily basis. If you don’t eat, your children will eat.  It doesn’t make sense for us to continue to spend two billion dollars yearly on rice importation, thereby developing the economies of other countries. We can eat what we grow. We can grow what we eat. God has given us vast hectares of arable land. That is why the Amosun administration keyed into the Anchor Borrowers’ Programme of the Muhammadu Buhari administration to scale up rice production in the state.  The governor believes in partnership with out-grower farmers, not political farmers. Government serves as off-takers. You remember the Commodity Boards of those days. Gradually, we are bringing back the good old days in the sector. We should plant, process and package what we consume. Our Mitros Rice is more nutritious than the imported ones and cheaper. The popular Ofada rice is now stone-free courtesy of the rice mills installed by the state government. This is a product of vision and has nothing to do with 2019. You must equally have read about investment of the present administration in vocational education, with provision of state-of-the-art facilities. There’s an MoU with Independent Power Producers (IPP) to light up Ogun State. Rural electrification efforts of the current government yielded more fruits a few days ago. We do these things directly or through beneficial and enduring partnerships. As we speak, there are poor residents in most parts of this state receiving free medical treatment with their cards. These cards look like ATM. They contain biometrics of the patients. We do not make noise about all these things. These development strides happen on a daily basis. You are aware that Ogun State Television is now on DSTV. No one could imagine this would be that possible or that it would come so soon. Construction work is going on here and there. So rather than talk about being gripped by 2019 election fever, here in Ogun, we are gripped by rice production fever, electrification fever; we are gripped by education expansion fever. Amosun is gripped by development fever in Ogun State. He is consumed with passion to deliver dividends to democracy to his people. And this will continue till May 29, 2019. As the last count, Amosun has inaugurated over 125 multi-billion naira companies in Ogun State. The frequency of this inauguration has not waned despite 2019. This is as a result of the enabling environment provided by this government. If your company is not in Ogun State, it is probably not in Nigeria. For us, it is business as usual in Ogun State in terms of development. But if there are places in the country where development has taken a flight because of 2019, the people have the right to demand explanation. The press is empowered by Section 22 of the 1999 Constitution (as amended) to hold the government accountable to the people. Talking about the Mitros Rice, the Labour Party (LP) has alleged  that your government was involved in rice padding, by adding some bags of sand to make a rice pyramid. How do you react to that? Does the Labour Party exist in Ogun State? Where are their members? A party that could not win a councillorship position, that could not even field candidates in most of the elections, you call that a party? We all knew it was disgruntled politicians at work, the merchants of Pull Him Down. Otherwise, how can anyone in his senses accuse a government of packaging bags of sand as rice? As I stated elsewhere, it’s height of moronity. No focused government will be distracted by such inane falsehood. And that’s why no government official dignified such a foolery with a response. Above all, the good people of Ogun did not take any notice of them. I think we can talk about important matters. Some governors are accused of not paying workers’ salaries. How is your government coping with the salary crisis? The Amosun government pays salaries as and when due. Where we have challenges we acknowledge. And this is known to everyone. We do not believe in propaganda. The governor has always talked about the need to offset the cooperative deductions. It has an agreement with the labour unions that as the finances of the state improve, this will be paid. But for the financial re-engineering introduced by the Amosun administration, I think the state would have been in dire straits financially during the recent economic crisis. The governor had increased salaries of workers in the early life of this administration, which ballooned the wage bill by nearly 100 per cent. He believes in his workforce. And will always prioritize their welfare. Does Governor Amosun believe in restructuring? Of course, he does. He believes in restructuring that will make Nigeria more united. He said that much recently. Even before the term gathered much traction recently, he had always talked about state police and fiscal federalism. A situation where Ogun State that is currently Number 2 in terms of non-oil contribution to the Federation Account is ranked a distant 26 out of 36 states in terms of revenue allocation from the same central purse is clearly not acceptable. The governor had spent humongous amount on federal roads, it will be good if these roads revert to states and the Revenue Allocation Formula is altered in favour of states. Ogun APC is said to be in crisis due to the alleged plan by Amosun to shut out some candidates? The line here is thin. This should be a matter for the party. But I do not see any crisis anywhere. Can you see any yourself? No one has been shut out of any elective race. And no candidate has even complained of being shut out. So this observation is quite strange. The party has thrown its doors wide open for all contestants from the state. Once you are a bonafide indigene of Ogun State, you are free to contest in any election. Democracy is a game of numbers. The governor is alleged to be planning to install his Chief of Staff, Tolu Odebiyi, as his successor at all cost? I don’t know what you mean by at all cost. Amosun has always won a transparent election. 2019 will not be different for the party. But the governor has the constitutional right to promote the candidacy of anyone. It is his inalienable right, you know. If you are from Ogun State and you are interested in contesting any election, and Amosun feels you have what it takes to deliver, why will he not support you? If the caps fits the Chief of Staff, why should Amosun not support him? Do you think Tolu Odebiyi has what it takes to lead Ogun State? He does. He is very competent to govern this state. Apart from his personal qualities that eminently qualify him to build on the very strong foundation laid by Governor Amosun, he has a rich political heritage, which clearly sets him apart. He will be a good helmsman. Do you think the All Progressives Congress can win the governorship contest in 2019? The APC remains the party to beat. The party remains intact in Ogun State. Unlike the opposition PDP, there’s no crisis in the APC. The Labour Party exists on the pages of newspapers while the PDP is torn apart. Above all, the sterling performance of the current Amosun-led government will result in overwhelming victory for the APC in 2019. 