Stakeholders in the Niger-Delta have advocated improved technology as well as efficient communication between the federal government, oil companies and oil bearing communities to check oil pipeline vandalism in the oil industry. These were the recommendations at the end of a one day sensitization workshop on education, good governance and peaceful coexistence in the Niger Delta organised by a non-profit organisation, Benaiah Care Foundation, which held weekend in Warri, Delta State. Participants drawn from mostly the youths and women groups called for urgent intervention to avert imminent crises as the 2019 polls comes closer. In a paper presentation titled ” Oil Theft and Pipeline Vandalism”, Oil Pipeline Management Expert , Mr. Ini Isong said ” oil majors must explore the use of modern technology to secure oil pipelines as well as establish right of way(RoW) to enable security personnel easily identify where there are such cases”. According to him, the advocacy became necessary to raise the standard of security towards checking vandalism in the Niger Delta region. He also advocated stronger synergy among the stakeholders stating that oil bearing communities should be engaged in the oil economy through what he described as ” open and frank communication to avert imminent crises”. Mr. Isong who  doubles as the Managing Director/Chief Executive officer of Kligz Energy, an oil pipeline survey outfit in Port Harcourt, Rivers state, said local communities have to select credible leaders in representative capacity and must also design a visionary template that will actualize concrete development of their areas. This, he maintain ” will make the oil bearing communities maintain their commitment to stop oil pipeline vandalism especially among the youth ”. He, however , condemned the deplorable conditions of the region occasioned by prolonged oil exploration activities stating that the issue of Corporate Social Responsibility needs to be reviewed to provide commensurate impact to cushion the effect of the exploration activities. Also in a paper presentation titled ” Effect of Political Violence in Nigeria ”, a University of  Port Harcourt Don, Dr. Celestine Nwanokwai said Nigerian youths have to move away from the culture of violence mostly associated with politics. According to him, the recent electoral reforms have considered the place of the youth in political leadership and therefore urged that rather than take to the option of violence, youth must think towards taking the lead in governance. Earlier , the programme facilitator, Mr. Okon N. Effiom remarked that the organization was concerned about improving the condition of the Niger Delta people through education 