The Special Adviser on Legislative and Political Matters to the Speaker of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Mufutau Egberongbe, spoke with reporters on the relationship between the executive and the legislature, and Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s efforts to reconcile aggrieved members of the All Progressives Congress (APC). OZIEGBE OKOEKI reports. How would you assess the performance of the Eight Lagos State House of Assembly in the last two three years? It has been a successful House. Unlike previous ones, the 8th Assembly has witnessed a high turnout of private member bills. In the past assemblies, most bills emanated from the executive arm. The Neighbourhood Watch bill, the cancer institute and the Yoruba Language bills are just a few of such. Most of such private members’ bill has direct impact on the people they represent and this suggests that the lawmakers are very close to the grassroots. Don’t forget also the town hall meetings, which affords the lawmakers the opportunity to feel the pulse of the people and which has equally assisted Governor Ambode in planning the budget. Why was the 2018 budget rushed by the House? Remember, I said the document was generated by the executive and legislative arms. There is also the pre-budget meeting between the two arms where issues are raised and trashed. That is where the real job is done. Besides, the speaker and the governor had been working on the finances of the state before their latest positions. The speaker was the chairman of the Committee on Budget, while the governor was a former accountant-general. What type of relationship exists between the two arms? Without mincing words, the executive is moving at a geometric pace. But that is because it enjoys the backing of the House; there is no way the executive will run in that pace without the cooperation of the legislature. The governor recently granted assent to seven bills in a day. It has never happened in this state. Would you recommend the speaker for another term? Honestly, I have known the speaker for over 10 years I know him as a god-fearing person. He is also a very technical and thorough person. He remains versatile and strives to have knowledge of issues. I think it is good for our system. I would strongly recommend a second term for the governor and the speaker. What they have started together, they should complete together. Why has the APC government at the centre not been able to meet the expectations of Nigerians? First, Nigerians are very impatient people. See them at bus-stops and food canteens; you will definitely see someone attempting to jump the queue. Nigerians want the rot of over 16 years repaired in less than three years. Secondly, there is this insincerity on the part of the opposition, because they just want to tarnish the image of the government, in spite of the successes recorded in the fight against corruption. Most times, I hear people saying that the same people that destroyed the PDP are the ones in the APC. Yes, while I agree with you on that, but the party has the capacity of whipping anyone into line. Some international bodies have even described our president as incorruptible. But what are we saying back home? Buhari is just one of us, massive population. I think we should just be patient with the political class. Now that we have seen a good man, let’s give him a chance to work. Given the crises plaguing the APC, what are your expectations from Asiwaju Bola Tinubu’s reconciliation committee? There is nothing wrong with warring parties coming to jaw-jaw. What reason would anybody have to be against the reconciliatory move? And who has the personality of Asiwaju? This is not just because he is my mentor, but, let’s put that person on the table and evaluate. Who is that individual that has made friends in every part of the country and still maintains those contacts since he was a senator? None! He is not a saint, but he loves Nigeria passionately. So, does this imply that there is no vacancy in Aso Rock in 2019? Yes, there is no vacancy both at the federal and state levels. Just go round Lagos and see the progress recorded under Ambode’s watch. Have you been to Lekki? Have you been to Ojodu-Berger recently to see the transformations? Recently in Oshodi area of Lagos, a couple was caught via the CCTV stealing. I agree that there are areas of challenge, but putting them side-by-side relatively with the progress, I think the latter supersedes. What would you say to those dreaming of unseating Buhari in 2019? They should not waste their resources and time trying to defeat him. From within the party, nobody is raising his hand. Several times, leaders of other parties have confirmed that Buhari has tried. Bode George is one of them. Come down to Lagos and see how Ambode has revolutionised Epe, a former sleepy town. What that means is that the value of land there has appreciated. The economy and night life too have received boosts. We have a governor who is constantly thinking. 