Former Minister of Education and Social Democratic Party (SDP) chieftain Prof. Tunde Adeniran has said that members of the Coalition for New Nigeria (CNM) will join the party, ahead of next year’s elections. He said the SDP will contest and win the presidential election because Nigerians will reject the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the poll. Adeniran, who defected from the PDP last week, spoke on his defection and the chances of his new platform at the polls. The Ekiti State-born politician spoke on the live Channels Television Programme, Sunrise. The former minister’s remarks on the resolve of some CNM members to team up with the SDP has put an end to the speculation that they were in discussion with the Labour Party (LP) on the possibility of taking refuge in the opposition party. A source said having decided to join the SDP, members of the Chief Olusegun Obasanjo-inspired movement may have considered the hurdles on the way, if they apply to the electoral commission for registration as political party. The former Ambassador to Germany contested for the chairman during the controversial national convention of the PDP at the Eagle Square, Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Prominent chieftains walked out of the venue in protest against alleged manipulation of the exercise. Adeniran, who did not speak on the prospects of the CNM’s transformation into a party, said CNM members have resolved to join the SDP, adding that the platform has become the third force. He lamented that the PDP, of which he is a founding father, has derailed from the vision of those who formed the party. He recalled that the party was bastardised by its latter-day leaders, who have established themselves in the culture of impunity. Adeniran said the behaviour of the party handlers became unbearable during its last national convention when  new leaders were imposed on the members. He said despite the assurance by the convention planning committee about a free and fair intra-party election, they later owned up that the situation was beyond their control. Adeniran recalled that as one of the founding fathers, he hosted the first important meeting of the party in the Southwest, adding that the PDP of today does not mirror the original vision of the founders. He denied that he had become a spoiler, following his defection, stressing that there were compelling reasons for him and other defectors to leave the party. The former minister said despite his vicissitudes as a party chieftain in the past, he kept faith with the platform. The former minister said the SDP will satisfy the yearning of Nigerians in their clamour for change in 2019.  He said: “We are contesting the presidential election and we are wining.” 