All is not well with Ogbia, the Local Government Area of former President Goodluck Jonathan. The main problem with the council is disunity. The council has been speaking in discordant tunes, especially on political matters. In fact, the disunity was more pronounced during the last governorship election in the state. But analysts traced the recent problems in Ogbia to the period the council occupied the Presidency. Instead of uniting them, the Presidency tore them apart. Ogbia sons and daughters, who benefitted from proximity to then President Jonathan and the corridors of power, failed to help the council. They selfishly amassed wealth to the detriment of others, who had no access to the Aso Rock Villa. Majority of Ogbia people were disconnected from Jonathan’s favourites, who were supposed to use their vantage positions to provide expected leadership. Close associates of Jonathan harvested, stored and ate all the carrots while the unfortunate majority either groped in hunger or struggled and battled for crumbs that fell from overflowing baskets. The worst that happened to Ogbia was the squandering of their common patrimony. Being a privileged council, Ogbia attracted contracts from interventionist agencies, federal parastatals and ministries. Various projects amounting to over N200bn were reportedly awarded to Jonathan’s men for the development of their council. But no job was done. The money allegedly developed wings and flew into the private accounts of the contractors. Even the former President did not help matters. Jonathan could not demonstrate the required will to coordinate the development of his local government area. Little wonder, Ogbia remains the most underdeveloped local government area in the the state despite producing people who spent over eight years at the Presidency. Ogbia lacks all the basic amenities. It has no road, no water, no electricity and colonial bridges still dot the council. In fact, there is no road to get to Otuoke, the community of Jonathan. But all seems to be changing following the efforts of an Ogbia rising star, who has been working assiduously and selflessly to return the council to the path of unity. Commissioner for Information and Orientation Daniel Iworiso-Markson has made the oneness of Ogbia a crucial part of his agenda. The commissioner, who hails from Opume area of the council has been initiating and bankrolling all activities and programmes that could bring his people together. Iworiso-Markson has enabled the majority of his Ogbia people to realise the identities of their real enemies. Most of them now know that contrary to the earlier narratives, the Governor of the state, Mr. Seriake Dickson, is not against their progress. They now understand that their main detractors are their brothers and sisters, who had presidential opportunities to develop their council and empower them but chose to develop only their families, bank accounts and stomachs. Indeed, Iworiso-Markson’s emerging leadership in the council is being supported by all the appointees of the governor from the council. The commissioners for Chieftaincy and Community Development, Chief Saviour Ibegi; Special Projects, Chief Fred Obua; Power, Chief Jim Ogbolo; Caretaker Chairperson, Ogbia, Naomi Igoli and the Director-General of Bayelsa Investment Promotion Agency (BIPA), Ms Patience Abah, are all behind him. Iworiso-Markson is also receiving the support of the Restoration Ogbia Caucus Leader, Chief Okiriyan, who has continued to pour encomiums on him. In fact, the Information Commissioner has also received the royal blessings of his monarch, the King of Ogbia, HRM King Dumaro Owaba. Even the youths from the council through the efforts of the recently appointed Special Assistant to the Governor on Youth Matters, Mr. Osaanya B. Osaanya, are rallying round Iworiso-Markson to bring the council together. There is no gainsaying that the commissioner has won the hearts of the youths, women and the elderly ones in the council through his decision to introduce a football tournament in the council. The mascot for the maiden edition of the football competition tagged, “Governor Dickson Unity Cup, the Ogbia Challenge”, was recently unveiled in Yenagoa, the state capital. The competition, the brainchild of Iworiso-Markson, was initiated to douse tension; discover budding football talents; deepen brotherliness and ensure political cohesion in the beleaguered local council ahead of the forthcoming general election. Already, the competition is achieving its objectives. Youths from various communities in Ogbia have organised themselves into 32 football teams. Those who were enemies because of their political leanings embraced one another. The ongoing tournament is conquering territories and penetrating isolated areas. It has kept the youths busy and taken their attention away from social vices, drug abuse and cultism. At the inauguration of the mascot, Iworiso-Markson said the game of football was selected because of its unifying factor. He said football has won the hearts of many people as most of them belong to different football clubs. He dwelled on the importance of unity for peace, development and progress. He insisted that nothing could be achieved in an atmosphere of rancour adding that unity remained a catalyst for communal growth and development. The former Chief Press Secretary (CPS) to governor Dickson insisted that every Ogbia person must avoid divisive tendency and work together in the spirit of oneness. The commissioner also called on the youths to shun cultism, hard drugs and other social vices. He asked them to channel their energy to productive ventures. He said the Ogbia challenge was developed to teach the youths the importance of engaging in productive and healthy ventures. He urged persons with soccer talents to develop them and earn a living from them. Iworiso-Markson  said the competition would not end at the hosting level. He had made all arrangements to ensure the identification and promotion of budding talents among the competing youths. Persons picked would have the opportunity to advance their careers in soccer within and outside the country. He said: “I want to make it clear that it will not just end in hosting the competition, we will support the most valuable player to play in reputable clubs within and outside the country. “So this is an opportunity for our youths to make themselves available. It is a means to stardom, to fame and if you like prosperity. So I urge all our youths who still engage in social vices like cultism to put an end to that. This is the time for us to be more united and collectively ýdefine our future as a people”. The commissioner said in the course of the tournament, some ex-internationals would visit the state to watch some of the games and encourage the youths. “The final of the competition will be truly grand with mouth-watering prizes alongside the trophies for the three best teams”, he said. But he gave the credit to his boss, Governor Seriake Dickson. He said the governor supported and inspired the initiative following his love for youths. He said the governor has always demonstrated his desire for youths to realise their full potential. He, however, appealed to the youths to reciprocate the gesture by shunning all forms of social vices, cultism and drug abuse. While unveiling the mascot, the Obanoban of Ogbia, His Royal Majesty Charles Owaba, harped on the unity of his kingdom.  He urged the Ogbia people to embrace one another. He said Ogbia should be a one big family to attract development. The monarch praised all the efforts of Iworiso-Markson. He said the commissioner has continued to pursue unity and peace in the kingdom. He said: “Those who seek the good of the land will prosper and I urge Ogbia elites to emulate the Information commissioner’s gesture in order to secure a good future for the Ogbia youth.” Commissioner for Special Projects Fred Obua said the competition would bring unity to Ogbia, expressing optimism that the tournament would produce the “Ogbia Ronaldo” and “Ogbia Messi”. He encouraged all the youths in the council to participate actively in the programme and commended Iworiso-Markson for the initiative. In his remarks, the Restoration Ogbia Caucus Leader, Chief Okiriyan described Daniel Iworiso-Markson as a genuine Ogbia man who loves the Ogbia people. Okiriyan said the innovative performance of Iworiso-Markson had marked him out as a young man with a bright future with vision for unity. The Caretaker Chairperson of Ogbia, Naomi Igoli, described Iworiso-Markson as a man with broad heart and love for people. “I am happy for you having this vision”, she said. She promised to work with the commissioner to realise his vision of unity. Ogbia leaders harped on the need for unity among the Ogbia people and thanked Iworiso-Markson for the initiative. 