We all know that diabetes is a common and major health problem that is fast approaching epidemic proportions the world over and Nigeria in Particular. The mortality rate for many diseases seems to be on the decrease but for diabetes especially in Nigeria, the rate has increased rapidly in recent years.  Going forwards, let’s look at what diabetes is all about. Diabetes, often referred as diabetes mellitus by doctors, is a group of metabolic diseases in which the person has high blood glucose (blood sugar), either because the insulin production is inadequate or the body’s cells do not respond properly to insulin, or both. This result in too much glucose building up in the blood. Patients with high blood sugar will typically experience frequent urination (Polyuria, become increasingly thirsty (Polydipsia) and hungry (Polyphagia).  There are basically 3 types of diabetes.     Diabetes Complications. Diabetes can lead to many complications including life-threatening that could even lead to death. Among the many complications of diabetes are:   Can Diabetes Kill? Diabetes is a serious health challenge that can cause lots of complications including loose of a limb. 2 in every 3 person with diabetes will die of cardiovascular related issues like heart attack and stroke if not properly and promptly managed. The good news is there are some scientifically proven products with balsam pear and ginkgo biloba, among others that can help stop the symptoms and complications of diabetes. CLICK HERE FOR THE PROVEN NATURAL REMEDY FOR DIABETES: https://naturalhealthremedies.com.ng/how-to-get-rid-of-diabetes-naturally  The questions many people with diabetes ask is; How can I lower my blood sugar? Can type 2 diabetes be cure naturally? What is the best herbal medicine for diabetes?  The Good News!  The good news, there is a natural remedy for diabetes, and this natural remedy has been scientifically proven to assist the body restore the properly function of the insulin. This natural remedy known as the 5 in 1 diabetic kit has been specially formulated by world renounced scientist from Cornell University in the USA, China institute of drugs and Bio-products and the Traditional Chinese medicine institute. To READ MORE ABOUT THIS DIABETIC KIT CLICK HERE: https://naturalhealthremedies.com.ng/how-to-get-rid-of-diabetes-naturally    