 A group called Coalition of Civil Society for Justice and equity has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to reinstate the former Director General (DG) of  the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Mohammed Dauda into service. Dauda, whose dismissal was reportedly approved by the  President was a career Ambassador to the Republic of Chad, before been appointed as the Acting Director General of NIA. But in a statement by the executive convener of the group, Comrade Danesi Momoh Prince, he said some cabals plotted his removal for refusing the sharing of $44 million recovered from Osborn apartment in Lagos. It could be recalled that the ex-DG last month appeared before the House of Representatives Committee on Public Safety over $44 million missing from the NIA. According to Prince: “We learnt that, some powerful Nigerians attempted to share the recovered $44m which Mr Dauda objected to, and instead, he protected the funds for the government hence the gang up against him. He said, “Available record shows that, Mr Mohammed Dauda is due for retirement in September, 2018, having served the organization for 35 years. Within this period, he was never queried by the organization for any wrongdoing. He is a professional intelligence officer whose short acting era rejuvenated the intelligence gathering that improved our national security. “He was framed and tried by a committee headed by Babagana Kingibe whose secretary was Ahmed Rufai Abubakar, a retired Deputy Director with the NIA, a position short of the full status of a Director as stipulates by the NIA rule, was recommended and appointed as the current DG of the NIA, while Mr Mohammed was dismissed from service. “This is the highest level of victimization and persecution on the surface of the earth, peculiarly, this can only happen in Nigeria,” he remarked. The group however called on “President Muhammadu Buhari, to as a matter of urgency recall Mr. Mohammad Dauda back to service while those involved in the quagmire ridiculing the image of Nigeria should be prosecuted immediately in order to rebuild Nigeria’s image before the International community. “Mr President is reminded that this matter borders on National Security which must not be toyed with, as his oppositions are waiting patiently to use it as a campaign massage against his re-election bid if he so seek to, in theming his administration as incompetent.” The group said.