President Muhammadu Buhari has inaugurated the N50 billion Sunti Golden Sugar Estate which he said will employ 10,000 people directly. Speaking in Sunti in Mokwa local government area yesterday, he said the magnitude of the investment in the sugar estate, is a clear manifestation that the policies on economic diversification  of the government are attracting the right kind of support and engagement. He said: “With N50 billion  invested into Sunti Golden Sugar Estate, this makes it the largest Agro-allied investment in Nigeria today. The sugar factory will produce 100,000 metric tonnes of sugar annually, employ 10,000 people directly and a network of 3,000 small scale outgrowers of sugarcane. “ He said the socio-economic impact of the company’s investment cannot be quantified as lives would be changed and the impact on the national economy will be significant, stating that the benefits of the River Niger have been overlooked for long. Buhari assured Nigerians that the administration is committed to the transformation and diversification of the economy and that it will continue to support businesses and investors by creating enabling business environment. farmThe governor then appealed to the President for the speedy completion of the Suleja road,  Tegina-Kontagora road and Mokwa-Jebba road in order to attract more investors into the state. The Chairman of Flour Mills of Nigeria, Mr. John Coumantaros said the Sunti sugar factory is to ensure that local sugar is produced in Niger state adding that the factory is showcasing the shift in the focus from crude oil to agriculture. He said that the Sunti Sugar factory will save Nigeria 100 million dollars on foreign exchange every year d strengthen the capacity and economic status of the people. The Chairman commended President Buhari for his policies which have been good and have lead to private sector growth across the country. The Sunti Golden Sugar Estate occupies 17,000 hectares of land in Mokwa local government area of Niger state out of which 10,000 hectares is being used as sugarcane farm. 