•Says shipment for two modular refineries ready for installation in Delta, Rivers 
•NDDC completes 372 projects in 2017, sets up Job Placement Centres to engage 200,000 youths in Niger Delta The waiting is over for the formal take off of the Nigerian Maritime University, Okerenkoko, Delta State. The institution is scheduled to commence the admission of its pioneer students for the 2017/2018 academic year next month and lectures  will start immediately. The Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity to Vice President, Laolu Akande, confirmed the development last night. He said the decisions were taken by the Niger Delta Inter-Ministerial Committee at a meeting on Friday. The meeting which was chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo evaluated progress on the implementation of the Buhari administration’s New Vision for Niger Delta. It also received reports on ongoing development projects being implemented in the region. The Maritime University will take off with 196 students although 76 applications are pending. Akande recalled that President Muhammadu Buhari had approved an increase in the take-off grant allocated to the university from the N2bn earlier announced to N5bn. This sum was included in the 2018 budget presented to the National Assembly in November 2017. “Similarly, an additional N1B was approved by the President to support essential infrastructure works and staff recruitment in the University in November 2017,” he said, adding: “The Delta State government has also donated two 500KVA generators to the University. “The Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB) had listed the University in its Central Admissions Processing System in January 24, 2018, while interviews for academic staff positions were conducted between 1st and 2nd of March, 2018. “The NUC had approved that academic activities commence in three faculties namely; Transport, Engineering and Environmental Management, with a combined total of 13 departments with various specializations – from Marine Engineering, Marine Economics to Climate Change, Fisheries and Aquaculture.” Akande said the meeting was also briefed on the progress of the modular refineries. “One set of modular refinery package shipment has since arrived Nigeria, and after undergoing clearance at customs, would be installed in Delta State; while another set, which is expected to arrive the country in April this year, would be installed in Rivers State. “The operation of the modular refineries would include the involvement of communities where they are located. Prof. Osinbajo said this would ensure that communities benefit directly from the refineries which would help create jobs and engage youths in the region.” The Inter-Ministerial Committee, last December, received a report that 38 licensed privately financed green field and mini-modular refineries investors have so far indicated interests in the establishment of refineries in the region, with at least ten (10) of the licensed refineries investors at an advanced stage of development. The NDDC in its report at the meeting said it completed a total of 372 projects covering roads, bridges, electricity, water, amongst others in the Niger Delta last year. The development projects include the 25.7 km Nembe-Ogbia road, which will  be commissioned soon; the construction of Otueke Internal roads in Ogbia LGA, Bayelsa State; Kira Dere Mogho road and Bridge in Gokana LGA, Rivers State. Also on the list are :the  construction of Iselu-Okaigben-Idung-Boko- Onicha Ugbo road, in Edo State; the Orie Ukwu Amaoji market road, Isiala Ngwa North LGA, Abia State and the Ashikem-Ufono-Betwaswan road in Obudu, Cross River State. The rest are: Iselu-Okaigben-Idung-Boko- Onicha Ugbo road, in Edo State; the Orie Ukwu Amaoji market road, Isiala Ngwa North LGA, Abia State and the Ashikem-Ufono-Betwaswan road in Obudu, Cross River State. The Commission is also working with all related parties, including AMCON, to ensure the establishment of Amakpe modular refinery in Eket, Akwa Ibom State. The refinery has a capacity of producing 6,000 barrels per day. Akande said the NDDC has also established Job Placement centres which is expected to engage about 208,000 youths in the Niger Delta with a view to reducing unemployment and youth restiveness in the region. On the progress of Ogoni clean-up, he said the Hydrocarbon Pollution Remediation Project (HYPREP) under the Ministry of Environment, is set to commence the procurement process for contracting experts for the remediation and clean-up of impacted sites. This process is open to competent national and international companies involved in environment, water and livelihood projects.  