• Says transparent, credible, fair, peaceful elections expected next year Rex Tillerson, until yesterday the United States Secretary of State had to cut short his trip to Africa because of developments at home. He had been fired by President Donald Trump. Tillerson, whose replacement has been named, will bow out of office on March 31. Below is excerpts of what Tillerson said in Abuja, Nigeria’s political capital on Monday before his sack. Well, good afternoon, and I am so pleased to be back in Nigeria, a place that I have visited many, many times.  And I particularly appreciate the time that President Muhammadu Buhari and Foreign Affairs Minister Geoffrey Onyeama have given me to discuss our countries’ relationship, and importantly the commitments we have and make to one another. We collaborate to create a number of opportunities to increase trade and investment and to expand access to electricity, an essential component of both human and economic development.  We also take on a number of challenges across this continent together, from corruption to disease to terrorism.  As Africa’s largest economy, Nigeria is America’s second-largest trading partner on the continent with over $9 billion in Nigerian-U.S. total goods traded last year. Later this year, we will inaugurate the U.S. – Nigeria Commercial and Investment Dialogue and a Trade and Investment Framework Council, both very positive steps to develop stronger business networks and address barriers to increasing trade and investment from the U.S. We also look forward to the finalisation of the Continental Free Trade Agreement through the African Union (AU) as an important mechanism to accelerate intra-African trade, a step which we believe is going to bring even greater foreign direct investment and I know a greater U.S. business investment and involvement in Africa, and most particularly Nigeria with Nigeria’s large population and growing economy. We thank Nigeria for the leadership role it is playing in the Lake Chad Basin Multinational Joint Task Force (MJTF) with Chad, Cameroon, Niger, and Benin.  Boko Haram and ISIS-West Africa have caused the displacement of millions and stolen the future from so many.  The recent kidnapping of more than 100 school girls is heartbreaking. Nigeria has the U.S. full support, and we are actively working with our partners here on other ways we can assist you in this fight. Finally, I shared with the President the U.S. optimism about the future of democratic governance here and throughout the continent.  Nigeria’s elections and peaceful transfer of power in 2015 demonstrated for the rest of Africa and the world that diverse societies can conduct peaceful, democratic transitions of leadership.  The U.S. looks forward to joining with government and civil society groups in support of transparent, credible, fair, and peaceful elections once again here in Nigeria. The U.S. also commends Nigeria’s anti-corruption efforts.  President Buhari’s work has resonated across the continent with his recent recognition as the AU’s anti-corruption champion.  We continue to encourage the Nigerian government to work with civic and community leaders to create a durable social, economic, and political infrastructure that supports lasting peace and development for the decades to come. This is essential to deepening the people’s trust in their government, strengthening security efforts in the Northeast, and improving the U.S. ability to partner with Nigeria in the future.  We see nothing but a very bright future ahead for Nigeria and for U.S. – Nigerian relations.  Africa and Trump administration  Africa’s been really important for the administration, and that’s what I’ve been focused on for the past week, as you know.  I think, with respect to Mr. Kushner’s portfolio of assignments that the President has given him, I think it’s best to leave any comment on that to himself or the White House.  Consequences of the Boko Haram insurgency  Well, first, we respect the responsibilities of the Government of Nigeria.  This is sovereign territory of Nigeria.  But the way we support is in providing them capability, capacity, whether it’s equipment, but also training personnel for special operations, and sharing certain intelligence to ensure that they have all the information available to plan and carry out a recovery effort. But I think it’s also important to put this in the broader regional context as well.  Boko Haram is a threat to others regionally, and this has been a subject in my meetings elsewhere while in Africa as well.  And in my discussions, in fact, with President Idriss Deby in Chad earlier today (Monday) we spoke about the threat of Boko Haram.  And I think what’s important and has really been powerful is the collaboration of the joint task force that – of which Nigeria is a part and Chad is a part, to respond to this threat of terrorism, of which Boko Haram is one organisation.  There are other threats that the leadership in this part of the country has to deal with and this part of the continent has to deal with. So the U.S. is very engaged in that coordinated effort as well, both in supporting, equipping, training, and where we can advise and provide information.  I think that’s the best way we can help the Government of Nigeria secure the release of these girls, which we hope will be done in a peaceful manner.  We hope that something that can be worked out and they will be persuaded to release these girls quickly.  That’s what we’re pray, anyway.  Trump and Jong-un  With respect to the ongoing discussions about a potential meeting between President Trump and Kim Jong-un, as you know, it’s a very recent development.  There will be – several steps will be necessary to agree on a location, agree on a scope of those discussions.  It’s very early stages.  We’ve not heard anything directly back from North Korea, although we expect to hear something directly from them.  So, I would – I know those are all questions that people are anxious to have answers to.  I would say just remain patient and we’ll see what happens.  How about a location?  That as well…  Nothing – nothing’s been agreed, and I don’t want to start floating ideas out through the media.  I think it’s going to be very important that those kind of conversations are held quietly between the two parties.  Chinese debts  Well, I’ve commented on this question a couple of other times, and I think it’s important that our view be clearly understood.  We do not seek to keep Chinese dollar investments from flowing to countries that need those investment dollars.  What we are cautioning countries is to look carefully at the implications of the level of debt, the terms of the debt; whether the arrangements around that financing are in fact creating local jobs, local capacity, or are the projects being carried out by foreign labour being brought to your country?  Is the structure of the financing such that you will always be in control of your infrastructure?  Are there mechanisms to deal with default in a way that you do not lose the ownership of your own assets?  These are national assets, whether they’re ports or railroads or major highways. And we have seen this occur in other countries where countries were not so careful, and as a result, they got themselves in a situation where they ultimately lost control of their infrastructure, they lost the ownership of it, they lost the operatorship of it.  And that’s the caution we have.  There are very well-known international rules and norms, well-known financing structures to deal with unforeseen circumstances, and I think we’re just – we’re cautioning countries to look carefully. And there are other alternatives.  There are other alternative financing mechanisms available, and I think in particular, if governments create the right conditions around those infrastructure investments, there are also great potential for public-private sector co-investing in infrastructure.  And we are developing mechanisms and the President has charged some of his executive staff back home to begin to develop alternative financing mechanisms that will also create alternative opportunities to what China is offering.  And again, it may be that China is fine, but we have seen many, many examples around the world where it didn’t work out so well for the host country.  And as friends of all countries, we’re just asking:  Be careful.  Former secretary unaware of reason for sack FORMER Rex Tillerson is unaware of why President Donald Trump asked him to resign AS United States (U.S.) Secretary of State, Under Secretary of State for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs, Steve Goldstein, said in a statement on yesterday. Goldstein also said the former Secretary of the State and did not speak to Trump about the development. “The Secretary did not speak to the President and is unaware of the reason, but he is grateful for the opportunity to serve, and still believes strongly that public service is a noble calling,” Goldstein said. Trump, however, said that he and Tillerson disagreed on many things, including the Iran nuclear deal, following the announcement of the top diplomat’s departure from the high-ranking position. The U.S. President said: “We got along actually quite well, but we disagreed on things. When you look at the Iran deal, I think it’s terrible, I guess he thinks it was okay. “We wanted to either break it or do something and he felt a little bit differently. So, we were not really thinking the same.” Trump added that he made the decision to fire Tillerson by himself, announcing that the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) Director, Mike Pompeo, will replace Tillerson. “Mike Pompeo, Director of the CIA, will become our new Secretary of State. He will do a fantastic job! Thank you to Rex Tillerson for his service!” Trump wrote in a Twitter message. A White House official said Trump wanted to make the change at the State Department ahead of expected talks with North Korean leader Kim Jong-Un and trade negotiations. Trump reportedly asked Tillerson to resign on Friday while the secretary was in the middle of a diplomatic trip to Africa. Tillerson, who was in Abuja, on Monday cut his trip short by a day and returned to Washington, DC. Trump plans to nominate Gina Haspel, the CIA’s Deputy Director, to take over for Pompeo. Haspel would become the first female director in the history of the intelligence agency. Haspel served as a clandestine officer with the CIA in 2002 in Thailand and oversaw the torture of two terrorism suspects and destruction of videotapes documenting that torture, according to a Senate Intelligence Committee report on CIA torture. Both Pompeo and Haspel will need Senate confirmation before starting their new positions.