TOS Funerals operates the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) morgue. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA reports on the charity of the company to the hospital. TOS Funerals Director Mrs Taiwo Ogunsola has donated 18  beds to the  Intensive Care Unit (ICU) of the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja. Mrs Ogunsola said: “We are doing this to mark the 15 years of the departure of the co-founder of TOS Funerals, my husband – Lekan Ogunsola – who died on April 10, 2003.’’ Also, Mrs Ogunsola said TOS also made the donation to support  Lagos State Governor Ambode Akinwunmi’s service delivery. “This is simply a corporate social responsibility in memory of the late Ogunsola. The inspiration is to reduce the sufferings of patients on admission in the hospital, especially in surgical emergency, where there are broken, near-collapsed and rickety beds.” Mrs Ogunsola said her firm’s target is to give out 50 beds. “These are purpose-built beds that allow caregivers to conduct screenings and diagnoses on patients without moving them round the wards or to the diagnosis units. ‘’It is also useful for patients because the user-friendly bed controls allow the patient to reposition without assistance, enhancing autonomy and level of comfort. The one-hand side rail release ideally adapted to confined areas, the clocking movement of the side rails consumes no space at the bedside when raised or lowered. “So, patient can be wheelled to the theatre, and CPR conducted. These ICU beds’ functionality and ergonomic design allow caregivers to move effortlessly to provide higher care and assistance to patients.The beds have integrated weigh scale – bilateral user interface at the point of care for ease and convenience, display patient’s weight in increments of 500 g or 100 g temporarily and patient can be weighed in any bed articulation.” She praised her partners in the United States, who manufacture-red the beds, adding that they gave her 40 percent discount. “But bringing them into the country, and clearing them with the Customs was like a camel going through the needle’s eye. It was not easy importing the beds because of the duty/tariff they attracted,” she said. This has posed a challenge to her bringing in others. She appealed to the state government to interface with the Federal Government to obtain a concession. She said there were many people who might want to bring in medical equipment with the aim of donating them to government hospitals, but, “because the duty/tariff aren’t friendly, they are stalked. Forex is another discouraging factor. The Customs do not have a listening ear when it comes to the duties/tariff. I actually paid three times the amount of purchase for each bed’’. Despite these problems, Mrs Ogunsola is undisturbed, because, “the late Lekan will be happy assisting people with his last penny. That is the spirit that is spurring me on to bring in the others, even if I do not have savings, although it will be nice and relieving if the government can come in and talk to the Customs. “I am not giving out cash, but rather kinds like this that will stand the test of time from generation to generation. Next October will be the phase two of this charity move.To ensure these beds are maintained, a technician has been consulted to ensure weekly check and maintenance.” To ensure that LASUTH stands out among other public hospitals, Mrs Ogunsola is coming up a forum called ‘Friends of LASUTH’, where members would contribute  monthly, and by year end, LASUTH’s management would be asked to tell us what the money can be utilised on. The reason for this is because, “as some who travels around  alot, I have seen standards, what individuals do, and how hospitals- private and public operate. I desire my country to be like those ones. It is not about the government alone. I am a product of May Flower School. We do not ask what system can do for us, but what we can do for the system. Most Nigerians are used to free  meals. It is bad. I am giving back to the system not to be known, but to assist patients in their moment of despair and need, without having to pay me back. Once the patients use and feel good and get over their condition, the prayers they pray goes to governor Ambode and indirectly the prayers touch me too,” she explained. Though Mrs Ogunsola said  commitment get things done. “And a member of Board of National Funeral Directors and Morticians in America, the president used to tell me – commitment gets things done. I do not have money, but I have lined up some projects to actualise before this year runs out and that is the determination and commitment. The difference is that I won’t have savings, but definitely I won’t go borrowing. “I am a grandmother, who is through with child training, as I have given my children education and they are productively engaged. So, my earning goes into giving back to the society. If Nigerians have this mindset, apart from the ‘grab-grab’ mentality, definitely things will go round. I am surviving and not pained by man’s inhumanity to man, especially within this tertiary institution. For instance, I donated the pathology building in my early widowhood and none said, ‘thank you’, not even with a letter, not even after 15 years. That experience could have frustrated anyone, but for the fact that I am doing it for humanity, that alone gives indescribable joy.” LASUTH Chief Medical Director (CMD), Prof Wale Oke acknowledged the donation and said it was borne out of professionalism of the donor. He described Mrs  Ogunsola as ‘’ the best funeral director and mortician in Nigeria’’. “I can say that the hospital is always in need of one thing or the other. We have a proactive and responsive governor who is ready to set up diabetes foot unit, stroke unit and a comprehensive dermatological unit and even do bone-stem transplant. As an hospital, we do with a lot of partnership and this is one of the affirmative responses we are getting early enough.” Oke said because the money  the kept in the bank loses value, they could donate it to te hospital where its value would not depreciate. ‘’The public needs to know that we, at LASUTH, are not asking for, nor taking money, but if equipment can be given, it is hitting the target for us. We maintain our equipment. That is why with the drove of patients daily, weekly and monthly we are able to attend to them all.” 