Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN), a non-profit organisation, has selected 50 outstanding graduates and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members for a residential entrepreneurship and leadership programme at the Lagos Business School. TAIWO ISOLA was among them. Fifty outstanding graduates and National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members have participated in a five-day residential entrepreneurship programme of the Lagos Business School (LBS). The participants, drawn from various parts of the country, were selected for the Venture in Management Programme (ViMP) based on the leadership skills they displayed during their service year. ViMP is a mini Master’s in Business Administration facilitated by the Junior Achievement Nigeria (JAN) – a non-profit organisation – that educates young people between the ages of 15 and 27 on financial literacy and entrepreneurship to make them self-reliant. The programme focused on preparing the participants to become business leaders who would run their own businesses and manage already-established ones and social enterprises. The programme featured lectures and interactive sessions with business leaders, including the chairman of KPMG Africa, Kunle Elebute; Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Africa Initiative for Governance, Chienye Ogwo; and the Managing Partner, Growth Capital Fund, Tunji Eleso. The participants took courses in business strategy, management, entrepreneurship, finance, corporate governance, ethics and leadership, as well as MBA-modelled business cases. They were exposed to the concepts of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and its impacts. After the lectures, each participant was required to impart the knowledge gained from the programme on primary and secondary school pupils in the Ajah axis of Lagos. This, the organisers said, will expose the trainees to the values of giving back to the society. The participants also had the opportunity to network with ViMP alumni, programme sponsors, and JAN board members. JAN founder and Executive Director Simi Nwogugu described ViMP as a platform for breeding future business leaders. She said the ViMP programme had been sustained by the changes championed by the alumni since its inception 19 years ago. She said many of the alumni had become top directors and leaders of industries, business firms and non-governmental organisations (NGOs), while others had started their businesses to add value to people. She said: “JAN has become an enviable platform for raising responsible business leaders. What keeps me going is the huge transformation people experience after passing through our process. Every year, we gather graduates at LBS for training in entrepreneurship, financial literacy and leadership. This exposes them to mentoring and creates opportunities for them to practically discuss real life business cases.” The highpoint of the programme was the advertising contest in which the participants were grouped into six teams, with the mandate to come up with innovative ways to advertise a particular product in an entrepreneurial manner. Presentations were made by each team and the panel of judges comprised faculty members from LBS. The panel evaluated each team. At the end, Taiwo Isola, a CAMPUSLIFE reporter and participant from Sokoto State, was the best presenter, while the most-innovative team was applauded. In his lecture, the Executive Partner of African Capital Alliance (ACA), Paul Kokoricha, tasked the participants on the firm’s core values of integrity, humility, excellence, discipline and contribution. The values, he said, are relevant to sustain any business. The Most Outstanding Male and Female awards went to Caleb Adebayo, a Law graduate of the Obafemi Awolowo University, and Elohor Udubrae, a Chemical Engineering graduate of Caritas University. Caleb, a former CAMPUSLIFE reporter, won the award based on his participation and contribution to activities in the course of the programme. Caleb said: “ViMP programme is amazing. It opened my mind to new vistas I had not seen before. I came to understand leadership and how character and teamwork amongst other things are essential. I learnt strategy and critical thinking through in-depth case studies. I understood the intricacies behind branding. Most important of all, I was constantly in the midst of 49 other intelligent and amazing youths, and the network and idea-sharing opportunity was one that I am also grateful for. From my conversations with them, I was spurred to keep hope alive that Nigeria will rise again.” The programme ended with a movie night experience, which had the participants taken to the cinema to see Black Panther. A participant, Joseph Okoroafor, said: “We have been equipped to go take over every sector of the economy and inspire the change we desire to see.” Another participant, Esther Agbenla, a Public Health graduate, said the programme had ignited the change zeal in her, having been exposed to skills that would enable them blend into the work environment. The programme was sponsored by ACA Foundation and supported by the LBS and Accenture Nigeria.