•Many injured, 20 vehicles, goods burnt THE Lagos State Government yesterday shut  the Olusosun dump at Ojota, which went up in flames on Wednesday night, emitting thick smoke . The smoke was still billowing yesterday, making visibility impossible for motorists. Many parts of Ojota, the old toll gate, Ikosi, Ketu, Seven-up and Alausa were covered in smoke. Some passersby  covered their noses with handkerchiefs and scarfs; others wore face masks to wade through the axis. Scores were injured in the explosion; about 20 vehicles, including caterpillars and trucks, were burnt Containers,  which served as homes, were also destroyed. In a statement, the Commissioner of the Environment Mr Babatunde Durosinmi-Etti explained that the fire was  the ‘’natural outcome of the trapped gases from the waste’’, which escaped. This, he said, occurred occasionally in dump, adding that waste in dumpsites naturally emit certain gases that are occasionally released to cause combustion  as  witnessed in Olusosun. Durosinmi-Etti directed the public to the Epe Landfill and other dump in the state until the Olusosun dumpsite is restored. He recalled that the governmnet had warned that the Olusosun, Solous Igando and Ewu Elepe dump were not sustainable  and had made plans for their phased closure. The Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Lagos State Fire Service and Lagos State Water Corporation  battled through out yesterday to  quench the fire. An Okada rider, who identified himself simply  as Obina, said the explosion occurred around 4pm on Wednesday. He said : “I was in the area when the incident happened. We heard a loud sound and everyone ran for their lives. It was fire explosion from diesel at the dump.  One of those boys in the dump must have smoked cigarette, threw it carelessly and it engulfed into fire which contacted with the diesel trucks and led into an explosion. The fire was much and it gave a tough time to all the firefighters that came here. The wind was blowing the fire and that was how it destroyed many things at the dump. I am sure all the firefighters would have used nothing less than 40 trucks to quench this fire from yesterday (Wednesday) till now that they are still battling with it. “Many plastics meant for recycling were also lost to the fire. The dump has a side where they usually keep diesel and all the diesel trucks were razed. Thank God no one died.” A worker around the dump, Adegoke Obanla, said one of his friends fondly called Papary lost all he had to the fire. “Papary works and lives at the dump every Monday to Friday, he only goes to his Ikorodu home on weekends.  He is in Ikorodu now. He has a shop where he does phone charging; the shop and everything he has inside were burnt, including extension boxes, chargers, tables and chairs,” he said. Obanla said he lost the N50, 000 cash he kept in his room at the dumpsite for what he called ‘’emergency business’’.. “There was another guy that got injured on his right hand. The guy was lying on the rug in his room, when he noticed the rug was bringing out smoke. He had to rush out of his room.” “Thank God the incident happened at the front side of the dump; if it had happened at the rear, the causalty would have been more than this, because there are many tyres in there as well as residential houses,”he said. An official of the firm, which manages the red buses,  said eight of their vehicles were burnt. Some  Lagos State Waste Management Agency (LAWMA) trucks were also burnt. He said the fire must have been caused by the burning of the refuse dump. “Those people at the dump must have tried burning some of the refuse in the area; they would not have expected it to result into an emergency. Thank God nobody died.”