Johnny crooner Yemi Alade is set to share her experience as Midem in Cannes hosts the first African forum on June 5, 2018. Organisers of Midem have also launched its high-potential markets programme designed to assist music professionals from around the world. The new initiative, according to its management, aims to foster bilateral exchanges between international and national music executives and sectors in order to facilitate the structuring and professionalization of the high-potential markets. The four-day forum will be preceded by a series of industry meetings across four African countries, to support the structuring of the African music industry, stimulate discussions between African and international music stakeholders, and develop sustainable business models for African labels and artists in order to boost African music on a local and international scale. “It is such an exciting time to be an artist and especially in Africa, where there are so many talented and creative musicians who are breaking boundaries and whose music travels throughout the world, ” says Yemi Alade. “I’m very pleased to be part of the Midem African Forum and hope that sharing my experience as an artist will highlight the immense opportunities for African artists, not only in the continent, but globally,” adds the multi-award winning artist and fashion designer. As stated by the Director, Alexandre Deniot, Africa has incredible wealth in terms of musical talent and diversity of musical styles but the continent currently represents just 2% of the world music market. “As the home of the global music community, Midem is committed to supporting the development of the international music sector and that includes providing African artists and music companies with a platform to reach more fans and generate new revenues. We look forward to welcoming them to Midem in 2018 and beyond,” says Deniot. The African Forum is organised by Midem in association with pan-African music media network, Trace. “By partnering with Midem on the African Forum, we bring together Midem’s power as an international music business acceleration platform, with our expertise in afro urban music, along with our local knowledge and excellent relationship with our subscribers in Africa, at the service of promoting African talent and providing creative solutions to improve its local and international development,” notes Olivier Laouchez, CEO, Trace. Alongside the African Forum in June, Midem is also organising local meetings in the Ivory Coast, Nigeria, South Africa and Republic of the Congo, taking place from April 4 to April 12, this series of one-day events will bring together African and international music professionals for meetings, conference debates, workshops and live showcases.