Anthony Joshua would earn a lot more than £650 on Thursday when he faces Joseph Parker, 26, in a world heavyweight unification clash in Cardiff. The Nigerian born boxer watched Dillian Whyte sealed victory at the 02 Arena on On Saturday night put money where his mouth was. Joshua placed a £25 bet on Whyte to beat Lucas Browne in the sixth round and picked up a tidy £650 when the Brixton boxer did just that. AJ took to Instagram to boast of his win, sharing a screenshot of his betting receipt along with the message: ‘Quick earner! I know my boxing’. He then shared a picture of Whyte from Sky Sports and added: ‘Well done @dillianwhyte & @lucasbigdaddybrowne — Good Show’. The 28-year-old from Watford is poised to pick up a £20million share of the purse from his fight with Parker, who is unbeaten after 24 professional bouts. Joshua is unbeaten too, having won all 20 of his pro fights, including his seventh-round knockout win over Whyte in 2015. Despite Joshua’s win over Whyte being more than two years ago, the pair remains rivals and were involved in a recent war of words about a potential fight in the UFC. Whyte told Sky Sports News: ‘If [UFC president] Dana Whites signs him, I’ll fight him in the cage!’ The winner of the much-anticipated fight between Joshua and Parker is also expected to face the undefeated WBC heavyweight champion Deontay Wilder, who recently produced a tenth-round stoppage to beat Joe Ortiz to set up a clash with either Parker or Joshua. Joshua’s promoter Eddie Hearn recently revealed that “The fight with Anthony Joshua is unquestionably the biggest fight in world boxing and anyone that knows me knows how much I would love to stage a fight like that. “The options are that we go in August in American against someone and then Deontay Wilder, or straight into Wilder. But if we do Wilder it will probably be October, November, December. Parker touched down in London earlier this week with less than two weeks to go until fight night. “We’ve arrived here in good condition; mentally and physically we’re strong and we’re looking forward to putting on a great display,” said Parker. “I’m young, fast, and strong, my movement is good, I have a great team behind me, and I have my two nations behind me. “Last year wasn’t the best year for us and [there are] many reasons why it wasn’t my best performances in the ring but I can tell you this: we’re going to put on the best performance of our lives come March 31.”