The arrival of a new baby in any family is heralded with pomp and ceremony. It was  so on May 22, 2014 when the family of Mr and Mrs Amos Adeniyi from Ondo State were blessed with their third child, Richard. Parents, understandably, are eager to see their children grow up well and healthy with the prospect of becoming responsible members of the society. Most parents feel disappointed and may break down, if their child that had been a source of joy, turns, as it were, to be a source of sadness and despair due to some complicated illness. That is the mood pervading the family as their son Richard, born three years ago, has not shown any sign of “growing up well and healthy”. According to the boy’s father, Richard was hale and hearty, full of life before last December 18. During breakfast, he could not finish his meal, he became very weak and his health condition changed as he had seizure. Not comfortable with the situation of their son, the Adeniyis took Richard to a private hospital in Ifako from where he was referred to the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi-Araba. He has been a patient of the Pediatric Cardiology Unit of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba, Lagos. According to clinical evaluation, Richard has symptomatic congenital heart disease, known as Tetralogy of Fallot by Echocardio-graphy Richard requires urgent cardiovascular evaluation and open heart surgery to correct his heart defects to forestall irreversible and life-threatening complications. His medical condition has weighed down the family physically, emotionally and financially. Narrating his plight, hesaid he had spent so much and he is still buying expensive drugs, which Richard takes every eight hours to sustain him before the operation in Germany by mid-March. A Medical Report from LUTH issued and signed by Dr. J. O. Sokunbi, a Consultant Paediatrician/Paediatric Cardiologist on January 9, 2018 reads:  To whom it may concern ‘’Summary of the medical report for Adeniyi Richard ‘’DOD: May 22, 2014.  Sex: Male Age: three years, seven  months. Hospital number: 697757. ‘’The above-named three-year-seven-months-old male child is a known patient of the Paediatric Cardiology Unit of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital, Idi Araba. ‘’Clinical evaluation indicated that Richard has symptomatic congenital heart disease, which was confirmed by echocardiography to be Tetralogy of Failot. ‘’Richard will require further cardiovascular evaluation and possible open heart surgery to correct his heart defects in order to forestall irreversible and life-threatening complications. ‘’This letter, therefore, serves as an introduction of the patient for any assistance that will facilitate surgical intervention at a centre with facilities for cardiac surgery. ‘’You may wish to contact the consultant in charge, if further clarification or information is required on Richard. ‘’The crux of the matter here is that the life of a fellow being is in danger. The sum of N9 million is required to carry out the heart surgery in Germany (all expenses included) which the cardiologist said must be effected as quickly as possible to save the life of little Richard. This sum of money is too hard for his parents to afford. Therefore, Mr and Mrs Amos Adeniyi are crying to kind-hearted Nigerians, people who believe in the future of their children, Nigerians who appreciate that children are precious gifts from God Almighty, Nigerians who can imagine the pangs of labour that a mother goes through and the pains a mother or a father could go through in the event of losing a child to death and Nigerians who can willingly choose to be Simon of Cyrene who helped Jesus Christ to carry His Cross on the way to Golgotha. ‘’The world Cross is symbolic here. Whenever and at whatever point in time you help in reducing the burden or pains of fellow humankind, it will be on record that you clothed, fed and gave water to Jesus to drink. History and destiny would certainly smile positively on you. Little Richard, for now, may be nobody. But a little help and sacrifice to help a dying little soul will certainly make him to be somebody tomorrow. Mrs Adeniyi, mother of little Richard, said: “In tears I beg fellow Nigerians to help in seeing that my child lives. When I remember the pangs and pains of labour, I wish I could have provided the money a day after the discovery of this defect in my child’s heart. But since my husband and I could not afford the huge amount of money required in exchange of my son’s life, I run and cry to you my fellow Nigerians to help in ensuring that this little Nigerian lives to be useful to himself and the country. I am confused.” It is not out of place for this mother of three to feel disappointed and be confused at one point in time or the other when she feels that the days of her precious child are numbered if nothing is done and fast too. The boy’s father said: “We are appealing for help from Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and others to come to our aid urgently.” For more information, call the following details call Richard’s father on 08115207882. Those who are moved by these pleas can donate funds to the following account details: Acount name: Adeniyi Richard Desire. Account number 5044627014 savings account: Bank: Fcmb