A colleague of the commercial bus driver, who died in Sunday’s Lekki Toll Gate road crash, yesterday relived   how he breathe his last on the way to hospital. The late Sarafa aka Baba Ikimo,  his conductor and three others died when the driver of a Lexus GX470 Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) marked KJA615DF rammed into his 18-seater commercial bus marked KRE 302 XA. A conductor, Obafemi Ayoola, who was at the accident scene,  said his bus and Sarafa’s left Lakowe in Eti Osa East Local Council Development Area (LCDA) at about the same time that fateful Sunday morning. He said: “Sarafa’s bus was directly in front of my bus. We both slept at the bus garage in Lakowe on Saturday night, but in different buses. I was asleep all through the journey from Lakowe, it was at the Toll Gate that my driver woke me up, saying Sarafa had an accident.  I jumped down from the bus and saw him lying on the floor. The crash affected the back of his head, which was opened and bleeding; his two legs were broken and also bleeding.  I saw his conductor, Hafeez, writhing in pains on the ground. Hafeez’s legs were paralysed.  All the passengers had one form of injury or the other. The SUV driver was also lying on the floor; he wore a white trousers on a white top. “I carried Sarafa from the floor and was assisted to be laid inside the ambulance, his blood stains were all over my body. We later took him to the General Hospital but he gave up on the way. “The SUV driver did not die, he only had a little scratch on his face and was unconscious, I don’t know his condition now; he was the only one inside his car. People were saying that he had been driving against traffic from the Law School. He had hit many cars and still kept driving at high speed. “Makoko Divisional Police Officer (DPO) was with us at the Toll Gate. The DPO said the SUV driver hit his car. Other vehicle owners the driver hit on the road met us at the scene. “When they opened the SUV door, we found drugs in the car. There was cocaine, Indian hemp and a scissors. The DPO collected them all and they took the car away. They told us he was dead, meanwhile he was alive. I later saw him at the General Hospital. If the things found in the car were found in a commercial vehicle I know we would not go free.” CMS Taxi and Motor Park Nigeria Limited Vice President Kareem Akande described the late Sarafa as a good man, adding that they were shocked by the news of his and his conductor’s death. The union, he said, was awaiting the bereaved family’s decision on whether to seek the prosecution of the Lexus driver.