Music legend and founder of Decross Gospel Ministries, Evangelist Ebenezer Obey-Fabiyi and Relume foundation in conjunction with the Household of God Church has provided free healthcare services to residents of Idogo community in Ogun State. The two-day programme, according to Obey who hails from Idogo, was part of the activities lined up to celebrate the seventh year remembrance of his late wife, Pastor (Mrs) Juliana Olaide Obey-Fabiyi. “People would go astray if the spiritual aspect of life is not taken care of or misbehave, and anytime man is doing what he is not supposed to do he cannot be a happy person” Obey said, speaking on the event. ”The healthcare outreach at the response of the people gives me a lot of joy because health is wealth and government alone cannot do everything and I know that this programme is beneficial to the generality of the people in this community. The turnout has made it clear that the care that people need matters lot. “I thank the traditional ruler of the Onidogo of Idogo, Oba Saheed Adebiyi, the elders of the community and the entire people of Idogo for their cooperation which shows we all stand for the progress of our land”. The head of mission of the Household of God International church, Mr Lolu Ogunmade, said that the project demonstrated the primary objectives of any church to people. “We are delighted to be part of this programme, because our experience has made us realise that there is a lot of need in our country for people of means to give back to the underprivileged. We have been able to treat people on both primary and advanced healthcare.” The President of the Relume Foundation, Professor Sherri Adeosun said: “I am impressed with the turnout for the people of Idogo community and its environs. The total people that participated in the two-day programme are 572 adults and 523 children. We distributed medications and food supplies to participants. We also gave school supplies to over 150 students and gave anti worm medication, multivitamins and folic acid to 300 children. We also performed hernia surgeries for four people, precisely, persons of age 4, 10, 14, and 26. While 15 people taken to the Eye Foundation Clinic for cataract surgery.” Chairman of the foundation, Dr Sunday Adeosun, restated that the vision of the programme was take care of people medically, physically and spiritually. “The foundation is committed to spread this initiative across Nigeria and other African countries,” he said. Oba Adebiyi, on behalf of the community, thanked Ebenezer Obey, on his various contributions to the growth of the community and its populace. “I want to use this opportunity to charge all other well-meaning Nigerians, especially indigenes of this town to take a cue from this initiative in order to have a total developmental growth in Idogo and Ogun State at large,” he said.