An Environmentalist and also a chartered Accountant, Gafar Olorunleke Odubote is a strong advocate for a waste-free and sustainable environment towards achieving a circular economy.  He organized his first cleanup project on 19th May 2012 in Ogba, Lagos and since then has organized various environmental initiatives and advocacy to promoting a waste-free society. In 2017, Gafar visited some countries in Europe, including Estonia where he learnt how 50,000 people united to clean up their entire country in five hours and where he further learnt about environmental sustainability. In this interview, with Lanre Mosuro, Gafar, who is the 2018 National Director of Junior Chamber International (JCI) Nigeria – Let’s Do it! Campaign and also a Director at Let’s Do it! Nigeria, spoke on his mandate and vision for a waste-free Nigeria. As the Junior Chamber International (JCI) National Director for the Let’s Do it! Campaign, what exactly are the responsibilities of your office? We are young active citizens of Junior Chamber International Nigeria, taking action and creating impact in our communities. As young active citizens, our impact cuts across the 36 States of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory Abuja, with membership and alumni over 7,000 in 50 local organizations and 70 tertiary institutions. This makes us the largest youth led organization in Nigeria. My key role is to inspire the entire Nigerian population to have positive mindsets towards wastes management, engaging key stakeholders in achieving circular economy while uniting 5% of the country’s population for the biggest civic action in history – the World Cleanup Day on 15 September 2018. We educate people on the effects of littering, illegal wastes disposal, plastic pollution and climate change, while encouraging them to become environmental champions and support circular economy. Tell us about the World Cleanup Day, how do you tend to achieve the project of such magnitude? This year will witness the biggest civic action in history, where JCI Nigeria, Let’s Do it! Nigeria and partners will unite with other 150 countries of the world for World Cleanup Day on 15 September 2018–an initiative by Let’s Do it! World –which began in Estonia in 2008 when 50,000 people united to clean up the entire country in just five hours. We are mobilizing 5% of Nigeria Population by uniting with individuals, civic organizations, Government and corporate bodies. We have a huge network of volunteers who are inspired to have a clean environment and our goal is to unite every sector of the society for a waste-free Nigeria by 2030. As the 2018 National Director for this project; I have Team Leads across the 36 States of Nigeria with over 5,000 team members who have connected with over 10,000 volunteers ready to execute the biggest civic action in history on September 15th, 2018. With the support of ACT Foundation, States Environment Ministries and Civil Societies; we are aiming to change people’s mindsets towards wastes. We urge Nigerians to show support for the environment and come out to clean on that day. What’s your inspiration? I am tired of seeing trash all around our public places, while we can be efficient with our production and consumption. We don’t have any other place to call home aside this planet Earth and waking up every day seeing my Children grow in this present state of environment has inspired me to do something different and contribute towards a cleaner and sustainable environment. I organized my first cleanup project on 19th May 2012 in Ogba, Lagos with JCI Eko and since then I have been to significant places in Nigeria and West Africa promoting a waste-free society that embraces recycling and upcycling. What keeps me going is the hope of seeing my country become a circular economy where everyone will see wastes as a resource and not as a trash. Solid wastes has over the years remained a subject of public discourse in Nigeria, what do you think is the root cause of this issue? Trash blindness’ is the single biggest obstacle to creating cleaner communities which is aided by our attitude towards wastes. Nigerians have grown so accustomed to trash that we no longer notice it nor acknowledge that Waste is actually a resource and not trash. Therefore, the whole system of the country has been built as seeing wastes as a trash and the environment is also being treated as a trash. The current linear economy we are practicing where everything ends up to landfills is not good and we must transit to a circular economy as fast as possible. Plastic trash ends up in our oceans through rivers and other waterways, also gutters. Mismanaged waste in the nature ends up in oceans and is a danger to marine life. What is our Technological option for sustainable waste management in Nigeria? We need to develop, encourage and promote local technologies for waste collection, sorting, disposal, transportation and recycling. Through appropriate research and focusing on critical pollution sources, will help us in modeling the appropriate solution to wastes challenges in Nigeria. For example, we developed a mobile App called “World Cleanup” – a free App to assist people and stakeholders in developing data on Wastes by knowing the location of illegal dumpsites, their sizes and the content of the wastes. Our World Cleanup App is available for free download on google play and App store for free. With this App, we can generate data on the wastes in Nigeria and this will help our government & organizations in effective waste management. It is possible to develop automated machines installed in public that accept plastic from people in exchange for money. The machine would identify and accept only the right kind of plastic What is the way forward for effective wastes management in Nigeria and what is JCI Nigeria doing towards its accomplishment? We first must develop a positive mindset to wastes & End trash blindness. People must see the opportunity in wastes and embrace Circular Economy. Energy from waste is a promising technology & Nigerian waste is rich in organic matter. The education sector must be reformed to include environment as a component at every level –primary, secondary and tertiary levels. It should not be a mere theory course. Programmes should be designed for training & retraining of environmental personnel and more advocacy on achieving a waste-free Nigeria. The environmental laws are existing but there is problem of implementation, monitoring and sustainability. The government must generate data to understand the wastes Nigerian produces and make laws to promote investment in recycling & Circular Economy; while having the right infrastructures in place to support a sustainable environment. JCI Nigeria through the support of ACT Foundation is currently engaging key Stakeholders all over Nigeria on achieving proper wastes management. One of the strategy to ensure environment sustainability is through the inclusive and active voice stakeholders’ involvement towards implementing a lasting solution to the problems of waste in Nigeria. We have designed various tool kits as educational material in training people on recycling and proper wastes management. How can individuals and organization partners with you on this Campaign? We urge people to know that our campaign has never been only about cleaning up waste. We also aim to unite the global community, raise awareness and implement true change to achieve our final goal– a clean and healthy planet. Individuals can support by adopting eco-friendly behavior, for example by not littering, reducing plastic use and advocating for a waste-free society. Organizations and Government can support by speaking about circular economy and the waste problem, support initiatives for zero-wastes while promoting policies and institutional framework for a sustainable environment. We can be reached through our email: Letsdoit@jci.ngor visit www.worldcleanupday.org  .We call upon individuals and organizations to turn up in large numbers and join us on September 15th for World Cleanup Day. Attachments area