Friends and Associates of the Late Rivers state Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice,  Emmanuel  Aguma,  a Senior Advocate of Nigeria(SAN), organised a night of songs in celebration of their deceased colleague. Speaker after speaker at the event extoled the virtues of the passed legal luminary and founder of Aguma & Aguma legal firm. For his boss and Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike,  the late Aguma was capable,  loyal and dependable. Wike spoke at the event through a representative, the former deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives who is the chairman of the burial committee, Austin Opara. Wike said:  “Chinwe meant a lot to all of us, different people have had different experiences with our dear Chinwe Aguma,  but I want to use exactly the words of His Excellency, the Governor as he spoke to me, he said I should let you know that Chinwendu was capable,  loyal and dependable.” Senator Magnus Abe said:  “When I heard that Chinwendu passed,  a lot of memories went through me,  and I said to myself,  life is so transient, everything will go,  all the things we think are so important actually do not mean much,  but memories mean everything; today I am standing here because of the beautiful memories Chinwe created in my life and I’m sure it is that same feeling that got all if us out here today the we we have come to for him. “To all of us that have gathered here for Chinwe thank you very much.  People have described him as a cool guy,  I will say that Chinwe indeed was a great guy. “There are three things I know Chinese wanted in life, first I know that Chinwendu wanted to get married. I wanted a wife he could call his own and this was why after he got married to his wife,  Chinwe practically changed in so many way,  just because he lived his wife. “The other two things I know Chinwe wanted in life is that he wanted to be a Senior Advocate of Nigeria(SAN) and the other one was to be Attorney General of Rivers state. “So to me it is with great happiness standing here today to celebrate a kind. Chinwendu may have died not at the time we may have wished him to go, but he achieved all the things that were important to him in his life.” For the President of Port Harcourt Club, the parent body of the Golf club that organized the event for their peer,  HRH Diamond Tobin-West, the former Rivers A-G was a peace maker,  who would always preferred peaceful settlement of issues outside the four walls of courtrooms despite being a Lawyer; sharing his own experience with the deceased. In his heart renting tribute West concluded that despite a relatively brief life he lived,  it was all together well lives and fulfilling. He said, “Life, they said is not judged by how long,  but how well it was lived. Agums yours was quiet short but well lived. “Tears have been flowing and will keep following for a while, tears for the loss of a father,  husband,  sin,  brother, friend, a colleague and a peace maker. “In all the tears,  he will always sought for peace even in cases that he handled as a legal practitioner. Peace making was his exceptional nature and I have my stories to tell of him in this area.” he stated. “Your death is a huge loss, to your family, Rivers state and the legal profession and we will miss you so much.” Harcourt Adukeh said: “We have gathered here to celebrate one of our own, judging by the arrangement of this evening,  it is clear that Chinwe took time to touch a lot of lives. “A lot of us forget about our brothers and sisters.  We think money and position is everything thing and we complain,  but we forget to touch other peoples’ life. “Life is about touching other lives. We need to prioritize and live every day as if it is our last. There is need for people to learn not to hold back anything in their minds against one another,  learn to forgive to be able to sleep well,  forgive because you know that it could be your last time on earth,  so there is no need to carry any heavy load across, I believe it us the spirit if those who gather to resolve issues that have brought people together to celebrate late Chinwe.” For Dr Doris Cowan: “When I heard about Chinwe’s death, I was shocked but I shed tears. I has hardly interacted with Chinwe in life, I couldn’t understand why it hurts,  but after some introspection I got it; a chunk of my Port Harcourtness had gone. “Chinwe was the beauty of Port Harcourt, beauty from within and beauty without, great height,  very well educated,  very eloquent, good father,  good husband and great son.” Idaeere Ogan said of the deceased: “Today we mourn a great man,  and there is no other way to look at it,  but look at the people that have gathered here this night. “We have left at the gates of this event our political affiliations, out tribal,  positions in the society, everything that represent us and we have come together under this roof in unity,  in love and friendship, helping one another. “All of these elements have defined what our place in Port Harcourt is, and there is no person that epitomises all of this elements that make us Port Harcourt boys or girls than our friend that have departed. “The amount of emotion and support this program have gained and is still goes to show who Chinwe was. Man is like a brand, if your brand is good,  people will sit out for you but if the brand is bad, nobody will come, Chinwe is indeed a shining example of what Port Harcourt is.” OCJ Okocha said: “This is a tough one for me because of the way I am feeling. I related with Chinwe at several levels as Ikwerre brother and kinsman,  as old boy of the same secondary school,  as a colleague in the Nigerian Bar Association,  later as a learned brother silk(SAN) and then as AG of the state which automatically made him by the statute of legal practitioners’ Act,  a member of body if Benchers (body of excellence in legal practice). “Chinwe was a great lawyer who could be hot and also very cold. To me Chinwe was cool, a perfect gentleman, always well dressed and elegant, from a famous family and the testimonies about him are yet unfolding.” In his homily,  the officiating minister,  Rev. Canon Gospel Onuchukwu of the Anglican communion “This gathering affordable us the opportunity to closely reflect on our lives, it also gives the deceased the opportunity to address us for the last time as his friends.” In the message entitled “Learn from my experience: prepare for eternity” the clergy urged the participants that that was what late Chinwe Aguma was urging them to do. Taking his sermon from the Bible, 1 Kings 2 verse 2, said death is an experience, and that the deceased would want everyone to know and always remember that, repent of their sins and accept Jesus Christ in their lives. “Late Chinwe will like us to learn from his experience, death is an experience. I could hear him say,  I would have loved to live on like you people that is alive today,  but I am no more. I sought for medical care so that I can live longer but I died after all,  learn from this experience. “I could hear him say, I am lying lifeless today in the mortuary,  every one of you will one day die. “I hear him say,  I love to continue to serve my state,  I live to continue to serve the government and people of Rivers state,  I live to continue to serve God,  I love to continue to fellowship with my brethren but I am no more,  a day will come when you too will be no more,  death is the way of all flesh, these are some of the lessons he is passing across to us,  in summary he is saying to us,  prepare for eternity,” he said.