Dr Peter Elias is the National Youth coordinator of the Deeper Life Christian Ministry, a close assistant of Pastor WF Kumuyi the General Overseer of the Church in Nigeria and worldwide.He is also a senior lecturer in the Faculty Arts and Sciences, University of Lagos,where he is a Geography lecturer. Elias tells us,in this interview with PAUL UKPABIO, how he met the General Overseer as a secondary school student at a camp organized by the church. He also relived a recent US trip undertaken over a slum-dwellers project. Excerpts: You said Pastor WF Kumuyi is your mentor, can you tell us how that came to be? I was fortunate to have come in contact with Pastor WF Kumuyi while I was in the secondary school. I came in contact with his ministry. I have been under his ministry for 40 years now and fortunately for me, I have been leading the youth that he has held dear to his heart for some time now because, I am a product of that movement, which he started over four decades ago. How did you meet him? I was in the secondary school and there was a similar event outside Lagos. I was invited from my school and I participated. He was there and to the glory of God, I have been working closely with him. I am the National Youth coordinator of the church, the one in charge of the Youth Wing of the Deeper Life Christian Ministry. What does that entail? It entails organizing youth-related activities, conferences, projects and programmes. We just finished one two weeks ago, and it was all over the country and beyond. I was able to visit 18 locations where the meeting held and I was in Ogun State for their own version last week and I was able to visit four of their camp meetings. We organize camp meetings during school holidays; we also have skill empowerment programmes, which is what we are preparing for in the next two Saturdays, which will be hosted by the General Overseer himself. What kind of person would you say Pastor Kumuyi is? Pastor WF Kumuyi is a great leader, author and a great teacher that has influenced many people globally. He is someone that loves the youth so dearly and that explains why he has a high school called Deeper Life High School, with over 20 campuses all over the nation. He has also established the Anchor University and in recent times, he has been into youth empowerment. Four weeks ago, we had a similar programme where youths graduated from a skill acquisition programme for a higher level of youths. But we have a programme coming up like I said two weeks from now, which is for the teenagers. So he is a youth loving person. That is why many of us like myself have been following him right from teenage age. You are into youth education in the church and also into youth education in your secular work as a lecturer, did you plan it ahead like that when you were young? Growing up, I was influenced by him and I knew my background considering who my parents are. The fact that it was not easy growing up when it comes to the financial aspect, so when I look back through his inspirational messages, I have been able to remain focused in life and today, I am a global scholar. So it gives me joy, and I want to see how I can impact the same kind of focus and lifestyle on the youth. The young lady you saw when you came into my office just returned from the USA with me and other students. We were all together in Washington DC some few weeks ago. I took four of them to a global competition that University of Lagos participated in. The competition was a Facebook digital challenge. Until you met your mentor, what was life like for you? It was very bad; I am talking about the late 70s, not the Lagos of today that is colourful and inviting. The future was bleak for me because there was no assurance of money for me to further my education after secondary school education. How did you eventually get the money to finance further your education? That is the beauty of God’s blessing and that is what this inspirational leader brings into people’s lives. He talks to you, then prays for you and before you know it, doors will open, opportunities would come and before you know it, things fall into place for you. That’s because of the anointing that he possesses. When he prays for you, God uses him to tell you what will happen and surely it happens. I have seen it many times happen that way and I am a living testimony. After secondary school, what happened? I came to the University of Lagos to read Geography and Planning; when I was through with that, I went to the University of Ibadan for post-graduate studies to study Urban and Regional Planning, then came back to the University of Lagos because I needed to do my PhD but the Masters degree that I did at Ibadan was called professional, so I couldn’t continue. I returned to Lagos and did another Masters degree  and by the time I was finishing, those who were to take me as their doctoral student were all retiring. So I had to return to Ibadan the again, that is why I have two degrees from University of Lagos and two degrees from the University of Ibadan. Eventually, I did my PhD in Ibadan. I returned to Lagos to become a lecturer. Did you meet your wife during the youth programmes? (Laughs) No, I had finished youth service and many years after. We met in the church. She is a trained secretary but now into private business. And from the way I am excited, you can tell that I am fulfilled in my marriage. And it has given me opportunity to work with young people; I have students in different parts of the world who have passed out from the University of Lagos here. I was a course adviser here for years and when we travel out as academics, people stop to ask us for recommendations and we do referrals. One of such students just returned from Arizona University because when I was there, I was asked to send somebody. I recommended her and she spent six years there where she did her Masters and PhD; now we are colleagues. As a lecturer interacting with young people, what is life like here as a lecturer? It’s a free life; you can see how I am interacting freely; I have my own children too. So I relate with the students the same way I relate with my children at home. The same kind of discipline that I give to my children is what I extend to them. The progress I want for my children is the same that I desire for my students. My son is studying at the University of Ibadan, he preferred that place. He is a scientist. And being a pastor, I give them words of the bible too. Do you have a lifestyle outside the campus? Yes, like I said that in July we travelled to USA with some students. What that was about was a project that I have been on for some time that has to do with studies related to the slum areas. These are areas that are often neglected and are left in deplorable conditions without basic amenities and basic services. Sometimes people living in these slums are seen as not being human beings forgetting that the slum is a place not the people. I was invited by a body in the US to put together a group of students to compete with other students globally. So I got the idea to tell the whole world that yes, there are slums; there are people who dwell there but it is not by choice but because they are victims of circumstances. If they have any choice,they won’t live there, so they should not be treated by where they live but by who they are. Now we have heard that some of them who have lived in the slum today are top musicians, others top footballers and so on. So that is what we went to tell the world in USA, that slum is a big problem but the people that are there are not the problem. All they want is opportunity to achieve their lives’ aspiration, if supported. I work with NGOs; we go out to the slums to work. I have a grant for this work in University of Legon in Ghana and University of Lagos and my team is in these two countries monitoring what is happening. Pastor Kumuyi has in the last four decades  been holding this programme borne out of his concern to redirect the youth and that was how I was fortunate to meet him too. Many because of their situations of life take to criminal acts; some commit suicide because there is no proper direction.  So what he believes is that at this early age , let’s talk to to them to redirect their energy and motivate them properly and give them spiritual muscle to help them to stand life’s challenges. I didn’t enter the university immediately I finished school because I didn’t have all the scores required. I actually went in after the fourth attempt. Ordinarily I should have given up but for the orientation that I had from him, I was able to withstand. I remained focused; so this programme is to stabilize youths and the next one is happening next Saturday(September 22)and we have also invited successful people in life, leading facilitators including Pat Utomi who will be the guest speaker at the new ultra-modern headquarters and many young people will find a future there.