.East Africa worst hit  A total of 5.2 million persons were displaced internally as a result of conflicts, violence across the world between January and June, the Internal Displacement Monitoring Centre (IDMC) said on Wednesday. IDMC, the world’s authoritative source of data and analysis on internal displacement since 1998 also indicated that East Africa recorded five out of the 10 worst-affected IDP countries, adding that Ethopia recorded additional 1.4 million Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) within the period under review surpassing Syria and the Democratic Republic of Congo. Somalia and South Sudan too are among the 10 worst-affected countries for new displacement linked to conflict and violence. In a statement availed The Nation, IDMC said millions of people across the world have become displaced inside their own country since January, adding that there were additional 3.3 million displacements associated with disasters in 110 countries and territories. The Monsoon flooding in India in May and June caused the most significant displacement, affecting over 370,000 people, IDMC said, adding “unprecedented flooding continued in July and August, meaning this estimate is likely to rise. “It said the statistics were based on the analysis of data from the 10 worst-affected countries. “East Africa also accounts for five of the most significant disaster events between January and June, with flooding in Kenya, Somalia, Ethiopia and Uganda, and drought in Somalia displacing more than a million people in total,” said IDMC’s director Alexandra Bilak. Bilak said: “Our mid-year assessment serves as an important temperature gauge of the state of the world today. Conflict and violence in low-income countries are becoming more protracted and causing ever-high numbers of people to flee their homes, while vulnerable communities in disaster-prone regions or in areas experiencing the effects of climate change are increasingly at risk and disproportionately impacted by internal displacement. “Failure to address the issue of internal displacement will have enormous implications, not just for the individuals, families and communities affected, but also for these countries’ longer-term stability. “In addition to improving humanitarian responses to these crises, more investment must be made at the national and international level to reduce poverty and inequality, build peace and address the effects of climate change.”
IDMC’s mid-year report shines light on Ethiopia, where new conflict broke out earlier this year in Gedeo and West Guji zones which triggered over a million new displacements. “Internal border disputes between Somali and Oromia regions in the east of the country that flared up toward the end of 2017 also continued. “As the conflict in Yemen enters its fourth year, relentless fighting continues to deepen the world’s worst humanitarian crisis. Between January and June, 140,000 new displacements were recorded, an extremely conservative estimate. “Displacement was largely concentrated in parts of western Yemen controlled by Ansar Allah, part of the al-Houthi movement, where a series of Saudi-led airstrikes hit densely populated areas including the cities of Taizz and Hodeidah. “The Horn of Africa, Ethiopia, Kenya and Somalia experienced nearly a million new displacements due to unprecedented flooding in April and May after an extended period of drought in the region exacerbated by the Indian El Niño weather phenomenon. “Finally, tropical cyclone Gita left a trail of destruction in the Pacific in February, triggering 10,000 new displacements in American Samoa, New Zealand, Samoa and Tonga. The figure is relatively small compared with the 10 most significant disaster events, but the damage and displacement Gita caused shows that small island states suffer huge impacts relative to their population size,” said IDMC.