A caretaker simply identified as Orobosa has fled into hiding after stabbing one of his co-tenants to death over the use of bathroom. The victim who was identified as Chinonso Okereke was stabbed on the chest, shoulder and head. Wife of the victim who gave her name as Martha Okereke said the caretaker has been threatening to deal with her late husband. Martha, aged 27, said the caretaker fled after killing her husband. She said trouble started because she wanted to take her bath at the general bathroom but the caretaker refused and told her to use the broken bathroom. According to her, “I returned from the market and wanted to take my bath at our general bathroom but our caretaker said I should not use it. The bathroom we used to use is bad. “He said myself and my husband will not use the bathroom again. My husband came back and saw that I have not taken my bath. “My husband went to ask the caretaker but the caretaker started shouting that he has been warning my husband and he will deal with him. As he was shouting, he used mortar to hit my husband on the head. He brought out a knife and my husband ran away. He pursued my husband to our room and stabbed him on the chest. “The caretaker ran away and we have not seen him. I want Government to look for him and make him face the law. My husband did not do anything. A sister to the deceased, Mrs. Hannah Emenike, said she was cooking when her brother’s wife cried to her that the caretaker has killed her brother. “I went out and saw my brother on the ground. I thought he was not dead so we used wheelbarrow to take him to the hospital. He was confirmed dead at the hospital. He was stabbed in the chest, shoulder and head.” Peeved by the action of the caretaker, angry relatives and youths in the area moved to set the building ablaze. Other tenants in the building fled with few belongings as the mob destroyed the house. It was the arrival policemen that stopped the mob from setting the house ablaze. Residents in the area said the house was an inherited property.