The beauty of the Al Noor Mosque is striking, but its greatest service is attracting worshippers of other faiths, reports JIDE BABALOLA Its towering magnificence notwithstanding, expanding charitable causes and the deepening of its role as a centre for interfaith dialogue is adding to the significance of Al Noor mosque in Abuja, Nigeria’s federal capital. Under a N500 million expansion plan unveiled by the International  Centre for Islamic Culture and Education (ICICE), the expansive mosque known for its keen children’s education, inspiring sermons and digital recitations as well being a source of succor to the less-privileged now aims to expand its humanitarian works tremendously. Like the Al Noor Mosque is a masjid in Sharjah, United Arab Emirates, the Al Noor mosque in Abuja has an artistic exterior, including the unique Ottoman ornamental design and ceramic works makes it to stand out so distinctly in the city. Unlike the one in the UAE with a 2,200 worshipper capacity, the one in Abuja is set to accommodate 10,000 worshippers soon. In 2014, the Al Noor mosque in the UAE which was completed in 2005 set a Guinness World Record for the “World’s largest wooden charity box” for their Ramadan donation· campaign and with similar charitable disposition, the one in Abuja aims to go further. Unveiling ICICE’s expansion vision before the Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Mohammed Sa’ad Abubakar, the Centre’s Director General, Dr Kabiru Kabo Usman told the Sultan that the Centre had successfully developed a Code for Ethics of Practice for Imams and other areas of research that will help the Muslim community, particularly on local issues. He announced the introduction of  Islamic Lecture Series by the centre and invited the Sultan to be the Special Guest at the maiden edition of lecture series scheduled to hold at Al-Noor Mosque on Saturday, October 6, 2018. The maiden Guest Lecturer will be the Registrar of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board, (JAMB) Prof I’shaq Oloyede who is also the Secretary General of Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs. The title of the lecture is “Islamic perspectives on Accountability in Public Service” – a standpoint that reflects current national concerns. He further requested the Sultan to support in the publication of the Al-Noor Mosque Friday prayers sermons in English, Hausa and Arabic languages for the period from August 2012 to date. According to Dr. Kabir Usman’s Special Assistant on Media, Alhaji Abdulkadir Ahmed Ibrahim, the ICICE and Al Noor mosque are also blazing a trail towards impacting people’s economic lives positively. For instance, work is going on towards the establishment of an Islamic Microfinance Bank for youth empowerment in addition to plans to  establish an Islamic Banking and Finance Academy. Similarly, Dr Kabir Usman said plans were in progress by the ICICE  to organise an International workshop on Sukuk and non-interest banking in Dubai and this is scheduled  for November 19 to 23 this year. Explaining further, Dr Kabir Kabo Usman said that the workshop will feature the fundamental principles of Sukuk structuring including Islamic Treasury Bills and other non-interest Capital Market products, Islamic Banking and insurance  for key operators and relevant stakeholders in the Nigerian finance industries. In his remarks, the Sultan of Sokoto who is the President General of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar pledged to assist  the International Centre for Islamic Culture and Education to achieve its objectives and discharge other responsibilities. He commended the centre for its educative activities especially in the training and capacity building  programme among youth who, he noted, are the vanguard for progress. The Sultan was particularly happy that the centre focuses on interfaith dialogue and training, adding that new positive viewpoints about Islamic financing can really help the socirty move forward. He emphasised the importance of the Guidance and Counselling objectives of the ICICE especially in the teachings of Islamic values, Islamic culture and knowledge. Its strong focus on poverty eradication and scholarship programs were also commended. Among others, the ICICE through Al Noor mosque aims to help reduce conflict and build peace in the society through  interfaith dialogue processes that would embrace Christians from diverse walks of life. A waqf, also known as habous or mortmain property, is an inalienable charitable endowment under Islamic law, which typically involves donating a building, plot of land or other assets for Muslim religious or charitable purposes with no intention of reclaiming the assets. Such assets may be under the supervision of a charitable trust and this is one of the areas that ICICE and Al Noor are seriously looking at. In Islam, Zakat, “that which purifies” is a form of alms-giving treated in Islam as a religious obligation or tax, which, by Quranic ranking, is next after prayer (salat) in importance. As one of the Five Pillars of Islam, zakat is a religious obligation for all Muslims who meet the necessary criteria of wealth. It is a mandatory charitable contribution, the right of the poor to find relief from the rich, and is considered to be a tax, or obligatory alms. The payment and disputes on zakat have played a major role in the history of Islam and with processes and infrastructure now being deployed at Al Noor to mobilize stronger participation; the populace will be the better for it. An aesthetically masterful worship environment using its donation booth to rally hope and material resources for the less privileged is surely welcome.