The Osun State governorship election witnessed massive turnout yesterday. The election in which 48 political parties had participated started at exactly 8.00 am in many polling units in the 30 council areas of the state. Electoral materials and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials arrived many polling centers visited by our correspondent before 8.00 am. Reports showed the exercise was peaceful as there was no record of violence in many polling units across the state. Turnout was impressive in Ilesa, the homestead of the incumbent governor Rauf Aregbesola. The governor, who arrived Ilesa around 11.00 am, drove straight to his family house in Ogbon Arogbo, Ifofin in Ilesa East Local Government area of the state. Alongside his wife, Serifat, the governor came out to vote at Ward 8 Unit 1 Ifofin polling booth around 11.50 am after accreditation. He spoke with reporters shortly, describing the conduct of the election as peaceful. Aregbesola, who commended voters for trooping and conducting themselves in a decent manner, said reports reaching him from all parts of the state show that the exercise was going on well. He expressed hope that voters will sustain their peaceful disposition to the election. The Presiding Officer in Ward 8 Unit 1 Ifofin, Saheed Lawal, said all electoral materials arrived on time, adding that accreditation and voting commenced immediately at 8.00 am. According to him, the polling booths split into two have 818 registered voters. Our correspondent reported that voting exercise was peaceful in many polling centers within Ilesa East and Ilesa West local government areas, including Ward 1 unit 8, Ward 2 unit 2, Ward 7 unit 1, Ward 7 unit 6 and Ward 8 unit 1. Voters got to polling centers, including Unit 13 Ward 4 Fagbewesa in Osogbo, the state capital, Unit 6 Ward 5 Ikire, Unit 4 Ward 4, Unit 1 Ward 9 Ikire, Unit 5 Ward 4 Iragbiji, Wards 10 and 12 Lagere in Ife, Ward 5 Units 2A and 2B Ikire, Ward 6 Units 9A and 9B, to carry out their civic responsibilities. In some of the polling units visited in Ilesha and Ile-Ife, majority of the voters came to the polling units with their smart phones but security agents did not allow them to take the gadgets to the voting cubicles. A domestic election observer, Jimmy George, commended security agents for preventing voters from using their phones to to avoid vote buying.