 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has decried the exclusion of persons with Disabilities (PWDs) in the country’s electoral process. INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, stressed that excluding a community with an estimated population of 25 million from the political process, amounts to denying the nation of their critical contribution. Yakubu spoke on Tuesday in Abuja at the opening of the Public presentation of INEC framework on access and participation of PWDs. He therefore said that the commission has come up with various policies for the engagement of PWDs as well as the expertise to implement the Framework. The document is therefore expected to guide the decision making process and activities of the Commission from the Committee level, Departmental and Divisional level, down to the State and Local Government Area offices. Yakubu who was represented by National Commissioner and Chairman Outreach and Partnership Committee (OPC),Dr. Adekunle Ladipo Ogunmola said: “Permit me, distinguished Ladies and Gentlemen to stress that, excluding a community with an estimated population of over 25 million from the political process, amounts to denying the nation the much needed contribution of this critical mass in the task of nation building, as well as a dent on Nigeria’s domestic and international commitment to respecting and promoting the human rights of ‘ all its citizens. “Democracy is all about participation; it should be an all-comers affair. For it to have any meaning, all eligible citizens must be allowed to participate meaningfully not just symbolically.” To ensure that no one was left behind, the Commission, he said “commenced certain strategic initiatives beginning with its Gender Policy which it has faithfully implemented in the last few years. It is also in the process of developing its Youth Engagement Strategy.” On the policy framework which was presented, he said “From a human right perspective, this document not only guarantees the full participation of eligible PWDs and all such vulnerable groups, but places responsibilities and obligations on the Commission, as well as other election stakeholders in line with its objective of making our elections more inclusive. “However, while we acknowledge that the document about to be formally presented may not necessarily carry the weight and force of law in all regards, it comes with a moral burden and weight on the part of all stakeholders to ensure the inclusion of all eligible PWDs in the electoral process. As a Commission, we intend to lead in this regard. We take the Framework as our Charter with all citizens living with any disability. We hold ourselves bound by the commitments contained in this Framework. “We are of the candid view that integrating aspects or the entire Framework into a codified law should be the immediate focus of stakeholders and the Commission is hereby committing to lead in the advocacy for such in the future. “The summary of this document revolves around the rights of eligible PWDs to vote, be voted for, and hold political party offices, among others. It further expands access of eligible PWDs to the electoral process by placing responsibilities and obligations on the Election Management Body (EMB) to provide assistive materials, as well as provide or ensure PWD friendly and compliant environment and processes.” Even before this formal presentation, the Commission he said “has since commenced the pilot of certain aspects of PWD access in the recent off-cycle governorship elections in Anambra, Ekiti and Osun States and will hopefully replicate same in other elections. The Commission will build on the successes of the pilots and with lessons learned, improve on the inclusiveness of our future elections. “Beyond this, the Commission has put in place various platforms for the engagement of PWDs as well as the expertise to implement the Framework. This document is therefore expected to guide the decision making process and activities of the Commission from the Committee level, Departmental and Divisional level, down to the State and Local Government Area offices.” 