The Senior Special Assistant  to President Muhammadu Buhari on National Assembly Matters (House of Representatives) and Senatorial aspirant for Kano South Senatorial District, Alhaji Abdulraman Kawu Sumaila on Sunday raised an alarm over alleged threat to his life by agents of his political opponent. During an emergency press briefing held at NUJ Kano Press Centre, Kawu alleged that a former chairman of Sumaila Local Government Area and campaign Director to Senator Kabiru Gaya, Alhaji Abdulhamid Idris Rimi led a group of unknown persons who stormed Sumaila Ward and attempted to attack him while he was addressing over 3000 All Progressive Congress (APC) supporters who had gathered for the direct governorship primaries of the party in the state. Kawu said  three suspects have been arrested over the incident and are now in police custody. According to him, “I am at the Press Centre to acquaint you on recent happenings in Sumaila town in Sumaila Local Government Area. “You are aware that APC in Kano  is conducting direct primary elections across the state to endorse our leader, His Excellency, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje who has been adopted as the sole candidate of the party. “You are also aware that Governor Ganduje and our party chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas decided to adopt direct primaries to elect party candidates from presidential, governorship, National Assembly to State Assembly. For the governorship primaries, the candidate is one; and all the APC stakeholders in Kano agreed to accept Governor Ganduje as our sole candidate because of his achievements in office. He deserved to get a second term to consolidate on his achievements. “However, today (Sunday) around 12 noon, when I visited my Ward in Sumaila town to participate in the process of selecting the sole candidate of our party, the party leadership in the Ward gave me an opportunity to address the party faithful numbering over 4000. “I was telling them the process and the importance to make sure that we put our hands on deck to endorse Governor Ganduje and President Buhari and give maximum cooperation to consolidate on their gains in the second term. “As I was speaking to them, a former chairman of Sumaila Local Government Area who happens to be the Campaign Director of my opponent, approached me, asking me about the election materials and officials. “I told him that they just arrived and that was the reason why we were about to start our own. I told him that all the officials and materials are all here. Immediately I finished answering his questions, I suspected some strange faces coming very close to me. “Some people, about eight of them approached me. I became suspicious because of the way they were behaving and I observed that they were not members of Sumaila community.  I quickly put a call across to the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) because I perceived danger coming. “Even as I was on call, they kept coming close to me and I suspected that they were carrying dangerous weapons. Then, I quickly called the attention of my security details. They apprehended them and discovered that they were armed with dangerous weapons.” He further stated that the police later arrested two of the suspects, including Senator Kabiru Gaya’s campaign Director who are currently at Sumaila police station. According to him, upon interrogation, police discovered that the suspects were not from Sumaila Ward and had no business being there at that point in time. “Now, we have an evidence which I will tell the whole world clearly that some people whom I suspect are from my political opponent are attempting to eliminate me because this is the only way they win the election. “They are creating unnecessary tension, they are hitting the polity to eliminate me to achieve their political goal. Therefore, my prayer is for the Commander-In-Chief of the Armed Forces, President Buhari, Inspector General of Police and all relevant security agencies to come my rescue.” When contacted, Kano Police Command spokesman, SP Musa Magaji Majia said he was yet to be briefed on the incident.  