Ekiti State of Assembly aspirant Mr. Hakeem Jamiu has urged the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to investigate Governor Ayo Fayose for allegedly refusing to implement projects outlined in the budget in his native Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government. Jamiu, who is contesting for the Assembly seat of Irepodun/Ifelodun Constituency II on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), said Fayose’s kinsmen voted against his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the July 14 governorship poll because he allegedly abandoned the people. The Assembly aspirant insisted that the non-execution of the projects itemised in the budget had short-changed the people, hence the need to probe how funds voted for the projects were spent. Jamiu, who spoke on Saturday at Igbemo-Ekiti while declaring his plan to run for the Assembly’s seat, said his ambition was borne out of the need to bring development to all communities in the constituency through law-making, performance of oversight functions and galvanising the citizenry to participate in governance. Party leaders and members agreed that Jamiu, the former Senior Special Assistant on Research and Documentation during the first tenure of Dr. Kayode Fayemi, should be made the party’s candidate through a consensus arrangement. They also passed a vote of no confidence on Fayose’s leadership, saying he has failed the people of the zone. Jamiu said: “Governor Fayose is from our constituency but the people rejected him in the last election because he abandoned them. There wasn’t any project executed in the 10 communities that make up the constituency since 2014 and this reflected in the results of the last governorship election. “The bridge linking his town and Igbemo Ekiti collapsed and the town was nearly cut off. But our governor never bordered. The present representative of the constituency did no single project when Fayemi did more than five projects in each of the towns. “We need to assuage the suffering of our people. We need quality representation. That is what we are going there to achieve through Fayemi’s leadership and mentorship. The next election will be robust, unlike what we are having now. “Our roads are bad; there is no investment in agriculture, particularly in rice that we grow in large quantities. All the projects initiated by Fayemi were abandoned. The lack of no confidence vote showed that the people are angry and desirous of change. That is what we are going to the Assembly to achieve.” 