Of the 420 students of public and private schools in Ikorodu Division of Lagos state who applied to participate in this year’s edition of Oba Kabir Shotobi Independence Day Mini Marathon, sponsored by the Majority Leader of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Hon. Sanai Agunbiade, two hundred and seventy student runners and an addition of about thirty guest athletes, have been cleared by the screening committee to run in the race scheduled to take place in Ikorodu town on Monday, 1st October. The event, according to Hon. Agunbiade, who is also the Opomulero of Ikorodu, is meant to commemorate the annual Independence Day as well as discover sporting talents in Ikorodu Division. The event which was firstly staged in 2015 and since then had been a yearly competition, with this year’s edition According to the organisers of the race, this year’s event will span about 7.3km. Committee chairman, Akeem Bello said since it started in 2015, the event has been moving from strength to strength. He revealed that most of those disqualified were excused from the race on health grounds. He said the screening exercise also helped some students and parents to discover and treat some life threatening health challenges hitherto unknown to them. Bello added that the marathon is aimed at creating healthy rivalries among students of private and public schools in Ikorodu division, contributing to the development of sports in Lagos State and Nigeria as a whole, discovering and developing athletes that will represent Lagos State and Nigeria in national and international long distance races in future as well as commemorate Independence Day celebration in the division. The DG of Team SOB, Kabir Ajalogun said the 4th edition of the race was unveiled on Tuesday, September 18, 2018, by His Royal Majesty, Oba Engr. Kabir Adewale Shotobi, the Ayangburen of Ikorodu Kingdom at his palace to kickstart this year’s event. “For four years now, the Independence Day celebration is marked in Ikorodu with the Oba Shotobi Independence day Mini Marathon. The people have come to know and appreciate the race as the main event of the day in our division. Apart from the runners, people come from far and near to watch the marathoners as they run through major areas of our towns. “Seventy athletes took part in the race when we started in 2015, but of the Four Hundred and Twenty applicants that were screened medically by medical personnel from Lagos State Sports Commission this year, Two Hundred and seventy athletes will be taking part in the competition. “This is an indication that the competition is waxing stronger by the year. Also, past Winners like Olayinka Boluwatife, won Bronze in Ibile games, are being groomed to reach great heights in sports.” He further revealed that the list of qualified athletes will be published. “The officials drawn from Body of games master of primary and secondary schools in the Division and the State Sports commission will be briefed on Friday, September 28, 2018, on route alongside with the athletes on the rules of the competition. CityScenes gathered at on Sunday September, His Royal Majesty, Oba Sotobi will light the torch of the race and hand it over to a team of past winners who run all the way through the route to the finishing line at Igbogbo road police barracks. The route for this year’s marathon is; Ayangburen palace -Living stone college – Etunrenren street – Late Ayangburen Residence – Water Works Station – Lagos Road – Round About – Sabo Market – Kokoro Abu Street – Ikorodu Grammar School along Awolowo Road – Ota On a – Oriwu Road -Ita Elewa – Ireshe Road – Sheriff Junction – Finish point at Police Barracks Ikorodu. “The race will be flagged off by 7:00am at the palace of the Ayangburen of Ikorodu by the Oba himself assisted by other eminent personalities. For their efforts, the winners in both male and female categories, will win trophies and medals for their respective schools and cash gifts of fifty thousand naira. Also, thirty thousand naira and twenty thousand naira in addition to trophies are available for first and second runner up in both categories respectively. Similarly, contestants up to the 20th position in both categories will go home with consolation prizes.