The Nigerian Association of Liquefied Petroleum Gas Marketers (NALPGAM) has expressed concern over the continued closure of Second Coming Gas Plant Nig. Ltd., by the Lagos State government. Its Executive Secretary, Mr. Bassey Essien, said the plant had been shut for about nine months. In a statement, yesterday, Essien urged the government to reopen the plant. Essien called for urgent intervention of the governor to save the gas plant from indefinite closure, saying the association was worried over the prolonged closure. He said the investigation panel and inquest set up by the state and federal regulatory agencies did not indict the company for negligence, as it had always taken measures to ensure safety at all times. “It is worthy to note that the company has been operating in that same location for over 20 years without any mishap. “At the conclusion of investigations, the company was granted approval to begin reconstruction and renovation of the burnt plant, albeit with strict compliance on standards.” Essien said the management of the plant had complied with all standard safety requirements given to it and the company was ranked among the most safety compliant gas plants in the country. He said while awaiting the final inspection so as to be given the final nod to reopen for business, the place was unceremoniously locked by another agency in the same state and had remained locked for nine months. Essien said progress had been made in cooking gas utilisation and consumption. He said cooking utilisation and consumption over the years was usually associated with the elite, “but it has now been embraced by food vendors and low income earners.” “This huge achievement has been attributed to private investments by committed indigenous entrepreneurs to establish gas bottling plants across the country.” Essien said Nigeria was endowed with abundant gas reserves; however utilisation of cooking gas had been abysmally low, compared to neighbouring West African countries. He said such countries included Morocco and Egypt in the North. “It is the efforts of these indigenous entrepreneurs, who have invested massively to erect terminals and gas bottling plants that have led to the growth in consumption from about 70,000 MT in 2007 to about 840,000MT in 2018.”