The Lagos State Special Offences Court at Gbolade, Oshodi, has convicted 53 persons, who contravened the building regulations. The offenders were convicted after the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) prosecuted them for contravening Lagos State Urban and Regional Planning and Development Law 2010. According to LASBCA’s General Manager, Mr Lekan Shodeinde, the agency has issued 83 summonses against the offenders of the law in different parts of the state. “The court has duly convicted 53, while others are still pending in court,” he said in a statement yesterday in Lagos. Shodeinde said the offenders were being prosecuted for different contraventions and other related offences, as stipulated in the building law. He said their offences included erection of structure without a planning permit, contrary to Section 27 (1) of the Law and punishable under Section 75 (1) of the same law. Other offences include breaking of government seals or removal of any mark placed on a contravening structure by or with order of the agency, punishable under Section 75 (2) of the Law. He said failure to insure a building as required by the law for which the offenders were prosecuted was contrary to Section 75 (3) of the Law. The general manager said the prosecuted offenders had been convicted accordingly with an option of fine at the discretion of the court. He said there were also maximum fines for the recalcitrant defaulters for breaking of government seal. Shodeinde added that LASBCA had been working within the ambit of the law with the monitoring team for a better and well planned city. He said they worked with developers and builders to ensure compliance with the approval granted and also monitored the safety of the structure being developed. “We are more concerned about the safety of the people, making sure that where they live is safe and secured,” Shodeinde said. He reaffirmed government’s zero tolerance for building collapse and the need to build right. Shodeinde appealed to Lagos residents to obtain their building plan permit before the construction of any structure and comply with state laws regarding the approval given. He urged building owners to seize the opportunity to regularise and perfect their building documentations, to avoid any embarrassment from law enforcement officers. Shodeinde said officials of the newly reformed LASBCA aimed at working together with the people “for their own safety and for a safer and well-planned smart-city”.