Rita Orji is the member representing Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency in the National Assembly. In this interview, she speaks with EMMANUEL UDODINMA about some challenges facing the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Lagos State, the next general elections, her achievements, re-election plans and other partisan matters. Some aspirants from your party are campaigning to take over your position in 2019. What can you say? The position that I am occupying is just an assignment that have been given to me by my people. I had a job before I came on board and I still have a job and no one can take it away, except the people who took me there. An individual has only one vote. It is the good people of Ajeromi/Ifelodun Federal Constituency and the heavens that give the power are the only ones that can decide who gets the job. Are you sure you will return to the National Assembly in 2019? Power comes from the Lord. So, nobody knows tomorrow. Remember that the Bible says that the heart of men is in the hands of God. He has the power to manipulate it to my favour. I wouldn’t say if my people will disappoint me or not, but I can tell you that their actions would be heavenly bound. All that I know is that I am an Ajegunle lady, born and bred here and I am a proud AJ rep. The PDP seems to be having some challenges in Lagos. How soon do you think the problems can be resolved? By the grace of God, I am a party leader in Lagos and I must tell you that we do not have any problems in Lagos State PDP. A couple of people trying to rewrite the letters; instead of dotting the ‘I’ and crossing the ‘Ts’, they want to cross the ‘I’ and dot the ‘T’, which you is not possible. These are people looking for positions which they cannot get. Everybody cannot be in the executive. If elections into congresses were not ratified by the National Working Committee (NWC), then there would be issue. Don’t forget that the highest law-making body is the convention committee. All the executives that were elected under the platform of the PDP were ratified by national convention, which I am a member. All the chairmen in Lagos State voted for the national chairman. When you are not comfortable you can acquiesce and when you do that you can lose your right and privileges by acquiescence, because they say that silence is golden and a couple of silences may not be golden. You should have challenged it earlier, so you have lost your right to do so and that is locus standi in law. I can assure you that Lagos State has every of its list authenticated by NWC. Is your party considering direct primaries, like the APC? I belong to the PDP where power belongs to the people. We normally do our things based on the constitution. Our constitution says delegate election and not direct primary. When we amended the constitution we did not factor in direct primary and we will not go contrary to what the constitution says. There are procedures for emerging a delegate which is spelt out in our articles and constitution. You will also know that the PDP was able to submit its documents on time unlike the APC that did not meet up with the time, so they can adduce to that. But, we work by what INEC says; we cannot amend something that has been ratified by NEC. What are some of your achievements in the constituency since you were elected? I am not used to stating my achievements, so that I don’t blow my trumpet. It is better for those who have seen what I have done to talk about it. I think that I have not fallen short, in terms of representation, which is the major reason I was elected. Let me start from legislative compliance. I have been able to initiate at least 30 bills; some of them have passed the first and second readings, while others have been passed into law. The Diaspora Commission is a law right now. National Insurance amended act is a law now.  A couple of all my bills are already laws. I have moved more than 78 motions and fortunately for me I have never lost any motion and, already, I have not lost any motion on the floor of the house. I have traversed across the entire constituency 1 and 2 as a resident and as a landlord. My infrastructural attractions have gotten across the entire community. All the communities in the constituency have at least one borehole. We have about 37 boreholes right now and some others are still under construction. We have a health care system which is running; we have youth empowerment programme from metrology institute, to fishery. I was able to attract the first modern skill acquisition centre that would be sited in the area and would take about 600 youths off the streets. It is the most modern skill acquisition centre in the whole Southwest. Within a space of three years, I have been involved in the construction of Creek Road. I had Otto Wharf, which attracted a lot of conflict, fighting and back-biting, but I was able to scale through all that. I worked on Uzo Street and crashed with the local government in the process. Same applies to the construction of John Okore Road with street light. I worked on the Muyibi Road. You will also find out that legislators don’t construct roads, but in my own case I took it as quasi-function, because I know that without that Ajegunle will be known as a suburb. We are also working on rural electrification across both communities and changing of transformers.