The Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) has called on the government at all levels to initiate and implement policies of growing the Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) as it growth engine of the economy. The President of LCCI, Babatunde Ruwase, who made this call on Thursday in Lagos at the 2018 LCCI Members’ Day Exhibition and Networking, noted that SMEs were key drivers of economic growth. He stated that the chamber would continue to advance innovative means of serving the interest of the sector through trade promotion and policy advocacy for a better operating environment. He promised that LCCI would continue to support and sponsor programmes capable of yielding ample value and benefit to its members and the Nigerian business public. President noted that the Members’ Day offered a unique exhibition, integration and networking opportunity for the members of the chamber across all sectoral groups, adding that the chamber saw great investment opportunities originating from stronger business alliances which would lead to job creation, technology transfer, wealth creation and economic growth. Also speaking, the Chairman, Membership and Welfare Committee, LCCI, Sonoma Ajumogobia, stated that the fair which started six years ago was borne out of LCCI’s quest to progressively showcase SMEs products and services for competitive advantage. He said; “We hope that in doing this, especially for our Micro Small and Medium Enterprises (MSME) member companies, we would have added some value to them by giving them some advantage over their competitors.” The Lagos State Commissioner for Commerce, Industry and Cooperatives, Olayinka Oladunjoye, promised that the State was commitment to creating the much needed enabling environment as it would aid business prosperity. The Director of Commerce, Hakeem Adeniji, who represented Oladunjoye, stressed that government had implemented friendly policies and infrastructure to promote business growth and economic development in the State. Commending LCCI for its advocacy role, the commissioner said the interactions would improve their product quality, profitability and economic growth of the state and Nigeria.