Governorship candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Adamawa state, Chief Emmanuel Bello has said his government will review the procurement process in the stage as part of promoting zero tolerance for corruption. Bello who spoke with newsmen at the party national secretariat after collecting his nomination form said the APC government in the state has ran down the state and lacked the required knowledge of how to tackle the numerous challenges confronting the state. He said an SDP government in Adamawa state will use employment generation to address the issue of insecurity, adding that if the people of the state are engaged, majority of the security challenges would have been addressed. He said “Our government will have zero tolerance for corruption. People are talking Bout corruption, but are not preferring solution on how to check corruption. “The process of procurement in government must be reviewed in Adamawa state because that is where the loophole is and that is where there is corruption. If an office of government sees money every day, what he does is to steal it. So, when we form government, you will not see the money and when you don’t see the money, you will have nothing to steal. “What they are doing now is that you can’t trace anything. To make accountability and accountability process transparent, you need to make sure that every money government generates is accounted for to the people who elected you. “The economy of Adamawa state has been runned down and the process of governance abused and we will ensure that a government is formed in Adamawa that will ensure that there is government in the state. “One of the reasons we have insecurity in the country is as a result of the insincerity of the government. They take what does not belong to them. They are stealing our money and Nigerians are angry. If you don’t steal, you have addressed the problem by 30 percent. “If you now engage the citizens, another 30 will be addressed and the remaining 40 percent will be left to the security agents to deal with. But the security forces are overwhelmed and government has no initiative to solving the problem. The APC government there does not even know what to do. We know what to do.” He said: “We have picked out form and the process has begun in earnest. We will ensure that our party. Become the number one party in Adamawa. The philosophy of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) is people oriented. The party is interested in the development of the youth, women and those who are unemployed and underprivileged. “The social Democratic Party stands for employment and we will reduce the level, of unemployment. In Adamawa, we will mop up all the unemployed segment and we are calling on all our people outside the state to come back home if he is unemployed because we will create employment for them. “We plan to ensure that the security that is paramount and we intend to reorganize our security by engaging our citizens and make sure that they have something to do. We are sure that once our people are engaged, they will not collaborate with external forces. We therefore intend to pursue the issue of security vigorously. “We will embark on massive training of teachers to teach. We are not going to he sacking anybody because the SDP is about employing and creating jobs and not sacking people. We are not PDP and we are not APC. So, we do not sack people, but employ people.”