…Barred for 5 years  Few days before his inauguration as a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), fate has played a hard one on a lawyer, Ehighelua lkhide as the Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee (LPPC) on Thursday reversed its decision to include the lawyer on the list of those to be formally conferred with the rank on Monday. LPPC, in a statement issued late on Thursday, said its decision to reverse the conferment of the SAN rank on Ikhide was informed by its finding that the lawyer “knowingly engaged in gross abuse of court process.” In the statement signed by the Chief Registrar of Supreme Court and Secretary, LPPC, Hadizatu Uwani Mustapha, it was stated that the committee, in withdrawing the rank from Ikhide, found that he conducted himself in a manner which is clearly in contravention with the provisions of paragraph 22(2) (a) E: (c) and 23(a),(b),(c)& (d) of the 2018 Guidelines of the conferment of Senior Advocate of Nigeria. The LPPC also barred Ikhide from applying for the SAN rank for the next five years. The statement reads: “At the Emergency Meeting held on the 20th day of September 2018, the Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee by virtue of Section 5(1) of the Legal Practitioners Act, CAP L11, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004 as amended, considered the petition written against the nomination of lkhide Ehighelua Esquire for the Rank of Senior Advocate of Nigeria. “The Committee after a careful evaluation of the facts of the petition, the written reply by the respondent and attached documents, found the petition meritorious; that is the respondent knowingly engaged in gross abuse of court process on the following incontrovertible facts, namely: “That lkhide Ehighelua, Esquire instituted Suit No. A/ 36/2017 at High Court lssele Uku, Delta State wherein he filed a motion for interim injunction which was dismissed for lack of merit. “That lkhide Ehighelua, Esquire subsequently filed a Notice of Appeal at the Court of Appeal, Benin Division and which appeal was properly entered by transmission of records to the Appeal Registry Benin in Appeal No. CA/B/220/2018. “That while the appeal was pending, lkhide Ehighelua, Esquire participated in the institution of a new Suit No. HCK/ 61 /2018 at the High Court sitting in Kwale, Delta State on the same subject matter, between the same parties and seeking the same reliefs as in Suit No. A/36/2017 which was pending at the High Court Issele-Uku and subject of Appeal No. CA/B/220/2018. “That on the 30‘” day of July 2018, when the Motion ex parte was granted, lkhide Ehighelua, Esquire personally moved the motion for the interim injunction against the defendant and obtained all the injunctive reliefs that were dismissed in Suit No. A/36/2017and subject of Appeal No. CA/B/220/2018. “He subsequently wrote a letter dated 31“ July, 2018 to the Executive Governor of Delta State notifying him of the existence of the Interim Injunction above. “That lkhide Ehighelua Esquire being an officer in the temple of justice and an aspirant to the exalted position of Senior Advocate of Nigeria has conducted himself in a manner which is clearly in contravention with the provisions of paragraph 22(2) (a) E: (c) and 23(a),(b),(c)& (d) of the 2018 Guidelines of the conferment of Senior Advocate of Nigeria. “The aforementioned provision reads: 22-(2) The Candidate must be of good character and must have no pending disciplinary case or complaint relating to professional misconduct against him. “A Candidate shall be considered ineligible if in the opinion of the Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee the candidate is adjudged to be of the following disposition – (a) Bad behaviour, whether in or out of court ; poor temperament or propensity to insult or assault people or cause them harm or put them in state of fear of bodily harm ; (c) Evidence of moral depravity or other socially unacceptable behaviour. 23 – (1) A Candidate must – (a) demonstrate high professional and personal integrity; (b) be honest and straightforward in all his professional/personal dealings,’ (c) be of good character and reputation; (d) be candid with clients and professional colleagues, “In view of the above, the Committee has decided as follows: (a) That the nomination for the conferment of the Award of the Senior Advocate of Nigeria on Ikhide Ehighelua, Esquire on July 12, 2018 is hereby withdrawn; (b) That Ikhide Ehighelua, Esquire is hereby barred from applying for the Award of Senior Advocate of Nigeria for the next five (5) years or five applications beginning from 2019; and (c) That after the expiration of this period, Ikhide Ehighelua, Esquire would be at liberty to apply for the rank subject to good behaviour as assessed by the Legal Practitioners’ Privileges Committee.”