A 67-year-old lawyer, Mr. Isaac Oluma-yowa Kilanko, has appealed to the Minister of Housing, Mr. Babatunde Fashola SAN, to intervene in the alleged fraudulent and surreptitious allocation of his property to a bank by the Federal Housing Authority (FHA), Abuja. He said having fully paid for the property, House Number 166, 1st Avenue , Lugbe Estate , Abuja, in April, 1995, the 67-year-old visually-impaired legal practitioner disclosed that he was in possession of a three-bedroom apartment for more than ten years before the Federal Housing Authority re-entered the property and re-allocated it to a bank without his consent. A letter of allocation dated September 4, 1996  of the said property signed by the Managing Director , Federal Housing Authority , Mr. Ibrahim Ali, and made available to The Nation reads “I refer to your application for a housing unit and subsequent payment of N814,000.00 for a 3-bedroom (Satellite ‘ C’ ) with courtyard . You are hereby allocated House Number 166, 1st Avenue, Lugbe Estate, Abuja, for a term of ninety years certain, commencing from the date you are invited to take possession of the housing unit.” Kilanko while lamenting the trauma the re-allocation has brought upon him and his family called on Fashola to use his good office to probe the alleged fraudulent actions of the Managing Director of the Federal Housing Authority (FHA) and ensure that justice is not only done, but punish all those involved in the shady deals. He said the matter was in August 2017 and reported to the Executive Chairman, Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC), which established that the said property was fraudulently re-allocated by the FHA, but nothing was done by the Managing Director of FHA to return the property to him. “Towards the end of July 2016, I got an invitation to Abuja for the handing over of my property to me. On the 3rd of August 2016, in company of a counsel from City Law Firm, Barrister Danjuma, and my son, we got to the ICPC office and we were warmly welcomed and asked to wait for Federal Housing Authority officials who would lead us to the purported house that was to be re-allocated to me. “No FHA official eventually showed up and we had to leave with the mandate that the house should be handed over to City Law firm. After a few months, all that my lawyer could tell me was that the house meant to be re-allocated to me was under litigation even till now. “I wish finally to submit that House Number 166, 1st Avenue, Lugbe Estate, Abuja, originally allocated to me was confiscated and re-allocated to a bank thereby denying me my means of livelihood as a visually-impaired person and a serious threat to my fundamental human right to life and that of my dependents.