BIG Brother Naija 2017 housemate, Bisola Aiyeola, shouted the most at the AMVCAs last Saturday, while receiving her Trailblazer of the Year Award, the second non-competitive category after the AMVCA Industry Merit Award won by ace cinematographer, Tunde Kelani. Miss Aiyeola who came second place in the ‘See Gobe’ edition of the reality show became the only recipient of a car, as it’s the AMVCA tradition in the category show won, perhaps giving reasons she expressed the most excitement. The feat came barely two years after she narrowly missed a car in the Big Brother Naija show. The versatile entertainer said she would have been happier if the father of her daughter, Leila, who died a week before were alive to witness her latest achievement. “It’s been a sad week for me but I’m also happy that I’m winning this… it would have been beautiful if he was around to see that I have won this because he knows a bit of the journey that I have been on but I’m sure he’s smiling down. “I’m dedicating this award to him and everybody in my life,” she said, adding: “It’s not just for me, it is for my family, it is for people who have watched me grow and also those that have seen my journey.” Asked if she believes her exposure through the Big Brother Naija show played a part in her choice as AMVCA 2018 Trailblazer, Aiyeola said it’s a cumulative of her journey in the creative sector. “I won’t say it’s all this mileage.  I’ve been on a journey. I started out in the entertainment industry in 2006, and in 2008, I was on MTN Project Fame West Africa. I have been acting prior to the Big Brother show and now we are here after Big Brother in 2017. So, I wouldn’t say Big Brother gave me all or the mileage  I’m getting now. I’m stressing it because a lot of people might think  I woke up one day and just went for an audition. “I’ve auditioned for over eight years before I finally made it into Big Brother Naija House and at the time it was Big Brother Africa that I was auditioning for, so it’s been a journey and I didn’t give up.” On how the African film industry can grow further, she said: “How we can grow it further is by collaboration and it’s important that many media houses, filmmakers come together to work as one and I keep using the Wedding Party’s success as  reference. There were four companies that came together to bring out Wedding Party: Ebonylife Films, FilmOne, Inkblot Production, and Koga Studios. So, collaboration is the new competition, we shouldn’t see each other as competitors. It would help to bring in more funds, it would also help us to deviate from the cliché that we are used to producing  which is mostly drama, there is so much money that can be made from  the African movie industry, say for instance animation which is one sector that we haven’t sampled at all. Action as well is something we are still working on. We can’t say we are totally competing with foreigners.”