Endemic corruption at all tiers of government, socioeconomic insecurity, deliberate misuse of power, amongst several other vices may be responsible for the lingering economic crisis bedevilling the country, a survey has revealed. While speaking on the survey conducted by the Foundation for Value Transformation in collaboration with the Value Centre, USA, Mr. Segun Caulcrick, the Executive Director of the Foundation revealed that the outcomes of the recent  study was the result of painstaking field reports and views elicited from respondents across the different geopolitical zones of the country. According to the former Country Manager of UPS Nigeria, the survey showed that endemic corruption,  poverty, crime, violence, terrorism,  unemployment, hatred, conflict,  aggression, illiteracy are the potentially limiting factors responsible for the low value of life in the country today. “Most issues plaguing people in the country today relate to socioeconomic insecurity and threat to personal safety and security,” he said. Besides, he said shortage of economic opportunities and resources to meet people’s basic needs, inadequate access to education is holding people back. More worrisome, he said, is the fact that, “There is deliberate misuse of power to serve selfish interests rather than the common good and resources to meet people’s basic needs are mismanaged.” Caulcrick who is a certified leadership coach further revealed that while majority of the populace desire better quality of living and envisage to live in a country where opportunities are available for all, it is regrettable that decisions and actions taken by individuals at all levels of the society have been at variance with the expected outcomes. “Sadly, the vision of the founding fathers of this great country Nigeria has remained unfulfilled many decades after independence. It’s yet another anniversary of the country and the eve of an election year, yet the country seems divided. There is hunger and strife in the land, safety of lives and property is lamentably not guaranteed. A lot still needs to be done to get the economy back on track not for us as a country alone but for the future of Africa. Time and time again, world leaders of African descent continue to implore us to wake up and take our rightful place in the comity of nations because Africa’s future depends a lot on us.”