Seventy-one driving schools have been sanctioned and several others are being investigated for professional misconduct, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Corps Marshal, Dr Boboye Oyeyemi has said. Oyeyemi spoke yesterday during an interactive session with driving schools’ owners in Ogun, Oyo and Lagos states at the Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja. He said: “Enrolling above the schools’ capacity, illegally graduating trainees without any form of training or with less than 26 mandatory hours is unprofessional. “Hacking into Driving School Standardising Programme (DSSP) and connivance with operatives to circumvent conduct of driver testing and licensing processes are also unprofessional conducts. “Seventy-one driving schools have recently been sanctioned and others are being investigated over this unprofessional misconducts,” he said. According to him, some of the objectives include uniformity in operational procedure of driving schools, formal driver training with standard curriculum and reliable database of registered and accredited standard curriculum. The FRSC boss said the introduction of user-friendly computer based final examinations for all qualifying candidates should be applied to address issues of sharp practices currently perpetuated by the operators of the scheme. “In line with global best practice, computer based testing of drivers should be adopted which can be domesticated in local languages. It can also be available in audio-visual version for illiterate drivers and will provide a good assessment of applicants. Lagos is taking a lead already in this; other states should key into it,” he said. Oyeyeymi also advised the proprietors of the driving schools to maintain the integrity of Nigeria Driver’s Licence as the key to national planning, security and general development. He said operators should bear in mind that the ultimate goal was to provide a safe monitoring environment for road users in the country. “Our goal is to make the country’s road among the 20 safest in the world by 2020 and all driving schools are advised to properly key into the DSSP and support it towards achieving set goals with the least friction,” Boboye said. SERVICOM National Coordinator Mrs Nnena Akejemile, said all instructors working in driving schools must be professional, properly licensed and must be well supervised. According to her, no fewer than 2,598 Nigerians died from road accidents between October 2017 and March 2018 from records of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS).