Kogi State Governor, Yahaya Bello has described the state as the second most peaceful state in the country. Bello disclosed this during a peaceful rally organised in partnership with ActionAid Nigeria (AAN) and Participation Initiative for Behavioural Change in Development (PIBCID) to commemorate International Peace Day in Lokoja. He said Kogi which was known for armed robbery and communal clashes emerged the second position from 36. His words: “Once upon a time, Kogi was the headquarter of kidnapping and highway robbery and this has become history. “Today, Kogi is adjudged the second peaceful state in Nigeria from a position of 36. Without doubt, in the next year we shall be number one. “In progress is where you see quality and affordable healthcare delivery especially for the vulnerable in the society- women and children. In progress is where you see security and tranquillity.” He added that, “It is not just for the good of the governor, cabinet or party but it is for the good of the citizens and indigenes of Kogi state. “Highway robbery communal clashes, bank robbery, those were before. They had all gone and the only thing we have in Kogi state is peace, unity and progress which we must all embrace.” Bello, represented by his Chief of Staff, Chief Edward Onoja, applauded the organizers of the rally stressing that peaceful coexistence of the state is for the interest of all. He advocated for peace and unity of the country. Earlier, Dr. Stella Adejo, Board Member of AAN, called for more support from the government in creating an enabling environment for the youths to thrive. However, Adejo promised to strengthen collaboration with the Kogi State Government to create lasting peace in the state. Member of a Civil Society Organisation, Mrs. Eunice Agbogun, who is also the Vice Chairperson, Kogi NGO Network (KONGONET) called on the youths to remain focused rather than being used wrongly. “Peace is a very important component to the development of any state or country and that is why today we are joining the youths to project the message of peace. “Peace is very important because without peace you cannot have an enabling environment that will thrive for development, give you space for education, health amenities and so many empowerment.” The President, National Association of Kogi State Students (NAKOSS), Comrade Omeiza Audu commended efforts and supports of the governor towards uniting all the tribes in the state. He pledged to support the government of the state by consolidating on the peace already being enjoyed and also build on it. AAN Ambassador, Mark Angel, commended the initiative of the government of the state to initiate peace. “I have gone through the state to inspect the level of peace and I am impressed with what I saw. Compared to what it used to be.”