Ondo State governor, Arakunrin Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, SAN, yesterday distributed 450,000 high yielding cocoa seedlings and 25,000 Brazilian jumbo cashew seedlings to farmers across the three senatorial districts of the state. The governor declared that the state would be returned to its leadership position in the country as the leading producer of Cocoa. The event, which witnessed a huge turnout of farmers, was held at the Federal College of Agriculture, Akure (FECA) Governor Akeredolu assured that his administration will help farmers to easily access bank loans to ease the stress of finance. He noted that the distribution of the cocoa and cashew seedlings was a partnership initiative between the state and the Federal Government. The Governor urged the youths to learn the rope of farming and return to basic, stressing that only agriculture can take the country out of economy problems. Akeredolu said his administration deliberately put in place a programme that would drive the Federal Government’s Cocoa Rebirth Initiative in the State. He said: “It is our desire that other tree crops like cashew, oil palm, rubber, kolanut, coconut etc, will witness similar development in the State. “Essentially, our Cocoa Rebirth Initiative is addressing the production and distribution of improved cocoa varieties with early maturity of between 18th and 24th months, high in yield production, and tolerant to harsh weather conditions “ I am happy to inform you that these improved varieties are produced from the five seed gardens in the State “  I wish to also emphasise that the good quality of our cocoa seedlings brought about the partnership of the State with the Federal Government for the distribution of hybrid cocoa pods to all the Cocoa Producing States in the country “We have embarked on the rehabilitation of old and moribund cocoa farms while also venturing into new plantation development. A good example is our resolve to establish the 2000ha model cocoa farm at Ijugbere Camp, Ilale via Owo.” The governor disclosed that his administration was embarking on massive training of cocoa farmers in modern techniques and principles of cocoa production coupled with the use of modern fermentation and Sun drying equipment. He said the government is promoting local consumption of cocoa and chocolate drinks through sensitization of the citizenry on the health and wealth benefits of cocoa. He said: “It is our view that cocoa and chocolate would be incorporated into the national School Feeding Programme.