 Ahead of the 2019 general election, the African Democratic Congress rewarded 118 federal and state legislators who joined the party with automatic ticket, while planning to nominate its Presidential candidate on the 6th of October. National Chairman of the party, Chief Ralph Nwosu who disclosed this at the National Executive Committee meeting of the party in Abuja said the party decided to reward the lawmakers for coming out boldly to identify with the fastest growing party in Nigeria (ADC) at a crucial time in the history of the country’s democracy. He said that among those to benefit from the automatic ticket are five senators, Eighteen members of the House of Representatives and Ninety five me,bets of state Houses of Assembly. The ADC Chairman said, “We need to honour and appreciate them because they abandoned the ruling and bigger parties for a party that is just gathering momentum. “The development can be attributed to the fact that the lawmakers and Nigerians at large have agreed that an end must come to anarchy, insecurity, lack of focus and terrorism in Nigeria. And the best platform, right now, is ADC. They are from Adamawa, Ondo, Osun, Imo, Ebonyi, Ogun and Oyo states, among others.” Speaking on the party’s preparedness for the 2019 elections, Nwosu said that the primaries for aspirants contesting for the House of Assembly elections would hold on September 29, 2018, while governorship primaries would hold on October 2, 2018. He said the the party has also scheduled National Assembly primaries for hold October 4, 2018, and presidential, October 6, 2018, pointing out that “Aspirants have been coming to take forms for the presidential primaries. We will unveil our aspirants very soon”. He disclosed that the ADC has launched a campaign against vote buying and electoral corruption under the name: Coalition for Electoral Integrity, saying “We invite the media and the general public to join the party in enlightening the Nigerian electorate that trading their votes for money means mortgaging a very bright future and we must stop that”. He described ADC is a vision driven grassroots political party with Role-Modelling Leadership paradigm and is not in the ridiculous ‘Harvest-Bazaar’ money politics and ‘godfatherism’. Speaking on the forthcoming Osun State governorship election, Nwosu said the party was confident of victory, pointing out that the party has received letters from labour unions, civil servants and other pressure groups in the state showing great support for the party’s candidates. Nwosu said, “We are assuring Osun State workers and the people, who, on their own, have shown great support for ADC’s Governorship candidate, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade and his running mate, Rtd Justice Folahanmi Oloyede, based on their excellent public service records, that our candidates will take them away from the grip of insensitive leaders and lead them far away from poverty “The people of Osun should be assured that we will always stand by them at all times and will not betray the confidence reposed in us. We are set to hit the ground on September 15, 2018, with our mega rally, as the first step towards taking the state to the path of prosperity.”