To foster transparency, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) allowed airlines, concessionaires, passengers and other players to evaluate its operations at the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. Correspondent KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. Collaboration among service providers and users at the airport has received a boost with the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) second quarter stakeholders forum. The forum was another opportunity to foster a healthy relationship between the airport authority and users of its services. Users of airport facilities that attended the forum included airlines, ground handling companies, financial institutions, airport towing companies, eatery operators, security companies and car hire operators. FAAN Managing Director Saleh Dunoma said the forum was put together as an input-gathering measure for complaints, suggestions and feedback from users of services at the airports. Dunoma, who was represented by the Director of Operations, Captain Rabiu Yadudu, said it was only by getting feedback from airlines, passengers, concessionaires and other agencies that FAAN could improve its services. He said the forum was convened as one of the obligations outlined in its service charter: to meet quarterly to discuss issues of concern to the authority and fashion out solutions to them. Dunoma said discussion from a previous forum was yielding results. His words:“The goal of this forum is quality service delivery at airports. The greater percentage of customer airport experience is determined by agencies that have greater interface with passengers. This forum will help to analyse and evaluate contributions and responses received during the last quarter stakeholders meeting, which in turn enabled management to review the level of commitment with regard to actualising those contributions. “This is an important roadmap for the industry to ensure service improvement as a feedback mechanism.” Federal Govt’s response The National Coordinator/Chief Executive Officer, SERVICOM, Presidency, Mrs Nnenna Akajimele, urged FAAN to continue to improve on services at airports in line with the provisions of the service delivery charter. Represented by Afolabi Joseph, the SERVICOM boss said the government was worried over mounting complaints about service failures at airports. This he said led to the installation of complaints kiosks and application at departure and arrival points at airports. The kiosks, he said, are to enable passengers and other airport users lodge complaints of service failures, which would be addressed within 72 hours. Interventions from Regional Manager, MMIA The Regional Manager, Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Mrs Victoria Shin-Abba, said the forum could not have come at a better time when nations across the globe were engaging airport users to improve service. She said the forum has put FAAN in a position for self-audit where its customers and users of facilities at the airport can benefit. Gains from the forum Mrs Shin-Abba said FAAN has concluded plans to procure NEEDS scanners for the airport. The decision to procure the sophisticated equipment, she said, arose from feedback the authority got from airport users who complained of cumbersome process of screening. She said the NEEDS scanners would  help to detect narcotics, liquids, food and ammunition that may be brought to the airport. Such equipment, she said, is in use at some airports across the globe. She said: “This engagement with stakeholders is assisting FAAN to improve service delivery. We have observed that with the installation of the proposed NEEDS scanners, we could reduce person to person interface during passenger screening and resultantly reduce the tendency for extortion of passengers by airport security personnel. “With such equipment the security personnel does not have direct interface with passenger to warrant extortion of any sort.” Issues arising from previous forum FAAN NODAL Officer and General Manager, Customer Services, Mrs Ebele Okoye, said the forum provided an opportunity for the authority to deliver feedback to its management on grey areas in its operations. She listed issues raised in the last forum to include the need to put in place a service level agreement; abandonment of meeters and greeters facility at the airport; electricity fluctuations; agencies’ lack of condition of service which enables personnel to solicit for tips; and provision of vehicles and gadgets for security agencies. Others include poor quality public announcement and better management of protocol services; the  unfavourable pay as you go process introduced for car hire operators, lack of shuttle buses for passengers at the domestic wing, delays and cancelation of flights by airlines, improvement of facilities such as barriers, scanners and aces control and training of staff; and stakeholders relationship improvement. Resolution of the issue Mrs Okoye said some of the issues were being resolved, including the preparation of service level agreement by FAAN’s legal team; which she said would be made public as soon as it is ready. She said: “Training for public announcement staff and public address system is already worked on to enhance efficiency. “FAAN is in constant talks with airlines to resolve issues arising from flight cancellation and whenever it happens they have to communicate to concerned passengers. “Arrangement is in place to procure NEEDS scanners for detection of hard drugs, ammunition and food.” Fresh complaints from stakeholders Stakeholders drew FAAN’s attention to a myriad of challenges at the airports, including lack of air field lighting at some airports; closure of the central taxi way at the Lagos Airport and difficulty in getting on-duty cards for airport personnel. Others include: delay in baggage arrival; enforcement of towing laws around the airport; putting adequate signage at airport car parks; inadequate automated teller machines at sections of the airport beyond screening points; poor telecommunications network; protection from unruly passengers; installation of adequate close circuit television cameras around the airports and faulty weighing scales at airlines’ counters.