Immediate past President of the Senate, Senator David Mark has joined the 2019 presidential race on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Mark, who Tuesday obtained his nomination papers at the Abuja secretariat of the PDP, said he’s adequately equipped to tackle the spate of insecurity in the country, with its attendant killings, kidnapping, armed robbery, banditry and other ills. “With political the political will and right the approach, the killings can be stopped. Given my military background, I have what it takes and the appropriate strategy to tackle the pervasive insecurity in the land”, Mark said. Mark, who is spending his fifth term in the Senate, lent his voice to the call on President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the amended Electoral Bill into law, saying it was the right thing to do. Joining the call for restructuring of the country, the aspirant promised to embark on the project in earnest, if given the opportunity. Mark said, “Irrespective of our political persuasions, it is incontrovertible that restructuring of the nation is an idea whose time has come. “I believe it will further strengthen our bond of brotherhood and unity more than ever before, because everyone would have a sense of belonging and live in harmony in any part of Nigeria without any fear of molestation and intimidation”. Canvassing leadership opportunity for the youth, the lawmaker said had already put in place a blueprint that would drastically reduce poverty and unemployment among the youth population. “Our blueprint, tagged 730 will address critical areas of our national life. Specifically, we will deal with poverty, unemployment and neglect which have forced some of our young people to undertake the very risky route of going through the Sahara Desert and the Mediterranean Sea in their quest for greener pastures in Europe”, he added. According to him, his 730 economic model is designed to turn the economy around within two years, adding that youth will be the drivers of the process. He added that, “We will concentrate on developing our infrastructure, delivering on affordable housing, roads, rails and power. We will focus on education and create a pool of highly trained citizens with excellent IT skills who will be employable as well as create jobs. “We will support Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (SMEs) as a matter of priority by providing interest free cooperative loans to produce optimally with appropriate technology which will be the main driver of the economy with attendant huge employment opportunities”.