The Federal Government (FG) has confirmed it is considering the safe use of nuclear and geothermal energy to improve power supply in the country. Minister of State for Mines and Steel Development, Hon. Abubakar Bwari said the government has been interfacing with the Nigerian Atomic Energy Agency towards advancing the safe use of nuclear energy. He also said that other African Countries already have a head start in terms of research on geothermal energy, which Nigeria can take a cue from to develop a robust approach to acquiring new energy resource. Speaking on Thursday in Abuja at the Nigerian Mining and Geo sciences Society (NMGS), Nigerian Geological Survey Agency (NGSA) 2018-NMGS-NGSA discourse series, Bwari stated that the discourse which is on Geothermal Energy promises to be quite exciting. He advised the experts to approach the issue through modular basis by taking care of regional and area specific demands, particularly rural areas, rather than making each geothermal station feed the entire nation. His words, “As a result, the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development has consistently been a critical player in advancing alternative supply of energy. In this regard, we have worked closely with the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing in the coal to power programme. “Indeed, sourcing for and characterizing the coal resources in Nigeria have become the basis for policy direction regarding this initiative. We have also been interfacing with the Nigerian Atomic Energy Agency towards advancing the safe use of nuclear energy. “Actually, in the Ministry of Mines and Steel Development Roadmap, we have specifically focused on the exploration of Energy Minerals including Coal, Bitumen and Uranium out of the growing list of 44 mineral types that we have in Nigeria. “I am aware that some countries, even our sister African Countries, already have a head start in terms of research on geothermal energy. Information available shows that Kenya for instance, has achieved about 1000mw of energy from geothermal energy. Nigeria can therefore take a cue from this and develop a robust approach to acquiring this new energy resource. “Experts advise that we approach this through modular basis by taking care of regional and area specific demands, particularly rural areas, rather than making each geothermal station feed the entire nation. “It is interesting to note that apart from providing us with more power, Geothermal ecosystem also offers opportunities in geo-tourism as exemplified by our warm springs which have been largely underdeveloped.”