The management of Airtel Nigeria has assured Nigerians of its commitment to create more entrepreneurs and “connect more people with their dreams’’ in the country. Mr Segun Ogunsanya, the Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director of Airtel Nigeria, gave the assurance at the flag-off Airtel’s 4G LTE in Port Harcourt on Thursday. According to him, Airtel which rolled out the product in February 2018 is also determined to maintain its position as “the largest and the fastest of the 4G network in Nigeria’’. Ogunsanya, who also described his organisation as the most modern communication network in Nigeria, said he was proud that the network “works all the time’’. He also noted that the deployment of 4G in Port Harcourt was a testimony of the telecommunication company’s commitment to partner and empower the good people of Rivers. “4G comes with tons of benefits: it will accelerate economic and commercial activities; it will boost personal and professional productivity; it will help in creating more entrepreneurs. “It will offer the youth a big leverage to express their creativity and talent; it will improve the overall quality of life and connect more people to their dreams. “With 4G, Airtel will also power people, businesses and aid governance through Technology,” he said. The event was attended by King Dandeson Douglas Jaja, Treaty King Amanyanabo and Natural Ruler of Opobo Kingdom and King Leslie Eke, Eze Gbakagbaka of Evo Kingdom among others. Ogunsanya had earlier during a visit to the Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers, said Airtel had rolled out its 4G technology in major cities across Nigeria to make the organisation the largest 4G network. “We bring our 4G Network to you and the people of Rivers State! I make bold to say we have the best and largest 4G Network in Nigeria. “It is a sign of our regard for and commitment to the government and people of Rivers State that we have chosen this state and indeed this city, as one of the early and biggest beneficiaries of this innovative system of mobile telecommunications. “We are not resting on our laurels as we are still connecting more cities and towns in Nigeria to our 4G network,’’ he said. Wike also commended Airtel for its 4G roll out and assured that his administration would continue to provide a conducive environment for investors and corporate organizations. “We want to partner with you (Airtel) and give you all the necessary support. “Rivers State abhors multiple taxation and we will do everything to protect investors, corporate organisations and businessmen and women,’’ he said.