In what has become a Mecca for African movies, celebrities from across the continent trooped to the Eko Hotel and Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos on Saturday. The occasion was the sixth edition of the Africa Magic Viewers’ Choice Award (AMVCA). Anchored by IK Osakioduwa and Minnie Dlamini, the event which saw 29 awards given out, started with a performance by Niger-Delta dance troupe, Seki. It was witnessed by movie stars, filmmakers and celebrities from across Africa. Glitz and glamour was the word as they turned out in colourful and daring fashion to the event which was beamed live by Africa Magic channels. And for the first time, Kenya movie, ‘18 Hours’, which won Best Movie East Africa carted off the Best Overall Film award, making history as the first East African film to achieve that. It was a national celebration as the producer Phoebe Ruguru, writer and director Njue Kevin, flanked by other Kenyans, came out to receive the award. The Kenyans won four other awards including Best documentary award – The Flesh Business by Dennis Wanjohi, Best actress in a comedy award – Nyce Wanjeri ‘Auntie Boss’, Best picture editor – Mark Maina ’18 Hours’ and Best indigenous film (Swahili) – Sarika Femi Lakhani ‘Supa Modo’. Nigeria’s Jade Osiberu was awarded Best Director for her role in Isoken, and honoured this year with the Industry Merit award was veteran filmmaker Tunde Kelani while former Big Brother Naija housemate won the Trailblazer award which came with a brand new car. This was just as lawyer turned hip hop sensation, Falz, won his second AMVCA by snatching the Best Supporting Actor award for his performance in ‘New Money.’ Tatu got four awards –  Kolade Morakinyo (Best Sound Editor), Evelle (Best Soundtrack Movies/TV Series), Thelma Ozy Smith & Hakeem Effect (Best Make Up Artist) and Akpe Ododoru, Tunde Akinniyi (Best Lighting Designer Movie/TV Series) – the most of any film for the night. The winners’ list also included Omotola Jalade Ekeinde – Alter Ego (Best Actress in a Drama/TV Series), Adjetey Anang – Keteke , (Best Actor in a Drama/TV Series), Odunlade Adekola – A Million Baby (Best Actor in a comedy Movie/TV series), Okafor’s Law – Yinka Edward (Best Cinematography Movies/TV series), Lydia Forson – Isoken (Best Supporting Actress), and Isoken – Jade Osiberu, (Best Movie West Africa). Others are The Road to Sunrise – Shemu Joyah (Best Movie Southern Africa), This Is It – Dolapo Adeleke (Best TV series (DRAMA/COMEDY)), Lotanna – Tunji Afolayan (Best Art Director), Penance – Micheal Ama Psalmist’ Akinrogunde (Best Short Film/Online Video), and Mansoor –AliNuhu (Best Indigenous Language Movie / Tv series (Hausa)), Etiko Onigedu – Femi Adebayo (Best Indigenous Language Movie / Tv series (Yoruba)), BOUND – Lilian Afegbai (Best Indigenous Language Movie / Tv series (Igbo)) and Alter Ego – Patrick Nnamani & Moses Ingwang (Best Writer Movie / Tv Series). Powered by MultiChoice, the 2018 AMVCA was sponsored by Konga, Heritage Bank, H20h and Airtel among others.