Nigerians have been urged to promote the country’s dignity through languages and cultural diversity. The head of Department of Foreign Languages and Literary Studies of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Prof Matthew Iwuchukwu, gave the admonition at an event tagged “alumni homecoming” and remembrance held for the late Prof Edith Ihekweazu – one time lecturer at the department. The event with the theme: The impact of languages and cultural diversity in the age of globalisation, took place at Princess Alexandra Hall. Declaring the event open, the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for Academics, Prof James Ogbonna, who spoke on behalf of the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Benjamin Ozumba, applauded the department on achievements recorded since inception, urging members of staff to prioritise research and activities that will contribute to creating best practice in Foreign Languages discipline. Prof Iwuckwu highlighted the department’s achievements under his tenure, saying the department had trained manpower for the country’s internal and external affairs relations agencies and ministry. He noted that the full accreditation achieved by the department in 2016 was a key success for the school, adding that it was the first time the school got accredited for three foreign languages of French, German and Russian. Prof Raufu Adebisi, Director of French Language Village in Badagry, Lagos State, praised the department for the quality of graduate produced, describing it as “good achievement”. He said: “Establishing contacts with the former students across the globe is best way to engage the alumni in the school development. Wherever they are, if your school can reach you to contribute to development, it is good. I believe this is what the Department of Foreign Languages and Literary Studies in UNN is trying to achieve.” Prof Adebisi implored the department to sustain the tempo of producing high calibre graduates who will have national and international relevance. In her closing remarks, the local organising committee chairperson, Dr Ngozi Ogbodo, appealed to the alumni to put their alma mater in of their minds in order to achieve the best for the department.