Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has urged religious leaders to work for peaceful co-existence and harmony among their members. He said Lagos State cannot afford to build anything but a religiously tolerant and harmonious atmosphere because of its multi diversity to keep enjoying peace and prosperity. The governor spoke last week during the inauguration of the new executives of the Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN) Lagos State chapter. He tasked church leaders to continue to work as peace agents for the collective sake of the state. While thanking church leaders for helping to uphold peace in the state, appealed to them to commit the 2019 general elections to the hands of God for it to be peaceful. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Special Duties Seyi Oladejo, urged the new PFN executives to work assiduously to take the body to the next level. The reelected chairman, Bishop Sola Ore, said the body will commit to grassroots development, evangelism and empowerment. “We are going to work on ways of helping our members and empowering them for spiritual and economic advancement,” he stated. He vowed the PFN will also be more involved in the political process to establish godly leadership in the nation. According to him: “The 2019 general elections are very important to us as a people and a nation. It is no longer time to fold our hands and believe we can do nothing. “It is no longer time to feel our votes will not count. If our votes will not count, why do politicians spend millions to buy them?” He called on President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure the release of Leah Sharibu from Boko Haram terrorists before the general elections. The guest preacher, Archbishop Joseph Ojo, urged the new executives to provide a platform for the elevation of those behind them. He said: “Leaders should be ladders for others to climb on. You must provide leadership for people to move up. There is a space for others at the top. “The top is not in any way congested. Let’s give people under us the ladder to climb up.”