 The Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of the Federal Government save the nation from recession and restored the economy to the path of sustainable and inclusive growth, Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, has revealed. He also stated that the ERGP Focus Labs identified 164 projects across the six geo-political zones with an investment potential of $22.5bn and creation of 513,981 jobs by 2020. The Vice President stated these at the 59th annual conference of the Nigerian Economic Society (NES) in partnership with the African Development Bank Group, with the theme: ‘Optimizing value chain in the agricultural sector in Nigeria,’ in Abuja, on Tuesday. Prof. Osinbajo, who was represented by Special Adviser to the President on Economic Matters, Dr Adeyemi Dipeolu, said the Focus Labs identified $10.1bn investment from the initial $22.5bn that was ready to go. He said: “The ERGP is responsible for restoring the economy to the path of sustainable and inclusive growth. The strategic objectives of the ERGP are restoring growth through macroeconomic stability and economic diversification, investing in our people particularly through improved human capital and socially inclusive policies and building a globally competitive economy through investments in infrastructure and by improving the business environment. “A number of execution priorities were identified to fast track the achievements of the ERGP objectives, namely: stabilizing the macroeconomic environment, achieving agriculture and food security, ensuring energy sufficiency, improving transportation infrastructure and driving industrialization by focusing on Small and Medium Scale enterprises (SMEs). “To fast track the implementation of the ERGP, the FG also launched the ERGP focus lab as a targeted intervention in the executive priority sectors to unlock medium scale and large scale investment projects held back by bureaucratic bottlenecks. “On the whole, the labs were able to identify 164 projects spread across the six (6) geopolitical zones of the country with total potential investments worth $22.5bn and 513,981 jobs by 2020. For this amount, $10.1bn worth of investments was categorized as ready to go. “Of course, the growth of 1.5% in the second quarter of 2018 was not nearly enough but now that momentum is in the right direction, what is required is to accelerate the pace of growth. “Also, the current account was in surplus at nearly $4.5bn earlier this year and in spite appearances to the contrary, our debt GDP ratio of 20% is well within acceptable limits.” The Vice President said the President Muhammadu Buhari-led government prioritized agriculture because the country needed to diversify its economy. He said the federal government through the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative had revived moribund blending plants to boost the supply of fertilizers to farmers at a competitive price. According to him, 11 of the 33 moribund fertilizer plants have been resuscitated, while four others are being revived with profound impacts on the ongoing revolution in the agricultural sector. The Vice President said: “The reasons for prioritizing agriculture in an economy such as ours are not far fetched. In addition to the need to further diversify the economy, agriculture is a source of income to small scale farmers and of job creation in larger farms. “We’ve also place great attention to financing the agricultural value chains starting with the Anchor Borrowers Program which started with only rice in 2015 but has now been expanded to cover other crop as well as livestock value chains. “Another value chain program to boost agricultural value chain is the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative through which hitherto moribund blending plants were revived to supply fertilizers to farmers at a competitive price. Eleven of the thirty three moribund fertilizer plants have been resuscitated, while four others are being revived shortly with profound impacts on the ongoing revolution in the agricultural sector.” The President of the Nigerian Economic Society (NES), Prof. T.J. Agiobenebo, in his address said that: “The agricultural sector has over the years been plagued with low productivity, gross unemployment and agriculturalists have frequently been found among the poorest of the poor. It is noteworthy however that the agricultural sector has both forward and backward linkages that can power inclusive growth and shared prosperity. The optimization of the value chain in the agricultural sector in Nigeria is a bridge to resolving the many of Nigeria’s social economic challenges. “Value chain optimization is a crucial driver of industrialization strategy. In view of its potential for expanding production possibilities and enhancing cross border, if not global utilization of natural and human resources of the  country. “It provides a strategy for resource based industrialization through agro processing which can deploy local technology driven by value chains.”