Nigerian professional footballer, Victor Moses has signed a partnership with an online trading platform, Binomo. The partnership deal will see the 27 year-old Chelsea FC star, contributing to the company’s brand image and marketing appearances in Nigeria and across the African market. Moses, who was named by the Nigerian Football Federation as the 2018 Nigerian Footballer of the Year represented Nigeria in the FIFA 2018 World Cup in Russia will have put his image affront as he now function as Brand Ambassador for the financial assets broker. Speaking about the currency and commodities trading platform Moses said, “I’m really proud of this partnership with a reputable brand like Binomo and look forward to working with them to engage my fans and friends across the continent of Africa. The Binomo platform is safe, secure, and reliable, and that was a major attraction for me.” Also speaking on the partnership deal, representatives of Binomo expressed their delight, “Victor Moses is one of Africa’s most talented and successful footballers who perfectly personifies the ideals of Binomo brand: being a goal-oriented person, smart decision maker, a hard worker and someone who inspires millions of people in Nigeria and across the world. We are truly excited to work with him.” Victor Moses who plays as a winger on either flank, is an accomplished professional with 38 caps for the Super Eagles since 2012, during which time he has scored 12 goals for the Nigerian National Team. Moses who has also appeared for West Ham and Stoke City in the past, has played 63 EPL games for Chelsea since the 2016/17 season. Binomo expressed excitement at having Victor Moses on board believing that his fans base is a clout to leverage to penetrate the African market, “We understand that Victor Moses has a huge following in Nigeria courtesy of his various achievements in the field of soccer. This includes his impressive accomplishments with both club and country. He was one of the key players who made it possible for Nigeria to become the first African nation to book a ticket to the mundial in Russia. From this, you can see that our partnership is a union of two top players in separate fields.” The company remarked on the unique qualities of the platform, and its plans for the Nigerian market. “We strongly believe in our service offerings and the potential to empower young Nigerians who desire financial freedom. However, we realised that to achieve this we needed to understand the Nigerian
market and carefully communicate our value proposition. Hence, the Victor Moses partnership.” The Binomo platform offers some impressive features which include a wide range of financial assets, analytical services for client trading, customer support for both the experienced and the novice trader, as well as helpful tutorials to aid first-time users. The Binomo brand also takes great pride in being one of the leading platforms in the currency trading niche and this is highlighted by its impressive track record. This includes a long list of Awards such as Best Broker for Beginners (2015 Forex Expo Awards), Broker of the Year (2016 IAIR Awards) and ‘Category A’ rating by Financial Commission, an independent self-regulatory and external dispute resolution (EDR) body, dedicated specifically to Forex.