•Traffic diverted to avert further disaster Nine persons have died following Monday’s gas explosion in Nasarawa State. Thirty-six others are receiving treatment at various hospitals. Governor Tanko Al-Makura stated this when he visited Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital (DASH) in Lafia to commiserate with victims. He promised that the government will cater for their treatment and even sponsor them abroad if need be. He said: “This is a day of mourning and my condolences go to the families who lost their loved ones. When I got the news yesterday, I had to rush back home. Six persons died earlier and two of those taken to the National Hospital died this morning (yesterday), making eight. “I also learnt that an expectant mother was cut open to remove the child but both of them died eventually. “Nine persons have died in all and 36 others are taking treatment at the Dalhatu Araf Specialist Hospital. Some of them were admitted while those with severe burns were taken to the National Hospital in Abuja. “Unfortunately, the victims suffered over 60 per cent degree of burns,s so I directed that they should be given the best possible treatment, even it means taking them out of the country”. Read also: IBB’s ally tackles Osinbajo over comment Al-Makura said volatile businesses operating within the city centres will be relocated outside the townships to avoid a recurrence. “I have directed a committee to review the location approval of all such businesses, especially the gas business,” he added. Vehicular traffic leading to Monaco Gas Filling Station was yesterday diverted to avert another explosion. When the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) visited the scene yesterday, security operatives from different agencies were on ground to control traffic. The State Fire Service; Police; Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC); Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC); National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) were at the scene. The Akwanga/Jos Road was sealed from the secretariat of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to Lafia Township Stadium. Vehicles coming from the East, Makurdi, Jos, Akwanga and Abuja were diverted from the main road through the Government House via Bukan-Sidi. The Chief Fire Officer said the situation was under control. According to him, the road was diverted to sanitise and secure the area “before it is reopened”. The hospital’s spokesman, Deborah Dangara, who confirmed that some of the casualties were transferred to the National Hospital in Abuja, said the seriously injured were also transferred for proper medical attention due to inadequate facilities in the state.