The Group Managing Director of the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), Dr. Maikanti Baru, has appealed to striking oil workers to help sustain the country’s exit from recession. He urged the oil and gas workers to sustain the industrial harmony the sector has enjoyed in recent times. In a release in Abuja yesterday, NNPC Group General Manager, Group Public Affairs, Mr. Ndu Ughamadu, quoted Dr. Baru as saying that the Oil and Gas Sector was central to Nigeria overcoming the recent past recession, stressing that oil workers owe the country the duty to ensure that the nation does not slip back to the slum. Ughamadu stated that the GMD thanked the two national industry unions, the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) and the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG), for the exceptional maturity they have shown at critical moments on issues affecting the industry. The release explained that the NNPC Management under the leadership of the Dr. Baru would continue to partner the unions in the interest of the nation and the industry workers, saying the corporation’s doors are open to the union’s leadership to move the sector forward collaboratively. Ughamadu also quoted Dr. Baru as saying that NNPC had 37-day Premium Motor Spirit (PMS), otherwise called petrol, self- sufficiency, assuring that all the corporation’s depots nationwide have abundance of petroleum products to meet the needs of Nigerians even as it added that the depot managers have been put on alert to ensure uninterrupted loading of products in their domains. Ends Saraki appeals to govt, labour to resolve minimum wage crisis From: Ahmed Rufa’i, Dutse THE Senate president, Dr. Bakola Saraki, has called on the executive to resolve the issue of national minimum wage without furthe delay. The senate president made the call yesterday while fielding questions from newsmen in Bamaina town, Birninkudu Local Government Area, Jigawa State, when he paid a courtesy visit to his co-presidential aspirant, Alhaji Sule Lamido, during his campaign tour to the state, saying that the matter was lingering for too long. Saraki said in the interest of the economic and social development of the country, it is important for labour and government to get a lasting solution. “This issue of minimum wage is long overdue. It has been lingering for a very long time. It is very importan to end the matter once and for all,” he said. Sarak said the National Assembly was waiting for the bill on minimum wage and would give it all the necessary consideration.