Three outstanding participants at the just concluded Olumide Oyedeji Basketball Camp have bagged scholarship to study and play basketball in the United States of America (USA) and Nigeria. The scholarship, which was awarded by the Olumide Oyedeji Foundation, would see the Most Valuable Player (MVP) 15 year old Mubarak Bonte from Togo study in USA, while pursuing his basketball dream. The second beneficiary, 13 year old Olawuyi Adenike from Osogbo, Osun State, who bagged a $45,000 scholarship as Most Promising Camper, will have the opportunity to also study in the USA. Already, the schools where both of them will study have been finalized. Also, a third beneficiary, 12 year old Owonibi Emmanuel, who was adjudged the Best Young Player at the camp, will also benefit from a scholarship scheme which will see him study and play basketball in Nigeria. The former D’Tigers captain told NationSport yesterday that it was a pleasure to contribute to the development of the kids. He said that the scholarship will enable them pursue their educational and sporting career. Oyedeji noted that over 300 participant have benefitted from the scholarship to study and play basketball in the United States and other countries all over the world. “It is good to see that the basketball camp which has continued to support kids for 19 years is still waxing stronger. “Over 300 participants have benefitted from the scholarship scheme while many have also gone ahead to become good students and professional basketball players. The likes of D’Tigers’ Deji Akindele, D’Tigress players – Uju Ugoka and Nkechi Akashile – as well as former D’Tigress captain Rashidat Sadiq. Oyedeji, who said that over 400 kids took part in this year’s event, promised that the 20th edition next year, will see a zonal camp, which will throw up talents from all over the country. He also assured that foreign coaches would grace the event, while stating that he would launch a sport institute that would cater for the development of budding talents in basketball, football and four other sports.