The Katsina state police Command over the weekend announced the successful crack down on a notorious highway armed robbery syndicate based on a tip off. The Command succeeded in busting a notorious armed robbery syndicate that has been disturbing Kankia – Kusada – Kano road and robbing innocent commuters of their belongings. A press release which signed by the Public relations Officer to the state command Superintendent Isah Gambo said the robbers namely: Rabe Aliyu of Macinjin village, Kankia LGA , Tukur Alhaji Mati and Maharazu Abubakar both of Saifawa village, Kusada LGA,all from Katsina state, were arrested when they blocked the Kusada – Kano highway, armed with dangerous weapons and robbed the occupants of a motor vehicle Volkswagen Gulf, of their money, handsets and other belongings. In the course of Investigation, victims have identified the suspected robbers to be the ones that robbed them. The release further stated that two handsets and a bag belonging to the victims were recovered from the suspects during police search and that other exhibits recovered from the suspects includes the followings, the sum of N86, 700, Four GSM Handsets and one black Jincheng motorcycle with reg. No. QB 264 KSD In another development, the police have announced the arrest of another notorious armed robbery and kidnapping syndicate who were terrorizing Kafur, Danja and Malumfashi LGA areas of Katsina state. A statement said those arrested including Ibrahim Ali, aged 18yrs and Usman Yusuf alias ‘GWIWA’, aged 30yrs both of Gozaki village, Kafur LGA of Katsina state and others now at large, were armed with dangerous weapons and attacked the house of Alh. Musa Adamu of Gozaki village, Kafur LGA of Katsina state, robbing him of an unspecified amount of money and other valuables, and also kidnapped his 14yrs old daughter to an unknown destination. The report further stated that the suspects confessed to having masterminded the kidnappings of two girls, one at Hunkuyi LGA of Katsina state in which they extorted the sum of five hundred thousand Naira (N500, 000) as a ransom from the family of the victim and another at Gozaki in Kafur LGA of Katsina state which the victim escaped from their custody. Another notorious armed robbery syndicate that specializes in hitting motorcyclists with iron hammer was also arrested based on a tip off. The duo of Yayaa Suleiman, aged 25yrs of Marabar Kankara village, Malumfashi LGA and Abdulaziz Abdulkadir aged 28yrs of Kukar Sheka village Kankara LGA of, who chattered an Okada commercial motorcyclist from Central Motor Park to Janbango Quarters, Katsina, were said to have brought out a heavy hammer and hit the Okada driver on his head while on motion