By Olusegun Esther “For over three decades, the Montreal Protocol has done much more than shrink the ozone hole; it has shown us how environmental governance can respond to science, and how countries can come together to address a shared vulnerability. I call for that same spirit of common cause and, especially, greater leadership as we strive to implement the Paris Agreement on climate change and mobilize the ambitious climate action we so urgently need at this time.”
UN Secretary-General António Guterres Every year, on September 16, the world celebrates the International day for the preservation of Ozone layer as the World Ozone Day. SINCE 1995, the United Nations has celebrated this date as the International Day for the Preservation of the Ozone Layer. This  year’s theme  is “Keep Cool and Carry On: The Montreal Protocol”. According to the United Nations, this theme is a motivational rallying call, urging all of us to carry on with the exemplary work of protecting the ozone layer and the climate under the Montreal Protocol. The theme has two connotations – that our work of protecting the ozone layer also protects climate and that the Montreal Protocol is a “cool” treaty, as exemplified by its outstanding success. The ozone layer is a fragile shield of gas that protects the Earth from harmful part of the sun rays and preserves life on the plane In commemorating this year’s celebration, below are facts of the ozone layer that you should know. • Ozone was discovered by Christian Friedrich Schönbein in 1840. He named it after the Greek for ‘to smell’ which is ‘ozein’. • Ozone is a pungent smelling blue gas. A molecule of ozone consists of three oxygen atoms • The ozone is found in the Earth’s atmosphere. About 90 per cent ozone is found within 17 kilometres of Earth’s surface while the rest of the ozone is found in the stratosphere • The ozone depletion has led to the greenhouse effect which has resulted in global warming. The ultraviolet rays of the sun are cancerous and they can cause skin cancer. • Ozone absorbs most of the sun’s ultraviolet radiation, which protects us and many other life forms from its potentially damaging effects. • The less carbon we use, the better it is for the Ozone layer. Carbon is found everywhere and every pollutant affects the layer in some way.
• In order to protect the ozone, we must reduce the use of fossil fuels
• We must reduce the energy consumption at our homes and try to conserve our resources as much as we can. It is also important that we protect ourselves ozone layer depletion. • We should avoid the use of fire extinguishers and sprays that contain chorofluorocarbon (CFC). Its depletion causes the sun’s high radiation to reach the Earth. • Keep clean the air conditioning and refrigerator clean and buy the ones that are CFC-free. • Reduce heating, air conditioning, use of cars, compressors, lawn mowers, e.t.c. • Avoid excessive sun exposure