After submitting his nomination form to contest for the Yobe South Senatorial seat, Alhaji Haruna Bawa Waziri declared that God is his joker to win the seat come 2019. Alhaji Haruna Waziri who is vying the seat on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party met party officials in Damaturu on Tuesday where he submitted his form amidst party supporters and family members who accompanied him in solidarity for the occasion. Mr. Bawa who addressed reporters shortly after presenting his form said his attention will be directed towards education, youth and women empowerment, and infrastructural development when elected to represent his people at the senate. He regretted the toll of insurgency on the state and the region which according to him has brought his dear state several steps backward. Speaking on his chances to secure the ticket and emerge victorious at the polls, Mr Bawa said; “the only thing one is sure of in this life is death. I tried this in 2015 but I didn’t get the chance to win. Now I have come again. I want to believe that I am constitutionally qualified for this position. On top of that,I  have the pedigree and the experience both in the public and private sector that qualify me for this job. But that entire aside, God is my Joker,” Mr. Bawa declared. Asked whether he feels the current senator’s under-performance is a motivating factor for him to contest for the position, Mr. Bawa said, he does not engages in politics of character assassination but rather on issues, stressing that, ” I want to believe the current senator, Mohammed Hassan has done his best. That does not stop any other person to come in and also contribute his quarter which is why Iam vying to also build or improve on whatever he has done”. The Nation checks gathered that Haruna Bawa Waziri is the only aspirant that has so far visited the Damaturu office of the PDP to submit his form of interest. At the moment no aspirant has even declared for the governorship candidate of the state under the PDP as at the time of filling this report.