A total of 200 ex-agitators of Niger Delta youths on Thursday, pledged not to go back to the creeks following their training in various trades in Nnewi, Anambra State. The youths underwent a 9-month training in automobile, auto-painting, welding, electronics, among others under the federal government Education for Employment programme in collaboration with Innoson Kiara Academy. Speaking during their graduation ceremony held at the Innoson premises in Nnewi, one of them, Abraham Peter, thanked the federal government for partly keeping to its promises of equipping them with skills. He however called for the completion of the promise by empowering them so they would not contemplate going back to the creeks. “Training someone with skills without a corresponding empowerment is like throwing a stone into a river. “The skills we’ve acquired will only be useful if the government empowers us financially so we will not be tempted to go back to the creeks,” he said. Another beneficiary, Gbalubi David, said the training would not only enable him start his own business, but train other unemployed youths. He however advocated for extension of the training period, saying the nine months duration was inadequate in view of the volume of the training packages. Earlier, the CEO, Innoson Kiara Academy, Mr. Endi Ezengwa, said the Innoson Kiara in partnership with the Presidential Amnesty Office, had trained over 600 ex-agitators since three years of its commencement. He said the trainees had undergone examination by the National Agency for the Prohibition of Traffic in Persons (NAPTIP) to give the exercise national credibility. Describing Innoson factory as unique, Ezengwa said the peculiarity of the environment provides the trainees with both skills and entrepreneurial spirit to compete favorably with their contemporaries. He assured the graduants of federal government’s assistance towards their establishment, even as he canvassed for federal and state governments’ patronage to ensure the market’s steady relevance.