THE Immediate past Chairman of Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr Moshood Salvador, has said the party is dead in the state. Salvador said with his defection along with his teeming supporters, PDP is finished and Lagos is now a one party state. He spoke at a reception organised for him and his supporters by the Lagos State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at Agege Stadium. Salvador claimed he had uprooted the structure of the PDP and brought it to the APC. The former PDP chairman promised to collaborate with APC leaders to deliver at least five million votes to President Muhammad Buhari in 2019 general elections. He said: “I will do all humanly possible to achieve that.” Salvador urged Osun State residents to vote en masse next Saturday for the APC governorship candidate, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola, for continuous development of the state. Lagos APC Chairman Tunde Balogun said the reception was home-coming for Salvador and the return his supporters to the progressives fold. The chairman congratulated the new members for joining APC. He described APC as a party to beat, not only in Lagos but throughout Nigeria. The party, he said, is a disciplined, focussed and well organised party. Balogun said Lagos had been transformed by successive progressive administrations of the APC, adding that the state had become the largest economy in West Africa. Also, a party chieftain Senator Anthony Adefuye said genuine PDP members had begun to defect to APC. He said the gale of defection started in Abuja. Adefuye said: “Most people who could not get return tickets started leaving the APC because they know APC will not return them to the National Assembly. Now, we have genuine people defecting to APC. The first was former governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio. He was the pillar of politics in Akwa Ibom. He is now in APC. “What we are doing today is a wake-keep of the PDP. By tomorrow, it will be buried.” The highpoint of the occasion was the presentation of APC flag to Salvador by Balogun. Politicians at the event included Lagos APC Secretary, Dr Wale Hameed, Senator Ganiyu Olanrewaju Solomon (GOS), Dr Yomi Finnih, Prof Babatunde Samuel, Mr Joe Igbokwe, Prince Gbenga Oshinowo, Mrs Magret Igwe, Chief Idowu Adesanya, Okey Joe, Chairman Agege Local Government Area, Alhaji Ganiu Egunjobi and his counterpart in Orile-Agege Local Council Development Area, Mr Sunday Babatunde.