The federal government has sent relief materials worth millions of naira to the flood victims in Anambra State through the National Emergency Management Agency NEMA. This is coming just three days the Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo  SAN visited the state to ascertain the magnitude of damage caused by the monster in the state. Some of the  materials sent by the FG include 600 bags of rice, 300 bags of cement, 200 bags of Milo, 300 bags of beans, 1,000 cartons of omo and 300 cartons of tin tomatoes . The South East Coordinator of the Agency, Mr Walson Ibarakuno-Barandon, handed over the materials to the Anambra state Executive Secretary of state Emergency Management Agency SEMA, Mr Paul Odenigbo, on Saturday in Awka, Anambra state. Other items were;2,000 pieces of treated mosquito nets, 1,000 pieces of toilet soap, 1, 500 pieces of printed wax, 150 kegs of vegetable oil, 150 bags of salts, 150 bags of sugar and 150 kegs of red oil among others. Ibarakuno-Barandon, said the materials were meant to alleviate the sufferings of victims of the flood disaster in parts of Anamabra State. Nine out of 21 local government areas in Anambra located close to the River Niger were named among places that would possibly witness flood disaster this year by weather experts. The NEMA official explained that the agency brought the items to cushion the effects of the disaster, adding that NEMA emergency assessment team would commence on-the-spot assessment of the areas hit by flood Sept.22. He urged the state to see the relief materials as symbolic showing that the federal government under President Mohammadu Buhari shares the pains of the flood victims in Anambra. According to him, “No amount of relief materials given to victims of disaster that would be enough to take care of their losses, the federal government is trying to give succor to the victims through this donation’’ In his remarks, Odenigbo, Executive Secretary SEMA, expressed gratitude to the federal government for their prompt intervention. “What they have brought, it would go a long way in assisting the flood victims in the various camps. “We have made a case to the federal government  and what NEMA brought today if we add it to donations from other organisations people in the various IDP camps would not go hungry ’’ Odenigbo said apart from the provision of food and non food materials ,that state ministries of Environment, Health and Public Utilities were working tirelessly to ensure proper hygienic environment in the camps to avoid outbreak of diseases.