The coast is clear now that there is a new order in the administration of the beautiful game in the country, with the return of Amaju Pinnick and his board to the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) following the successful elections held in Katsina, despite the dissenting views of those who believe that nothing good can come out of the Glasshouse, except they are in charge. Interestingly, the Federation of International Football Associations (FIFA) and the Confederation of Africa Football (CAF) sent representatives to witness the elections. This is part of the criteria to validate the election. Besides, the Congress decided those who scaled the hurdle, not faceless people like we saw in the past that led to a stalemate. What this indicates is that we followed FIFA’s statutes to decide those who won. Indeed, the cordial manner in which those who lost the ultimate prize – NFF President -embraced the winner suggested that they were satisfied with the process. This is the clincher, which thankfully the winner described as a no victor, no loser scenario, meaning he is ready to work with everyone. It simply means victory for the beautiful game. Today, we have a football federation where majority of members partook in the country’s preparations for the Russia 2018 World Cup. And the board’s biggest niche was the ability to convince the private sector to key into its programmes in a bid to be financially solvent. Today, key members of the federation have been integrated into core committees in FIFA and CAF. They have transferred what they learned to the operations in the Glasshouse, so much so they clashed with the Sports ministry. No surprises because football is a money-spinner for those who know how to utilise its marketing windows. It is to the credit of the past board that Nigeria prosecuted the Mundial in Russia with little funding from the government. In fact, government cash got to the federation four days after the competition began. Surprised? Don’t be since the bureaucratic bottlenecks associated with governance would have contributed to the late release of the funds. The past board’s foresight in getting the private sector to handle problematic areas of the  World Cup campaign ensured that coaches’ and officials’ wages were paid promptly; players’ entitlements were paid upfront and this created the enabling environment for the team to prepare for the competition. It didn’t come as a surprise when the players raised their hands up to accept that they didn’t live up to expectation in the games against Croatia and Argentina, even though they beat Iceland, which isn’t in Nigeria’s class in terms of World Cup pedigree, with due respect. Preparatory to the Mundial in Russia, Nigeria played some of the best friendly games against renowned countries, such as England (June 2), Serbia (March 27), Argentina (November 14), Poland (March 23), Czech Republic etc. These games helped sharpen the players’ skills and showed other countries that we have the players to give them a good game anywhere in the world. Such markers are the difference between serious football nations and jokers. It won’t be surprising if in 2021 Nigeria approaches England or Serbia or even Argentina for the second time to come to our country for an international friendly game. It won’t be out of place if France, Brazil, Croatia, Belgium etc accept to play the Eagles to prepare for the Mundial in 2022. This writer has been thrilled by the synergy existing between the federation’s president and his first and second vice chairmen. The trio have struck a bond, especially now that some all-knowing members have been replaced. The exit of these members should bring peace to the board. It will also help the board to regain the confidence of the private sector. It was soul-lifting to see billionaires, such as Alhaji Aliko Dangote and Femi Otedola, rubbing minds with FIFA  and CAF presidents at the FIFA The Best Awards held in England on September 24. Amaju Pinnick has opened  a new vista for the board with this noble initiative because both men are big stage players and won’t let the opportunity of doing business with global brands, such as FIFA and CAF’s slip off. Indeed, it will be easier for Pinnick and his members to convince Dangote and Otedola that they can be trusted, based on the cordial relationship the president and his members have with FIFA and CAF. For such wealthy and successful businessmen, what counts for them is the international platform where these football ventures play. Associating their brands with FIFA and CAF in big sporting events, such as the World Cup, across all the cadres, Confederations Cup, Olympic Games’ soccer events and the Africa Cup of Nations, is one of the biggest forms of networking which both men would happily exploit. A notable football lover, Dangote is reportedly worth over $15 billion. Interestingly, he has not hidden his desire to buy over Barclays English Premier League side, Arsenal FC of London. A business relationship with FIFA and CAF and their business associates would enhance his chances of convincing Gunners’ fans that he has the wherewithal to take the team to greater heights. Convincing Dangote and Otedola to rub minds with international soccer buffs offers NFF the opportunity to talk to the billionaires. Little wonder Pinnick told the international media in London: “Alhaji Dangote is perhaps the biggest business brand in Africa, and one of Nigeria’s leading Ambassadors. I am very happy to be in a position to invite himself and Mr. Otedola to such an event of global stature and essence. “As a nation, it is important that we continue to showcase our best brands in all fields. Doing this enhances the stock of our country globally. Alhaji Dangote and Mr. Otedola were happy to meet the world’s top governors of football and the football governors were also happy to meet them. “Our objective as a Football Federation is to attain financial autonomy so that the Government can channel resources otherwise taken up by football into other critical sectors, and we believe that if we have persons like Dangote and Otedola partnering with Nigerian Football, we will get there faster,” said Pinnick, who is also the 1st Vice President of the Confederation of African Football. “The NFF has invited Alhaji Dangote to a couple of matches previously, including the friendly match with England in London before the FIFA World Cup in Russia, but he was unable to attend. Now, we are discussing with him on a relationship with Nigerian Football and he is showing immense interest.” “Football has tremendous capacity to be self –sustaining and even contribute significantly to the national GDP. That is the station we are targeting at the moment. I also want to use this opportunity to appreciate our other sponsors and partners, Coca Cola, Zenith Bank, Nigeria Breweries PLC, NIKE, Cadbury PLC, WAPIC Insurance, Emzor Pharmaceuticals, TGI, 1XBET, Peak Milk, Payporte for making us to attain the present 65 per cent private sector –funding status,” said Pinnick. Good talk, Pinnick. NFF should exploit the marketing windows in the sport to get funds to run our football seamlessly. It is the government’s responsibility to create the enabling environment for sports to thrive, build facilities and fund contingents to international competitions like other countries do. Getting into sensitive federations, such as the NFF should not be a platform for the boys to celebrate mediocrity, knowing that Nigeria has been at the biggest football fiesta, World Cup six times (1994, 1998, 2002, 2010, 2014 and 2018). No mean feat, especially with our players’ exploits in the European game till date. NFF shouldn’t be for people who want to go to the government cap in hand for funding. We should emulate the English FA, Brazil FA, Belgium FA, France FA, Germany FA and Argentina FA, to mention a few because our players outshine some of the talents from these civilised soccer nations in their European clubs. Our players have left the administrators in terms of development, hence, Pinnick’s and his members’ new templates for growth should be embraced wholesale. It is the way forward. Dangote is channelling all his energy in trying to buy Arsenal. But his chances of landing the Gunners’ looks almost impossible now, especially after Stan Kroenke, owner of Kroenke Sports Enterprises, completed his buyout of the North London club and is now the sole owner of shares in the club. The American billionaire agreed a £600million deal with Alisher Usmanov in August that took him beyond the 90 per cent ownership threshold after which he was obliged to buy all remaining shares. A statement from Arsenal Holdings PLC said: “Further to the announcement made by KSE, UK, Inc. on 28 August 2018 confirming the closing of its offer for Arsenal Holdings PLC, the compulsory acquisition by KSE of all of the Arsenal shares not assented to the offer completed on September 25 2018. “As stated in KSE’s announcement on 28 August, the trading in Arsenal shares on the NEX Exchange Growth Market will be withdrawn with effect from close of business today.” However, Dangote can be convinced by the Pinnick-led administration to help raise a football empire in Nigeria by investing locally. And to have Africa’s richest man involved in Nigerian football will be the a good deal. 