Founder/Chancellor of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti (ABUAD), Aare Afe Babalola, has canvass the return of Teacher Training Colleges to tackle the problems of poor teaching and learning methods in public schools. Babalola described the scrapping of Teacher Training Colleges as a “great mistake” saying the policy has negatively affected education at primary and secondary levels which serve as bedrocks of tertiary education. Legal luminary said the country must carry out a lot of radical reforms in education sector for the country’s certificates not to be worthless at the international scene. Speaking on Monday at the sixth edition of the Workshop on Teaching and Learning Methods in Higher Educational Institutions held at ABUAD Campus, Ado-Ekiti, Babalola said it was wrong for those without teaching certificates to be allowed to veer into the profession which he said accounted for the rot in the education sector. The former Pro Chancellor and Chairman of Council of the University of Lagos said a return of such teacher training institution had become imperative in view of the growing academic decay in Nigerian schools. Babalola said such teacher training school must be made compulsory for whoever that wants to join teaching profession, regardless of whatever initial qualification such a person may have. He lamented the current poor state of events in virtually all levels of education in the country, saying something urgent and drastic must be done to salvage the situation before it is too late. According to him, aside from primary and secondary schools which currently suffer most from the poor background of most teachers, virtually all tertiary institutions were also having their share of the rot. Babalola said: “The state of education in Nigeria today is no doubt deplorable and highly undesirable at all levels, tertiary education in particular has become a mere formal process for obtaining higher certificates without imparting on  the substance for which the institutions are established. “Some of the problems are traced to poor teaching and learning methods among others. A very critical area which has hitherto been neglected is that of quality teaching methods “Teaching, an otherwise important calling has become the last choice of those who could not get jobs elsewhere, it has thus become something for every Tom, Dick and Harry “It is unfortunate that the common assumption today is that a student who graduates with a First Class or Second Class (Upper Division) Degree is eminently qualified to teach because of the degrees, especially if he has a Masters or Doctoral degrees to it “This is however far from the truth. It is one thing to obtain university degree and yet another thing to be able to impart knowledge to another person in a way he or she can understand the process,” he said. Former Vice Chancellor of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile Ife, Prof. Michael Faborode, commended ABUAD for being a pacesetter in the efforts to revive the country’s citadels of learning, by exposing lecturers to basic techniques in teaching to improve quality of education. Faborode said: “As a former Vice Chancellor, my opinion on universities is not based on proposition, but on facts. With this workshop, ABUAD has once again showed that it was at the forefront of university education in Nigeria. “Though, there were a lot of freedom in the universities, but teaching is universal. It has the same format that needed to be respected, failing which the students will derive no values in what the teachers are teaching and this is not good for the system.”