The incumbent governor of Anambra state, Chief Willie Obiano and his predecessor, Mr. Peter Obi, have been described as two of the greatest leaders in Nigeria. This was the opinion of specialist in pain management in Las Vegas, United States of America, Prof Godwin Maduka. He said what the country needs now are leaders with vision, compassion, drive discipline and confidence. Maduka, who was the chairman during the recent retreat and book launch, organized by the All Progressives Grand Alliance APGA at Finotel hotel resort in Awka, Anambra state. He said the party had been able to thrive in the state and indeed Nigeria because of the leadership qualities of former national chairman of the party, Chief Victor Umeh, the current national chairman, Dr Victor Oye and Governor Obiano. According to him, “Political office seekers who promote mischief, violence or brigandage as instruments of political competition must be held accountable for their actions” “What Nigeria needs now more than ever is high quality leadership intuned with vision, drive, discipline, confidence, and most of all, compassion” “I have absolutely no doubt that you the aspirants in this hall, distinguished and respected personalities are poised and prepared to rise up and embrace the challenge” “It only requires seriousness and sincerity as well as a strong commitment and revolutionary mindset” “All full blooded and convinced citizens of Nigeria, we must strive towards inventing a meaningful Nigerian nation that fulfils the promise that Nigeria holds out for all of us here, for all Nigerians in the Diaspora as well as the rest of the world” “You the potential representatives of our people are the human treasurers of this dream. You are now presented with a magnificent opportunity to challenge and correct malgovernance across all sectors” “For Nigeria to be great, those whom aspire to lead must bear in mind the fact that they are servants and as such cannot ever be greater than the people, their masters” ” A leader must never allow his high office to separate him from the people. He should symbolize good government. He must have physical and moral courage and most importantly, he must possess the ability to inspire the people out of despondency” “A leader who serves his people will be enshrined in the hearts and minds of his people. This is his only reward in his lifetime” “I commend the Governor of Anambra State Chief (Dr) Willie Obiano, for living up to these ideals and for making Anambra State an international showpiece of good governance” “APGA is a party that can boast of some of the most visionary Governors Nigeria has ever produced in the persons of Mr. Obi and Chief Willie Obiano,” Maduka said.