Some scientist have called on regulatory agencies to check the incessant rock blasting in the country in order to prevent recurrence of earth tremors. They made the call on Friday in Abuja in separate interviews with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN). According to them, regulatory agencies should come up with rules and regulations that will prevent people from indiscriminate blasting of rocks in order to preserve the environment as well as save lives and properties from natural disasters. They said persistent and uncontrolled blasting of rocks through the use of powerful explosives could lead to earth movements. Prof. Mosto Onuoha, the President of Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS), said rock blasting may be responsible for the earth movements in Mpape and parts of Maitama, Abuja. “The use of explosives to break or blast rocks would have vibrating power and ability to the last end of the rock. “It will get to the stage that could be seen visibly and to the bottom of the ground where we cannot see but where the rock has ended. “When this action is continuous, the vibration from the rocks blasted with explosives will be transmitted to the body-like water that is already settled under the ground. “The release of the vibration in form of energy back to the earth will lead to earth shaking. “ The FCT Emergency Management Agency, National Agency for Space Research Development Agency (NASRDA) and other relevant organisations should continue to monitor the situation in Abuja and in other places,’’ he said. Dr Adeneye Talabi, a former Director of Technology Acquisition and Adaption in the Federal Ministry of Science and Technology, urged the Federal Government to enforce all existing rules on exploitation of natural resources. According to him, government must ensure that due processes are followed to address the earth movements that happened recently in the FCT. Talabi explained that Nigeria was not immune to such occurrences, adding that appropriate measures ought to be put in place to avert future incidents. “If there is a tremor, it is an indication or symptom that the eventual higher degree of it which will translate into earthquake can occur. “Earth tremor is very close to earthquake. The earth tremor is just the shaking of the ground earth crust while earthquake is a total collapse or opening up of the ground, ‘’ he said. He said the tremor recorded in the South-South Zone was as a result of distortion in the balance of the eco system during oil extraction. Talabi said the vacuum created by extracting gas and crude oil ought to be replaced with close density commodity to avoid any future disaster. “ There is need for the Federal Government and the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation in particular to enforce all the existing rules guiding exploitation of natural resources like crude oil. “ Regarding the tremor in Bayelsa and Rivers, a vacuum has been created through the exploitation processes and methods,“ he said. He urged the Federal Government to direct oil companies to ensure best practices in extracting natural resources such as crude oil and natural gas.