Politicians are arming thugs to make today’s supplementary elections in Osun State violent, the police said yesterday. The agency warned that it would not allow anything that will undermine the process or cause a breach of the peace. Urging residents to go about their lawful duties, Deputy Inspector General of Police (DIG) Operations and Security Coordinator for the election Joshak Habila said the police would not let their guards down. Habila noted that Saturday’s election was free, fair and peaceful, save for few incidents of “breach of peace and threat to life and property”. He warned that only eligible voters and officials would be allowed near polling units in the areas where supplementary elections will take place. Habila said: “The election was however declared inconclusive by the Independence National Electoral Commission (INEC) with a re-run election fixed for Thursday September 27. The election will take place in seven polling units scattered in four Local Government Areas (LGAs) of the state. These are Ife North, Ife South, Orolu and Osogbo Local Government Areas. “We have an intelligence report that there is a grand plan to turn the election gruesomely violent and deadly by arming thugs to unleash mayhem at polling centres. As law enforcement agencies, the police and other security agencies would not permit the breakdown of law and order. “Those of them preparing for ‘fire for fire’ must be ready to bear the consequences of their actions which are designed to undermine this particular democratic process. It should be noted that the Nigeria Police Force will remain proactive and would not rest on its oars in the task to decode the identities of those democratic enemies. “Residents are requested to be law abiding and go about their lawful duties without fear and with the full assurance of the protection of law abiding citizens and voters who are out there to exercise their franchise. “The Police and other law enforcement agencies have been deployed to maintain law and order and protect lives and property of residents.” Continuing, the DIG appealed to residents to report all suspicious activities to the police, such as solicitation for votes, buying of Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and any plan to rig or disrupt the election. “Troublemakers and other interlopers are warned to keep away from the polling units and indeed from any part of the state. The police and other security agencies will leave no stone unturned to protect lives and property and maintain peace,” he said.