Eight Greek maritime experts billed to facilitate the training of 2,500 beneficiaries of the Amnesty Programme, have arrived in the country. The training programme initiated by the Presidential Amnesty Office will soon be inaugurated. Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Coordinator, Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo, expressed optimism that the project, which will lead to the building of 100 fishing trawlers in Burutu, Delta State, will enhance the beneficiaries’ capability and strengthen business in the Niger Delta region. Receiving the experts yesterday, Doklubo said: “I have sat through most of your discussions and you have explained to me the techniques and the method of how you do your own business. I want that to be replicated in Nigeria and in the Niger Delta, because we are a seafaring people. We hope that this new concept will work well for our communities and for the Niger Delta people so that the best that we can offer will enhance our capabilities and also strengthen the business and sea faring lives of our delegates”. Managing Director, Theo-Man Limited, managers of the project, George Theodoru, said the prospective beneficiaries would be professionally trained on how to operate state-of-the-art boats which will serve as a means of livelihood for them, their families and communities. “As project managers, we will organise the operation, consult the parties involved on progress made, and supervise each party for smooth deliveries. Above all, we are responsible for the technical consultancy to deliver good boats; to keep them working in good condition and maintenance”. Theodoru hinted that a study on a processing factory, including structures and facilities necessary for preparation of raw fish harvested for local consumption and export, had reached advanced stage. “So we are now offering a complete solution, starting from educated fishermen to professionalism, modern equipment, choice of profitable catches, transportation and preservation”. The project which is driven under a Public-Private-Partnership (PPP) has the Presidential Amnesty Office, Concept Amadeus Limited, Akewa Global Services Limited (AGS) and four Greek companies as partners. The foreign firms include Fintrilis S.A, Tel of Western Greece; Kreta Mare, El Mare and Theo-Man Limited. The Greek partners in Nigeria on a 10-day visit preparatory to take-off of the project include, Thoedorou, MD/CEO Theo-Man Limited; Ioannis Inglesis, HOD, Public Relations and International Relations, TEI of Western Greece; George Salachas, Vice Rector, TEI of Western Greece, and Ioannis Kladas, Vice HOD, Dept. of Aquaculture and Fisheries, TEI of Western Greece. Others are: Ioannis Melisourgakis, Director, Kreta Mare; Dimitrios Fintrilis, MD/CEO Fintrilis S.A; Ioannis Kampouroglov, Director, El Mare, and Benni Ebosele, Coordinator, Theo-man.