The management of British Airways has announced an upgrade from Business to First for $500 as a way of celebrating Nigeria’s 58th Independence Day. The airline, in a statement said it will also to give its esteemed loyal and premium customers an unbeatable experience this period. “From October 01, passengers flying British Airways into Nigeria from London and out of Nigeria to London are opened to the “Business to First” Upgrade offer for just $500. The selling period is actually from 1st of October to the 21st of October, 2018.” Explaining the offer, Regional General Manager West Africa, British Airways in Nigeria, Mr. Kola Olayinka said, “The “Business to First” Upgrade offer for $500 which is valid for flights from Lagos or Abuja, to and fro London is a unique offer from British Airways to say Happy Independence to Nigeria and also to appreciate its numerous well-regarded customers for their outstanding loyalty over time.” He further said that, “British Airways wants to use this opportunity to congratulate Nigerians on their 58th celebration of Independence, and we are hopeful that the future will present the envisioned rewards that come through resilience, hard-work and the projection of an impeccable character. “British Airways First Class is the ticket to exceptional comfort and impeccable service in the most elegant surroundings. It is the finest way to travel as travellers experience private and spacious suite, a fully flat bed with mattress and duvet, delicious and indulgent dining, access to luxurious lounges and spa treatments; not forgetting exclusive and attentive service. All these and more are what to expect when travellers upgrade from Business to First this period. “Travel dates are from the 1st of October to the 30th of November. 2018 and fares are excusive of taxes, while fees and surcharges are subject to availability. “To take advantage of the unique offer from British Airways, travellers are advised to contact their travel agents or contact British Airways on 0800222557.” According to Olayinka, the airline is always looking for unique ways to please their customers and the 58th Independence Anniversary of Nigeria presents that opportunity.
“The airline is committed to providing its customers with great fares, a choice of unparalleled services and exclusive on-board experiences,” he said.