The All Progressives Congress (APC) members in Ogun State on Friday trooped out in their thousands throughout the 236 wards in the state for the party’s presidential primaries and voted President Muhammadu Buhari to run for the 2019 Presidential election. At Sango Ota ward, where the turnout was massive, the people voted enthusiastically for Buhari. The process went peacefully and recorded no hitches. Also, in majority of the wards in Abeokuta North and Abeokuta South, APC members turned in large numbers to cast vote for the President. In Ward 13, Igbore-Agoba area of Abeokuta South Local Government, party members were sighted in their hundreds on queue waiting to take turn to vote for the party’s sole presidential candidate. Former governor of the state, Aremo Segun Osoba, who voted at Ward 13, Igbore – Agoba, described the exercise as peaceful and orderly. He urged members to repeat the orderly conduct on Sunday during the governorship primary. “The exercise was very peaceful and orderly. This is an indication that all other primaries will go on smoothly. “And I have come here today to preach unity to our members. They should embrace peace and forget all differences that we might have had in the past. “My message is simple. We must learn serious lesson from Osun election. We must not be disunited. We must go into all the races as one family. “Whoever emerges must become the official candidate of all of us, irrespective of the position or age. We must accept whoever emerges as flag bearer at all levels. “Not only for governorship, but also senatorial, House of Representatives and the state assembly. We must all go out and we must not allow the opposition to return. “On Sunday don’t fight anyone, do everything orderly. There should be continuity in Ogun, APC must continue in this state,” Osoba said. Also in Ward 12 and Ward 6 – all in Abeokuta South Local Government, party faithful came out in scores and voted for Buhari to run in 2019. Same trend was observed a Ibara Orile Ward 16 Abeokuta North Local Government where the party executives adopted  option A4. Commenting on the primary, immediate past acting  state chairman, Alhaji Tajudeen Lemboye, preached peace and unity in the party,  saying “there can’t be progress and development in an atmosphere of rancour and disunity.” However, the Governor Ibikunle Amosun, monitored the exercise at the Ajura ward and other wards across the state.