•‘I don’t need militia group to win re-election’ LEADERS of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Benue State have accused Governor Samuel Ortom of arming a militia group to cause crisis ahead of the 2019 general elections. Addressing a gathering of APC stakeholders in Abuja at the weekend, leader of the APC Senator George Akume also accused the governor of a slew of constitutional breaches. Akume warned of imminent breakdown of law and order if nothing was done by the security agencies to check the governor’s alleged excesses. He said: “Governor Ortom, apart from recruiting and arming militia to cause mayhem in the 2019 general elections, has continued to use his Livestock Guards and Vigilante Groups to harass and intimidate APC supporters across the state. “Most of the affected were those who have refused to defect with him to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). “Nigerians may wish to recall that in January 2018, soldiers of the 93 Battalion in Takum area of Taraba State had arrested nine members of the Benue State Civilian Joint Task Force (CJTF) which was later renamed Livestock Guards with AK-47 riffles. “The arrested members of the group are still in custody of the security agencies. “We therefore call on security agencies to check the activities of these groups as we gear up to the 2019 general elections. Akume also blamed the governor for allegedly masterminding the crisis that culminated in the change of leadership of the House of Assembly. But the governor dismissed accusations by Akume and his group, saying they were being sent on premature political retirement In a statement signed by his Special Adviser (Media and ICT) Tahav Agezua, the governor also challenged Akume to account for his stewardship in the Senate in the past eleven years. Akume represents the Benue North West sartorial district. He said: “The so-called world press conference addressed by Senator Akume and his co-travellers to political retirement, in Abuja is yet another futile attempt to resurrect a diminished platform which has lost touch with the people. “Since Governor Ortom and other patriots in Benue State took the wise decision to dump the APC, for the PDP, Senator Akume and his small band have found it difficult to recover from this political uppercut which left their floundering and sinking party in total confusion. “They have consequently resorted to Ortom bashing as a favourite pastime and lamentation as if that will bring their discredited party back to life.” The governor argued if he could win election in 2015 without a militia group, there was no need whatsoever for him to resort to illegal means to win in 2019. On corruption allegation, he said: “The Independent Corrupt Practices Commission (ICPC) indeed investigated allegations of the N28 billion diversions against Governor Ortom and gave him a clean bill”. 