House of Representatives in Kwara state Abdulwaheed Idiagbon has hailed President Muhammad Buhari’s administration for the passage of the ‘Not too young to run,’ in the country. Abdulwaheed, who is the son of the late Major General Tunde Idiagbon said his father’s goodwill would stand him in good stead in the 2019 National Assembly elections. Mr. Idiagbon told reporters in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital shortly after declaring his intention to contest the National Assembly election. He added that the youths have the potential, the experience and exposure to take the country to the promised land. He promised to up the beneficiaries of his scholarship scheme from 1,000 to 15,000 if voted into power.
Said: “Let me first of all appreciate the current administration for passing the bill of ‘Not too Young to Run.’ The honest truth is that there is power with the youths. We have so much to offer. We are very innovative, exposure and sense of humor to support one another. We believe if we vote ourselves into office there will be massive and aggressive development in our various communities. “Let me commend you for saying we are aspiring elective office on the goodwill of our father.
Good name is better than riches. Good pedigree will be a leverage point to get into where you want to get into. My motivation is that I have seen what the dormant development is within my constituency. There is the need for an aggressive change and development. There so many unemployed indigenes of Kwara state, there so many uneducated people in the state. “By the special grace of God I have over 1000 students under my scholarship scheme. I want to do more. My desire is to offer free education to over 15,000 people of not only my constituency but the whole of the state. “Education is important, human support is also very important. We want to help the market women, the jobless by giving petty fund to start a trade. We also want to do aggressive empowerment.” Speaking on the number of aspirants, Mr. Idiagbon said “politics is like a football match with different people coming into the field to display their talents and agenda, but the truth of the matter is that vote belongs to the people. The people should make the right choice. They know it already and I will advise they don’t make another mistake this time around.”