The Charkin Maritime Academy (CMA), Port Harcourt, Rivers State,  is shopping for professionals in the maritime industry. This was part of its bid to meet the standards set by the International Maritime Organisation (IMO) and ensure it’s courses are line with the guidelines and conventions of the global maritime watchdog. Though many professionals are required, the academy, findings revealed, is presently shopping for marine engineers, lecturers, librarian, Cadets Regimental Unit (RUC) Commander, laboratory technologist and registrar. The  institution took the step to meet the requirements of local regulatory agencies such as the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), National Board for Technical Education (NBTE) and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR). Acting Provost of the academy, Dr. Egben Okore told  The Nation that the move  to recruit more professionals into the CMA was informed by the need to beef up the present workforce as well as prepare ahead of some of its courses and programmes. Okore said that interested applicants and students are free to take advantage of the openings in the school for a future career in maritime, oil and gas industries and beyond. It was part of the institution’s  expansion programmes that the Rivers State Governor, Chief Nyesom Wike had in February this year, unveiled Nigeria’s first ever land ship, MV Rivers Pride built by the CMA. The land ship houses some of the equipment and facilities required by the institution. These comprise full mission navigational bridge simulator; ECDIS Simulation Room; GMDSS (Navigation) Simulation Room which conforms to the 2010 Manila Amendments by the IMO; and the basic dynamic positioning class. Other components of the land ship are advance dynamic positioning and examination class; nautical institute examination room; and the drilling system crane simulator. Wike also used the occasion to announce an approval of a certificate of occupancy for the land in which the land ship is situated at Ozuoba, along the East-West Road, Port Harcourt. The governor praised the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Charkin Maritime and Offshore Safety Centre, Sir Charles K. Wami for the strides he has made since the establishment of the facility.