The President Muhammadu Buhari administration has taken its Social Investment Programmes (SIPs) to the grassroots to assist petty traders financially. The newly launched initiative under the Government Enterprise and Empowerment Programme (GEEP), called the TraderMoni, plans to empower at least two million petty traders across the country before end of 2018. Knowing that many of the petty traders don’t have what the commercial banks require to grant them loans, the Buhari’s administration through the new programme is determined to boost the businesses of such pretty traders to make them grow. To make this possible, the government has now started to give collateral free loans to at least 30,000 beneficiaries in each states of the Federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). To select and identify beneficiaries, no less than 4,000 enumeration agents have been engaged by the Bank of Industry. The petty traders are now getting N10,000 collateral free loans. They are entitled to between N15,000 and N50,000 fresh loan the moment they pay back the initial N10,000 loan at the end of six months. Earlier, the government’s attention was big traders, where it gave much as N100, 000 each to traders under the programme, which is also a GEEP programme. The new programme, TraderMoni, which is rolling from state to state, has already taken place in Lagos, Kano, Katsina, Abia and Osun states and the FCT. For Lagos State alone, the scheme was launched in five markets including in Mushin, Ikotun, Agege, Ketu, and Abule Egba. Launching the scheme in Utako in the FCT, last Thursday, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, said, ”This programme is for the petty traders selling in the markets, it is not for bigger traders. It is for the petty traders to improve their businesses. “For now, we are giving you N10, 000, if you pay back in six months or less, you will get another N15,000. “We want to encourage petty traders, so that they can have sufficient amount to improve their businesses. “The one we did before was for big traders under the GEEP programme, we gave them as much as N100,000. If you do well with this one we are giving you now, we will increase the amount. “Everybody can benefit from this scheme, the President himself has said that he wants to make sure that those who are selling small items in the markets benefit from this programme. “When we give you this money, we want you to pay back and no interest is involved.” he stated The message was not different when Osinbajo launched the scheme in Odo-Ori market and Abattoir in Iwo, Osun State last Tuesday. He said “The policy of the Federal Government is to support businesses, not just big businesses but small, medium-sized businesses and micro businesses. “We recognise the hard work of traders who wake up everyday and toil in the markets with a dream to become financially independent and secure a future for themselves and their children. “We will give them more as they begin to repay the N10,000. If they repay the N10,000, they will be given N15,000. “And if that is repaid, they would be given N20,000. We are working with the banks to open accounts with BVNs for TraderMoni beneficiaries so that they can be financially included.” he stated Many Nigerians, no doubt, have been expressing appreciation to the Federal Government for introducing the new scheme, TraderMoni. Some other Nigerians have also criticised the new scheme as they linked it to the forthcoming elections and seeing it as moves to get the support of more Nigerians. The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had topped the list of Nigerians and political parties that have criticised the new scheme. Specifically faulting the launching of the scheme in Osun State, PDP’s spokesperson, Kola Ologbondiyan, criticised the scheme on his Twitter handle “It’s a shame that a pastor and a professor of law, VP @ProfOsinbajo will stoop this low to encourage the 10k “agbo jedi” empowerment in Osun. “Aregbe has made life so pitiable for Osun citizens,” he stated A former Minister of Education and co-convener of the Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) Group, Oby Ezekwezili, on her Twitter handle also accused the Federal Government of “deliberately corrupting the elections in Osun” by launching the TraderMoni scheme in the state three weeks before its scheduled governorship elections.” “The Federal Government either failed to be Ethically Circumspect or in fact Deliberately decided to CORRUPT the Elections in Osun by handing out Cash to Traders on the heels of the State Elections,” Ezekwezili tweeted on her Twitter page. “Such behaviour after the Grand Corrupting of Voters in Ekiti is REPREHENSIBLE,” She stated. Whether it is for political reasons or otherwise, any move that will take more Nigerians out of poverty should be welcomed by all. The government should continue to show sincerity and commitments towards eradicating poverty in the land. That, definitely, is part of the change they hoped to see in the present administration.