Akwa Ibom state governor, Mr. Udom Emmanuel has said that next year’s general elections, particularly the governorship would not be an ordinary electoral contest but a fight between the people and ‘destiny destroyers’. Speaking on Sunday at the Uyo Township Stadium on the occasion of the 31st anniversary celebration of the state, Governor Emmanuel, therefore urged Akwa Ibom people to rise up and fight against some highly placed individuals who want to mortgage the destiny of the state. Though he was not explicit on who he referred to as ‘destiny destroyers’ the governor said Akwa Ibom was and will remain a People’s Democratic Party(PDP) state which cannot be subdued by the opposition. He said no single individual from the state can play God and get away with it, adding that the gathering of ‘lions and bears’ against of the political destiny of the state would be put to naught in next year’s election. “Today Akwa Ibom people have come together and the fight before us is Akwa Ibom destiny and we are taking our destiny in our own hands. We will fight for our destiny. All destiny hijackers we tell them Holy Ghost fire. “All destiny destroyers we tell them Holy Ghost fire. In Akwa Ibom today we have development coming into Mbo, Ibiono to everywhere. There is nothing like Oro, nothing like Ibibio, nothing like Annang; development cuts across everywhere. “If you go to Ibaka road people were dancing; a major economic road was abandoned over the years because of ethnic bigotry. Today what are we saying forward ever, backward never. If they like let the lions and the bears come together. Can they eat up our destiny? “The same God of yesterday is the same God today and is the same God of tomorrow. Never again can the destiny of Akwa Ibom be taken over one man who has risen up to pretend that he God. Did Goliath succeed? “We shall conquer the beast. No man will sell our destiny; no man will mortgage our destiny; no man will rubbish our destiny. On our destiny we stand; our destiny is built on a solid rock and so shall it stand”, Emmanuel said. The governor mentioned the renovation and upgrading of general hospitals in Ituk Mbang, Etinan and Ikono as well as attraction of industries such as Toothpick factory, metering assembly plant, fertilizer blending plant and syringe factory among others. Speaking earlier the Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki assured that the PDP would reclaim power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the federal and state levels. Saraki said, “In 2019 the forces of darkness and oppression will repelled across the 36 states of the federation”. In attendance at the occasion were the governor of Sokoto state, Alhaji Aminu Tambuwal, Senator Dino Melaye among other PDP chieftains.