Former Nigerian International, Edema Fuludu in this interview with Desmond Ekwueme opens up on why he is throwing his hat into the political ring. Without a political godfather, the 1994 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) winner says he ‘wants to take back power to the people.’ Excerpts….. Why the switch from football to politics? I am a human being and so naturally a political animal. The switch is passive to active politics. Football has given me a quality platform to make the switch seamlessly. A known face can be judged quite easily than an unknown. What is the motivation behind your decision? The salient reason is that for too long we complain about governance and say society is bad while it’s just a few bad people calling the shots that make it bad because they have political power. Good people complain and stay aloof. I am a good person with a good heart ready to impact on the society positively. Many believe in our clime that without a political godfather, it is always a futile journey into politics, so who is your godfather in this journey so to say? Political godfathers is an item in our political landscape but this also is becoming obsolete because the people are beginning to have political awareness to take conscious decisions about who represents them devoid of stomach infrastructure needs. We are witnessing a paradigm shift. God is my father and he is bigger than the biggest godfather. What do you hope to bring on board if elected that is lacking at the moment in your constituency? I want to take power back to the people where decisions on what affects them directly are taken collectively. I want to be able to touch more of our children, youths and women especially through scholarships, empowerment and healthcare. Scholarships means allowing those who have good grades and desire not to be hindered by lack of funds. Empowerment at grass roots in trade and commerce for women. Healthcare through health centres for curative health and sport centres for preventive. I want to push for legislation that will make sports funding and it’s undeniably positive effects on youth development visible and responsible. Again they say, those with fat purses venture into politics, how expensive is Nigerian politics and how have you managed to fund your project? Certainly funding is necessary but not a sufficient condition for one to run for an office. All over the world money is needed for political pursuit but we have elevated it wrongly in our clime to scare the small minded. I have absolute belief that those who believe in my pedigree and capacity will rally round me when my own resources dwindle. Good people within and outside my constituency have even started assisting. My determination is unequal. People do not support ‘legberes’ that is the lazy man. Many describe politics as a dangerous and dirty game, have you experienced any friction to justify this believe or claim in the course of your campaigns, rallies or movements? The dirtiness is orchestrated by the few bad people for the good ones to always see danger at all times. I have been preaching nonviolence and the power of love. Those who seek power for power sake are evil minded. Yes deceptions are part of the game and its dirty but physical attacks and primordial innuendos must be condemned at all times. We must rise from ethnic, tribal and bestial politics to that of issues of governance that impacts on the common man. I do not pray to be attacked: me or my team physically because we preach love and issues of togetherness. How long have you nursed the ambition of entering the murky waters of politics? Well I actually registered with the PDP in 2003 in my Ward but my desire to become active came early last year. The water is murky indeed. What encouragements have you received from your former colleagues in football in making your political dream come true? Oh; a lot of encouragement in prayers mostly because of the same fear of the murkiness perceived. But they believe absolutely that I am capable and rich in knowledge to represent so they are happy over the guts and courage I have. Do you see your adventure into politics as a clarion call on your likes as ex-internationals to join the political train? Yes. I have often reiterated that a book should not be judged by its cover. When I first declared I was told by many to go run for office in the NFF but after constructively engaging them, the perception that footballers are school drop-outs was completely erased. I left the University of Benin in 1987 with a second class upper degree in Business Administration and after my professional career went back to the same university (Uniben) and had my MBA in 2001. I have worked locally and internationally as a logistics officer. A trained coach, administrator and manager of men and scarce resources. All ex-internationals cannot become coaches as that is the preconceived box for us. I dare others to step forward. A word for the good people of your constituency…. I have a few words for the good people of my constituency in the quotes I have sent out before. We are alive but dead when we consciously mortgage our tomorrow for the cash at hand. A man without a conscience has no soul. If you do not care about yourself what of the children and women the most vulnerable in the society. Our lives begin to die  if our and children’s future become bleak when money becomes the only consideration for crucial decisions we make in life.