The need to revive environmental health inspection to guarantee public safety and well-being was the focus at a symposium organised by the Department of Environmental Health of the New Gate College of Health Technology (NGCHT) in Minna, the Niger State capital. MAHMUD ABDULSALAM reports. There was a time Environmental and Public Health Officers would go from house to house to monitor residents’ compliance with environmental and public hygiene regulations. Local government authorities would deploy inspectors for regular checks to safeguard public safety. That era seems gone, but speakers at a symposium organised by the Department of Environmental Health of the New Gate College of Health Technology (NGCHT) in Minna, the Niger State capital, raised hope in the practice, saying if done efficiently, it could revive the nation’s environmental health system. The optimism was expressed at the symposium marking the grand finale of the department’s Health Week with the theme: Nigeria’s environmental health officers: Their glorious past, tragic present and potential future. Hajiya Ramatu Umar, who was the keynote speaker on the occasion, said Environmental Health Officers (EHOs) not only advised and educated the public on health issues, she said they also helped the country to improve environmental health, using their skills to enforce health policies in line with best practices and regulatory mechanisms. Hajiya Umar, who is the Permanent Secretary of the Niger State Ministry of Environment and Forestry, said: “The EHOs are expected to work with other health professionals to design programmes for improving public health and safety. They also have duty to protect the public from environmental hazards by investigating complaints from communities. They have duty to investigate the level of cleanliness and health standards of business premises, and give advice to individuals and communities on environmental health matters. “In line with best practice, they are expected to advise employers and employees on occupational health risks, monitor the fluoridation of public water supplies, measure and control air pollution from commercial and industrial sources, and ensure that defective privately-rented houses are fit for habitation. It is their task to inspect pre-school services to ensure that specific health standards are achieved, while also providing and giving evidence in court cases involving environmental issues.” She recalled that the inspectors, in the 1950s and 1960s, were referred to as Wole-Wole among the Yoruba, Nwaole-ala by the Igbo and Duba-Gari among the Hausa, before their name was changed in 1988 to Environmental Health Officers in line with best practice. “The present day EHO is a professional whose title had changed over the years from the then nuisance inspector of the 1930s to the sanitary inspectors of the 1950s and 1960s, the public health superintendent in the 1970s and finally to Environmental Health Officer,” she said. Hajiya Umar, however, listed the obstacles hindering the efficient service delivery by EHOs to include lack of equipment, ineffective laws, quackery, shortage of personnel and low morale, among others. She added that the lack of operational funds threatened the efficiency of the environmental and public health inspection. She said the nation needed to restore the lost glories of the profession, urging the EHOs to be disciplined, committed and innovative as they discharge their duties. He advised them to play their roles with professionalism and in line with best standards. “The training and deployment of adequate number of EHOs must be prioritised and pursued as a development agenda by all level of governmentsm,” she stated. The General Manager (GM) of the Niger State Environmental Protection Agency (NISEPA), Mr Lucky Jagaba, said efforts should be intensified in creating awareness about the dangers of environmental degradation, which, he said, led to global warming, drought and other anthropogenic hazards. He charged the EHOs to be committed and acquire communication skills to propagate the message of safety in their communities of assignment. He said: “The mission to redeem the fortune of environmental health practice is divine. The practitioners should to acquire persuasive communication skills, exercise patience and engage with tact. They must have the ability to enforce the law where necessary, possess good organisational skills to prepare cases using own evidence and chemical analyses. They also need to display calmness when faced with potential confrontations.” Another speaker, Mr Lakpene Yusuf, a Special Assistant to Governor Sani Bello, appealed to health practitioners to abide by the ethics of the profession. He said: “EHOs upholding professional ethics is paramount. The ethics mandate inspectors to be disciplined and uphold dignity of labour, social justice, accountability, integrity and patriotism. They must also show respect for diverse cultural beliefs.” Contributing, Mr. Jameel Abdulkareem, stressed the need to establish environmental health units in ministries, agencies, industries, housing estates, abbatoirs and markets. Students presented drama and participated in quiz featured in the event. Also, there was award presentation to some of the guests for their contribution towards the development of the profession. At the end of the symposium, the guests were taken on a tour of the college by the Registrar, Mr Samuel Olatunbosun, to show them infrastructure in the school.