Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has urged Lagosians to support him as he seeks re-election. Ambode, who yesterday picked the nomination form in Abuja, spoke at a reception organised for him by loyalists and supporters in Alausa, Ikeja. He thanked residents for believing in him and supporting him and the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in the last three and a half years. The governor urged them to sustain the support “in the journey ahead and together, let’s achieve more.” He thanked “all members of our great party, the APC, our political leaders, most especially our National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, for giving me the platform to contribute to the further growth and development of our state.” The Chairman of Conference 57, Mrs. Omolola Eze, who spoke on behalf of chairmen of local governments and local council development areas, said: “We all have work to do at the councils as Governor Ambode goes for second term. We need to support him.” An APC leader, Senator Ganiyu Olanrewaju Solomon, said: “We have all awaited this day. Governor Ambode has done so much and we have to go now to our areas to continue the mobilisation and sensitisation.” Among the APC leaders and members present at the event were Mrs. Bolanle Ambode, Deputy Governor Idiat Adebule, Secretary to the State Government Tunji Bello, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, members of the House of Assembly, members of the state Executive Council, local council chairmen, among others. The lawmaker representing Lagos East, Senator ‘Gbenga Ashafa, yesterday obtained the expression of interest and nomination forms for the APC primaries scheduled to hold on September 26. He was accompanied to the national secretariat of APC in Abuja by party leaders from Lagos East, supporters, family, relations, friends and well-wishers.                                                          Ashafa said: “I urge you all to be responsive to this great power you hold, the power of choice. To be able to choose is a power so great that the consequences of its use, or misuse, are always life-changing and defining. Year after year, since 2011, I have kept faith with you as your senator in the 7th and 8th sessions of the National Assembly. Through your contributions at our town hall meetings and constituency outreaches, you have also kept faith by showing support and offering constructive criticisms, which have helped to make me a better lawmaker and also make Lagos East a shining example of what it means to have a responsive senator.”