There were strong indications that the National Assembly may have concluded arrangements to cut short its long recess to consider the controversial Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) budget. It was also learnt that a special session of the two chambers became necessary to allow the National Assembly reassess the Electoral Amendment Act Bill which was turned down by President Muhammadu Buhari last week. A source close to the National Assembly leadership told our reporters that the question of reconvening on September 25 as scheduled has been taken over by events. He noted that the likelihood of the postponement of the September 25th date of resumption is being considered due to prevailing political circumstances. According to him, “the All Progressives Congress (APC) fixed its governorship primaries for September 25, same day the National Assembly was scheduled to resume plenary. “The party also scheduled its senatorial Primaries for September 27, House Of Representatives, Saturday, September 29, State Assembly, October 2 and national convention to endorse presidential candidate for October 6. “The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) also scheduled its Presidential Primaries for October 6th. “It is practically impossible for anybody to expect the National Assembly to resume plenary with the political activities lined up. “What is likely to happen is for the leadership of the two chambers of the National Assembly to convoke a special session for the consideration and approval of the INEC budget. “I’m aware that majority of members are predisposed to cutting short the recess to enable members consider the INEC budget. “I am also aware that what to do with the rejected Electoral Act Amendment bill is on the table. “Some are saying that the Electoral Act Amendment Bill will require only a clean-up or some clerical work. But what will be done with the bill as returned by Mr. President will be decided by the two chambers. “What we know is that those pushing to cut short the recess appear to have upper hand.” The source said that the announcement for the postponement of the 25th September resumption date and a new date for resumption will be made this week, barring any other intervening circumstances.