The candidate of the African Democratic Congress (ADC), Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, a former Secretary to Osun State Government under Olagunsoye Oyinlola’s government for seven and a half years, told Adesoji Adeniyi that he is better equipped than all the other candidates HOW prepared are you for the governorship election? As the saying goes, when you are loaded, you are needed. From all indications and given the precarious situation our dear state has found itself, I am the preferred choice of the people of this state. So owing to the general acceptability enjoyed by our party, the African Democratic Congress in Osun State and by the grace of God, we will come out in the forthcoming election. I and my deputy, Justice Olamide Oloyede, a retired judge of the High Court, are widely accepted because of our rich and incorruptible backgrounds. We have also served previously in different capacities. The antecedent of our leader, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, is equally an additional value to us being a national leader of this party. He leads the pack of our campaigns and the acceptance has been astounding. So, we are working relentlessly and vigorously within the ambit of the law to reach out to our people at all levels. We have taken our campaigns to the door steps of our people in all the 332 wards and the over 3,000 polling units spread across the state. We have sold our manifesto to them which are anchored on a revolutionised and mechanised farming, provision of gainful employments, industrialisation, infrastructural developments, rejuvenated education and health sectors, sports, tourism and women developments. We won’t engage in voting buying and other related electoral crimes. More importantly, our people know us for our decency and peaceful disposition to issues and life. Against this background, we are confident and optimistic that the ADC shall carry the day on the Election Day, Saturday, September 22, by winning convincingly. Why are you so confident of victory when your party, the ADC, is new and without a structure? My confidence is neither misplaced nor based on self-delusion but rather on the strength of the evidence that we are widely acceptable. We enjoy so much support in all parts of this state from our people. And you should not forget that I am not new in this state. I have been a Commissioner under three military administrations in this state. I was the PDP State Chairman that led the party to victory in 2003, when Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola became the governor. And when the government was formed, I became the Secretary to the State Government, a position I held for over seven years. While in all these offices, God assisted me in contributing my quota to the development of the state and our people. So, in a nutshell, I am a household name in Osun. I have my supporters across the state. This, I think answers the question of structure or no structure. Anywhere you go to in Osun today, it’s me, Akinbade, they mostly talk about, which explains why you hear the slogan; Fatai Lokan (it’s Fatai’s turn). Repeatedly, you have attempted to become the governor of this state and yet here you are contesting again. Why? Well, my consistency to become the governor is borne out of my desire to serve this state at that level. I am not inordinately ambitious but rather service driven. Having gone through this odyssey under different administrations in this state, I have some burning ideas that can transform this state. I am more equipped for the coming assignment than any of my fellow contenders and this I say without being immodest. I have seen it all and it’s somebody like me, imbued with the needed experience that can take over from the incumbent administration of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola so that this state and its people will no further suffer from maladministration. Besides, God and my valued people have always been my pillars of support. They are my strength and have continued to urge me on. They so much believe in me. More so, in all areas that I have served, I was never queried or incriminated on account of financial infractions or any related shenani gan. Above all, I can assure you that this time, I shall win the election. What will you do differently if you become the next governor? Firstly, an ADC-led administration shall make the people of the state, who are already disillusioned, to have confidence in the government. This, we intend to achieve by using three major planks; Transparency, Accountability and Due Process. Through these, our government will block loopholes currently serving as conduit pipes of wastages in the state. Money saved through this will enable us prosecute our programmes to the letter. This  include massive mechanised farming, industrialisation, rural and infrastructural developments, rejuvenation of health and education sectors, development of sports and tourism as well as a re-engineered civil service. I have said it repeatedly that the moment we take over, we shall stop the payment of half salaries and pensions. Our administration shall commence payment of salaries as from December, this year. Again, all outstanding half salaries and pensions will be cleared between six months and one year. The payment will be made in such a way that civil servants and pensioners will use the money for tangible things. Considering paucity of funds currently affecting Osun and other states of the federation, how would you get the funds to run your government? I told you earlier on that all the loopholes currently assailing the incumbent administration in Osun shall be blocked. This we will do through due process. I am a product of due process and as such, no project will be done without undergoing the processes of transparency, accountability and due process. In this direction, the choice of my deputy, Justice Olumide Oloyede (rtd), a woman of solid background, is instructive. Osun shall be governed through a robust interface with the people. They will be involved in the day-to-day running of the government. It will be an open administration that will not be shrouded in secrecy. Everybody shall be carried along. Just don’t worry, let us get there; it will be like miracle when all these begin to manifest.