After an analysis of the economy and banking sector, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) believes the economic indicators are showing positive trend, writes COLLINS NWEZE For the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) led Monetary Policy Committee (MPC), the economy is on the road to full recovery. MPC is chaired by CBN Governor Godwin Emefiele. Feelers from the committee’s last meeting in Abuja indicated ongoing economic recovery which will be sustained with a positive outlook over the medium- term. The recovery is anchored on oil price recovery, fiscal spending and stability in the foreign exchange market. Although the banking sector is equally upbeat, but the committee members advised the lenders to continue on aggressive debt recovery drives, realize collaterals of non-performing credits as well as get the insurance companies to settle claims relating to insured debts. They are also expected to strengthen risk management practices and strictly enforce the CBN restrictions on payment of dividends by banks with high Non Performing Loans (NPLs). For instance, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed that real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) grew by 1.95 per cent in the first quarter of 2018, compared with 2.11 per cent and a contraction of 0.91 per cent in the preceding and corresponding quarters of 2017, respectively. The oil sector, which contributed 1.26 per cent in first quarter of 2018, compared with 0.76 per cent during fourth quarter of last year was the major source of the growth. The Purchasing Managers Indices (PMI) for manufacturing, and non- manufacturing activities rose for the 15th and 14th consecutive months to 57.0 and 57.5 index points, respectively, in June 2018. The committee noted the positive impact of the sustained improvement in foreign exchange supply on the performance of manufacturing and other key sectors of the economy. The committee welcomed the positive economic growth, but observed that the recovery was still fragile and called for the speedy implementation of the 2018 Federal Government budget and the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) to strengthen output growth in the Nigerian economy. The MPC noted with satisfaction the fourth consecutive quarters of growth in real Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and the positive growth outlook in the domestic economy. This is shown by the sustained improvement in the Manufacturing and Non- manufacturing Purchasing Managers’ indices in the second quarter of the year. The MPC commended the approval of 2018 Federal Government budget and called for an accelerated implementation to further support the fragile growth recovery. The committee also called for sustained implementation of the ERGP to further stimulate output growth. The committee was, however, concerned about the liquidity impact of the 2018 expansionary fiscal budget and increasing Federation Accounts Allocation Committee (FAAC) distribution, arising from rising prices of crude oil as well as the build-up in election related spending. For the CBN Deputy Governor, Corporate Services, Edward Lamtek Adamu, had in his personal note, said the corrective actions by the apex bank have put key banking industry indicators at the path of recovery as the non-performing loans (NPLs) ratio moderated and the capital adequacy ratio (CAR) rose mildly since June this year. He explained that other financial soundness indicators (FSIs) including return on equity (ROE) and return on asset (ROA) also suggested growing industry resilience. However, these improvements are yet to translate to the much needed real intermediation. “This is quite concerning because financial stability isn’t an end in itself; it must lead to improved services to the critical sectors of the economy, to be meaningful. It is in this light that the committee committed at the July meeting to another initiative directed at promoting private sector credit,” he said. Lamtek, said the meeting was held against the backdrop of improvements in key (domestic) economic and financial system indicators relative. “On the global front, geopolitical tensions and trade issues have remained, even as the outlook for global output growth continues to be largely positive. However, the outlook for domestic economic conditions going into 2019 is laden with uncertainties around liquidity and capital flows, among others,” he said. “As I evaluated the available data and forecasts, I noted especially, the fragile nature of the gains in the current macroeconomic and financial outcomes. This essentially strengthened my persuasion on the need for more reforms in the country’s fiscal and financial systems to deal with persistent liquidity threats and ensure better credit intermediation, respectively. Whereas measures by the Bank continue to be relevant stop gap, those alone would not permanently solve the fundamental structural impediments to lasting economic stability. Infrastructure continues to be a key imperative towards easing some of the constraints on credit delivery and growth in the economy”. Furthermore, he explained that in considering policy options for managing the risks to inflation and the naira exchange rate, there was need to factor-in economic growth and employment concerns. “In the absence of firm real GDP data for second quarter, 2018, indications from the Purchasing Managers’ Indices (PMIs) came quite handy. Both manufacturing and non-manufacturing PMIs, at 57.0 and 57.5, respectively for June, showed some prospects of output expansion, which should be sustained and possibly strengthened in the interest of jobs and poverty reduction,” he stated. While the private sector credit is expected to soothe the situation in the short-term, a long-term solution would be one that comprehensively addresses the risk concerns and apprehensions of commercial banks with non-prime borrowers in particular. On their part, industry managers need to grow banks’ resilience to shocks as well as their capacity to function by stepping up deposit mobilization and capitalization. Adenikinju Festus, a committee member explained that for Nigeria economy, a number of good news continue to be recorded: foreign reserves accretion continues, annual output is projected to grow by about 2.3 per cent at the end of the year, disinflation path continues year on year, Purchasers’ Manufacturers index (PMI) climbs slightly. Besides, staff presentation shows a slight drop on quarterly unemployment rate. “Domestic deposit banks continue to record improved performance. NPLs continue its downward trend. Deposit and asset values of the banks continue to grow, however, credit growth to the private sector was negative. This is unacceptable in the face of huge unemployment and relatively low capacity utilisation in the industrial sector. Bank operational costs remain unacceptably high. This continues to keep lending rates unacceptably high, which may affect the efficacy of simple reduction in the MPR,” the committee member said. He said the low appetite for risky investment and flight to safer fixed income assets is a source of concern to unlocking credit to the economy.  “I support the MPC decision for the CBN to explore unconventional way of unlocking credit to the private sector by exploring smart use of monetary instruments and other methods. However, the fiscal positions continue to be a source of major concern. High deficit in the 2018 budget remains a source of concern. “We are just not building buffers in a period of high oil prices, we are also not living within our means. Components of government revenues continue to underperform while non-capital expenditure remains fairly sticky downwards in the first quarter of 2018”. Continuing, he said there is a genuine anxiety about liquidity surfeit in a pre-election year, with anticipated high election spending, as political parties fail to keep to election spending guidelines, late passage of the 2018 appropriation bill, the supplementary bill submitted to the National Assembly, and the tensions between the executive and the legislature. CBN Deputy Governor, Ahmad Aisha, explained that half way into the year, the path of growth and other macro-economic indices are more evident, but the effect of the emerging global and domestic economic landscape still bears uncertainty. She insisted that stability and improved convergence in the exchange rate reflects the importance of Nigeria’s external reserves buffer which has grown substantially over the last two years and currently stands at N47.6 billion as at July 18th 2018. “Accretion to reserves has been driven mainly by the sustained recovery in crude oil prices, innovative exchange rate policies of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) across various segments and export expansion / import substitution initiatives. These have given the CBN greater flexibility in managing the exchange rate”. “For instance, BDC rates appreciated to N360.5/$ (June 29) from N362.4/$ in November 2017, whilst the premium between the interbank and BDC rates narrowed to 17.9 per cent from 18.48 per cent, over the same period, indicating increasing rate convergence due to sustained supply of Foreign exchange (FX) by CBN and its commitment to promoting stability, liquidity and transparency in the FX market. Forex flows through the economy from CBN and autonomous sources also improved; reports from bank staff indicate forex from non-oil exports increased by 22 per cent from January to April 2017 compared with same period in 2018, and overall funds inflow into the forex market grew by 18 per cent over the same period”. “Although recent foreign investor exits have put pressure on the reserves, the CBN has been able to retain confidence of global investors by maintaining the supply of investment outlets and intervening to support market liquidity where required to facilitate seamless exits for international investors who are so inclined. This willingness to defend the naira stability has gone a long way to enhance market confidence and retain net positive forex flows which have remained largely positive over the first half of 2018”. Another committee member, Asogwa Chikwendu, said banking sector soundness indicators improved considerably by end of June 2018 based on CBN Staff report. For instance, there were improvements in the capital adequacy ratio, the non-preforming loans ratio as well as the profitably indicators (return on assets and return on equity). The capital adequacy ratio which was 11.95 per cent by April had increased to 12.08 in June while the non-performing loan ratio which is a measure of the Industry’s asset quality had reduced to 12,45 per cent in June from the previous level of 14.15 per cent in April 2018. The committee member said the trend in total deposits and total assets declined marginally between May and June 2018, but there was an increase in new credit which raised the overall total credit between May and June. In addition, the spread between maximum lending rates and the consolidated deposit rates narrowed in June when compared to the earlier months. However, another committee member, Obadan Idi, said although Nigeria has exited recession, the growth rates achieved averaged only 1.50 per cent which is very low compared to the rate of growth of population of about three per cent and very much below the economy’s potentials. “The outlook for growth remains fragile, as the recurring incidence of herdsmen attack on farmers, would affect agricultural output and increase prices. Other militating factors include the expected liquidity challenge from late passage and implementation of the 2018 budget, election spending, likely wage increase and the lingering challenges of critical infrastructure necessary for job creation and economic growth,” he said. “Inflationary pressure in the economy continued to moderate such that all measures of inflation (headline, core and food) decreased further in June, 2018. The headline inflation declined to 11.23 percent, thus sustaining the downward trajectory that began in 2017. The downward trend in domestic prices reflects the bank’s tight monetary policy stance coupled with the impact of significant reforms in the foreign exchange market”. He also agreed that the financial system remains sound based on various measures of financial soundness. “The few cases of high non-performing loans in the portfolios of a few commercial banks have negative consequences on the banks’ earnings and capital. However, the problem is being addressed by the CBN with corrective actions to prevent spill over to other institutions or adverse impact on financial system stability,” he stated. 