Aliyu Haidar Abubakar is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State. To him, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) should not rule the state beyond 2019. But, what is his chance at the primary? Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the succession battle in the Northeast state. Aliyu Haidar Abubakar, an accountant, politician and Talban Nafada, has a vision for Gombe State. He believes the state has a brighter future, if the All Progressives Congress (APC) produces Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo’s successor in next year’s election. Having thrown his hat in the ring, he has been selling his manifestos to the people. The message on his lip is that a new dawn is around the corner. Many youths are rooting for the youth activist and youngest contender. This is partly due to the awareness created by the signing of the ‘Not-Too-Young-To-Rule’ Bill into law by President Muhammadu Buhari. Abubakar is not the only person in the race. A prominent grassroots actor, HabuMuazu is also eyeing the ticket. There as some Abuja-based politicians who are also likely to join the race. Therefore, he will have to face a predictable hurdle at the primary. The shadow poll will be about the survival of the fittest. For the 45 years-old graduate of Business Administration from Bayero University, Kano (BUK), the contest is not a do or die affair. Yet, he is proud of his followership and successful consultations with stakeholders. He is popular. Between 2005 and 2016, he was an accountant with the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) judiciary. But, he has maintained his close links with the grassroots. As a successful businessman, he has ploughed back to his society, thereby eliciting encomiums as a philanthropist. For many years, Abubakar had spent his life productively. He has been an advocate of women and youth participation in politics and economic empowerment. He has encouraged many youths to go to school and enlist in vocations of meaningful value. As he did these, he also offered financial assistance in aide of their endeavours. However, August 19 was a turning point. The technocrat-turned politician convened a bold assembly. At the Gombe Township Stadium, he mobilised the youths for political action. His method was effective. His message was that the time was ripe for them to take their political destiny in their hands. Abubakar sensitized them to the import of 2019 and the danger of selling their votes. In a voice laced with emotion, he called for the reevaluation of politics in Gombe. Noting that the youths are members of his primary and potent constituency, he advised them to shun thuggery and other vices. He said desperate politician who hire youths as thugs are destroyers of lives. The awareness campaign, which was tagged: “For us by us (FUBU),” was aimed at promoting debates on youth participation and sustenance of democracy. A committed Muslim raised by educated parents, Abubakar said politics should be accompanied by virtues. Also, he emphasised that apathy was dangerous, stressing that the voices of youths can only count when they participate in decision making. “I know the problems of our youths and women. Youths need education and work. I have the God-giving ability and resources to work with youths and women, to organise them, understand their wants and needs, and makes them his priority. But, many of the challenges can be better solved if I have political power,” he said. To the stakeholders, Abubakar is an example of courage. His entry into the contest has motivated other youths to follow suit. Indeed, he has been encouraging young people to seek for elective positions to reposition the state. This, he said, is in exercise of their constitutionally guaranteed rights and privileges under the constitution. Besides, the aspirant said apart from serving as an example to the youths, he has offered himself for leadership as part of his service to God, the state and humanity. “Gombe State should be our ultimate focus. Irrespective of whatever political party that is in power, what must be paramount is the development of the state for all. When there is hope for all to benefit from the development of our state, then, Gombe will be self-reliant and a better place to live,” he added. The next governor of Gombe will face many challenges.  The sate, which prides itself as the Jewel in the Savannah, is a very small and sparsely populated state. It is not a rich state. But, it is blessed with a very fertile land, mineral resources, and opportunities for investment and economic growth. To observers, Gombe can only benefit from these bounties of nature when there is good governance and outstanding leadership. Abubakar has called for political attitudinal change. He said the old approach to governance must change.  “I would like to implore all the people of Gombe State, irrespective of any political affiliations, regional or tribal heritage, to change our attitudes, embrace hope and work together for the common good of the state,” he stressed. Urging the youths to gird their loins, he said: “As youths of today, we should play a part in shaping the policies which will make the future better for everyone.” However, the aspirant said youths should not perceive public office an avenue for private accumulation. He said they should participate in the political process by voting according to their conscience. He said if the youths fail to embrace these imperatives, democracy may be endangered. “It is time for the youths to wake up, resist the temptation to be used as tools for destruction by politicians that would dump them thereafter and see themselves as tools of unity and development, “ AbubakaR added. Youths should also shun vote buying and selling in the interest of democracy. Abubakar said: “Vote selling is like selling ones conscience and rights. That is why I decided to mobilise the youths to sensitise them on the need to be careful against being used as agents of vote buying by desperate politicians. It is on record that all dirty political activities like political violence is hatched by politicians using the teeming jobless youths.” He added: “Monetisation of politics must end with the present generation. We must be seen to be playing by the rules, we must practice politics with decorum”. Many participants at the forum applauded the aspirant, saying that  he is an icon of hope for the development of Gombe State. They pointed out that he will be a great asset, if he becomes governor,  adding that he has outstanding leadership qualities and believes in an all-inclusive governance. A student, Inuwa Saleh, who described the experience as inspirational, said Abubakar is a dynamic leader. “We have a lot to look forward to and we are quite optimistic that Haidar belongs to the same generation with us. So, we can relate with him better. And this is the beginning of a new era for the youths in Gombe State. “He is an embodiment of many things; he represents hope, positivity, progress and above all, he has clearly demonstrated that he is truly God sent to add more meaning to the life of his people.” But, what is Abubakar’s chances at the primary and next year’s poll? The Gombe APC is factionalised. The contenders are heating up the party with their struggles for the ticket.  A political analyst, Joel Ishaya, said: “In a political party with so many power blocs, it takes an exceptionally neutral person with a high sense of maturity and exposure to merge the factions.” He said Abubakar has no alliance with any group and bears no allegiance to any faction, pointing out that  his allegiance is to the people. “It is glaring that we have a candidate whose commitment and allegiance is to the people and he has maintained that touch with the grassroots and the everyday people on the streets . APC requires a seasoned person with exceptional human qualities to be able to wrestle power from the ruling PDP in the state and the best person is Aliyu Haidar Abubakar, Talban Nafada” he added. 