FOURTY shops and eight houses were completely burnt in a tanker fire incident in Make,  Suleja local government area of Niger state. Although no death occurs, four person’s were said to have sustained severe depression of burns. The fire started when one of the trucks which were packed illegally along the Maje road fell and caught fire as its contents spilled out. Visiting and commiserating with the victims of the disaster, Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, said the fire was caused by indiscriminate and illegal parking by a tanker driver expressing concern over the increasing rate of unfortunate but avoidable losses to accidents. He warned that  and warned that illegal and indiscriminate packing, as well as reckless driving of any kind by heavy duty truck drivers will be met with stiffer punishment declaring that hard time awaits drivers of heavy duty trucks and articulated vehicles parking illegally and indiscriminately on highways in the state. Bello who was represented by his deputy, Alhaju Ahmed Mohammed Kelso, lamented that incessant accidents along the Minna- Suleja road is being caused by the indiscriminate and illegal parking by the trucks, a development which had led to collateral damage and wanton destruction of properties. He stressed on the need for an all inclusive solution to indiscriminate parking, directed heavy duty truck drivers, security agencies, emergency management agencies officials and all other relevant stakeholders to meet to find lasting and permanent solution to that menace. He blamed the youths for the losses experienced in the disaster stating that the losses recorded in some disasters would have have been minimal but for the unpatriotic and unfriendly attitude of youth to fire fighters and other emergence officials. The governor then warned that any youth caught committing any unbecoming act shall be made to face the law. He also assured victims of the Maje fire incident of state government assistance by providing with relief materials.