The Lagos Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) has received motorcycle riding safety kits from a beverage firm, Fan Milk Plc. The kits, which comprise 50 helmets, elbow and knee pads,  were received by LAGESC’s Corps Marshal General Daniel Isiofia. The firm’s Managing Director (MD), Mr. Herve Barrere, accompanied by the Corporate Affairs Manager, Abam Caesar, said the donation was to promote a cleaner and better Lagos. “Giving support to the agency is part of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). We are also thinking about the safety of the riders. We believe that when people are riding, they should have the helmet and other protective kits so that they can protect themselves. “We are interested in partnering LAGESC for a cleaner and better Lagos. This is why we are supporting the agency because they are doing a lot of things for Lagosians. Helping the society is one of the duties of Fan Milk. “We have been in Nigeria for the past 60 years. We have always been part of the society. We believe we have a role to play with LAGESC.” Thanking the firm for the gesture, Isiofa, said: “There are companies that are even bigger and more positioned, but this kind of CSR never occurs to them. We are grateful. “We are very much appreciative of their concern for our safety and health because with this we can now police Lagos in terms of environment. We want to make sure that every nook and cranny of Lagos is clean because they say a healthy state is a wealthy state. Once the state is clean, we have little to fear regarding epidemic.” According to him, the agency has 50 patrol motorcycles but without the riders’ kits. “When Fan Milk approached LAGESC, saying they wanted to do something for us, we told them about the kits and today they have delivered them. “With the motorcycles, we can provide a cleaner environment for the citizens. There are nooks and crannies vehicles cannot get to, but motorcycles can get there to make sure the environment is  clean. Of course, our vehicles are always close by in case there is any arrest,” he added. He urged the public to report any LAGESC personnel using the motorcycles for illegal duty.