Worried by the incessant cases of building collapse in the Federal Capital Territory, the minister Malam Muhammad Bello has inaugurated a panel of inquiry to unravel the cause of the building collapse at Plot 711, Cadastral Zone B04, Jabi District, Abuja. The FCT Minister, who was represented at the occasion by the Permanent Secretary, Sir Chinyeaka Ohaa, said the FCT Administration, as a responsible and responsive administration, was committed to unraveling the causes of the unfortunate incident with a view to stemming future occurrence. He said some officers directly in charge of monitoring the project site have been suspended pending the completion of investigations. The Minister disclosed that the committee, which has three weeks to complete its assignment, has been charged with the responsibility of assessing the quality of the subsoil, foundations and designs that were available for the structure, establish the quality of supervision and nature of construction materials used as well as the experience of the technical personnel at the site. The Committee is also expected to assess the level of regulation at the site and recommend appropriate sanction against any person found wanting. The Panel which is Chaired by the Director General and Chief Executive officer of the Nigeria Building and Road Research Institute, Prof. Danladi S. Matawal, has retired Director of Engineering Services, FCDA, Engr. S. O Ugonabo; the MD, Fola Consult – a Planning Firm; Tpl S.A. Olajide, MD, 2-Habit Concept – Architectural Firm and Arch Philip Z. Iortyer as members. Also included in the panel are representatives of Council for the Regulation of Engineering in Nigeria, (COREN), Architects Registration Council of Nigeria (ARCON), Town Planners Registration Council of Nigeria (TOPREC) and Council of Registered Builders of Nigeria (CORBON), as well as the FCTA General Counsel, Barr. Mohammed Babangida Umar, among others. According to a statement issued by the minister’s Chief Press Secretary, Cosmas Uzodinma, Speaking after the inauguration ceremony, Chairman of the Panel, Prof. Matawal, stressed that the frequency of building collapse in Nigeria was unacceptable given the level of professionalism in the industry in the country. He commended the present FCT Administration for the reduction of the incidence of building collapse in the Territory, noting that the last time this happened was in August 2016. He recalled that in 2012 alone, there were over 20 recorded cases, adding that the fact that this has reduced was as a result of the efforts of the present Administration to tame the tide. Prof. Matawal appreciated the confidence reposed in the Committee members and assured that the Panel will give the assignment the seriousness it deserves and perform its work with decorum, sincerity and attention to details. He said the committee will also work with a vision for the future to ensure that occurrences of this nature which were very much avoidable would be addressed by its report. It would be recalled that a three floor structure under construction in Jabi District collapsed on Friday, August 17, 2018 leaving three persons dead while six others sustained various degrees of injuries.