President of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has said that Nigerians should interrogate the sources of funds used by aspiring politicians to buy forms at exorbitant rate to contest the forth coming general elections in the country. Wabba said in an interview in Abuja that all aspirants, should be made to tell Nigerians how they made they money with which they are buying nomination forms to contest public office and how much tax they have paid, asking rhetorically “those who borrowed money to buy the form, how do they intend to pay back the money they borrowed? Wabba who was reacting to the Presidential directive to state to account for how the Paris Club refund released to them were utilized before being given the last tranche said about 80 of those displaying wealth and buying forms at exorbitant rate would disappear if they are subjected to such interrogation. He also said that the ICPC report on the utilization of the firs5 trance of bailout fund should be revisited and implemented to the latter, stressing that action on the Paris Club refund should not just end with mere words Wabba said “We have said so clearly. If you want to entrench the principle of good governance, accountability and transparency must be out watch word. A lot of stories of how the other trenches have been utilized have come out. “Infact, EFCC openly make some allegations and I have seen them also on the social media where it was being alleged that some people used the money to buy hotels in Lagos, and some transferred some to bureau de change. “We cannot sweep those issues under the carpet and think that the issue of corruption and diversion of public funds will be addressed. That is clearly our challenge in this country, and not lack of resources. The truth is that this country has enormous resources, but they are diverted. “The fight against corruption cannot be limited to the Centre. It must go to the hinterland, to the local government, the states and even the private sector. I have said it repeatedly that during the Economic meltdown between 2008 and 2010 that was the period we reviewed our minimum wage. “In the midst of economic meltdown, Obama reviewed the minimum wage because he believed that was what was going to kick start the economy. Thank God we are out of recession and so, this is the right time to make sure that we empower the people and not christened as the poverty Centre of the world. If workers are not empowered. We have a pool of the working poor. That is out position and we commend the statement. “It should not just end as a statement, but should be followed up to its logical conclusion. There should be action and we should be able to know those states that have done such things. “ICPC did a good job on the first trenches of bailout fund that was released and came up with a report, disclosing those states where those funds were diverted. We have called on the government and the anti graft agencies to make sure that the report is followed up and those people brought to book. But nothing has happened. “We have states that did not access the bailout and yet are paying salaries, Pension and gratuity as and when due. I give the example of Jigawa where ever I go to. So, it is not about paucity of funds. “Look at what is happening in the polity today. In my state along, more than 25 people bought form to contest for governorship of one party. That is over N500 million. Let us start from there and x-ray all of them. “Let them tell us their sources of income, the tax they have paid and how they generated such an interest and made money to buy those forms. If we do that, I can tell you that 80 percent of them will disappear. We should find the sources of income of all those who bought form worth over N20 million and the tax he has paid on his income. “Clearly speaking, it is a step in the right direction and it is something we can address. The starting point is where we are now. Everybody purchasing form, let us interrogate their sources of wealth and the report made public. Some people will run away or you should be able to tell us where and when you made so much profit and the business or farm where you made your money. If we do that, we would have sanitize the system before they get into public office. “If you borrow money to purchase form, how do you think they will pay. That is why the system is the way it is and we have canvassed for good governance openly. “So, it is a step in the right direction and it should not end there. We should know the outcome and how many states have been able to meet up with that requirement.”