Former Super Eagles coach, Samson Siasia, has been named as an ambassador for a freestyle football in Africa. Named alongside SiaOne are former professional English footballer, John Fashanu,  and Waidi Akanni, former Nigerian defender Nollywood actresses, Kate Henshaw and Tonto Dikeh; are also ambassador for the upcoming Africa Freestyle Football Tournament. Speaking on the competition, Valentine Ozigbo, chairman of Feet ‘n’ Tricks International, said the company is on a mission to make Africa the home of freestyle football. “In order to realize this, we decided to look for ambassadors, who exemplify the same passion for the sport like we do, and decided to work together with John Fashanu, Waidi Akanni, Samson Siasia, Kate Henshaw and Tonto Dikeh to actualize this dream,” he said. “Without a doubt, they have over the years demonstrated leadership in the sports and entertainment scene and beyond. To this end, we trust in their ability to help engage and inspire our target audience to accept as well as promote freestyle football to the lofty height and the global phenomenon that it is now fast developing into. “The infusion of Kate Henshaw and Tonto Dikeh into the event is to create an entertainment appeal to the sport and quip the interest of the youths. We are glad to have them onboard as brand ambassadors.” The qualifying rounds and Nigerian championship will hold on September 13-14 at the Balmoral Convention Centre, Federal Palace Hotel in Lagos. After the qualifying rounds, the best 16 male and eight female freestyle athletes in Africa will move on to the grand finale on September 15, where the first African male and female Freestyle Football champions will emerge. “I am in-tune with the mission of this tournament, to develop and sustain the growth of the art of freestyle football because I have a passion for the development of grassroot football,” Fashanu said. “What feet and tricks is doing is basically creating an avenue to accommodate these freestylers who have been neglected all over the continent. The competition will also feature performances from musical acts like Falz, Vanessa Mdee, Kcee, Mayorkun, Slim Case and Mr Real. International freestyle professionals like Iya Traore, Guinness world record holder, and Raquel Benetti, female freestyler from Brazil, will also be in attendance.