A PEOPLES Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant, Jonah Jang, has vowed to effectively tackle the attacks by the Boko Haram insurgents and killings by herdsmen if given his party’s ticket and emerged victorious next year. Jang, who was at the Abuja secretariat of the PDP yesterday to submit his forms, said with the killings, Nigeria was gradually becoming a Banana Republic. He lamented a situation where stories of killings of innocent citizens in different parts of the country dominate media reports almost on a daily basis. The former Plateau State governor said: “Our people have been suffering ?in the Northeast unabatedly. We have been told that Boko Haram have been defeated at one stage, the moment they make such announcement, you will get to know that Boko Haram has either even taken over a military unit or have ambushed our soldiers.” He believed that restructuring the country will go a long way in addressing the various socio-economic and security challenges. Jang said: “There is total imbalance in the federation and the federal system must be such that all the units of the federation must be established in such a way that there will be proper power sharing. “The administrative machinery of the various local governments, states and the federal government work in such synergy that can ensure development of this country. “I intend to get the former President Goodluck Jonathan’s conference’s report and get the stakeholders again to look at it, so that whatever areas that need to be negotiated will be negotiated. “For that, we can now send a bill to the National Assembly for the amendment of the Constitution so that we can now bring in restructuring. “And in this restructuring, the security will be looked at because  I believe that the military has to go back to its traditional role and be reorganised properly.” The aspirant decried the Federal Government’s borrowing spree, particularly from foreign countries, saying some of the loans obtained were unnecessary. He noted: “We have both human and material resources to run this country so enough of this borrowing. We are just borrowing without seeing ?what is being done with the money and we are going to leave our generations with a lot of problems. “I want to believe that some of these borrowings that we are doing like building the railways, even building the roads can be done by Public Private Partnership (PPP). “There are people who want to come and participate in the economy of Nigeria not that we have to borrow money to do it.” The senator stressed the need to practically fight corruption in the system, saying however that if elected President, he would adopt a different approach. “Fighting corruption,” he said, “will be our priority but not the way this administration is fighting it. The EFCC and the ICPC are not established to just follow a political opponent. “These organisations must be properly organised so that they can work according to international standards.”