Students of the University of Abuja (UNIABUJA) gathered at the left wing of ETF Building to share ideas on how to make next year’s general elections peaceful. It was at a seminar organised by Global African Christians for Liberty Initiative (GACLI) – a non-profit organisation working with young people to promote tolerance. Speaking on Tolerance and peace in view of the 2019 elections, GACLI President, Bishop Chukwuemeka Ezeugo, emphasised the importance of tolerance to creating a peaceful society, urging Nigerians to accept the differences in language, ethnicity and religions which he described as “God’s wish”. If the general election must be peaceful, Bishop Ezeugo said young people must always share and promote message of tolerance in their engagement with people who hold different views and opinions. He hailed the participants for making to get their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) and admonished them not to vote along religious or tribal lines. He said: “As youths, we have the power to make a change. We may not be happy with how things are turning out in the country, but we must use our number to create future we desire. We must avoid voting for politicians because they are from our states, or because we practise the same religion. We should rather look at the policies they plan to implement in our country.” Bishop Ezeugo encouraged participants to be tolerant of one another, noting that “an eye for an eye” would only create a society that would not be inhabitable for a living. “Our diversity is what makes us who we are,” he said, adding: “Tolerance would help us to live without crisis, be it political, religious, tribal or otherwise.” The youthful clergyman pointed out that it was only through tolerance people could learn from one another’s culture, traditions and ideologies, which, he said, would facilitate understanding and foster social interactions free from conflict. He called for a separation between religion and politics, stating that religion should be personal conviction, while politics should be about the use of state power to govern. Spiritualism, he said, should have nothing to do with physical nature of politics, saying no religion should be used to determine government’s policies in a multi-religious society. He drew an instance from the situation in Myanmar, where the Rohingya tribe, the country’s Muslim minority population, is being persecuted by the predominantly Buddhist majority. Bishop Ezeugo said he believed the religious leanings of a country’s leader should not be reflected on his public policies. Driving conversation on Why Africa is poor, a Kenyan freedom advocate, Miss Linda Kavuka, engaged the participants on why societies in Africa should create their growths through free markets capitalism, which she said remain the better alternative to the socialist system in many countries. In the interactive session, a section of the participants believed Africa is not poor because of the abundance of natural resources, while others believed that lack of good leadership was the reason for poverty on the continent. Some participants were of the opinion that bad leadership gave rise to corruption and embezzlement of public funds that could be invested in the development. But quoting Ghanaian Economist, Prof George Ayittey, Miss Kavuka said Africa was poor because governments kept depending on aid from the West and, now, from China. At the end of the discussion, the participants came to an agreement that Africa did not need more aid that could plunge the continent into debts, but needed accountable leadership that will respect the rule of law, equality before the law, human rights, tolerance and peace. Emmanuel Oche of the Department of Political Science, urged the participants to live in peace with people of different backgrounds wherever they find themselves. He said societies could achieve prosperity when there is peace. To achieve the peace, he said spreading message of tolerance remained the key.