No fewer than 10 All Progressives Congress (APC) governors are seeking the party’s tickets for re-election in February, next year. The governors  are Abubakar Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Abdullahi Umar Ganduje (Kano), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina), Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Mohammed Sani Bello (Niger), Simon Lalong (Plateau), Mohammed Abubakar (Bauchi), Jibrilla Bindo (Adamawa) and Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos).Governors Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), Kashim Shettima (Borno), Ibrahim Gaidam (Yobe), Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun) are not seeking re-election. The elections of Governors Godwin Obaseki (Edo), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and Yahaya Bello (Kogi) are not due.Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola is also not seeking re-election, having served his mandatory eight years. The election in the state will take place tomorrow. The inauguration of Dr. Kayode Fayemi as Ekiti State governor will take place next month. The National Working Committee (NWC), led by the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, screened the returning governors one after the other at Oshiomhole’s personal campaign office in Asokoro, Abuja.The party leadership also screened some governors who are contesting senatorial tickets. They include Ajimobi, Rochas Okorocha, Abdulaziz Yari, Kashim Shettima and Tanko Al-Makura.The Nation gathered that Ganduje, el-Rufai and  Masari have nobody contesting against them in the primaries.Ganduje, who spoke with reporter after his screening, said: “The screening went on successfully but you know the number of governors that took turns to undergo the screening. My own took less than three minutes. Then I bowed and left because I have no challenger in APC governorship primary in Kano State.”He dismissed the effect of defections on the fortune of the party in the forthcoming elections, saying: “It is the opposite, meaning many more politicians are coming to APC. I know that they are nomadic politicians but and we have gained more from nomadic politicians than we initially suffered from.”When former Kano State Governor Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso’s defection was specifically mentioned, Ganduje simply asked: “And the coming of Shekarau?”Yari justified indirect primary, saying the governors will easily adapt to any of the options for primary election.He insisted that those who were clamouring for the use of direct primary were members of the party who “are not on ground” and afraid of facing the people through the delegate system.Ajimobi said he had no anointed person for any of the positions being contested, assuring all that he will not interfere in the process leading to the choice of his successor.”I am not God, I don’t anoint. I have not anointed any candidate. I think we have opted for indirect primary but more importantly, we have so many people who are eminently qualified aspirants and, for me, I have given them free hands. Let them talk to all party members. And whoever they pick among them, I am okay. There is none of them who is not eminently qualified.Niger State Governor Mohammed Sani Bello whose state is one of the few that settled for direct primary said that the party’s stakeholders decided on it.When asked about the party’s chances, the governor said: “With the adoption of the direct primary, the party is becoming more popular. We will try as much as possible to uphold fairness and justice in the party, and give everyone equal opportunity to vie for any posution they want. We will ensure that by God’s grace we have outstanding victory in 2019.” 