As part of his effort to attract investments to the state, Governor Abubakar Sani Bello of Niger State will on Tuesday September 4, 2018 commission Stanel World, a luxury mega center located in Suleja. Cairman/CEO of Stanel Group, Dr. Stanley Uzochukwu who disclosed this, described Stanel World as a Stanel Group’s ‘One-Stop Facility’ brand name. According to him, the facility comes with mega gas station, Stanel owned Chicken Republic, French bakery, automated car maintenance centre, among others. In other States of the federation, the company is noted for other goods and services such as Stanel tyres, Stanel oil, pharmacy store, Farmers’ Market, supermarket, and home delivery service. A statement signed by Uzochukwu on Friday, revealed that the commissioning ceremony of the luxury mega centre is expected to be attended by dignitaries from all works of life, including Governor Bello who will formally declare the facility open. “Again, Stanel World, Suleja is ready for commissioning on Tuesday, September 4. We started from Jos, Plataeu State and moved to Awka. Stanel World Awka was commissioned in June last year, 2017 and now we are set to commission our facilities in Suleja, Niger State. This confirms my word that we shall be in the 36 states of the federation within the shortest time delivering the best services to Nigerians. We are expanding in geometric progression. After Suleja, other states will be next for our investments by God’s grace. “Hopefully the event shall be attended by dignitaries from all works of life including His Excellency, Gov. Abubakar Sani Bello and his entourage. “Our products and services are being tested and trusted as our state of the arts facilities and highly trained staff are compared to non in Nigeria. “We are here in Suleja like other states to also creates jobs and engage youths in various skilled and unskilled jobs thereby taking them off the streets of joblessness. “Most importantly, we thank His Excellency, Gov Bello for providing us a conducive business environment in Suleja in particular and Niger State at large.”