United Nations Special Rapporteur Maria Grazia Giammarinaro will assess the issue of trafficking in persons in Nigeria, during an official visit to the country, it was learnt. Giammarinara is elected to commence a one week visit to Nigeria from Monday. Ms. Giammarinaro will meet representatives of Government agencies, as well as UN officials and members of civil society organisations, especially those working in the field of prevention and victim support, during her visit to Abuja, Lagos and Benin City. Findings from the country visit and recommendations will be included in an official report to be presented to the UN Human Rights Council in June 2019. The Special Rapporteurs are part of what is known as the Special Procedures of the Human Rights Council. Special Procedures, the largest body of independent experts in the UN Human Rights system, is the general name of the Council’s independent fact-finding and monitoring mechanisms that address either specific country situations or thematic issues in all parts of the world. Special Procedures’ experts work on a voluntary basis; they are not UN staff and do not receive a salary for their work. They are independent from any government or organization and serve in their individual capacity. Speaking on the visit, Ms. Giammarinaro said, “My visit is an opportunity to meet with relevant stakeholders to discuss various forms and manifestations of trafficking in persons and key human rights concerns and challenges, as well as progress made, in addressing trafficking in persons for the purpose of sexual, labour or any other form of exploitation. “Particular attention will be paid to key issues and challenges in the implementation of international and legal frameworks on trafficking in persons, especially women and children. During the visit, we will also examine measures taken or to be taken in terms of prevention of trafficking in persons, identification and protection of victims, prosecution and punishment of perpetrators as well as access to justice and social inclusion for survivors.” 