The Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) Electoral Committee yesterday cleared candidates for various posts for the election that will hold on September 20 in Katsina. Four persons are battling for the presidency, including incumbent Amaju Melvin Pinnick, who is also the 1st Vice President of CAF, Member of the Organising Committee for FIFA Competitions and President of AFCON. Pinnick, a former Chairman of the Delta State Football Association and Executive Chairman of the Delta State Commission, is the highest –placed Nigerian ever in football’s boardroom globally, and has a very useful cordial relationship with world football’s top hierarchy. His Board also holds the ace of a blossoming positive appreciation by Corporate Nigeria that has galvanised considerable private sector funding of NFF’s activities. There is also Aminu Maigari, immediate past President of NFF, who was for several years Chairman of the Bauchi State Football Association and also headed the Bauchi sub –seat for the FIFA U17 World Cup that Nigeria hosted nine years ago. Taiwo Ogunjobi, former Nigeria international defender, also has his hat in the ring. Ogunjobi captained and administered one of Nigeria’s traditional powerhouse clubs, Shooting Stars of Ibadan, served as Secretary General of then Nigeria Football Association (2002-2005) and was Member of the NFF Executive Committee 2006-2010. He is presently Chairman of the Osun State Football Association. There is also Mr. Chinedu Okoye, proprietor of amateur league club, Bimo FC. For the 1st Vice President’s position, there are two candidates. The incumbent, Barr. Seyi Akinwunmi, whose stock has risen steeply as a result of his passion, commitment and investment in youth football development and charity. He will slug it out with another South West chieftain, Sunday Dele-Ajayi. Incumbent Ibrahim Musa Gusau will battle club proprietor, Dr. Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah for the slot of Chairman of Chairmen on the board. For other positions on the Executive Committee, Sharif Rabiu Inuwa, a Member of the present Board, is the only candidate from the North West. The battle in the North Central has been somewhat narrowed with the withdrawal of FCT FA chairman Musa Talle. However, Alhaji Ahmed Yusuf ‘Fresh’ and Honourable Suleiman Yahaya-Kwande, high ranking Members of the Board, have to contend with Alhaji Busari Ishola, chairman of Kwara State FA. Similarly, incumbents Babagana Kalli and Musa Duhu from the North East have to contend with Farouk Yarma Adamu. In the South East, Hon. Chidi Ofor Okenwa (presently Chairman of the Nigeria National League), will vie with Enyimba FC chairman, Felix Anyansi-Agwu (high ranking Member of Board); Barrister Jude Obikwelu (Vice Chairman, Anambra State FA); Sir Emmanuel Ochiagha (Vice Chairman, Imo State FA) and; Emeka Inyama (former Chairman of the NNL and former Chairman of NFF Marketing and Sponsorship, and also Chairman of NPFL side Abia Warriors). From the South West, only Ganiyu Majekodunmi, chairman of Ogun State FA, is seeking an Executive Committee member position. From the South South, Oswald Atuake from Cross River State is up against Emmanuel Ibah, chairman of the Akwa Ibom State FA. Elections into the NFF Executive Committee 2018-2022 will hold as scheduled on September 20 in Katsina.  World football –governing body, FIFA, has concluded plans to send a top ranking official as observer to the elections.