In recognition of its position as Nigeria’s leading investment banking institution, Stanbic IBTC has won four awards in different categories in the 2018 Emeafinance African Banking Awards. Amongst the awards include: ‘Best Foreign Investment Bank,’‘Best Debt House’, ‘Best Equity House’ and ‘Best LoanHouse. According to the organisers, the annual awards, now in its 11th edition, recognises the achievements of the best commercial and investment banks as well as asset management and brokerage operations on the African continent. It particularly focuses special attention on banks that are moving the industry forward through new and innovative products and services, excellence in investment banking, as well as increasing the number of banked individuals, and giving back to the community through corporate social responsibility initiatives. Overall, the Standard Bank Group, to which Stanbic IBTC belongs, won 23 awards at the African Banking Awards 2018 in various markets, including the Best Investment Bank in Africa, which it is winning for 11th consecutive year. The awards presentation ceremony holds on Thursday 6 December, 2018 at the Law Society in London, UK. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Holdings PLC, Mr Yinka Sanni, said the performance of the Standard Bank Group is a reflection of its pervasive footprint across Africa, riding on the back of experience and expertise garnered in over 155 years of existence. The Standard Bank Group has strategic representation in 20 countries across Africa and other emerging markets. According to Sanni, the award is a demonstration of the growing hunger and capacity of Stanbic IBTC, drawing on Standard Bank’s expertise, to provide game-changing financial and advisory solutions to clients across market segments. “We are delighted to be recognised as the foremost investment bank in Nigeria and Africa. The award speaks to our implacable commitment to deliver innovative investment banking solutions to clients across various sectors,” Sanni said. Chief Executive, Stanbic IBTC Capital Limited, Funso Akere, who described the feat as particularly uplifting, expressed appreciation to Stanbic IBTC’s clients for the opportunity to advise them on complex M&A transactions, capital raising and debt financing. He assured them that Stanbic IBTC will continue to deliver innovative and best-in-class solutions.