The National Youths Service Corps (NYSC) says no fewer than 300 Corps members have withdrawn their applications for relocation to serve outside Anambra. Mr Kehinde Aremu, Coordinator of NYSC in the state said this during the cultural carnival held for 2018 Batch B Stream Two Corps members at the Umunya Temporary Orientation Camp, Oyi Council Area on Sunday. Aremu, who said the scheme had received about 600 of such applications, attributed it to fears the corps members have about the state before coming to camp. He said the withdrawal of the transfer applications was due to the interaction which the NYSC created between the corps members with community leaders and local government administrators. He said the process of acculturation had been so effective that they were now relaxed and ready to contribute their quota to the development of the communities where they would be posted for primary assignment. The coordinator said the corps members were able to study, understand and display the rich and diverse cultural groups in Nigeria excellently within such a short time of being together. “The bonding is great both among the corps members and between the corps members and the communities. “Local government officials have been coming to talk to them and also entertain them, traditional rulers have also been coming and at this event we have a good number of them from Anambra and Enugu. “Before now, I had not less that 600 applications for relocation from Anambra but at this moment, more than 300 of them have withdrawn their requests because we have been able to connect them with the people. “Their fears were unfounded, they had a wrong idea of the Anambra environment but now they know better,” he said. In his remark, Igwe Chris Onyekwuluje, the Traditional Ruler of Umunya said the larger Nigerian society had a lot to learn from what the NYSC was doing. Onyekwuluje gave his blessing to the corps members and urged them to respect the culture of the people they were posted to serve while assuring them of the best of hospitality where ever they found themselves in the state. “I am impressed with what I have seen here, the beautiful representation of the cultural endowment of this country by these Corps members really overwhelmed me. “I thank the coordinator, he has done well, the good number of traditional rulers here says a lot and I must say that this is the best way to keep Nigeria together. Leaders of this country should understand and appreciate the people they are leading and their ways of life. “NYSC is a good example of how to manage this country. For the corps members I welcome them to Anambra and assure them of the best hospitality,” he said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that there were cultural parade by the various platoons depicting major cultural groups in Nigeria, dance, drama and other competitions. The camp was for Corps members deployed to serve in Anambra and Enugu states. (NAN)