Mr Governor, l hope this meets you well. Please grant me the indulgence of a few comments concerning the state of sport in Edo State today.  And this comes at  this moment to awaken your thoughts  on a long standing issue that has drawn a bit and needless media hostility to the state of sports in our state, especially the lack of a structured governance and the consequential inadequacies, and under performance, if not very poor delivery. Some of the comments are cruel, given the energy you  have put into sports development. I’m aware of the good intentions you have for sports in the state. This, therefore, is the time to clear the debris deposited by the unproductive and whimsical administration and management of sports in the past. The popular opinion is that after the time of Dr Samuel Ogbemudia as Military Governor ,Edo State has lived on past glory, short of administrative competence.  A definitive unbundling of the myth that Edo State sports is down and almost out is what is needed now. The argument may arise that the state has been winning trophies but that can be countered by the point that such victories are at best cosmetic and lacking in real value terms. Trophy winning is the minimum indicator of success in sports. Emphasis and global trends have moved to the level of youth engagement and empowerment as social engineering. In the case of Edo State it is re-engineering and recasting the values for youths and young adults in the state. Edo State can do much more than it is doing now and become the exemplary module for other states to copy . It can run sports to the level of contributing to the GDP given the huge number of talented sports potentials that abound in the state. This, Mr Governor, was my interpretation of your strategy and decision to set up a Sports Commission  sometime in 2017. It was a piece of cheery news, which is becoming stale. What has happened to the dream of repositioning Edo State sports through a Commission. The near absence or tokenist appearance of Edo State at the Ilorin Youth Games raised the levels of the questioning decibels! The aggregate opinion is that the lack of leadership and or absence of institutional management of sports in the state is showing badly and robbing the state of honours and podium recognition . But, more importantly, the youths appear to have been denied the opportunity and chance to showcase what they can do. Mr Governor, we know that is not your intention. But you have to banish this unpleasant thought and misconception making the rounds and address the pertinent question of establishing the Sports Commission now to direct, manage and reposition Edo State sports to reap the many benefits derivable from the exercise. I know that you have sent a Bill to the House for the establishment of the Sports Commission but we all know how much time it takes to pass bills. Time is strangulating sports too and it becomes imperative to adopt a different approach to this matter. And that is by making an Executive Order establishing the Commission and appointing key officers to drive the institution as contained in the report of the Implementation Committee you set up under the chairmanship of the Deputy Governor, His Excellency Comrade Phillip Shuaibu, or the option of appointing a Senior Special Adviser to take charge of sports in the interim. Such a person should have the capacity to transmute to heading the Commission, to take care of the seeming inertia while waiting for the Bill to be passed. This advice is given with a high sense of responsibility and due respect to you, considering the great things ahead for Edo State sports. Thank you for your time, Mr Governor. It is nice watching you on the golf course, swinging the club and walking the course to show commitment, passion and determination to recreate through golf. But we need to tap from the benefit of making sports a business like in other climes, to engage the youth. The fear of Zidane There are two types of coaches. Those sacked and those waiting to be dismissed. Perhaps, we would need to add a third category – those who resigned from their jobs and are ready to return to the dugouts, having rested from the demands of previous jobs. Indeed, among those in the third category are coaches whose return to coaching will attract rave reviews. In fact, the rumour mill speculated Arsene Wenger to replace Mourinho at Manchester United. But United fans swore by everything under the sun that Wenger is a misfit for their club, whatever they meant by that. Wenger’s tale evaporated like ice-cream kept under the scorching sun. One of such coaches eager to return to the sidelines is Zinedine Zidane, whose records with Real Madrid as a coach are matchless, aside his pedigree as a soccer star, winning every available trophy and awards, aside scoring some memorable goals. Interestingly, since Zidane quit Real Madrid unceremoniously, the talk in town has been when he will return to the game that gave him fame and wealth. In fact, Zidane’s absence from soccer pitches and ceremonies was worrisome until the story broke last week that he will take the Manchester United job, if the English side’s management makes him the offer. In fact, Zidane stirred the hornet’s nest when he released the names of players he wants at Old Trafford, if he gets the job. Zidane chose some of his former players at Real Madrid. Those chosen were to resolve some of the problems with Manchester United. This shows that Zidane has been watching the team’s matches. He may have been approached or someone close to him may have been asked to sound him out on the job. Those targets are said to include Real Madrid’s Toni Kroos, Thiago Alcantara of Bayern Munich, James Rodriguez – on loan at Bayern from Real Madrid – and Paris Saint-Germain forward Edinson Cavani. Zidane ended his time at Real Madrid just days after securing a third-straight Champions League triumph against Liverpool in Kiev, and has been out of work since. Sometimes there is the temptation to classify these stories as rumours but when such talks emanate from ex-players of the teams, there is always the need for a rethink. Eric Cantona doesn’t talk flippantly. But his preference for Pep Guardiola instead of Mourinho, heightens the debate of a likely exit from Manchester United by the Special One. Cantona joins the league of ex-Manchester United stars, such as Paul Scholes who criticises Mourinho when the team is tottering. Cantona told The Mail on Sunday: “Manchester United is a great club and will always be great. They will win things, I know they will. But the way they play? Not good. The manager has them playing the wrong way for the fans. No fun, no creativity. “I like Mourinho. He has a good personality but not for United — they should have [Pep] Guardiola as coach. He should be there, but he is doing magic with that other club. The club I cannot name. “Listen. I joke about Manchester City but they are playing great football. It’s just that I think Guardiola should be at United. He is the spiritual child of Johan Cruyff — he played under Cruyff at Barcelona and learned everything from him. He’s the only person who should be at United.” Speaking to BeINSport about Mourinho, Scholes said: “He doesn’t look happy to me, but he may be happy. “It’s a team that grind out results rather than impress you, but that’s probably what he’s happy with. “That’s where he’s been at his best over the years.” He added: “If Guardiola was the manager of Manchester United, he would hate what he was seeing and it would be different.” For this writer, such critics seem to think Mourinho is undeserving of all the accolades that he gets because he never played the game to the highest level. The support ex-internationals get when they are successful puts a lie to those. To buttress this fact are the taunts from ex-internationals of other clubs when they are on set doing television programmes. Gary Neville told Dailymail that:’’Jose Mourinho is finished at the top of the game is “nonsense”. “He’s having a difficult time, but finished? I genuinely think that’s a nonsense. Even Sir Alex Ferguson, from 2003 to 2006 when we didn’t win the league and people said he had lost it, end of an era, he’s finished,” he told The Times. “I think Jose is a brilliant manager and, in a 25-year career, young managers will emerge, people will ask questions if you aren’t successful. Believe it or not I liked the Tottenham game (United lost 3-0), certainly the first 40 minutes. I watched [the win over] Burnley and thought it was really good. I think they’ve turned a corner.” “I’m still hopeful that somehow, through siege mentality more than anything, they can mount some sort of challenge that really just disrupts people. If they can stay in it until January and maybe get one or two defenders in, they might have a chance. But I doubt it. I think United will be third or fourth,” he said. Trust Mourinho to laugh off all his critics. Can you beat his hilarious response when asked if he is afraid of getting sacked in an interview with La Repubblica? He said: “If they sent me away, do you have any idea how much money they would have to give me? They say I’m in danger, but I don’t think so.”