Chief of Staff to the Imo state governor and alleged anointed governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo state, Uche Nwosu has said that he was ready to face party members in the state through whatever mode of primary adopted by the party in the state. Also, the preferred governorship candidate in Rivers state, Tonye Cole said he was prepared for whatever mode adopted by the party in Rivers state, saying what was important was for the party to present a credible candidate for the general election. While Nwosu is widely believed to have been announced for the governorship position by Governor Rochas Okorocha, Cole is believed to be the preferred candidate of Minister of Transportation and former Rivers state Governor, Rotimi Amaechi. Speaking after being screened by the National Working Committee of the party, Nwosu who is also believed to be the son-in-law of the Imo state governor said he consider his closeness to the governor as an added advantage to his aspiration, adding however that he believe that he was the best candidate for the job. He said “You know that the party wants to make sure that you are qualified and credible to avoid having a governor that does not have what it takes to rule a state because a governor is not a Chairman. I am happy that our National Chairman took it upon himself to actually interview and screens those who wants to run for the office of the governor. “It is the state executive committee of the party that decides on the mode. If they decide to use indirect, so be it. If they decide on direct, so be it. The party has the power and the Governor is just one member of the SEC where you up to 200 members and so, one member cannot stop the entire state Executive from taking a decision. “The party has decided that they want to go indirect and so, we adopt that and go with that. I am fully prepared for the primaries and by the special grace of God; I will become the candidate of the party.” Asked if he consider his relationship with the governor as a plus or minus, he said “Of course my relationship with the governor is a plus. When you have a sitting Governor in your party, you need his support to come up because he is a member of the party. “Except where you have another party man as the governor of that state. But once the governor belongs to your party, you will automatically need his support.” On his part, Tonye Cole believed to have been anointed and adopted for the governorship by majority of APC leaders in Rivers state who are loyal to the Minister of Transportation said he was ready to go for any form of primary chosen by the party in the state. Cole said “I believe that democracy has come a long a way in Nigeria and one of the things we are seeing now is that the people are now looking at the evidences of things that you have done and not what you are promising to do and how you can make a difference in the People’s life. “I believe at the end of the day, both direct and indirect primaries are constitutional. What we want to see is the right candidates emerging and how they emerge is a parry affair. “As far as I am concerned, we are because we believe that we have the right candidate for Rivers state and whichever way it comes out, I am ready for it.”