A contrary stand came to bare against alleged resolution by the Sokoto state Chapter of the All Progressives Congress(APC) adoption of a consensus formular, emerged from Wafee Ahmadu Suka, Special Assistant on Media to Hon. Farouk Malami Yabo, a leading aspirant for the state governorship seat on the party’s platform saying “there is no consensus for any governorship aspirant to emerge as candidate of the party in the state.” Accordingly, Suka said ” Farouk ‎Malami Yabo is still a gubernatorial aspirant on the party’s platform.” With the recent developments, it seems the party in the state has a handful of issues to resolve internally to avoid imminent consequence before the 2019 poll. ‎In a statement issued in reaction to an online publication being circulated on the Facebook timeline of one Malam Bashir Gidan Kanawa, an Islamic Cleric in the state, Ahmadu Suka said the party never in whatever form, guise or manner negotiated anything that would jeopardise the lawful aspirations of other aspirants. According to the Media Aide “our attention has been drawn to the message contained in the publication which seems to suggest that the leader of the All Progressives Congress(APC) in Sokoto state, His Excellency, Senator ‎Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko has handpicked Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu Sokoto among other aspirants as the sole candidate of APC for 2019 governorship election in the state.” Suka, however, noted in the statement that” Malam Bashir ‎Gidan Kanawa is a respected Islamic cleric in the state who is neither the spokesman of Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko nor the Media Assistant to Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu, the Deputy Governor of Sokoto state. He is rather an enthusiastic facebook commentator with no political reliability for his followers. ” I wish ‎to against this background, point out to the good people of Sokoto state particularly teeming members and supporters of APC, that the party has not negotiated anything that will jeopardise the lawful aspirations of other aspirants. ” All aspirants are equal
and wish to inform members of our great party that Hon. Farouk Malami Yabo MFR is still a gubernatorial aspirant and he respects the constitutional rights of other aspirants. Also, his respect and loyalty to his mentor, Sen. Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko remain unshaken”, the statement ‎concluded.