The German Foreign Office and the office of the Inspector-General of Police ( IG ) on Monday commenced a two-week human rights training for 135 operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad ( FSARS ) in Lagos. The training is part of the reformation of the unit which was carried out in line with presidential directive. The presidency had ordered the overhaul of FSARS following public outcry on alleged infractions by the operatives. Speaking at the inauguration of the training at Police College Ikeja, IG Ibrahim Idris said it was a holistic approach to enhance the performance of the participants comprising commanders, team leaders and foot soldiers of FSARS. Idris who was represented by the Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) in charge of training Emmanuel Inyang said the exercise would be of immense benefit to the force. He said: “Let me remind you that SARS was initially established to take charge of specific functions pertaining to crime prevention and control, but their direct contact with members of the public has brought conflict, friction and perceived human rights abuses and the inherent complaints arising from the performance of their duties. “The need by the present leadership to reposition the FSARS through capacity building calls for training and retraining of the officers and men. Therefore, there is no doubt whatsoever that this training will provide the necessary platform for all the participants, particularly the foot soldiers of FSARS to understand the necessity of imbibing human rights tenets at their duty posts and be able to identify problem areas, advance possible solutions to such problems. “This effort by the police managment and GIZ Police Programme on Human Right in restructuring the FSARS will certainly be of immense benefit to the Nigeria Police Force. FSARS personnel will be re-equipped with the essential knowlege of human rights, proactive policing, collection of intelligence and the provision of a pragmatic approach to investigate activities and support to police stations.” He warns errant officers to desist from practices injurious to the police or face the wrath, adding that those who perform well would be rewarded. Earlier, GIZ’s Deputy Project Manager, Police Project Africa in Nigeria, Hartmut Zander said the German Governement stepped in to offer training assistance in order to contain cases of human rights abuse. Zander said: “Around 135 police officers from over 36 states are going to be trained by internal police trainers as well as external resource persons in relevant human rights principals, which apply to different police interventions. “By combining theoretical knowledge and standards, with practical aspects of human rights-centred police work, the training covers a broad range of related topics such as principles of use of force and firearms, investigations arrest and detention.” On the level of compliance by FSARS operatives on the directive that they should concern themselves with kidnapping and armed crimes, Commissioner Haliru Gwandu said appreciable progress was being made. Gwandu said: “For the purpose of reforms and to enhance competence and professionalism, a Standard Operational Procedure(SOP) was designed to guide the operations of the reformed FSARS. For now there is no problem as the number of litigations have reduced. Our personnel have shown that they are ready for change.” Also at the inauguration was the Commissioner, Police College Ikeja Adekinte Oyekan.