The lawmaker representing Kaduna Central, Senator Shehu Sani, has said All Progressives Congress’ (APC’s) victory in the general election is dependent on its ability to conduct a free, fair and credible primary election. This, he said, would give members a sense of belonging and a sense of justice. Sani, who addressed reporters after obtaining nomination and expression of interest forms in Abuja, said Kaduna State Governor Mallam Nasir El-Rufai should concentrate on how to defeat the candidates he was confronted with in the opposition parties, “rather than fighting me, Shehu Sani, for a senatorial seat.” He said APC should be aware that the country and the world was watching how “we will handle the coming primaries”, stressing that the party had a duty to set a precedent for internal democracy and equity for all, while doing things differently, uniquely and exceptionally. The senator said: “APC has a moral and political responsibility to dispense justice to members as promised. Moral and political victory of the APC is dependent on its ability to conduct a free, fair and credible primary election that will give members a sense of belonging and a sense of justice. “The country is watching us and the world is watching us. We have a duty to create a new path for Nigeria. We have a duty to set a precedent for internal democracy and equity for those who desire to join politics. APC must do things differently, uniquely and exceptionally. It must also do things positively. “Much has been said about the political direction of the party, especially on the issue of primaries. It is my belief that it is only when the party pulls its members together to ensure there is justice for all of them that it will retain its glory, honour and integrity. “I am here because I believe in the party and its leadership. I am here because I believe that this party is the only ship that can lead Nigeria to the Promised Land. Millions of members are in this party because they don’t just believe in the paper principles and ideals of the party, but also in the leader, President Muhammadu Buhari. “The President is respected as a global figure and a symbol of political uprightness and integrity and I believe that if you are in the party because you believe in his leadership, you should also emulate his discipline and political style.” He hailed President Buhari for having the boldness and courage to insist that his primary should be by direct system, saying: “Direct primary brings an end to money politics and politics of godfatherism, as well as politics of exclusion. Most of the biggest undoing of parties in Nigeria and Africa has to do with the way and manner members are treated. “There should not be two APC, one conservative and one progressive. There should be one APC and the one that subscribes to the founding principles and ideals of the party and the reason why it came to power. We came to power in 2015 not because we had more money or because we had the military and the police on our side, but because we had the people on our side. “Those who subscribe to direct primary have offered themselves for trial and judgment by the people who elected them into office. They are saying there is honour and principle, as well as ideas and ideals in politics. They are saying that the power to a progressive and prosperous future is politics of integrity.”