The intervention of former Niger Delta warlord and the Amanyanabo of Okochiri Kingdom in Okirika Local Government Area of Rivers State, His Royal Majesty, King Ateke Tom and the Director, Department of State Security Services (DSS) in the state, staved off a massive protest against Shell supply base  yesterday. The protesting youth had gathered in their hundreds in Onne  and were about marching on the supply base of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO) in the Oil and Gas Free Zone, Onne, when the royal father and the DSS Director intervened, prevailing on them to give room for dialogue before the planned protest. National President of the Rivers State Youth Federation, Saviour Patrick was subsequently invited to a meeting with the duo to discuss the grievances of the youths. Patrick said the group resorted to protesting the planned relocation by SNEPCO of its Supply Base from Onne, to Lagos; a move which he said will lead to significant job loss in the state. The outcome of the meeting was still being awaited  as at press time. Last month, more than 1,000 youths under the aegis of the Onne Youths Council (OYC) staged a peaceful protest at the SNEPCO Supply Base, asking the company to rescind its decision on relocating the base from the free zone to the Lagos port. The President of OYC, Comrade Philip John Tenwa, who led the peaceful protest, said the planned relocation would lead to the loss of more than 5,000 direct and indirect jobs. The protesters carried placards with various inscriptions condemning the planned relocation of the supply base and requested relevant authorities to intervene in the matter. He said, “We are here today on behalf of our numerous members and indeed the entire Onne Community to draw the attention of the Nigerian government and indeed the world to the plan by Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCO) to relocate its Supply Base from the Onne Port to Lagos. Shell’s Media Relations Manager, Bamidele Odugbesan, said the oil giant is not relocating its logistics operational base in Onne. He said the firm is only developing an alternative logistics  base in Lagos as part of expansion to create more value. On the protest, he said stakeholder engagement is continuing.