The police in Lagos have arrested a-37-year-old man, Suleman Usman, for allegedly defiling his two daughters aged five and eight. Usman was nabbed after a complaint was made at the Ben Bruce Foundation in Eti-Osa, Lagos  by his wife, Mary. The Nation learnt that the man on several occasions allegedly had carnal knowledge of the minors through their private parts and anus. An employee of the foundation, Ore Adebiyi, said the mother of four reported that the victims complained four months ago that they had pains in their private parts. He said: “The case was reported on September 14. The woman said four months ago, her two daughters complained about pains in their private parts and upon questioning, the girls said their father used his “Chukuchuku” (manhood) in their ‘Bombom’. “She said she beat them up and wondered who taught them such. She said the children kept complaining and crying and she continued beating them. “Unfortunately, the two girls  lost weight. She complained to the children’s class teacher and the teacher advised that they be taken to Mirabel Centre for examination, where it was confirmed that penetration had occurred in their private parts and anus.” It was gathered that the children gave a description of how their father allegedly sexually abused them. They (children) alleged that  he usually tied their mouth to prevent them from screaming. “The eldest said he would make her kneel over, while he would penetrate her from the back. When he finished, he would ask them to wear their pants and go back to bed. “The mother claimed that she was usually fast asleep whenever her husband sexually assaulted their children, due to her hectic work schedule,” Adebiyi said. It was learnt that it took the intervention of the Child Protection Network (CPN), the foundation and other child’s right groups for the man to be arrested on Monday. The Nation gathered that he is being detained at the Adeniji Adele Police Station, Lagos Island, while the victims have been taken to a safe environment.