The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday said that the figure of uncollected Permanent Voter’s Cards for the September 22 Osun governorship election has reduced to 463,186. According to the INEC, the PVCs left uncollected as at last week stood at 515,773. The commission said the figure has dropped by one percent. Addressing a press briefing at a Sensitization Forum for Media Executives and Reporters on 2018 Osun Governorship Election in Osogbo, the Resident Electoral Commissioner for Osun State, Mr. Olusegun Agbaje, appealed to voters yet to collect their PVCs to do so. He said they still have the opportunity till September 14, 2018 which is a week to the election. Represented by Head, Voters Education Department of the commission in Osun State, Steven Ojewande, the REC assured nigerians that the September 22 governorship election in Osun state will be credible, free and fair. However, Agbaje warned against vote buying and selling, saying Osun governorship poll would be used to send signal to those that may want to be involved in the act. Giving out statistics of voters for the governorship poll, he disclosed that the registered voters in the state stood at 1,682,495, while PVC collected was 1,213,026 and uncollected stood at 463,186. According to him, the number of Local Government Areas is 30 while number of registration areas is 332 and voting points and polling units are 3,765. Agbaje, who maintained that Osun election would be used to to further prove that the INEC can conduct free and credible elections, promised to ensure adequate security during the poll. In his goodwill message at the forum, Chairman of Osun State Council of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Mr. Kehinde Ayantunji, appealed to INEC to ensure proper registration of journalists for the election so as to guide against invasion of fake and unaccredited journalists in the state during the election. Also, the Chief Executive Officer of Rave FM, Mr. Femi Adefila, advised the INEC to make information accessible to newsmen  during the election.