The Youth Empowerment Foundation, YEF, on Thursday announced that they have trained a total of 80,000 girl students in various secondary schools across Nigeria. The Program Officer, Kemi Omole, said this during an interview at the JSS GOAL quiz competition which took place at Abuja on Thursday. The academic competition, which was sponsored by Standard Chartered Bank and their youth initiative program, GOAL, was won by the girls of the Junior Secondary School Area 1, Garki. Omole said that the girls in the schools who participated in the competition have been trained for over 10 months before the competition. “We have trained these girls for over ten months and brought them here to refresh their minds in the competition,” she said. “What we did this year is that we trained 30 girls from each school, and each of those girls have 14 girls each they train, so there is a greater effect. “We work with young girls, empowering Nigerian youth to make them better and have a higher quality of life. “We work in places that are not very developed, places with high incidence rates of teenage pregnancies, and of all the girls we have trained, there has been no incidence of teenage pregnancy so we have been able to achieve that.” She also explained that the girls have been taught many life values, including saving, and what to do in cases of sexual assault. “We encouraged the girls to save more and now they know the benefits and implications of saving money. “They have been trained to know what to do in cases of rape, assault, whether it happens to them or someone else and the measures to take. “Our target is to reach all the Nigerian youths and reduce the negativity that they are exposed to. “We also do career building for JSS3 students, taking the girls to volunteer and work at offices of their desired professions. “Most of them are not exposed so we take them there for 3 months to train and enable them to determine if that is truly what they wish to become. The winner of the quiz competition, Okoro Gift Nnachi, a JSS 2 student from Junior Secondary School, Area 1, Garki, said that the GOAL program has helped her realize her potentials as a female student in Nigeria. “I’ve been in this program for a long time,” she said in an interview. “They have really helped us a lot. For example when I started my period, I saw it as a disgusting thing. I didn’t want to be a girl anymore, but now I can take care of myself very well and I have learnt all about the mechanisms. “They have also helped me academically, teaching me about decision-making, the kind of friends to make, improving myself and achieving academic excellence.”