SURVEYORS have called for a review of laws governing survey practice. At a professional development workshop and luncheon organised by the Association of Private Practising Surveyors of Nigeria (APPSN), a sub-group of the Nigerian Institution of Surveyors (NIS), stakeholders, including politicians and lawyers, they submitted that the was long overdue. The theme was:“Participation and influence of partisan politics: the future of surveying practice in Nigeria”. The guest speaker, Mr. Olugbuyiro Akinola, urged surveyors to review the law and take advantage of advancement in technology in growing the sector. He said Decree 44 of 1989 has become obsolete  to take into cognisance the  evolving modern technology  in the 21st century, stressing that there’s need to review the obsolete law and embrace new happenings in the industry. “This is a wake-up call for surveyors because of the advancement in technology. Surveyors are using those technologies already but the law can be advanced to protect their practice. Data are being used everywhere – home and cars, to locate roads and addresses. Pilots, sailors and builders need data, which is being generated by surveyors. Therefore, survey must not be at the sideline of society; it must come to the forefront of the society,” he argued. Akinola pointed out that geographical information service (GIS) figures and others are data compiled by surveyors, suggesting that  the  laws governing the advancement in technology must be advanced. “The surveyors must be in the forefront of the development in their own profession,” he said. The lawyer also called on surveyors to establish an interest group that would be saddled with lobbying the government and other organisations for the interest of their profession. Surveyors, he further urged, should pull resources together to advance the cause of their profession in the states and National Assemblies. This position was supported by another guest speaker and Member, Oyo State House of Assembly, Dr. Oyetunji Olusegun, who urged   surveyors  to  seeK elective positions. “When professionals fail to participate in politics; they would not be able to partake in the decisions that would affect their profession. But when they are there, you would be able to advise government appropriately before decisions are being taken,” he said. APPSN Chairman, Mr. Olufemi Odetunmibi, agreed with the guest speakers. According to him, without getting involved in politics, it becomes impossible to understand how decisions are made and also influence same. Therefore, he contends, if surveyors are there at the point of taking decisions, then their profession and interests will be guarded. Odetunmibi stated that life itself is dynamic, therefore, there is the need to continuously review  the laws and standards  to support the practice of the profession. “We need to advance  the body of knowledge. We need to be improving everyday to take advantage of advancement in technology. The instrumentality have changed, so we need to improve, we need to progress. It is natural that we must review our laws,” he said.