A Federal High Court in Lagos has stopped the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM) from implementing its Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBMSC) policy. Justice Muslim Sule Hassan gave the order, restraining  the Commission until the expiration of 30-day pre-action notice. The suit  was filed by Sir Nnamdi Nwosu and seven others against the Commssion on September 6. Justice Hassan adjourned the hearing on the main action to October 8. Counsel to the plaintiffs are B. C. Igwilo (SAN) and Chuks Nwachuku. The TBMSC structure is a complementary measure to the ongoing implementation of the Risk-Based Supervision (RBS), programme. It is a three-level model which specifies capital requirement for each tier based on their respective risk classification. Tier-3 of the TBMSC stipulates that companies will operate on the existing minimum paid up capital of N2 billion for life, N3 billion for non-life and N5 billion for composite underwriters. Life companies will only be permitted to underwrite individual life policy, health insurance and miscellaneous insurances. Non-life companies will only underwrite fire, motor, engineering (only classes covered by compulsory insurance), general accident, agriculture and miscellaneous insurances. To operate in tier-2 of the TBMSC, companies must have 50 percent additional on the capital base. Life companies must have N3 billion capital base and will underwrite all tier-3 risks and group life assurance. Non-life companies must have N4.5 billion and will underwrite all tier-3 risks, as well as engineering (all inclusive), marine, bonds credit guarantee and suretyship insurances. For tier-1 players, companies must have 200 per cent additional on the capital base. While life companies must have N6 billion capital base and will underwrite all tier-2 risks and annuity, non-life companies must have N9 billion capital base and will underwrite all tier-2 risks, as well as oil & gas, (oil related projects, exploration & production) and aviation insurances. In essence any composite company that is life and non-life that wants to be in tier-1, must have N15 billion, tier-2 must have N7.5 billion while tier-3 must have N5 billion. Reacting to the court order, the Commissioner for Insurance, Mohammed Kari  said the Commission was yet to receive the restraining order as stated by the shareholders. Kari however said that the commission would not shy away from its responsibility of protecting policy holders and investors. He said the responsibility of the commission is not to punish operators, but to nourish them, adding that the regulator is poised to ensuring that the industry is insulated from future financial crisis.