THE Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) will partner to strenghten the defence of the country, it was learnt at the weekend. NCC’s Executive Vice Chairman (EVC) Prof Umar Garba Danbatta,  after a meeting with the Commandant of the NDA, Maj.-General Adeniyi Oyebade at the NCC Headquarters, Abuja, said his experience as a visiting professor to the NDA showed that the military institution has tradition of precision and strict adherence to timelines on academic activities. It is, however, not exempted from checks and balances. “Intervening in boosting NDA’s technology infrastructure is to ensure the safety of the future of our country,” Dambatta said. He  added that NCC will assist in boosting the academy’s cybersecurity programmes. NCC has built two computer laboratories and deployed optic fibre links for the two campuses in Kaduna through the Commission’s Advance Digital Awareness Programme for Tertiary Institutions (ADAPTI). Danbatta assured the team of NCC’s readiness to collaborate with the management to make NDA a world-class institution. Earlier, Maj.-Gen. Oyebade said the NDA, which was founded in 1964 solely for military training, has since 2007 metamorphosed into a degree-awarding institution with several faculties where cadets are awarded degrees alongside their military training. He said the school now offers post- graduate programmes in several disciplines. Maj.-Gen Oyebade admitted that the present and future military battles will depend on science and technology hence the need to hold talks with the NCC. “The NCC has in the past given us very robust support in the development of our ICT infrastructure which we highly appreciate. We still crave for more support, hence this visit – to fill the gaps in our infrastructure needs,” he said. The NDA also sought the assistance of the  NCC in the provision of a server managed wired line infrastructure; and to build two more Computer-Based Testing (CBT) centres fitted with about 350 computers. The military university chief also urged the NCC to open its doors for collaboration in manpower training for academic and non-academic staff of NDA; boost the school’s existing end user electronics centre; and build a robust back up power to support the infrastructure, among others. Also on the entourage were the Academy Provost, Prof. Azubuike Nwankwo; ICT Director, Air Commodore A. S. Bulus; Dean of Military Science, Prof. F. N. Oguleka; Registrar, Brig.-Gen. I. M. Jallo, among others.