…urges victor, loser to be magnanimous, patient in victory, defeat  Government of the United States of America has okayed the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)’s decision to declare the last Saturday governorship elections in Osun state inconclusive. The United States however urged winner in the Thursday rerun to be magnanimous in victory and loser to be patient in defeat. American Ambassador to Nigeria, Stuart Symington, who said this in Kaduna on Wednesday, expressed support for the election rerun, noting that the rerun is vital because every vote need to count given the fact that there was almost 353 vote margin between the two leading candidates, while over 3,000 votes could not be casted. Symington, who was represented by the Charge’d Affairs in the American Embassy, Mr. David Young, urged the people of Osun state to vote peacefully and accept the results of the elections peaceful as well. He urged the victors to be magnanimous in victory and who ever loses to be gracious in defeat. “We want to commend the people of Osun State for their peaceful vote last Saturday it was very positive for democracy, the people went to the polls in such large numbers about 700,000 voters, which is certainly an expression of democratic freedom that we applaud. We also applaud the peaceful contest that took place, the work of security operatives that guaranteed the peaceful votes. “I want to say that the electoral commission did a good job in terms of what we saw. The decision of INEC to go ahead and have a rerun in seven polling units is the one that we respect. Given the fact that there was almost 353 vote margin between the two candidates and a couple of a thousand votes were not able to be casted. Certainly this is a decision that makes sense. “We want to say that for the voters, through no fault of their own were not able to vote, it is important in a democracy that every persons vote is sacred and is allowed to count. Clearly as we go forward with the votes Thursday in a democracy one side wins and one side loses. We want to emphasize that the people vote peacefully in the conduct of the election and accept the results peaceful as well. “We want to urge the victors to be magnanimous in victory and who ever loses to be gracious in defeat. This is part of democracy and democratic freedom and going forward it is important for the Nigerian people to be free of vote buying in a contest that is peaceful.” The American Ambassador, who spoke at the launch of women and girls child empowerment of Magviole Vocational Center, also urged Nigerian to plan for potential population explosion in the next few decades by educating and providing the youth with skills that would create jobs for them and get them engaged. “With Nigerian population growth in the next 30 years, it is important for the country to realize that it has to invest in children and I think focusing on education, health, investment and making sure these are actually funded. We also saw today with the Magviole vocation center here in Kaduna that it is so important for the young people to get jobs, training; skills that can help them move forward and create a better future for them. “This is something that requires focus from the entire Nigerian society and recognizing that you have to think long term to address these challenges.” He stayed that US has been very much involved in funding health and education, throughout Nigeria citing the antiretroviral drugs provided for almost 1 million Nigerian suffering from HIV/AIDS in collaboration with the Nigerian government. “We are proud to help fight HIV/AIDS, malaria, tuberculosis, the polio cases and we are hoping to continue with these in the future.”