Unmissable Incentives, organisers of the Nigerian Sports Award (NSA), have congratulated Nigeria’s table tennis’ star, Aruna Quadri, for winning  the men’s singles at the just concluded 2018 ITTF Tennis African Senior Championship held in Mauritius. Quadri, who had earlier won the singles at the ITTF Challenge Nigeria Open in Lagos, continued his winning streak by beating Egypt’s Ahmed Saleh to win the title. Unmissable Incentives, Executive Director Kayode Idowu commended Quadri for his consistency. He noted that the feat achieved by  the table-tennis sensation bore testimony to the recognition accorded him by the Nigerian Sports Award having been a recipient every year for the last three years. In a related development, the organisers also hailed the performance of the Super Eagles of Nigeria after beating Seychelles 3-0 in an African Nations Cup Qualifier played on the home soil of its host. Idowu who lauded the team for their performance against Seychelles and urged them to remain focused by ensuring that they secure the maximum points needed to guarantee qualification for the 2019 Nations Cup. “NSA commends Aruna Quadri for showing the stuff that he is made of by winning a major trophy at the 2018 ITTF African Senior Championship. He has done well for Nigeria. We are happy that he has remained a shining light in Nigerian Sports, winning laurels. Equally, we are delighted at the performance of the Super Eagles of Nigeria against Seychelles. It is good news that they are soaring. We want them to continue on that path by making the country and football lovers happy. We can only hope that they continue to achieve good results in other subsequent matches,” Idowu said. Meanwhile, Nominations are still open for the 2018 edition of the prestigious Nigerian Sports Award as entry from the general public for the various award categories starts continues till October 7, 2018. There are 21 categories of the award open for nominations this year including; Racket Sports Person of the Year (Lawn Tennis, Table Tennis, Badminton, Squash), Team Sports Person of the Year, Coach of the Year, Combat Sports Personality of the Year (Karate, Judo, Taekwondo, Wrestling, Boxing), Wrestler of the Year, Discovery of the Year, Footballer of the Year (Women), Footballer of the Year (Men), Athletics Star of the Year, School Sports Award, Sports Administrator of the Year,  Sports Governor of the Year and Para Sports Person of the Year.