•Three held A man described as a member of a robbery gang on Monday jumped into the Lagos Lagoon from the Third Mainland Bridge to evade arrest. He was said to have taken the plunge with the gang’s loot. His colleagues said it happened after the one-chance gang robbed four passengers going to Oshodi from Ketu-Alapere. They gave his name as Junior. Other members of the gang, who have been arrested by the Rapid Response Squad (RRS), are Amos Williams, 21, Paul Olise, 37, and John Akinyemi. Rather than drop the passengers at Oshodi, the Vanagon Bus with registration number AKD562XP they were using sped towards Iyana Oworo. The gang descended on the passengers on the bridge and pushed them out after dispossessing them of their valuables. It was gathered that a victim, Semiu Oluwaseun, was rescued by a motorist. After hearing his story, the motorist chased the bus and slowed on sighting some RRS operatives. A source said: “The victim reported what happened to the RRS men, who chased the bus and double-crossed it. But the suspects noticed they were being followed. “Junior jumped off the vehicle. He was hit twice by oncoming vehicles and he jumped into the lagoon straight away. The other three were arrested.” Oluwaseun, it was gathered, told the police that the robbers took his N500,000 and mobile phones. Akinyemi, the gang leader, said: “We were four. I was in charge of calling the team to work.  It was our first trip for the day. We took four passengers at Estate Bus Stop in Alapere. “They were going to Oshodi. We dispossessed them and dropped them off before Iyana-Oworo one after the other. We took their phones and money. “We have been doing this for more than three months. We sell the mobile phones and jewellery, and we share the money. Junior was carrying all the money and items we obtained that day. I do not know if he was confused because of the vehicles that knocked him as he was running. He jumped into the water.” Another victim, Jamiu Ojuroye, who was robbed on Sunday, identified Akinyemi as the driver of the bus he took. The gang, he said, collected his N150,000. Parading the suspects yesterday, Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said: “A police patrol team stationed on the Third Mainland Bridge attached to RRS of the command on pin-down duty, received information that robbers were robbing passengers on the Third Mainland Bridge. “Based on the information, the team led by Inspector Emmanuel Isagua swung into action and arrested the suspects. The suspects have since been identified by one of their victims. The case will be charged to court as soon as investigations are concluded.”