…Relives shooting incident that nearly claimed his life  Former House of Representatives member and All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Mr. Opeyemi Bamidele, on Friday made a triumphant entry into Ekiti State three months after he was shot by a trigger-happy policeman at a rally. Bamidele was received by a massive crowd of supporters who had been waiting for his return from Lagos where he landed from London about a week ago. He moved in an open roof Toyota Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) across the streets of towns and villages waving the broom and acknowledging cheers from the people. The convoy of over 50 vehicles made a stopover at Artisans’ House in Dallimore area of Ado-Ekiti where a reception was held in Bamidele’s honour before he returned to Iyin-Ekiti, his hometown, where another party was holding. Bamidele had been appointed as the Director General of the Kayode Fayemi Campaign Council before the June 1 shooting incident at APC Secretariat in Ajilosun area, Ado-Ekiti. He had on that day joined thousands of party leaders and members to welcome the party’s candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, back into the state after he had resigned from the federal cabinet as the Minister of Mines and Steel Development. Bamidele was shot by a mobile policeman attached to one of the APC chieftains. Six other party members were shot as the officer was trying to contain the surging crowd. The former Commissioner for Information, Youth and Sports in Lagos State spent 96 days recuperating in London after a surgery was performed on him and was stabilized at Ekiti State University Teaching Hospital (EKSUTH). Bamidele, a former governorship aspirant, had declared interest to run for Ekiti Central senatorial district ahead of the 2019 National Assembly election. Reliving his experience in London, Bamidele while relaying his experience, revealed that doctors abroad told him in clear terms that he survived the bullet wounds “by miracle.” Addressing supporters at the reception held for him in Ado-Ekiti, Bamidele said: “Even the London Doctors told me clearly that I got my healing through miracle. “I want to say that it wasn’t money that saved me, but I received the grace of God. Many of the Doctors that treated me in London who were not Godly became born again because of me, while those who believed in God became more dedicated. “I was shot in the stomach and thigh, in spite of these, I escaped, I didn’t die. This was because of the prayers of my people here in Ekiti and all over Nigeria. “It was a miracle that I survived; it was God that did it.  I thought I would spend more than a year in the London hospital, but I only spent less than 50 days after which I got miraculous healing. “I want to thank the good people of Ekiti State across party lines and religious divides, it was their prayers and love that saved me from untimely death,” he said. On his senatorial ambition, Bamidele said he started the journey eight years ago and that this might be the appointed time for it to become a reality. “I started this journey eight years ago, but our party in its wisdom told me to withdraw and contested for the House of Representatives, which I won. With what I am seeing and outpouring of love and affections from our people, I know it shall be fulfilled this time,” he added.