…Minority Leader, Afuye, four women among flag bearers The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State is now set for the House of Assembly election on March 2 with emergence of consensus candidates for the state parliament. Ekiti APC leaders and members have adopted the candidates by consensus to fly the party’s flag at the State Assembly election. A party leader who spoke on condition of anonymity said the party constitution allows for emergence of consensus candidates. The Assembly flag bearers were adopted on the basis of loyalty to the party, pedigree, previous experience, gender and religious balancing and political factors of their constituencies. The source said: “The adoption of Assembly candidates by Ekiti APC was aimed at ensuring that loyal party members make it to House of Assembly and others interested but who are not lucky are not allowed to waste time, money, resources and energy.” Only two of the 26 candidates adopted by Ekiti APC have previous legislative experience. They are the former Majority Leader, Mr. Funminiyi Afuye (Ikere 1) and the current Minority Leader, Mr. Gboyega Aribisogan (Ikole 1) who has been given the ticket to seek a re-election. Afuye also served as Commissioner for Information and Intergovernmental Affairs and Integration. Four of the candidates are women; they are former Commissioner for Labour and Human Capital Development, Mrs. Bunmi Adelugba (Emure); former Special Assistant on Media to Deputy Governor, Mrs. Yemisi Ayokunle (Ekiti Southwest 1); former Special Assistant to Deputy Governor, Mrs. Kemi Balogun (Ado 2) and former Personal Assistant to Deputy Governor, Princess Teju Okuyiga (Gbonyin). Also adopted as consensus candidates are former Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Research and Documentation, Mr. Hakeem Jamiu (Irepodun/Ifelodun 2); former Permanent Secretary, Government House and Protocol, Mr. Akin Oso (Ido/Osi 2); former Chairman, Ekiti East Local Government, Mr. Lateef Akanle (Ekiti East 2) and former Caretaker Chairman, Ekiti West Local Government, Mr. Tajudeen Akingbolu (Ekiti West 1). Others are Mr. Oluwatoyin Lucas (Ado 1), Mr. Babatunde Lawrence (Ikere 2), Mr. Reuben Awoyemi (Oye 1), Mr. Yemi Osuntuyi (Oye 2), Mr. Adeoye Aribasoye (Ikole 2), Mr. Abiodun Fawekun (Ido/Osi 1) and Mr. Adejuwa Adegbuyi (Ekiti East 2). The rest are Mr. Johnson Adeoye (Ekiti West 2), Mr. Olatunji (Ekiti Southwest 2), Mr. Adeyemi Ajibade (Moba 1), Mr. Michael Arubu (Moba 2), Mr. Dele Ajayi (Ise/Orun), Mr. Tope Ogunleye (Ilejemeje), Mr. Ademola Ojo (Ijero) and Mr. Femi Akindele (Irepodun/Ifelodun 2) The APC House of Assembly primary, where the candidates will be formally affirmed by party delegates, will hold on October 2. House of Assembly election will be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) nationwide on March 2, 2019.