Son of the late Deputy National Chairman of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party, Marshall Harry, Inye Harry has joined the growing list of aspirants for the House of Representatives on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The young Harry who is contesting the ticket for the Degema/ Bonny federal constituency said it was unfortunate that his federal constituency has been neglected even after several years of the exploitation of oil and gas resources from the area. He dismissed claims that Rivers State is a People’s Democratic Party strong hold, pointing out that even though the state is currently under the leadership of the PDP, that was not a true reflection of the realities on ground. He said, “Rivers state is not predominately PDP, Rivers State is an APC state we all know what happened during the 2015 governorship election, there was no election anywhere. The votes of the people did not count; the ruling party just sat down in one office with officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission and wrote the results, the peoples mandate was stolen that was what happened. “This time round, we are determined that this will not happen again. Our people are wiser and we will ensure that their votes count this time around. Something happened last month.  There was a bye election into a state constituency, the  APC won, the ruling party in the state know what they did with INEC, up till this day, they have not released the results. “The Rivers State APC is calling for the release of the results but the state government is arguing that the results should not be announced. 2019 will prove to the world that Rivers is an APC state, my constituency is for APC 100 per cent.” Speaking on the issue of direct or indirect primary, Harry said “Every state has its own peculiarity and their different circumstances.  I am with the leadership of the APC in my state, whatever position they take I will abide by it since like we were told, each state will decided which mode best suits its peculiarity. “If they say it is direct primaries fine, if they say it is indirect we are fine, There are no factions in Rivers State APC, what is happening is no strange in politic I can assure you that at the end of the day  we will all come together and move forward. Most of these fights you see are on the pages of newspapers.”