The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday cried foul over the result of the Osun State supplementary governorship election. National Chairman Uche Secondus told reporters that it was a black day for Nigeria, adding that the state was under siege. Secondus said: “We the members of the National Working Committee (NWC) have reviewed what has happened, from the distribution of materials to the actual voting in some of the units and wards. “We found that Osun is under siege. Therefore, today is a black day for Nigeria. We would think that it is a state or some units, but if you look at what has transpired so far from Ekiti to Osun State, Nigerians are groaning in pains, especially the Osun people. “The right of the citizens to be able to come out and vote has been trampled upon and the entire state and the wards and units have been seized by the security agencies who are acting on behalf of All Progressives Congress (APC) to make sure the election was rigged by all means. “We are sad that if this is what is going to take place in 2019, then the future of Nigerian democracy is bleak and we are sliding into crisis. “If they like,they can call it a hate speech but the fact must be told. On election day, our supporters and the citizens of Osun were weeping for the soul of Nigeria. And for those who are perpetrating this evil, they should watch and wait and see what will happen next.” The PDP chairman accused security agencies of protecting one political party in a multi-party state. “From what we have witnessed in Osun, it showed clearly that the APC is not ready for election and we are afraid that President Buhari will not handover if he loses election next year,” Secondus said. He urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to declare the candidate of the PDP, Senator Ademola Adeleke, the winner of the election. He called on INEC to cancel election in poling units where he said security agencies allegedly arrested PDP supporters and prevented them from voting. PDP Deputy National Chairman (South-West) Dr. Eddy Olafeso accused security agencies of colluding with the APC to disenfranchise PDP supporters. Olafeso said: “Specifically in Orolu and Garage Olode and many of the seven units that were supposed to engage in this voting, they took away all our members, seizing their PVCs, inducing the INEC staff with cash they could not refuse. “The APC governorship candidate was given a free hand to do whatever he wanted to do while our people were muscled away from the units. “They arrested our leaders, especially in Osogbo. Alhaji Diekola is still in custody and Dr. Muyiwa Oladimeji is still in custody. Our people have been harassed and chased like animals away from where they were supposed to carry out their civic duties.” South West Zonal PDP Publicity Secretary Ayo Fadaka said the election was “compromised by security agents”. “It is disappointing to note that unnecessary leverage has been accorded to the APC as its thugs have unfettered movement and capabilities to perpetrate all lawlessness.” “It is terrible to note that journalists and election observers have been harassed and arrested in this election by security agencies; this is absolutely disheartening. “We state most unequivocally that the results of this election have been predetermined and, as such, cannot be acceptable to us as a party because it is not free and fair. “We must remind the APC Government of President Muhammadu Buhari that we are in a democracy where votes must count and not a dictatorship.” In another statement in Osogbo, Osun State PDP Chairman Soji Adagunodo described the election as “open robbery”. He added: “Hundreds of people holding PVCs from other polling units were accredited and allowed to vote in Osogbo and Ife South Local Governments. PDP agent in Olode was axed and abducted at about 7am today. Media men and election observers were denied access in several polling units. “By the time access was granted to journalists  at about 11am, ballot boxes had been stuffed by the APC agents acting in connivance with INEC officials. It is regrettable that election in seven polling units could not be freely and fairly concluded by the Independent National Electoral commission.”