…task security agents  The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), has asked security agents in the country to put in more efforts in stamping out insurgency in the country, and condemned in strong terms, the recent abduction and killing of health workers describing it as callous and inhuman. President of Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said in a statement made available to newsmen in Abuja that even though the security agents are trying to best, more efforts should be put into the fight in other to save the lives of aide workers who are carrying out humanitarian services in the region. The statement reads: “The leadership of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) expresses utmost outrage at the recent killing and abduction of health workers by criminals suspected to be insurgents. This is the umpteenth time that such killings and abductions are taking place especially in North East, Nigeria. The NLC says without equivocation “Enough is Enough”. “We are particularly dismayed at this cruelty against very patriotic Nigerian workers who are daring impossible odds especially at the risk of their lives just to bring humanitarian comfort and relief to their fellow citizens. “Killing and abducting workers who are making such sacrifices is not only callous but also barbaric. So far, we have lost hundreds of workers to the senseless killings, insurgency and terrorism that is currently making a bold renaissance in the North East region of Nigeria.
“We also want to use this medium to bring to the attention of the world, the huge challenge that workers and citizens are going through in the North East especially in the Internally Displaced Camps. “Now is the time to end the sufferings that they are going through in the North East and other parts of the country that are witnessing unbridled killings, mass murders and general lawlessness.
“We call on the government to muster the required political will to stamp out the evil of insurgency and terrorism from our shores once and for all. The government should also make the welfare of workers in these troubled spots a top priority. “While we commend our armed forces for the huge sacrifice they are making in different conflict zones in our land, we urge them to increase their commitment in the fight against mass killings, insurgency and terrorism in our country. We also call on government to make the welfare of our armed forces a matter of topmost priority. “We implore our security agencies to intensify efforts to ensure that those behind the killing and abduction of our comrades are brought to justice as quickly as possible. Our security forces should also ensure that abducted workers are released to their families unharmed.”