The management of the Nnamdi Azikwe University, Awka, Anambra State, has solicited the support of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, National Agency for the Prohibition of Traffic in Persons (NAPTIP) and other relevant bodies in tackling the rising cases of migration among Nigerian youths. The Vice-Chancellor of Nnamdi Azikwe University, Prof. Joseph Ahanaku who disclosed this in Awka, said the institution has established a Migration Study Centre for the sensitization of youths on the importance of embarking on safe and regular migration. Ahaneku, represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor Academics, Prof. Charles Esimone, said the decision to establish the centre was informed by the increasing rate of irregular migration, which he attributed to quest for quick money prevalent among the youths. “Because in the vision of the present administration of empowering the youths which is in line with that of Nnamdi Azikiwe, we decided to extend our hands of fellowship to the Refugees Commission, NAPTIP, IOM and others to seek their support in tackling the ugly trend. “We reasoned that the centre in a university will be a solution to the involvement of youths, especially those from Anambra and Imo states who constitute the greater number of migrants in the country,” he said. In her remarks, the Federal Commissioner, National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, Hajiya Sadiya Umar-Farouo, lauded the university for indicating interest in the campaign through the establishment of the centre. Describing Nigeria’s experience in irregular migration as gruesome, Umar-Farouo said the Federal Government had developed national policies to ensure person-centered and rights-based approaches to migrants of all kinds. She said the ugly trend could be salvaged if the youths who constitute the bulk of the population in the institutions were sensitized on the dangers inherent in the act. She said, “About 36, 000 Nigerians representing total of 171, 299 immigrants arrived Europe by sea in 2016. In the same year, the number of Nigeria women trafficked mostly for sex work into Europe doubled from 5, 600 in 2016 to 11, 009. “In January 11, 2018, 200 Nigerians were drowned in the Mediterranean Sea, adding to the alarming toll of last year.” 