The sit at home order by the Indigenous People of Biafra ( IPOB ) was a total failure in Enugu. Business and social activities were in top gear. All offices and banks were open for business. Contingent of the Nigeria Police were seen stationed at various strategic points ready for any ugly incident that might crop up. IPOB had ordered for the sit at home to mark the one year anniversary of the “invasion” of its leader’s home at Afar Umuahia, Abia state. A generator repairer at the New Layout, Enugu who simply gave his name as Okwudili ‎said why “I will not obey the order is that I have my children to feed and IPOB will not place any food on my table. ” IPOB’s sister organisation, the Movement for the Actualisation of the Sovereign State of Biafra (MASSOB), Ralph Uwazuruike’s faction had earlier dissociated itself from the sit at home order and called on the people of South East and South South not to comply with the order. Chief Benjamin Ekwenugo, a member of the MASSOB-BIM elder council, spoke on behalf of Uwazurike during the commemoration of the 19th anniversary of the Movement for the Actualization of the Sovereign State of Biafra, MASSOB, by the Enugu West Zone of the group. ‎The MASSOB-BIM said such sit-at-home call was misplaced and not what Biafrans needed at the moment. “IPOB is on their own; what will they achieve with all these their sit-at-home order? We are coming out tomorrow; it is only today we have an activity in commemoration of Biafra struggle; there is nothing like people not coming out tomorrow. “I call on Ndigbo to ignore them and go about their businesses, unless someone that has nothing to do. “All these sit-at-home and the rest of them are of no use. Today, we are rejoicing because we are already have success in our Biafra struggle; we are only waiting for the official announcement. “We are today marking a journey of 19 years; it is not 19 days; already we are enjoying Biafra; I recall that when we started, it was almost criminal to mention the name Biafra, but it is no more like that. I was the Director for welfare, so, I know what I passed through then. “That is why those talking about restructuring are wasting their time. Let Ohanaeze and other proponents restructure themselves not Biafra. They can’t restructure Biafra for us, we are not Nigerians. Even if they do it tomorrow, it is an exercise in futility.”