Senate President, Bukola Saraki and Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, have accused the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Nigerian police of colluding with the Federal Government to rig elections in states. The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains made the accusation while addressing reporters in Ede, Osun State after the party’s mega rally for its governorship candidate, Sen. Ademola Adeleke. Saraki said he has observed a trend in recent elections where results declared by INEC shows a huge invalidated number of votes with a narrow margin with which candidates win. He said the trend showed in the Bauchi National Assembly bye-election and Ekiti State governorship election. Saraki warned INEC and the Federal Government to desist from the trend, saying it is the latest style of rigging the elections in favour of All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates. He said the trend must not repeat itself in tomorrow’s governorship election in Osun State. He faulted the declaration of Sen. Adeleke wanted by the police two days before the election. His words: “There is a pattern that we have seen and we hope that in this election of Osun we will not see that. When you look at the margin of victory between the party that wins and that party that loses, and you look at the amount of cancellation, you tend to see that the difference is almost the same. We are seeing that trend here, we saw it in Bauchi bye- election and to me, there’s something fishy going on. “And so it’s important in a credible election, there should not be that amount of cancellation. And I think INEC needs to step up. In the 2015 election, we never saw this level of cancellation. This is a new trend that is very disturbing and I hope that in this election INEC will show how credible it is and ensure invalid votes should not be like that. When cancellation is more than the margin of victory, then that election carries a big question mark. When asked about the level of confidence with which PDP was going into the Osun election, Fayose said the process was already compromised. He said: “It is not about level of confidence. We are talking about the process, the process leading to an election. INEC has been compromised, police have been compromised. When they want to arrest they will arrest PDP. When they are doing vote buying it is PDP that will be arrested, not APC. It is whoever police call a criminal that is a criminal. When already police are taking sides, what do we say to that? When you are telling us what level of confidence?  It is about the system, the process. If I come here and arrest you with gun what will you do? If they have the effrontery to say they are declaring the candidate of PDP in an election that is 48 hours away as the criminal to create a perception, you can imagine.” He added: “They are taking this state one after the other and they forget that nothing will last forever. We must all condemn this unnecessary, unwarranted assault on democracy… “For APC to come here and start talking about corruption, we have had enough of that. I wrote to EFCC that I will be coming on the 16th. I am still a sitting governor, you are declaring me wanted. You said they should be looking for me. I am here today. When I was passing the airport I had to look for Customs officers to tell them ‘I am here if you need someone to arrest.’ “This is not the country of our dream; this is not the democracy of our dream. For anybody to say PDP wants to rig this election it’s exactly what they want to do that they are now laying on others. You saw what happened in Ekiti. Have you ever seen a governorship election won by under 20,000 votes? They won with 19,000 votes and voided votes were 18,000. The one the Senate President was talking about, their strategy is to invalidate most of the votes when they know that it is not adding up for them. This is not the spirit at all. “And I want to say to them if they like they should set Nigeria ablaze. They must remember the children yet unborn. Those who are benefiting from this wickedness should remember that if the last administration were to be like this they would never have got there.”