 Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha has warned that the All Progressives Congress (APC) needs to work hard to retain Osun State among the state it is controlling in the country. He gave the warning while reflecting on the result of the last Saturday’s governorship election in the state as declared by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Okorocha, who is also the chairman of the APC Governors Forum, spoke with State House correspondents in Owerri, Imo State. According to him, the result of the election in Osun State where the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) led the APC with over 300 votes showed that there was a good fight between the APC and the PDP. The fight, he said, helps in checks and balances. Okorocha was however optimistic that the APC will come out well in the 2019 general elections. He said “Well, it is inconclusive (the election), as long as it is made inconclusive, it is inconclusive and it is a good fight. “I love that kind of democracy where there is a close margin; it shows that there is checks and balances. “That is why I tell APC, we must never go to bed to sleep, we have a lot of work to do because you are more endangered when you are in power than when you are not in power. “The forces to pull you down are more than the forces to build you up when you are holding unto power. “So APC has a lot of work to do and I hope we will come out fine.” Speaking on some elites, who are presently opposing him in the state, Okorocha said that the fight was all about the state treasury. He said “The issue of reconciling with the elites is a very difficult one and the more you reconcile you either not to give up or you reconcile because what they want you cannot afford to give them. “The elites want you to give them the local government so that the money that comes from the local government, they take it that is the reconciliation they want. The elites will want you to give them the contract of the entire state budget. The elites will want you to pay their medical bills in their hundreds of millions. “The elites want to be in power and then do whatever they want to do with the treasury of the state. The struggle for power in this state is not for power really to govern the people, it is a struggle for the treasury of Imo state and that is what I am protecting.” he added Okorocha explained that the essence of any governance is to create happiness for its citizens. His administration had earlier created a novel ministry named the Ministry of Happiness and Purpose Fulfillment. Stressing that his administration has completed over 1000 projects in the state, he promised that there will be no project left uncompleted at the end of his tenure. Some of the projects, he said, included new wing of the government house, chapel, 8-lane road, multiple level car park, 5000 capacity Imo International Convention Center, Freedom Square, Cabinet Office, first inland bridge, second inland bridge, third inland bridge, Jacob Zuma road, permanent and temporary sites of the Ministry of Happiness, Heroes square, Heroes apartment, Imo Youth Center, renovated state secretariat, ISOPADEC, Others are 3000 capacity Imo Trade and Investment centre, Police Headquarters, modern prison, Imo State High Court complex, sentinary towers, Nigeria Labour Congress House, Nigeria Union of Journalists House, Creative Arts and Entertainment house, Imo foundation complex, CAN Secretariat Imo chapter, two tunnels, drug house, new Ministry of ICT complex, Also completed are the Eastern Palm University and 200-bed Nigeria Air Force hospital. 