The National Identity Management Commission (NIMC), says that the national electronic identity card can be used for money transactions and other national benefits. Mr Loveday Ogbonna, Head, Corporate Communications, said this in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Wednesday in Abuja. Ogbonna said that the National e-ID Card, which combines a proof of identity and access to financial services, would make it possible for Nigerians to receive a universally accepted identity card. According to him, it will enable Nigerians gain access to formal financial services. “The card at the point of collection if activated could be used for financial transaction around the world and even on any master card platform, verve and others. “ There is a provision in the system that enables you to load any amount of money you want into the card through ATM or POS. “The bank we are using now is UBA, other banks will still come on board and at the point of collecting the card, the payment outlet is activated to enable you use it for financial transaction. Read also: 2019: IPMAN, PTD, others buy nomination form for El-Rufai “Money can be paid into that card and money can also be withdrawn on any ATM anywhere around the world. “ You can also make purchase online, subscribe for DSTV, POS payment, and check balance and others. “All you need do is to approach any UBA bank and request them to load the card with any amount of money that you want,’’ he said. Ogbonna also said that the commission was collaborating with other relevant agencies or organisations to have a central data collection point as directed by the Vice president. He noted that the integration of relevant agencies in the data collection would enhance proper documentation and reduce stress for the people. “The directive is to get all data collection agencies to integrate data so that one does not need to give his or her biometrics to different government organisations. “Every other government agencies is allowed to collect data and then send to the NIMC department for identity database. “But the agencies are also allowed to do their functional assignments, we are not stopping them. “What NIMC is established to do is foundational identity and that is to be done in collaboration with Nigerian Population Commission (NPC) and other agencies like CBN,’’ he said.(NAN)