… Inaugurates 21-member National Convention Committee The All Progressives Congress (APC) has postponed its governorship primary elections for Imo and Lagos states to Monday, Oct.1. Mr Adams Oshiomhole, the party’s National Chairman announced this on Saturday in Abuja,while inaugurating the party’s Governorship Primary Election Committee and the Presidential National Convention Committee. Oshiomhole, who attributed logistics for postponing the primary election in the two states, said it would hold on Sunday (tomorrow) in other states of the federation as earlier scheduled. “We have decided to postpone the governorship primary election in Imo and Lagos states to Monday Oct.1, even though it is public holiday. “There is nothing in the law that says we cannot conduct our party affairs on the day of public holidays. “We are sure that we will be able to rectify logistic challenges between now and the end of tomorrow, “ Oshiomhole said. He added that the party`s secretariat would get to the committees through its chairmen to hand over documents and all materials including ballot papers and result sheets they would use for the primary election. He further added that no fewer than 177 governorship aspirants were currently jostling to get the party’s tickets to contest governorship election in 29 states. He thanked the committee members for honouring the party’s invitation at short notice and for accepting to serve it and the nation generally. The APC national chairman stressed that members of the committee had a duty to ensure that the core values of the party was adhered to, adding that they should remain neutral while carrying out their assignments. He added that the party’s leadership was doing everything possible to ensure proper security in states of the federation where the governorship primaries would be held. Oshiomhole said the presidential national convention committee must reflect the ray of the future with gender balance. “We want to organise a convention that is different. We want a convention that goes beyond electioneering, “ he said. He added that the national convention should discuss the Nigeria agenda, issues of governance, development and economic issues as well as social choices. “Let us disagree and agree within that convention in addition to confirming the presidential candidate and maybe amend any section of the Constitution that we might want to. Gov. Abiola Ajimobi of Oyo state, who is the chairman of the 21-member presidential national convention committee, thanked the party`s leadership for the opportunity to serve. “I thank you for giving us the opportunity to participate in laying the foundation for our 2019 electoral victory, because if you see the quality of the foundation, you will know how the building will be. “The foundation you have laid today is so solid that I have no doubt that we will succeed in 2019 election, “ he said. He stressed that the committee would not let the party down and assured that it would do its best to ensure that the party`s victory in 2019, was secured. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that while Kashim Shettima would serve as the committee Vice Chairman, Hadiza Bala Usman would serve as its Secretary. Other members of the committee are Babatunde Fashola, Audu Ogbeh, Nasiru El-Rufai, Rochas Okorocha, Sen. Godswill Akpabio, Kayode Fayemi, Abubakar Bagudu and Mohammed Abubakar. Godwin Obaseki, Simon Lalong, Sen. Emma Anosike, Hajiya Hauwa Sule, Timipre Sylva, Mr Sharon Ikeazor, Dr Ramatu Tijani, Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Stella Okotete and Paulen Tallen are all members of the committee. The presidential national convention had been fixed for Oct. 6 to ratify President Muhammadu Buhari as the party’s presidential candidate for the 2019 election. The list of members of the governorship primary election across the states of the federation is attached below:  Full List of APC Governorship Primaries Committee for September 30: SOUTH EAST ABIA STATE EBONYI STATE ENUGU STATE IMO STATE  NORTH CENTRAL BENUE STATE NASARAWA STATE NIGER STATE PLATEAU STATE  NORTH EAST ADAMAWA STATE BAUCHI STATE GOMBE STATE TARABA STATE YOBE STATE BORNO STATE KANO STATE KEBBI STATE KATSINA STATE SOKOTO STATE ZAMFARA STATE JIGAWA STATE KADUNA STATE  SOUTH SOUTH AKWA – IBOM STATE DELTA STATE CROSS- RIVER STATE  RIVERS STATE  SOUTH WEST LAGOS STATE OGUN STATE OYO STATE (NAN)