Five persons, including two Lance Corporals and a fake soldier, have been arrested for allegedly hijacking a vegetable oil laden truck at Epe, Lagos. Akintola Abiodun of the Nigerian Air Force (13NAF/89/8811), Moses Johnson of the army (13NA/69/8811), Monday Ayele, 42, Esowanne Emeka, 30, and the fake soldier, Osegbu Chidi, 30, were paraded yesterday by Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal. According to Edgal, the suspects were notorious highway armed robbers, who specialised in intercepting and diverting lorries. He said the command received several complaints from victims of military men hijacking cargo vehicles, adding that the suspects’ arrest showed that the perpetrators were criminals impersonating the military. The suspects, Edgal said, were arrested on Sunday night after they hijacked a Sterling truck with marked LSR266XW carrying vegetable oil worth N13,250,000. But, the ex-military personnel, who were dismissed for allegedly aiding Boko Haram and riotous behaviour, denied involvement in the hijack. They claimed they were invited by one Oloja for escort duty. While Johnson said he was promised N10,000 to escort the truck, Abiodun claimed his fee was N20,000. Admitting it was wrong to wear military camouflage years after their dismissal, they said they usually used the attire as escort to make money. Narrating how his truck was hijacked, the driver, Rabiu Kazeem, said: “I saw a Hilux truck with amber light. It flagged me down and I saw some men with soldier uniform. I stopped and they told me to get down. I asked them what I had done but they brought out their guns. “My conductor jumped into the bush. Since I was alone, I could not do much. I stepped down but I didn’t go far. I sat on an iron underneath the vehicle and clung to its arm rest because I wanted to know where they were taking the truck to. “But one of them, who was on a bike, saw me. I did not know he was their member. He told me to come down that he will help me pursue them, that it was dangerous for me to stay in that position. “I listened to him but instead of pursuing the truck, he became slow and so, I raised the alarm. People in the community came out and I explained what happened, begged them to hold that man while I entered another vehicle to look for them. On our way to look for them, we saw a Rapid Response Squad (RRS) patrol vehicle and informed them about what happened. “I am so grateful to the police for rescuing this truck and the product. If not, the owner would have sent me to jail that I sold his goods, whereas, it was armed robbers that took them.”