As part of her social responsibility and in line with her resolve to keep promoting grassroots football in Nigeria, Rev mother Esther Ajayi a.k.a ‘Iya Adura 1’, the General Overseer of Love of Christ Generation Church, United Kingdom and promoter of Esther Ajayi Foundation, has thrown her weight behind the Asisat Oshoala Lagos State Secondary School girls football tourney. Esther Ajayi who recently sponsored the Nigerian supporters club to Russia for the 2018 World Cup and also Nigerian boxer Larry Ekundayo in a recent bout and also sponsored a Nigerian academy football club to a football tourney in the UK , has once again spread out her hands of support. Asisat Oshoala is the reigning women African player of the year, the queen of women football in Africa, and the only African who represent women footballers in FIFA. The Oshoala School Girls Football Clinic will be an intensive five day coaching for aspiring women footballers. Exceptional talents spotted will stand a chance of playing football in China and UK as well as furthering their education. “It’s all about the girl child education and sports , that’s the motto of my foundation and its part of my plans to give back to the society which raised me to let everyone know that they can be their own star,” Oshoala told SportingLife.ng. “They can also be like First Lady of Lagos State, Mrs Ambode or Rev mother Esther Ajayi, so long they go to school. Educating a child will only bring about an educated nation,” the Super Falcons forward said. Speaking on her plans to support the Asisat Oshoala Lagos State Secondary School girls football tourney, Rev mother Esther Ajayi said, “I’m honored to support Nigeria sports. Sport is a tool to take kids away from social vices as it engages the youth for a good future. The government can’t do it alone, individuals should come out and support the kids for a greater future, just as my foundation, the Esther Ajayi Foundation supported the Supporters Club of Nigeria ahead of the World Cup in Russia . “It is not only football but sports in general. The women national team is not left out. Asisat Oshoala is a talented lady and we need to support her as she will be training girls about the basics of football and education. I am totally in support of her. “At Esther Ajayi foundation our mission is to change people’s lives through the power of giving. Our vision is to touch one million lives in the next 12 months.  Our aim is not only to become a world class humanitarian and philanthropic organization but also to inspire and support generation of givers,” Esther Ajayi hinted The clinic is endorsed by the Nigeria Football Federation and the Lagos State Football Association and also supported by the office of the first Lady of Lagos State, Her Excellency Mrs. Bolanle Ambode and Rev mother Esther Ajayi through her foundation and church love of Christ Generation, UK. About 5000 girls from different secondary schools are expected to take part in the competition. Balls, pair of boots, jerseys, school bags and other educational and sports equipment will be distributed to all participants. The winner of the last year’s edition is currently in school at Brooke house of education and sports as well as also playing for the Brooke Football Academy in UK.