Call her dynamite and you won’t be wrong. Standing at 5.1 feet, Oluwatobiloba Amusan is definitely the next big thing in women’s 100m hurdles, after the storied Gloria Alozie who represented Nigeria before switching nationality to Spain. The ambitious Amusan spoke exclusively to TAIWO ALIMI recently in Asaba. Though, the Commonwealth and Africa Athletic Championship champion don’t want to be compared with Glory Alozie-Africa and national record holder at 12. 44s in 1998, she looks forward to smashing her record in the nearest future. “I would like to surpass the achievements of Gloria one day. I look up to her in many ways and beating her record would crown my athletic glory,” she said. At 21, Tobi, as she is simply known, believes she has what it takes to rule Africa and the world in some years. She has partly achieved her 2018 dream as the winner of the Gold Coast-Australia Commonwealth Games in June, as well as the Africa Senior Championship in Asaba-Nigeria held in August. “I’m happy for my achievement in Australia. All eyes were on the Jamaican girls, so it was a great that I beat them to gold.” However, she said her target was to erase the Games’ record in Australia, a feat she could not achieve. Her 12.68secs, ahead of Jamaica duo Danielle Williams and Yanique Thompson, however, confirmed her   first Nigerian gold medallist in the momen’s 100mh at the Commonwealth Games. In-fact, the medal is Nigeria’s only gold in athletics in Gold Coast. The Commonwealth Games record is 12.65secs set by Jamaican Brigitte Foster-Hylton at the Melbourne 2006 Games. “I went with the mind of setting another record in the 100m hurdles but I didn’t get it.” She added: “I have always prepared hard for every competition – the Olympics, the African Championships, and others – with the same positive energy and attitude. I knew that winning the event at the Games would be tough and I was prepared for it and I am glad it worked out well in the end.” Coming tops again on home soil, Asaba, she confessed, was exhilarating. “It feels good to win at home and good to be appreciated by your people. Nigeria has a team that has capacity to grow because we are young and I look forward to more competitions and flying my country’s flag.” Amusan is among the exclusive few that left Asaba with more than a gold medal. She was a member of the Nigeria 4 X 100m relay team that dusted South Africa to the gold medal. She ran the third leg and made her inclusion count alongside Blessing Okagbare, Joy Udo-Gabriel and Rosemary Chukwuma. Nigeria won the relay in 43.77s ahead of South Africa. Shortly after the race, she said she would be happy to compete in the same team for many years, while predicting that the team will go far in future competitions. “I would like those in authority to support us because we are young and eager to make our mark.” Amusan has shown grace and confidence from the junior level. At the African Junior Championships and All-Africa Games in 2015, she competed in the 100m flat and hurdles, 200m and Long Jump and won gold in the hurdles.  She was also a silver medallist at the 2013 African Youth Championships in Warri. She was runner-up at the 2016 NCAA Outdoor Championships in the 100 mh running a windy 12.79 s. Amusan also competed at the 2016 World Junior Championships in Bydgoszcz. Despite running her second fastest time ever, she placed fifth in the final. She eclipsed Kim Turner’s 100mH UTEP record in 2016, with a 2016 best of 12.83 s. She has bettered her own high school record in the 100mh finishing the race at the UTEP Springtime Invitational in 12.63 s. She noted that living, schooling and training in the United States (U.S) made her realised her potential. “My school and the country have been good to me. My transfer from Nigeria is yielding fruit and that I am running well now is because I have the best people, talking about coaches and trainers and the best of facility at my disposal.” Growing up I am the last child of my parents. We are three and my mom is a lover of sport, so it was for me to convince them this is what I want. My journey into athletics started from secondary school and progressed when I got into higher school. Moving to the U S (United States) to continue my education is the biggest positive decision I made in my whole life. It’s pretty different but all worth it. There are coaches there who just want me to reach my highest point in my career. U.S colleges have good programmes for their athletes and most of their Olympic team members are in this system.  I did well in a couple of school meets and my coach put me up in the hurdles and here I am, doing dash and hurdles. I am enjoying the ride. In 2015, fresh in international competitions, I won my first 100mh gold. And that was my breakout year. The completion was the African Junior Championship and I was 17 years old. Moving abroad It was not easy at first growing up from a different environment but I coped well and it is paying off. I had to get used to the new faces, new teammates and they thought I could not understand my accent. I had to repeat myself a lot of times. But we had a great team and once they discovered what I was bringing to the table, the rest was easy. I let my legs do the talking and respect followed. I have made good friends and a great career waits. Schooling and sports As I said, it is not easy because I transferred from a university in Nigeria and it was pretty tough. In Nigeria, I trained once in a week because of the work load and if there are competitions to attend, you are on your own. The lectures don’t give you concession. But when I got to the U.S I could concentrate better. All I have to do is send emails to the professors so as to exempt student athletes in an exam or whatever! There is concession for you and they allow you to take the exam whenever you think is convenient. I had to write many exams well ahead of others because of my athletic schedule. Other times, I do it after. They are considerate and even the school will make a case for you. We are called student athletes and that is why I have maintained good grades and doing well in the track too. They know how to prioritise, and that has helped me immensely. Even my coming to the U.S was divine. God loves me and He shows up whenever I need Him. Everything came with ease. The day I went for my visa, five students before me were denied and I got it. Then, I was looking for money to travel down and start my schooling and it became a problem. I made the Nigeria team to the All Africa Games where I did well and that took care of the ticket for me. It is God indeed at work and I don’t forget that; not now, not ever. Challenges I have many challenges but I do not allow them to get me down. In-fact, I love challenges because it is under that kind of heat that I do excel. I have faith too and very positive. I don’t for once lose faith in God and I never quit. Motivation Like my name Oluwatobiloba (God is the greatest king), God has been my greatest motivation! I have met somebody that took a look at my height and told me I could not amount to anything as an athlete. That is an additional motivation for me. It’s like proving to them that I can do anything that I set my mind, and God be with me, to do. Mentally, I am tough. I don’t care who is racing with me. My goal is always to surpass my previous time and run PRs every time I compete. Then I pray a lot. I am a believer and that has helped me set goals that are bigger than me. Then, I have God, the ultimate, my parents, my coach, my spiritual leaders and my mentors in the field. I pray and work hard. With these elements, you cannot go wrong. I have utmost determination and don’t give up easily. Rio 2016 Olympics I made it to the semi-final in Rio and that is okay by me. I don’t see myself as a low standard hurdler, but a world class athlete and I know that I can hold my own there. But, I am not going to push it. The experience was good for me. To be candid, I got carried away somewhat. I was faced with a different routine that was strange to me. The way they approach every routine was different from mine but I just told myself ‘soon you will get there’. I am a fast learner and things would be different when I attend the next Olympics. I see myself going stronger, running better and jumping well. With God in control of things for me, I can only go one direction, up. Philosophy and style I don’t wear things that trend. Only what makes me comfortable.  I love pants and top but also have time to dress up for occasions. My philosophy is don’t you ever quit and don’t let anyone tell you, you are no good. Believe in yourself and your abilities. You can achieve whatever you set your mind to. I am a fighter. That is my story..