Members of Air Traffic Safety Electronics Personnel (ATSEP) have urged the Civil Aviation Authorities (CAA) and the Air Navigation Service Providers (ANSPs) in Africa to train their professionals to enhance their service delivery. The body said CAAs and ANSPs should use the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) doc 10057 and 1007 for ATSEPs and Communication Navigation and Surveillance  (CNS) inspectors to develop their capacity. The body said this could be achieved through the training of the highest standard to improve their competencies and service delivery ito boost safety and security. This was part of the decisions at the eighth International Federation of Air Traffic Safety Electronics Associations (IFATSEA) Region Africa Meeting hosted by Kenyan Air Traffic Systems Engineering Association (KATSEA) and Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA) in Nairobi, Kenya. In a document signed by the President National Association of Air Traffic Engineers (NAAE), Ishaya Chuwang Dung, at the end of the three-day meeting, the body said it recognises that some CAAs/ANSPs were implementing ATSEP licensing as evidence of competence, safety and security of the Air Traffic Management (ATM/CNS) systems, operations, monitoring and maintenance in accordance with 1.5 of ATSEP ICAO doc 10057. They, however, said some ATSEPs in some ANSPs/CAAs  were yet to legitimise ICAO doc 10057 and article 32 of the Chicago Convention. According to them, they want such ANSPs/CAAs to give meaning to these important documents by implementing ATSEP licensing schemes in order for the safety regulator to effectively audit and regulate the ATSEP ATM/ CNS job activities. IFATSEA further pointed out that, the omission of ATSEP license in ICAO Annex1 does not veto states/ CAAs/ANSPs from establishing standards and requirement in their regulations to include ATSEP licensing and filing the differences with ICAO. The body also listed safety, security, proof of competency for both ANSP and regulator, on-going and continuing automation of the ATC functions, technology and emerging trends, direct support and decision-making data to the aircraft/Pilots, cross border activities or state –to-state technical systems intervention as some of the reasons why it encourages states/CAAs/ANSPs to implement ATSEP licence. They advised: “States should adopt best practices and liaise with IFATSEA to assist states/CAAs/ANSPs with ATSEP licensing implementation templates and promote safety and security within the aviation industry.” The theme for the conference was “Aviation safety and security – ATSEPs contributions” and it was aimed at bringing together ATSEPs in Africa and the professionals to assess ATSEPs’ contributions to aviation safety and security and discuss relevant topics necessary to enhancing ATSEPs and industry professional ethics in upholding safety and security at all levels.