Constituents in the Central Senatorial District of Cross River State under the aegis of Central District Indigenes (CDI) have backed the ambition of former Commissioner of Information in the state, Akinwunmi Anderson Rickets to represent them in the Senate. They expressed their readiness to ensure Rickets’ victory at the polls, stating that his strides as commissioner during the immediate past administration was outstanding among his peers. Rising from its maiden meeting in Calabar, the state capital, CDI, the spokesperson of the indigenous group, Frank Agbor, commended Rickets for aligning with the All Progressives Congress (APC) to actualise his political dreams. ‘’The name Akinwumi Anderson Ricketts, the Obol Nkama 1 of Ugep, Yakurr Local Government Area of Cross River State resonates around the nooks and cranny of state. His populist disposition has enabled him to carve a niche for himself as a maverick politician and an emerging leader, whose disposition to the people as well as acceptability is obvious. ‘’In our present day society that is being pulled apart by atavistic cleavages and ethnic divisions which has greatly polarised the people amidst avarice and self-interest, the people need a peaceful, committed unifier, an instrument of motivation and harmonious co-existence to turn around things for the overall good of the society. ‘’In all of these, Obol Ricketts rightly fit into this description as he offers himself to serve the people of Central Senatorial District as a Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. He is a lovable personality who, since growing into adulthood, has remained a vessel for progress and instruction of peace and development in and around his community and beyond. He has been a bridge builder, a true patriot that is revered and adored in his native Ijiman Ward in Ugep Urban and Yakurr Local Government Area as a whole,” he said. The people of the senatorial district, according to Agbor, are excited about Ricketts’ senatorial ambition and would mobilise people of the senatorial district and party members to give him the mandate to represent them come 2019. He added: “Akin, as he is fondly called by his peers and even senior friends, is a Public Relations expert – a profession in which he is currently a member of the Governing Council – the highest decision making organ of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR). As an accomplished businessman, Chief Ricketts had dedicated interest in a few companies, spread across different sectors of the nation’s economy such as oil and gas, construction, purchase and supply and shipping, among others. “For us and other stakeholders in his Cross River Central Senatorial District, especially those in the APC, we are ready to rally round this unassuming political juggernaut, which will surely be of great value to the people of the Central Senatorial District, the state and Nigeria in general.’ ‘’These different platforms in the business environment enabled him to touch  the lives of many people that came in contact with him, including organisation of medical outreaches for different ailments in and around communities in Yakurr; scholarship awards for secondary and tertiary education, embarking on many community development projects not only in Ugep but also beyond his immediate communities. “His thirst for philanthropy knew no bound as Obol Ricketts is always interested and willing to support anybody irrespective of where you come from.’’