In a twinkle of an eye, a new session will begin, with newer courses to do, people to meet , friends to make and surely for the freshmen and old student new room mates . Living on campus is an important part of the educational experience at central and sometimes having roommate(s) are inevitable with the ups and downs of the “roommateship journey”. Most times after four years of living together, you end up as close friends and sometimes less of friends. Dealing with roommate is so not easy but not much of a big deal, just a few here and there strategies and you would have the best of wonderful moments. Here are seven tips on how to handle the roommateship journey 1. Don’t expect to become best of friends immediately:  Look at your roommate as someone to get along with, not as your future best friend. Most freshers fall short of this rule. On their arrival, they place too many expectation and anticipate the ” room mates goal” thing. The truth is, it doesn’t work that way. You have to study he or she in order to know the outcome of being room mates. And see if you can move up to the next stage of being tight friends. The idea is to have a good , not necessarily great – and definitely not bad – roommate: someone you can live well with, who does not interfere with your studies. If you get a close friend out of it, that’s a bonus, but not all roommates turn into besties and that’s okay too. Living pleasantly with your roommate and enjoying their company when you can is a great outcome. 2. Set boundaries ASAP:  The sooner you can begin the relationship the better. schedule a get-to-know-you discussion and begin to establish boundaries. If possible, do this in person. Even if you selected your own roommate and already know them well, this is a necessary step. Knowing someone well and living with them are two very different things. 3. Study habits matter:  It’s good to have a variety of places to read apart from your room. This is necessary, in order to prevent disturbing your roommates, or the opposite. However, if you fall under the category of those who love reading in the comfort of their rooms, ensure you discuss this with your roommate to prevent rough edges. 4. Address bad smells:  Funky and malodorous smells can doom any roommate relationship. Establish some rules for food storage, including when the fridge should be cleaned and who takes the trash out and when. Beyond that, some pleasant-smelling room spray for a quick spritz works wonders. You might also come armed with a few of those scented plug-ins. (Make sure your roomie has no allergies or any aversions to particular smells.) When it comes to smoke, of any sort, put your foot down. Set your expectations early. When things are particularly invasive, like smoke, bad smells, or loud music, it is fine to insist that they stay out of your shared space. 5. Dealing with hook-ups and being “sexiled” :  This particular tip is mostly applicable to those who plan on staying outside the school hostel.Whether it’s some light PDA (public display of affection), or an overnight visit, dealing with a roommate’s romantic partner can become a major source of conflict. And if it’s ongoing, the constant, unwelcome presence of your roommate’s partner can eat at what little privacy you have. It’s best to have an honest ground-rules conversation upfront about boundaries and visiting hours.  Working things out may be as simple as saying, “Hey, I’m going to go to the library for several hours. The room is all yours.” Or you may decide on an all-out policy of no sleepovers. Whatever you and your roommates decide, consideration for each other and your shared space should be the priority. 6. Nip problems early on:  If it’s bugging you, bring it up. Don’t let it linger and fester and don’t assume that your roommate has any idea that there is something wrong. Bringing it up directly and early will save you piles of stress and tension. Passive aggressive behavior towards an unwanted roommate is a habit that just makes it worse for both of you. Be the adult in the room, you will be happier for it. If that fails, ask for help on how to go about it. 7. Be neutral: for those who might stay in a room that might be rowdy with three or more people, always ensure you are neutral when issues pop out. Never stay on anyone’s side without knowing the genesis of the problem.
Settle the issue amicably with still not being on anyone’s side. The truth is there is maturity and respect in being neutral.  No matter the boundaries you set at first, no matter how well you click together at the beginning, there is no way to avoid all unpleasant moments, or even one or two unexpected, unprovoked and “memorable” bad experiences. Avoiding the issue, or not finding a reasonable way to manage the problem, is how most roommates end up becoming enemies who sleep in the same room. So, learn how to talk it out as soon as possible.