The former Vice President Atiku Abubakar on Monday in Ibadan appealed to state PDP members to put their differences aside   and forge ahead in unity for the party to win Oyo state in the next general election. While stressing the importance of unity of purpose in the quest to reclaim the state, Atiku promised to return the South West states to the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in 2019 if elected as President. Atiku, a Presidential aspirant of the PDP made this promise when he visited members and delegates of Oyo state ahead of the forthcoming presidential primary election of the party. The former Vice President was welcomed to the Molete, Ibadan  PDP state secretariat Tuesday evening  by the two gubernatorial aspirants of the party, Mr. Seyi Makinde and Senator Ayo Adeseun, a former Deputy governor, Alhaji Azeem Gbolarumi, Elder Wole Oyelese, Alhaja Bose Adedibu, Senator Kamoru Adedibu and Dr. Saka Balogun. Other bigwigs that welcomed Atiku were Chief Robert Koleoso, Senator Hosea Ayoola Agboola, Elder Wole Oyelese, Chief Jacob Adetoro, Taiwo Oluyemi, Muraina Ajibola and the State Secretary, Alhaji Wasiu Adeleke. Recalling how he worked with others as the Vice President in 2003 to take over all the South West states with the exception of Lagos from the Alliance for Democracy (AD), Atiku assured the zone of greater participation in the PDP government at the centre. He then urged members of the party to put their differences aside and forge ahead in unity for the party to win Oyo state in the next general election. Atiku who was accompanied by his Director General of his campaign, Otunba Gbega Daniel further urged members of the party to work for the interest of the party at all times for them to reclaim the state and the Federal government. Atiku while speaking further described Oyo state as the political headquarters of the South West region which should not be toyed with. He said, ” Oyo is the political headquarters of South West. So let us work together. Let us work for the unity of the party, by the grace of God, we will have PDP in government in 2019 in Oyo state and Nigeria.”