Ekiti State Governor-Elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have congratulated Osun State Governor-elect Gboyega Oyetola on his victor. While Fayemi said the Southwest regional integration and development agenda will now become a reality, Ekiti APC urged Oyetola to consolidate on the gains recorded under outgoing Governor Rauf Aregbesola. Fayemi in a statement on Friday by his Special Adviser on Media, Olayinka Oyebode, described the keenly contested election as a reflection of the huge political awareness and maturity of the people of Osun State, adding that it was heart-warming that the better candidate emerged victorious. He said: “Congratulations to the Governor-Elect, Gboyega Oyetola, and to our great party, APC.  The people have spoken, and clearly too. It is indeed victory for democracy and all lovers of progress. “The regional integration and development agenda of the South West would now become a reality, with all the attendant benefits for the people of the geo-political zone.” Dr Fayemi, who described Oyetola as a seasoned administrator and astute manager of men and resources, said he is confident the Governor-elect will take the state to the next level of development, having been a part of Governor Rauf Aregbesola’s development-focused administration. Ekiti APC in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ade Ajayi, described the victory as an opportunity for Oyetola to build on the good works of the Aregbesola administration that he described as “the builder of modern Osun.” Ajayi expressed optimism that the governor-elect would father transform Osun with the people-centered manifesto of the APC going by his antecedents and exploits as  a loyal party man who stood by his principal. While pledging collaboration and cooperation with Osun APC, Ajayi commended Aregbesola for ensuring that the party retains Osun despite the “antics of some retrogressive and reactionary elements.” The Ekiti APC hailed the people of Osun State for their steadfastness and peaceful conduct before, during and after the election urging opposition parties to accept the result in good faith and cooperate with the governor-elect on the task of building a prosperous state.