First question is answered by fertility, sex and relationship counsellor, Mrs Tola Ajayi; and the second by a monk of St. Benedict Monastery, Ewu/ Founder, Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories, Rev. Father Anselm Adodo. Menopause is defined as  when menstrual cycles  cease due to the depletion of eggs from aging. It is said that a woman has reached menopause after she has missed menses for 12 consecutive months. It marks the end of fertility and the average age of menopause is 51 years. The loss of oestrogen and testosterone following menopause can lead to changes in a woman’s body and sexual drive. Menopausal and postmenopausal women may notice that they’re not as easily aroused, and they may be less sensitive to touching and stroking. That can lead to less interest in sex. Sex drive decreases gradually with age in both men and women, but women are two to three times more likely to be affected by a decline in sex drive as they age. Reduced sex drive becomes much more common in women starting in their late 40s and 50s. The effect of age also differs by individual: some women experience a big decrease in sexual desire beginning in their midlife years, others notice no change, and a few report an increased interest in sex at midlife. Those women whose desire increases may feel liberated by their new freedom from contraception or by newly found privacy if their children have recently left home. Also, lower levels of oestrogen can cause a drop in blood supply to the vagina. That can affect vaginal lubrication, causing the vagina to be too dry for comfortable sex.  Tips that can help  Communication is very important at this stage. Talking with your partner about your concerns can strengthen your relationship. Getting older and chronic health problems like heart disease or diabetes can affect your sexual health and how you feel about sex. What feels good and what doesn’t. Times that you may feel more relaxed. Which positions are more comfortable? Whether you need more time to get aroused than before? Concerns you have about the way your appearance may be changing. Ways to enjoy physical connection other than vaginal intercourse, such as oral sex or massage  To improve your sexual life at menopause  Be active. Physical activity can boost your energy levels, lift your mood, and improve your body image. All of these can help increase your interest in sex. Don’t smoke. Cigarette smoking can reduce blood flow to the vagina and lower the effects of estrogen. This can make it more difficult to get aroused. Avoid drugs and alcohol. They can slow down how your body responds. Have sex more often. If you choose to have sex, it can increase blood flow to your vagina and help keep tissues healthy. Allow time to become aroused during sex. Moisture from being aroused makes sex more comfortable. Practise pelvic floor exercises. These can increase blood flow to the vagina and strengthen the muscles involved in orgasm.  Talk more about sex with your spouse  Conclusion  Sex at menopause can be fun. Whether it’s where you do it, how you do it, when you do it, what you wear, or what sex toys you use. This is because the change is really important. Sex is supposed to be fun, so it helps to approach it with an attitude of playfulness.