Various atrocities have been rocking our tertiary institutions since the beginning of this year. Some of the atrocities have been exposed, while some have been swept under the carpet by repressive authorities that victimise students. But, the big question to ask ourselves (students) is whether keeping silent in the face of decadence and victimisation is golden. I was reading through an article by a fellow campus journalist, who is a student of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in Ile-Ife, Kabir Adejumo, in which he highlighted some of the victimisation being meted out to students by managements of some institutions. The victims are our colleagues but none of us seems bold enough to speak up for them. The case of sex-for-mark in OAU, Lagos State University (LASU) and University of Lagos (UNILAG) are just a few of the numerous cases that are happening on our campuses day by day. A lot of students have been emotionally beaten to keep quiet when faced with molestations, harassment or victimisation because of the fear of being denied their certificates. Let me go straight to the main issue in this piece. The recent suspension and expulsion of students by school managements, especially campus journalists who are doing their work is appalling. School managements are seeing student-journalists and writers as threats to their unlawful acts. A final year Law student, Kunle Adebajo, was suspended by the management of the University of Ibadan (UI) over an investigative report that was published by The Guardian in 2016. Being a final year student, Kunle observed the poor facilities in UI’s hostel and saw the need to expose the rot in line with his role as a campus journalist. His action was informed by the need to bring about change and see the fortune of the school’s Halls of Residence change positively, but the reverse was the case. Was he expected to keep silent in the face of such rot? Daniel Osula, a student-writer at the Delta State University (DELSU), was expelled for exposing the evil act of his Head of Department. He was a final year student of Engineering. The HOD was said to have demanded money for a project. In addition to that, the HOD had asked everyone in the final year level to contribute a certain amount of money for the project presentation. But of the two times he requested for the money, nothing was done and the money wasn’t traceable. Daniel was just one of the few outspoken persons and decided to expose the matter. Fortunately, an anonymous student, who also felt the pain of the extortion, wrote a petition against the HOD and submitted it to the necessary quarters. Daniel, on his own part, only showed his pain on Facebook, which went viral on the Internet. He was summoned and expelled for posting the matter on Facebook. Despite being expelled, Daniel received unabated threats from the HOD fingered in the extortion. Was the student expected by the school to keep silent on such issue? Another painful incident is the purported suspension of Ijeoma Caleb, who exposed the Students’ Union President over cases of fund diversion. Caleb was the Public Relations Officer of the union and he was in the right position to expose the mismanagement of funds by the union president who forged the General Secretary’s signature to withdraw unauthorised money from the union’s purse. Why should Caleb be suspended for exposing such an evil act? The union president fingered in the sleaze was never suspended for his illegal act neither were his accomplices expelled. What ridiculous acts going on in our tertiary institutions. Shall we continue like this? Some school managements are not ready to take to correction. Therefore, anyone who blocks their way will be shown the way out of the school. Is this the period to say silence is golden? No, I guess. We hope those who are speaking will continue to speak up. We must resist the threat to keep shut while decadence flourishes in our tertiary institutions. Like Kabir pointed out in his article, the world does not celebrate cowards. Let us rise up to mobilise against students victimisations. 