 The heat is in the air ahead of Thursday’s elections into the executive board of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). As gathered on Monday, officials from world football –ruling body, FIFA and the Confederation of African Football (CAF) will be arriving Nigeria in a couple of days as international observers for the elections which will be held in Katsina State. A background check indicates that a-no-nonsense- Army Colonel, Sita Sangare with experiences in  military justice is part of the CAF delegations. Sangare who doubles as the  President of the Burkina Faso Football Federation has been described as an iron man in his home country because of his high esteemed reputation and integrity. FIFA released names of two strict protocol officials that work directly with FIFA President Gianni Infantino that will lead its delegation to Nigeria for the poll. The observers are; Messrs Luca Piazza who is a senior official in the FIFA’s President’s office and Solomon Mudege – Senior Manager for Development Programmes (Africa). A check on the two delegates revealed that they are men of unquestionable characters. Already the city of Katsina town is already bubbling for the much –anticipated polls with the arrival on Monday of an advance team from the NFF Secretariat. The NFF Electoral Committee put in place by the NFF Congress at the 2017 Annual General Assembly in Jos, which is headed by Mr Muhammed Sani Katu, will conduct the polls. The committee has already cleared incumbent Amaju Pinnick, former Nigeria international and one –time NFF Secretary General Taiwo Ogunjobi, former NFF President Aminu Maigari and Chinedu Okoye to contest for the Presidency. Incumbent Seyi Akinwunmi will vie with Sunday Dele-Ajayi for the 1st Vice President’s position, while Patrick Ifeanyi Ubah will oppose incumbent Ibrahim Musa Gusau for the slot of Chairman of Chairmen. A total of 15 other persons will battle for the remaining eight available positions on the Executive Committee. All 44 Members of the Nigeria Football Federation Congress will cast their votes on Thursday. A number of the voters will arrive in Katsina on Tuesday.