Coach of the Pirates of Seychelles Gavin Jeanne has told his defenders to resist the temptation to blink against the likes of Ahmed Musa, Kelechi Iheanacho,  Odion Ighalo and Henry Onyekwuru who will be on duty in the attack for the Super Eagles when both teams clash on Saturday in Victoria. Jeanne who insisted that his team has equal chance of winning the match despite permutations in some quarters that they are underdogs in the battle of Stad Linite, noted that both teams have a disadvantage having lost their opening matches, adding that the tie will not be a tea party. Speaking with Seychelles News Agency (SNA) Jeanne said a must use strategy is to avoid conceding early goals. “Although we expect a difficult match, we would also like to win the match like any team in a competition. Playing against Nigeria will be no different,” Seychelles’ Coach Gavin Jeanne told SNA on Tuesday. What is important is for us to use an effective strategy because with Nigeria not paying attention can cost us heavily. We will be trying to at least not concede any goals early in the match and keep ourselves in the game as much as possible,” he said Some analysts in the Indian Ocean state with a population of 92,228 people by the 2016 estimate have predicted that the homers will lose to visiting Eagles but Secretary General of the Seychelles Football Federation George Bibi refused to accept such prediction insisting that football is not mathematics and anything can happen. “We will show that we can also face some of the biggest names in football. Many people are expecting us to lose the match but I always have an optimistic mind and believe that nothing is impossible in football. Both teams are gunning for victory after losing their first AfCON 2019 qualifying tie against South Africa and Libya respectively.  While the pirates were walloped 5-1 by The Mediterranean Knights of Libya, the Eagles threw away an opportunity to call the shots in the group losing 2-0 at home to Bafana Bafana of South Africa. Some soccer fans who bared their minds in a chat with sportinglife.ng ahead of Saturday’s match, warned the Eagles not to underrate the Pirates but us the match to return to winning ways after what they dubbed below par performance at the World cup in Russia.