A flood-ravaged community, Polobubo, in Warri North council of Delta State, has lamented the level of neglect its people have had to face due to lack of attention from those who should show genuine concerns. Polobubo, also known as Tsekelewu, an oil bearing community, has virtually been submerged by recent rising water levels and had called out to government, oil companies it plays host to and aid agencies to come help its people with evacuation and relief materials. Although it expressed appreciation to the Delta State for coming to its inhabitants with a N5 million aid for relief materials, it noted that the gesture would be nothing to ease the distress of over 30,000 persons. The community, in a statement signed by the National President of Polobubo (Tsekelewu) Group of Communities, Mr Ebilate Mac-Yoroki, also protested the state government’s refusal to lead Vice President Yemi Osinbajo (SAN), to visit it and see the level of distress the people are in. The statement, which noted that though the state government had made an inadequate attempt at relieving the people of the community, through the N5 million relief materials’ fund, lamented that the legislative representatives had abandoned them to their fate. “We thank the Delta state government for donating N5 million to buy relief materials for the flood devastated people of Polobubo ( Tsekelewu).
This is a community of over 30,000 people with four government primary and two secondary schools. It also has several private schools, churches etc. “We are a joint host communities to the Chevron Opuekeba platform ,Tsekelewu oil fields and Shell Opuama flow station, where government accrue billions of dollars regularly. For 30000 people to live on N5m is very a pathetic theory. We also protest Governor Okowa’s refusal to allow the Vice President visit Polobubo community where oil is being produced to feed the nation. “We therefore call on the federal and Delta state governments to urgently come to the aid of these innocent people, in a reasonable manner. Meanwhile Senator James Manager and Hon Daniel Reyeineju of the House of Representatives are not even aware of their dying voters’ plight. May God have mercy on us”, statement said.