Residents of Millennium Citi Centre Estate (MCCE), Gbagada, Lagos, yesterday protested harassment by suspected land grabbers. Chanting solidarity songs, the protesters stood outside the entrance of the estate from 7am, carrying placards with the inscription: ”We are law-abiding citizens, land grabbers leave us alone.” They accused land grabbers, popularly called omo onile, of unlawful invasion and instigating illegal arrest of private security personnel employed by the residents’ community development association. The demonstrators faulted the arrest of a security supervisor, Mr. Iyeke Williams and Jide Babalola, a barber in the estate and their subsequent parade by the police on national television. The chairman of the residents’ association, Mr. Soji Adeniji, said a faction of another family, having been politely prevented from forcibly entering the estate by security team, connived with the police to arrest and brutalise Williams and Babalola. He said: ”As the drama was unfolding, I was out of Lagos but I was receiving updates via telephone calls and on our estate’s social media platforms. The arrested victims were ordered by the police to lead them to my house. Since I was out of town, they forced themselves into my home and conducted a search without any warrant. My family was gripped with fear. “Throughout last week, the same team repeatedly came to my home at odd hours to ransack the place in search of me, with the intention to abduct and humiliate me over trumped up charges.” Adeniji appealed to the police authority to caution its operatives against being used by land grabbers to carry out illegal arrest. ”We have different omo onile (land grabbers) and all of them have militias that invade the estate and engage one another in supremacy battle. We do not want to be in the middle of this tug of war. They all have law suits against /among them that are yet to be decided by the courts and despite that they resort to self-help to claim ownership. Some residents of MCCE have even had to make payments to at least two of these families, to prevent disturbances. ”We call on the Inspector-General of Police to intervene, direct the release of the persons being illegally detained since September 13 and instruct officers and men of the Nigeria Police to stop lending themselves to being used for brazen illegality.” A representative of the original land owner, Antonio Delfino Da Meranda Family, Pastor Kolawole Shotayo, said his family sold the land to residents, adding that some persons who filed a suit against the family had resorted to self-help, instead of waiting for the outcome of the suit. ”I represent the owner of the land where the estate is situated, Delfino Da Meranda Family. We sold all the land in the area between 2002 and 2014. ”However, in 2010, members of a family that has nothing to do with our land filed a suit against us at a Lagos High Court sitting in Ikeja, presided over by Justice Olayinka. The suit is due for hearing again on November 7. ”If the family in question wants to do anything in the estate, they are supposed to file an interlocutory injunction. But instead of doing that they are carrying out illegal arrests.”