Not many followers of the music industry in the country are aware that former Kennis Music signee, Adewale Minjin Lawason, is a jack of many trades. Aside from music, the musician, is also a painter, actor, and music producer. The multi-talented artiste left Kennis Music few years ago after his five year deal at the onetime ‘go to’ label ended. The ‘Couple De Cale’ singer, in this interview with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN, reflects on life as an artiste, why he left Kennis Music, and his new journey as an independent musician. ASIDE from music you also draw and paint, tell us about it. Art is my business side because most of the people that buy my art work buy it because of the painting. They are not buying it because I am a musician or because they like my song. They buy it because it’s cute. Some of them don’t even like music. They are just rich people who have money and want to buy art sorks.  Music for me comes first because it is my life. You’ve been silent for some time now after hitting the limelight. What happened to Minjin? I came in with only one goal as per where I was coming from and I didn’t want to go back there. So I wanted to blow up but while I was trying to blow up I didn’t understand the music business. I didn’t even care about the money. I just knew that if I should become the number one artiste in Nigeria, there was no way I wouldn’t make money. I dropped those singles and it got to a time that the label had too many artistes and I was the last signee. So, after I dropped a single, they told me I had to wait for another guy to drop a single. So,  I was  calculating how many months all that would take.  Music is the faster you drop songs that are  hits, the bigger you become and the more you get paid. They (Kennis Music) had more than they could promote at a time . That’s what I felt). We had one manager for a whole label that had up to nine artistes. We requested for another manager but they didn’t accept because I’m sure they wanted the manager to be their own person. I didn’t have anybody to talk to so I was just doing things by myself not that I even knew how to do it and I got African recognition. But at the end of the day, there is no one to blame because nobody will mention the management or the label but they will say, Minjin you disappointed us. How long were you with Kennis Music? I was there for five years. I left there and worked with a management company in Malaysia and we had a good working relationship where they also took me for a tour but it didn’t work as I wanted it. Now I am doing everything by myself and I have a good team. What should your fans be expecting from you now as an independent artiste? I just shot a video to my single which will be out in like a week’s time and I am also dropping my EP. First time I will be dropping a collection of songs but I don’t know how many songs will be on it yet because I have over 50 songs ready. During that time when I wasn’t releasing music, I went into music production and I have been making money producing and writing songs for people and these people are mostly abroad and they pay well. I don’t produce for Nigerian artistes because they won’t want to pay. Was there any kind of misunderstanding that made you leave Kennis Music? No, it was basically mutual. I wanted to go because I felt like I needed to test new waters because it’s like when you put in so much and you get so little and then still have to be answerable to somebody. What has the music industry taught you? It has taught me that you need to get the best team first and putting out your stuffs is good. Just imagine Rihanna posting that I am her favourite artiste. Imagine how many people will look for me even if they don’t know me because it matters who is taking about you.  The best musician in Nigeria has not blown. He might just be somewhere doing ‘yahoo yahoo’ sef. What I am trying to say is that there are lots of talents out there that are yet to be discovered. Yahoo boys are invading the industry .I How is this affecting artistes who have no money for promotion… It is also affecting me. But thank God for social media and other music platforms where you can showcase your art. Do you think it is necessary for artistes to own a record label? I think it is the best bet in Nigeria