Colonial mentality is a form of internal oppression in which the colonised prefer and think highly of the customs, values and beliefs of their colonial masters.” – Nadal, 2011.  Wikipedia defines colonial mentality as the “internalised attitude of ethnic or cultural inferiority felt by a people as a result of colonisation, that is, them being colonised by another group.” It is not out of place to state emphatically that most Nigerians, if not all, are white men in black skins, as we have projected ourselves as promoters of the customs, beliefs, lifestyles and conventions of our colonial masters. Before I broach the subject matter, let me disclose that I was inspired to write on this topic by two incidents. The first was a fierce argument on the Champions League final between Real Madrid and Liverpool, while the other was an embarrassing slavery scene of a Chinese construction company, conveying their black labourers in a manner similar to the slave trade era. I watched with keen interest how hardworking Nigerian youths engaged in passionate debate about the Champions League final. While the fans of Real Madrid boasted about the unmatched experience of the Spanish team in the competition; those that comprised supporters of especially English teams pledged their support for Liverpool. However, the sympathisers of Liverpool, I perceived, were only in solidarity walk with the team so that the true fans do not walk alone as they tackled almighty Madrid last May. The ones I identified as supporters of Chelsea, Arsenal, and Manchester United pledged their support for Liverpool on the premise that it is an English team. “We are loyal to EPL,” one of them said. “Really,” I muttered. When did an EPL team become Enugu Rangers or Sunshine Stars of Ibadan to deserve our loyalty? I subjected my brain to rigorous exercise and I resolve that, the self-infected colonial mentality seems hereditary – our forefathers had a taste of colonial yoke during the years of colonial rule and the ambience of colonialism has refused to depart successive generations. Despite being granted independence on October 1, 1960, we still project ourselves to be offshoots to world powers like our very own Great Britain, United States of America (USA), France, and others. I would not wish to go into political and economic neo-colonialism, a contraption standing against the progress of most African countries, but I shall limit this discourse to deliberate on the traits of colonialism in our society. Colonial mentality, as asserted by Wikipedia, is an attitude of ethnic or cultural inferiority that has found its way into our subconscious existence and unashamedly seems to be eroding our traditional culture. I shall soon get to the second incident I witnessed, and readers would agree with me that Fela was right when he said: “dem don release you now, but you never release yourself …” Apart from supporting European football teams, do we not also crave for imported goods? Nigerians define class by foreign appearance. They want to know from what country you got your shirts, which foreign company produced your shoes, and which foreign brand sell the smartest suits? Our wild appetite for foreign products is legendary. Those in the top echelon of the society join the government in preaching “buy made-in-Nigeria products”, yet they rush to buy foreign products. Isn’t that an attestation to colonial mentality? As a man, when assessing a lady, you consider European features to be the standard for beauty; you detest our traditional hairstyles like kolese, kojusoko, ipako-elede, but prefer Ghana weavings, Russian style or Brazilian braids. What has happened to an ‘Omoluabi’ appearance? The height of inferiority complex is the use of bleaching cream. Those bleaching their skin prefer the artificial coke and Fanta colour it gives to their natural dark skin. Some of them bleach their skins and turn out to be worst humans. Most annoying are those who discriminate against their fellow countrymen in such areas as class, religion and ethnicity. The way Nigerians have personalised and indigenised the foreign religions is amazing; “black folks can tell you about every religion under the sun, but too sacred to talk about their own African gods.” Favouring traditional European attires (suits) over our own kembe for formal occasions is an evidence that we are comfortable being subservient to our colonial masters. About two weeks ago, one of my friends, Kenny, was clad in Ankara material and he was being queried by his classmates why he would appear native on a Monday. He wondered if it was in the school regulation not to wear native attires on a Monday. Kenny was being scrutinised as though, he was mentally ill, simply because he dropped the colonial convention. About the Chinese construction company that I mentioned earlier, it is pathetic and dehumanising scene which made me feel ashamed of my fatherland. Every day, I see Nigerians working with China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) being lumped together like sardine fishes at the back of pick-up vehicles to and from construction sites, while the expatriate contractors are ridden in posh vehicles with tinted glasses and police cover. For how long would our graduates be doing menial jobs under foreigners like their fathers did last century, while the expatriates with college certificates get government contracts all in the name of “technical experts?” Nigerian leaders are so in awe of expatriates that even in things as mundane as road constructions. Our leaders take pride in being photographed with some second rate foreign contractors. These contractors, I’m sure, are not different from illiterate bricklayers we have here, but the Chinese contractors will be parading themselves as the best professionals in the face of our leaders. Colonial mentality has eaten deep our brain and its pervasiveness is easily noticed. We are a people who feel inferior of originality in a bid to glorify foreigners and their concepts. When will Nigerians purge themselves of this colonial mentality? 