The Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Abia State,  Dr. Emmanuel Ndukwe, has said Chief Ikechi Emenike is the party’s only genuine governorship aspirant. He spoke with reporters in Abuja. According to him, some of the other so-called ‘‘aspirants’’ have not even registered in the party. One of them, according to him, a well-known PDP member, even claimed to have joined the party barely two weeks ago. Ndukwe said: “I  am worried that the national leaders of the party are watching, as a   gang   of   PDP/PPA   members   are   assiduously   working   to   drive   away   original   APCfaithfuls. While it is alleged that the current PDP government in Abia   State   bought   APC   governorship   nomination   forms   for   a   former   PDP   deputy governor and a prince in Ngwa land, it is even more true that a young man who benefitted from   oil   subsidy scam, from   Isuikwuato bought  forms  for  himself   and   three   others, including a failed diplomat from Ukwa. He similarly bought form for this same man when they  played a similar spoilers role  in the PDP in 2015. ‘‘In   their   usual   political   practice,   those   characters   have   shared   the political positions among themselves. While the nouvoux riche becomes the governorship candidate, the failed diplomat from Ukwa axis has been tipped to be his running mate; just as they are also falsely  promising  a  former  speaker  of  the  Abia  State  House  of Assembly the same deputy governorship position. ‘‘It is the visionary absence of  High Chief Ikechi Emenike  in a premeditated meeting that put a temporary halt to this wicked manoeuvring. It is only a matter of time before they announce the man from Isuikwuator axis and his ally from Ukwa East as their preferred gubernatorial flag bearers in the State.  This is not coming to us as a surprise, since we know  the antecedents of  the  actors in this  group. In  their bid to  take over the  party structure in the state, as soon as they purportedly came into the party, through the backdoor, they put  spanners in the  then ongoing  harmonisation process through a willing accomplice,  who played along with them to stall the harmonisation process that was aimed at strenghtening the party in the local governments and wards of Abia State.”