LIKE germs which we have all learned to hate, fear and kill since medical researchers came up with the GERM THEORY of the causes of disease and death, the HEAVY METALS THEORY is staring us in the face today on an even more magnified scale than those posed by germs. Heavy metals are poisonous to the human body, are present in large amounts in the air we breathe, the food we eat and the water we drink. Mother Nature who designed the human body is renowned for her wisdom. She implanted in the human body mechanisms for removing these heavy metals, and she gave to man plants which, as foods or herbs help to empower these mechanisms. Man created neither the world in which he lives nor his body. He found himself in this wonderful creation as a guest for a purpose.  That purpose many people have failed to discover in many earth lives which are as good as wasted. Rather, they have become unruly guests in that creation who, would not adjust themselves to it, support and protect it for their own good and well- being but prefer to wantonly turn it upside down. This misconduct has led not only to the proliferation of germs despite pasteurisation, immunisation and the discovery of anti-biotic but, also, to the emergence of thousands of poisons and heavy metals in the air, food and water. As mentioned in the first part of this series, SEUN OGUNSEITAN, Assistant Science Editor of The Guardian in the 1980s, discovered at that time, the underground water in Ijesha area of Lagos, on which thousands of people depended for drinking and cooking water was polluted by heavy metals to the tune of thousand folds of the World Health Organisation (WHO) permitted safety levels. It must have been well over 30 years after, as cancer ravage climbed to an almost epidemic proportion, and as kidney failure, cataracts of the eye lens and other degenerative diseases began to overwhelm the medical profession that inklings of possible heavy metals poisoning began to filter to the public from government official. When this subject came up among some of my acquaintances in a housing estate and I said I did not drink the water from the bore hole in my house because I had not analysed it for heavy metal presence, one man said he damned the consequences and drank from his bore hole because he had no assurance that producers of “pure water” (sachet water) or bottle water removed heavy metals from their brands. I respected his argument. As I said in the first part of this series (it has been posted in www.olufemikusa.com), some pure water brands taste as if they are over-chlorinated. But when you boil the water, hoping to chase out the chlorine through vapourisation, you discover that the water tastes worse, implying that nothing good has happened to the solute. If anything, it has become more concentrated and, therefore, more dangerous. This part of the series will attempt to briefly examine some heavy metals, some of the havocs they cause human health, including death, and some of the foods and herbs which Mother Nature, in her wisdom provided on this earth, long before man set foot on it, for the removal of heavy metals we may ingest with food, water and air. Man has only been foolish not to read the CREATION MANUAL, as he reads the operational manual from the manufacturer of his motor car, air-plane, refrigerator or cell phone. Mother Nature speaks to us in the gardens, in the woods, but we have become so deaf we no longer can hear her voice audibly well enough to understand her language. We see the male pawpaw (Papaya) plant, which bears no fruit. We think it is a useless plant, and cut it down. We see lots of seeds in the pawpaw fruit and believe they are merely for the propagation of the papaya species. We see the soft kernel in the mango seed, and cannot make anything of it. Marigold flower smiles alluringly at us in the garden or road-side, and we merely walk by, hardly noticing it. Was it not only recently that some people began to appreciate corn silk? Today, we have discovered a new use (ulcer treatment) for olcra, when it is prepared in a special way that is said to be good as well for cancer. Need we mention again yet amazing results in cancer research which oncologists (cancer doctors) have achieved with LEMON GRASS which is largely known in Nigeria for Malaria Treatment, and perhaps from keeping snakes away from residences? We can go on and on, and on… Some Heavy Metals In the 1980s, about 30 years ago to be exact, I had my first known exposure to a heavy metal, mercury. It was only after that insult to my body and health that I realised how often I had been bombarded by heavy metals, without realising it. I had followed my wife to her dentist’s. Often, she saw him for scaling and polishing of the teeth. She suggested that, I, too, could scale and polish mine. The dentist frightened me when he said about six of my teeth could develop holes in six months but that I could avert that and their removal by filling up the wear and tear. I agreed. Then, he began to drill some of them, one after the other. I had thought he was just going to fill them up with some form of tooth material as we patch ashphalt roads with ashphalt. When the powder from the drilling made me believe he was doing the wrong thing, I didn’t allow him to touch the fourth, fifth and sixth teeth. He now proceeded to filling the three he drilled with what he called a mercury amalgam. A conference of German dentists and researchers years after exposed the danger of mercury amalgam to the world, and many people began to sue their dentists. One of these dangers is that mercury, being radioactive, may vapourise in the mouth, and the vapour may damage the gums, roof of the mouth and even engulf nerves, eyes and the brain. When I learned that, I began to take chelated zinc supplement with meals as this helps to drag mercury out of the blood and organs. If your dentist replaces mercury amalgam with plastic, you are likely to suffer as well from the problems of plastic in the body. They contain DIOXIN, a carcenogenic substance and other equally dangerous chemicals. Mercury is in the fish we eat, if it comes from deep sea into which industrial nations dump mercury waste from their industrial plants. As a schoolboy, I indulged in the use of ASEPSO, an anti-septic soap laden with mercury which ends up in the liver. Heavy metals include Lead, Cadmium, Arsenic, Bismuth, Gold Silver and Platinum. Lead is present in lead pencil, paints, petroleum, tyres etc. So, every time you inhale car or bus smoke, you are inhaling Lead in the air you breathe. If you paint your house and inhale paint smell, you are likely to ingest Lead. Children who eat paint flakes falling off walls when the paint adhesive expires may end up with Lead Poisoning and impairment of their brains. The same goes for children who assist their mothers to sell their wares by road-sides where traffic exhaust is rife. The World Health Organization (W.H.O) adds to its 16 top toxic metals, some of which are mentioned above, such metals as are required by the human body in small amounts but, in larger amounts, lead to toxicity and danger to health. These additions to the list include Manganese (for immunity), Chromium (for sugar balance), Cobalt, Nickel (cause cancer in the prostate gland), Copper (needed to prevent anaemia), Zinc (required by about 200 enzymes systems in the body), Selenium (needed for immunity), Silver, Antimony and Thalium (found in some lipsticks). Antimony, found in glass and ceramics among other household utensils, is also dangerous. But the most feared three heavy metals are Mercury, Cadmium and Lead. Lagos state is reported to have detoxified 7,000 school children of lead accumulation in their bodies. CADMIUM This heavy metal accumulates in the body. Long-term exposure causes renal (kidney) failure, lung disease and lung cancer. It may cause bone problems such as osteoporosis and osteomalacia, high blood pressure. It is thought that smoking up to 20 cigarettes in one day may raise cadmium levels in the body. Cadmium is used in batteries. It may even find it way into re-chargeable power sources, especially where low maintenance costs with high physical and electrical resistance to stress its desirable. Cadmium is present, also, in detergents, phosphate fertilizers and refined petroleum products, including plastics. Talking about plastics, we must note contact tenses, knee cap. Cilantro The Yoruba’s of two generations ago valued this vegetable which, till this day, is known among this south-western Nigerian people as Efo Ebolo (d-m … r-d) World-wide today, medical researchers accept cilantro as a great kidney cleanser and healer with many more health promoting benefit. For example, Cilantro removes heavy metals from the body, challenges and protects against oxidative stress and damage, improves sleep like Vervain and lettuce, helps against anxiety, lowers elevated blood sugar, thereby protecting against cardiovascular problems such as heart attack, heart failure and stroke, curtails urinary tract infections, overcomes digestive system upsets and food poisoning, among its many other benefits. Europe is now well ahead of Nigeria in the cultivation and use of this vegetables and herbs. Under its NEW USES OF AGRICULTURE culture in which agriculture is no longer practiced solely for growing food and cash crops. Medicinal vegetables and herbs such as cilantro are cultivated in plantation-size farms and processed into powders, capsules, tablets, tinctures etc. and sold world wide. CHLORELLA This is a green algae always mentioned in this column as good for cellular detoxification, cellular energy, blood sugar management, protection against Glycation End Products which may damage the eyes, kidneys and nerves, weight management, and mineralisation. There is no doubt that chlorella detoxifies heavy metals from the body and the brain in particular. But some experts say its binding to them may not be strong enough to pull these chelated heavy metals and chemicals completely out of the body. The implication of this is that these substances, though extracted from the cells, may congregate in the blood, and that chlorella may, therefore, need help from other detoxifiers to finish off the job if it cannot do it all alone. In this regard, Cilantro is often looked upon for this collaboration. People undergoing chemotherapy benefit from this collaboration. Personally, I prefer more than one line of attack or defence during detoxification. And that is why I do not fail to add to the protocol such other aid as Alkaline Vitamin C, Chelated Zinc. Grape Seed Extract, Orange Peel Powder and Cilantro, among others. Replacements, artificial eye lenses, pure water sachet and even cheap bottle water plastics. LEAD POISONING From wikipedia, we learn “The brain is the most sensitive. Symptoms may include abdominal pain , constipation , headaches, irritability, memory problems, inability to have children, and tingling in the hands and feet. It causes almost 10 percent of intellectual disability of otherwise unknown cause and can result in behavioural problems. In severe cases, anaemia, seizures, coma on death may occur. Chickens are at greater risk as they are more likely to put objects in their month such as those that contain lead Paint and can absorb a greater proportion of the lead that the eat”. MERCURY POISONING From wikipedia, we learn again that symptoms of mercury poisoning may include muscle weakness, pour co-ordination, numbness in hands and feet, skin rashes, anxiety, trouble speaking, memory problems, trouble hearing and trouble seeing…  Long term complications include kidney problems, and decreased intelligence. Forms of mercury exposure include metal, vapour , salt and organic compounds. Most exposure is from eating fish, amalgam based dental fillings or exposure at work. In fish, those higher up the food chain generally have higher levels of mercury. NATURAL CHELATORS There are pharmaceutical agents which remove heavy metals from the body. We are concerned here about the natural agents, because being natural, they should pose less risk to health and be more effective since they are not manmade but designed by Mother Nature for this and other purposes. ACTIVATED CHARCOAL The fact that the burning charcoal release mercury into the air should be enough warning that the consumption of charcoal smoked foods may be dangerous. Some of the popular charcoal- roasted foods in Nigeria are beef barbecue (suya ), corn, plantain, fish and cow skin (ponmo or Ikanda). I enjoyed cow skin as a child, but not anymore. I always imagine now that not only may I be eating a potential shoe or hand bag, since they are made from hides and skin, but remember as well that cow skin is cured or roasted in bonfires of dirty, disused tyres fired by petrol and charcoal, all of which release not only toxic gases into the cow skin but heavy metals such as lead, cadmium, mercury and arsenic, to mention only these. Charcoal is not all bad news, nevertheless. I am speaking now about Activated charcoal, the charcoal fired in the factory oven at immensely high temperature to free it of its toxic adhesive or composite materials, after which it is safe for oral use. In the doctor’s book of Home Remedies we learned: “finely ground, this substance which is often taken to alleviate gas may lapch onto cholesterol molecules in the body and escort them safely out. In one study, patient had a 41 percent drop in LDL levels after taking one quarter ounce of Activated Charcoal three times a day for four weeks” It goes on: “Some studies have found that Activated Charcoal tablets are effective in eliminating excessive gas. Charcoal absorbs gases and may be useful for flatulence, says Dr Klein. “It is probably the best available treatment after appropriate dietary changes have been made and other gastro- enterological diseases have been treated or ruled out.” When it comes to heavy metal chelating, it has been suggested that, while Activated charcoal may do the job in the intestine, it may carry no punch in the tissues, as the body can neither digest nor absorb it. ZEOLYTE Formed when volcanic eruptions mixed with sea water and cooled, zeolyte appears on the health food shelves today in liquid and solid forms. It chelates heavy metals, alkalises the body, strengthens immunity, is thought to improve mood, is anti- microbial, is a master detoxifier, support kidney function, reduces allergies, is anti oxidant, improves liver function and digest on. A type of named CLINOPTILOLITE was found in an experiment to remove toxic metals from the body through the urine without causing electrolyte depletion. Zeolyte works through its molecules which exert a strong magnetic force on metallic toxins in afflicted tissues, pulling these into themselves. The metals it galvanises to itself include is lead, aluminum, mercury, cadmium and arsenic. Zeolyte worked for a Nigerian in Benin with a high prostate sensitive Antigen (PSA) text result so high that an oncologist advised his testes be taken out on account that he may be suffering from hormone dependent prostate cancer. The man took a gamble with zeolyte and the high PSA crashed to near normal in about two months to the surprise of even this doctor son. The miraculous healing power ascribe to zeolyte are not surprising, bearing in mind that all earthly life forms are said to have originated from water, and that sea water comprises about 94 elements, sea salt about 83 where as modern agricultural practices are based on only three… sodium, phosphorus and potassium. Maybe only from wheatgrass which takes up 100 percent of the elements in its soil environment, and other grasses do we have an attempt any more for the land to balance out with the sea in terms of nutritive potentials. DIATOMACEOUS EARTH Diatom was formed from the remains of unicellular algae like remains, some specialists say, more than 30 million years ago. It is a chalk – like day which has been used for decades to normalise blood lipids, detoxify blood and tissue , fight harmful organisms in the bowels and chelate heavy metals out of the body. It is about 96 percent silica in composition. This makes it good for skin elasticity, suppless and heath, hair growth, nail hardening and beauty. Silica is essential for optimal functioning of tendons, cartilage, blood vessels and bones. From the results of some studies, diatom improved the health of many organs, including the heart, liver and lungs. For human consumption, the food grade of Diatom is used, as in raw form, this natural product is a pesticide. The food grade has saved me more than on one or two occasions from food poisoning when I ate bananas ripened with carbide. I was close to death, to say the least. But I bounced back to life within one hour of UDEME JAMES who was with me making a drink of one teaspoonful of Diatom Powder in one glass of water. The drink absorbed the toxins in the bananas and helped to flush them out of the bowels and tissues. 