Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the battle for the Bola Ige House and the chances of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) at the poll. Osun State is warming up for a critical contest. Many believe it may be a festival of choice and change. On Friday, residents will troop out to choose Governor Rauf Aregbesola’s successor. The poll will herald a new dawn in less than 70 days. What are the issues that will shape the exercise? No fewer than 48 candidates are eyeing the Bola Ige House. But, only five-Gboyega Oyetola (All progressives Congress (APC), Ademola Adeleke (Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Iyiola Omisore (Social Democratic Party (SDP), Moshod Adeoti (African Democratic Party) and Fatai Akinbade (African Democratic Congress)-are serious contenders. Analysts have predicted a tough battle. The exercise may not be a walk over. One of the factors that is likely to shape the poll is merit. To the people, competence is key. This may have made observers to single out Oyetola as the flag bearer likely to carry the day. His party is formidable. In the last seven and half years, he has acquired more experience about governance in Osun and he is conversant with the challenges. Besides, his party has worked for the development of the state under the indefatigable Governo Rauf Aregbesola, whose sterling performance in eight years cannot be ignored. Many believe that Oyetola has been the stabiliser of the administration and a key driver of the giant strides. During the direct primary that thre him up as candidate, there was a momentary split. Predictably, it was a stormy shadow poll. Feathers were somehow ruffled. However, the  skirmishes contained. Although his major rival, Adeoti, called it quits with the platform, APC has remained formidable as a party to beat on Saturday. Aspirants and other chieftains who were aggrieved, following the emergence of the former Chief of Staff as flag bearer, have reiterated confidence in his ability and in the wider accommodation provided by ruling party. They have resolved to close ranks for the party’s ultimate victory. Oyetola, a fair player who strongly believes in the saying that “a tree does not make a forest,” has reached out to many of them and succeeded in winning them back to the fold. However, observers said that those who have refused to accept the olive branch are in the minority and may not have the capacity to muster enough votes that can stop him. Poll-confident stalwarts who expressed the optimism, said that no matter how tough the contest may seem, the APC candidate would emerge winner. A party chieftain from Ilesa said: “”That he won the primary against some formidable forces that include Deputy Speaker, House of Representatives, Hon. Lasun Yusuf; former Secretary to Government Moshood Adeoti and over 20 others that contested for the APC ticket with him, speaks volume of his ability.” For Oyetola, the future is more important than the present.  When he was appointed as Chief of Staff, little did he guess that he will also be part of the struggle for the driver’s seat. He has worked with faith and fidelity as a principal aide of the governor. He is also at home with the party as a member of the progressive bloc since 1999. According to party chieftains, Oyetola has rendered exemplary service to the people of his state, adding that he has acquitted himself with governance and its intricacies that he was practically into everything in the government, especially during Aregbesola’s second term in office. The Southwest progressive bloc is pushing for a government of continuity, with Oyetola as its symbol. On his chances, the party chairman, Gboyega Famodun, said the candidate is coming to build on the feats already achieved by his former boss. “The people of the State of Osun know what is good for them and they will make a good choice in person of Gboyega Oyetola, a man of experience, honour, reputation and integrity,” added. Also, Aregbesola’s Special Adviser on Information, Semiu Okanlawon, said: “We don’t really need to lose sleep over the election concerning Oyetola’s victory on Saturday. It is a fait accompli. It is a payback time. The good people of Osun State would use the election as a parting gift to His Excellency, Rauf Aregbesola. “One good turn deserves another. If you look at the work the outgoing administration has done in the state, particularly in the areas of education, infrastructure, social re-engineering of the state, you would appreciate the commitment to governance. We anchor our campaign on continuity. He added: “The Oyetola administration will continue with the strides the Aregbesola government has made. You know in Nigeria, the brand of politics people play is a bad one.People appropriate government and personalise it rather than making it a continuum, which it is actually what it is; that is why we see abandoned projects in many states because a new administration that does not understand the meaning of development would just come on board and begin to jettison progressive foundation instead of building on it. “They would start another foundation which they would not be able to complete. We do not want such a thing in the state of Osun. Oyetola will build on the successes Aregbesola has made, and that is continuity, no dislocation. This is the message we have continued to drive into the consciousness of our people. I am glad they have really understood that message perfectly. So, Saturday is just going to be a formality; an endorsement by the good people of Osun.” The messages of continuity and consolidation at rallies are not falling on deaf ears. An analyst said: “Should this message be bought by the electorate, many of whom rate highly the Aregbesola’s reign, it may translate into huge votes for the APC candidate.” Also, the people’s perception about the candidate is positive. He has been calm and calculating during campaigns. Oyetola spoke on his drive, saying: “Our core agenda is continuity and consolidation. The six integral action plan of the out-going administration has transformed the Osun landscape and changed the face of infrastructure in the state.” He added:  “We shall be guided by the invaluable experiences we have acquired from the implementation of the six-point integral action plan of banishing hunger, poverty, unemployment; restoring healthy living, promoting functional education and enhancement of communal peace and progress enunciated by the Aregbesola-led administration. We will ensure that the plan is objectively reviewed for effectiveness and efficiency in order to learn from what worked and what did not quite work. “My approach shall be innovation, quality, accountability and effective teaching. Technical and vocational education will be strengthened to provide technical skills for our people. Higher education will not be left out. The focus of higher education will not be left out. The focus of higher tertiary education will be to produce self-reliant individuals.” Oyetola is also seen as a perfect successor to Aregbesola by many keen followers of political events in the state going by the the enormous influence he wields in the current administration and to keep the machinery of state moving at same tempo and direction. “Oyetola is the best man for the job”, said Olu Akinola. He further said: “Having understudied  Aregbesola for eight years, Oyetola appears well-grounded and prepared to wear the big shoes of his boss. His brilliance, calmness, thoroughness and ability to pay attention to details must have endeared him to many, especially core professionals, academics and other categories of people in the state. I have no doubt that he will garner block votes from these quarters, and he will ultimately emerge victorious. “The fact that Osun Central where the candidate comes from, has the largest number of voters and also has Osogbo and Olorunda Local Government Areas, whose votes gave Aregbesola almost 40 percent of the votes that made him governor in 2014, is also to the advantage of the APC candidate.” The candidate has the backing of prominent APC stalwarts, including Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who is expected to throw his weight behind him.  But, the candidate is not a poor man.  Oyetola has the financial wherewithal to fight a legitimate battle. He is isolalated from the pack of politicians struggling for power because they see politics as a means of livelihood. Speaking on his chances, even if there is gang up against him under the guise of coalition, he said: “Coalition, alliance and mergers are part of the antics of power struggle in a democracy. But, obviously that is and can never be a threat to my ambition. “Sovereignty rests with the people. They are the ultimate judge who will, on Saturday decide who gets their mandate. The people are sufficiently knowledgeable and conscious of what they want. The APC has served them transparently and inclusively in the last eight years. “The people want continuity of governance. They want their children to continue to eat free and nourishing food in schools. They know that we value education. They want to continue to enjoy soft loan for business, and they know we are the ones that can serve them better. “They know such alliance is a mere conspiracy to impose people with little or no capacity to provide the required leadership. They know we are not pretenders. I am confident that come Saturday, good people of Osun State will return the APC government to the Government House.” Aregbesola, Oyetola is a candidate to beat, stressing that  he has justified his capacity and capability as a man of impeccable character and worthwhile personality, who remains dogged and forthright to all policies that had impacted positively the lives of the citisens. He added: “We are not in doubt about Oyetola’s competence and ability. He is calm and much more reserved. He knows the job and he will serve our people. He will advance the development programme of our party.”