A 44-year-old travel agent, Oluseyi Lamoru, was yesterday arraigned before an Ikeja Special Offences Court for allegedly forging a West African Examinations Council (WAEC) certificate and Ecobank and First Bank statements of accounts. He was arraigned by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on an eight-count charge of possession of fraudulent document before Justice Oluwatoyin Taiwo. Lamoru pleaded not guilty. The prosecutor, Mr. Spiff Owede, said the agent committed the offence on August 22, last year in Lagos. He alleged that the defendant, with intent to defraud, forged a WAEC certificate with the name Shonubi Muheeba Olasunbo, purporting it to be issued by WAEC. “Lamoru with fraudulent intent, forged five Benue State University, Makurdi, certificates, which contained false pretences. “He also forged an Ecobank statement of account with number 2852009964 with the name Adewale Anuoluwapo Kudirat and a First Bank statement of account with the name Ajibode Oluwaseun Olusola,” Owede said. The offence contravenes Section 6 of the Advance Fee Fraud and Other Related Offences Act 2006 and Section 363(1) of the Criminal Law of Lagos State 2011. Owede requested that the defendant be remanded in prison to avoid congesting EFCC cells. “With the non-guilty plea of the defendant,  I will ask that he be remanded in prison custody so that we can begin trial immediately,” he said. Objecting, Lamoru’s defence counsel Ademola Adewale requested that the defendant be remanded in EFCC custody. “Prior to his arraignment, he has been on administrative bail and he never jumped bail,” Adewale said. But Owede said: “Our response is that upon arraignment, the proper custody should be the prison. “It’s unfortunate that we have no space in the commission. Immediately he stepped out, a new suspect took his place.” Justice Taiwo ordered that Lamoru be remanded in EFCC custody since he never jumped his administrative bail. Justice Taiwo adjourned till October 12 for hearing of the defendant’s bail application.