Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, and the governor-elect of Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi have joined other well-wishers in congratulating the governor-elect of Osun State, Mr Gboyega Oyetola, for winning the keenly contested governorship election in the State on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). Oyetola was declared governor-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) at the end of Thursday’s re-run election in seven wards. Oyetola polled a total of 255,505 votes to defeat his closest rival and candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Ademola Adeleke, who scored 255,023 votes. Ambode, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Habib Aruna, said it was a well-deserved victory as the people of Osun had made a choice to vote for continuity and experience, which he said Oyetola represents. He congratulated the All Progressives Congress (APC) for yet another victory, saying it was a confirmation that the people still have confidence in the programme and policies of the party not only in Osun but also across the country. He also commended the people of Osun State for comporting themselves during the exercise, noting that despite the inconclusive election on September 22, voters defied the heavy downpour to come out en masse to exercise their franchise during the re-run election. “The election has been deservedly won. The good people of Osun have chosen quality continuity over uncertainty. “I have no doubt in my mind that the Governor-elect will bring his wealth of experience to bear and continue with the good works of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, call for unity and take Osun to greater heights,” Ambode said. He also urged those aggrieved with the result to channel their grievances to the appropriate quarters rather than resort to self-help. In similar vein, Ekiti State Governor-Elect, Dr Kayode Fayemi, and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have congratulated Oyetola on his victory. While Fayemi said the Southwest regional integration and development agenda will now become a reality, Ekiti APC urged Oyetola to consolidate on the gains recorded under outgoing Governor Rauf Aregbesola. Fayemi in a statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media, Olayinka Oyebode, described the keenly contested election as a reflection of the huge political awareness and maturity of the people of Osun State, adding that it was heart-warming that the better candidate emerged victorious. He said: “Congratulations to the Governor-Elect, Gboyega Oyetola, and to our great party, APC.  The people have spoken, and clearly too. It is indeed victory for democracy and all lovers of progress. “The regional integration and development agenda of the South West would now become a reality, with all the attendant benefits for the people of the geo-political zone.” Dr Fayemi, who described Oyetola as a seasoned administrator and astute manager of men and resources, said he is confident the governor-elect will take the state to the next level of development, having been a part of Governor Rauf Aregbesola’s development-focused administration. Ekiti APC, in a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Hon. Ade Ajayi, described the victory as an opportunity for Oyetola to build on the good works of the Aregbesola administration whom he described as “the builder of modern Osun.” Ajayi expressed optimism that the governor-elect would further transform Osun with the people-centered manifesto of the APC, going by his antecedents and exploits as a loyal party man who stood by his principal. While pledging collaboration and cooperation with Osun APC, Ajayi commended Aregbesola for ensuring that the party retains Osun despite the “antics of some retrogressive and reactionary elements.” The Ekiti APC hailed the people of Osun State for their steadfastness and peaceful conduct before, during and after the election, urging opposition parties to accept the result in good faith and cooperate with the governor-elect on the task of building a prosperous state.