Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal on Friday stormed Ekiti State to woo the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) delegates in the Fountain of Knowledge ahead of the October 6 presidential primary. Tambuwal, who is a PDP presidential aspirant, promised to give Nigeria dynamic and quality leadership if he wins the party’s ticket and the
presidential election. The former Speaker of the House of Representatives said he has what it 1takes to preside over the affairs of a complex country like Nigeria
given his pedigree and experience both in the legislature and executive. Tambuwal said he was motivated to join the presidential race because of what he called the “poor performance” of President Muhammadu Buhari whom he accused of presiding over a divided Nigeria. He promised to accede to the demands of Nigerians who are demanding the restructuring of the country to allow for the practice of true
federalism and correct the alleged lopsidedness in sharing of resources and political offices. The aspirant urged the party members and the electorate to elect a “pan-Nigeria President” in the 2019 general elections saying an ethnic
jingoist and a religious bigot is not suitable for the nation’s top job. He also urged leaders and members of PDP not to be discouraged by what he called “the oppression and humiliation being unleashed by the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led Federal Government. The Sokoto governor commended Fayose saying “if not for people like him (Fayose), the PDP would not have been where it is today because
Governor Fayose has fought hard to reposition the party in Ekiti and at national levels.” Tambuwal said: “The focus of every Nigerian in 2019 is to vote for a President that is Pan-Nigerian; a man who is not an ethnic jingoist or
religious bigot. “We are all aware that the present government is desperate to perpetuate itself in power. They are ready to do those things outside the laws of the land to remain in power. That was why they have been harassing leaders like Governor Ayodele Fayose. “You must try and give the PDP flag to someone who believes in the unification of this country, someone who has traversed the length and
breadth of this nation; Someone who has moved from Maiduguri to Lagos, from Port Harcourt to Sokoto and from the East to the extreme North as a private person. “As the former Deputy Minority Whip, Minority Leader and Speaker in the House of Representatives, I have an idea about the geographical
configuration of this nation, so I am in good position to respect individual rights. “I will not be that President that will shut the doors against restructuring, I will even facilitate debate that will quickly enhance true and proper fiscal federalism. As a leader, it is not good for you to impose your will on the people, you must allow diverse opinions based on our religious and ethnic diversity. “As a President, I will respect the Rule of Law. I won’t be a President that would say National security is higher the rights of individuals. I will ensure we have peace across the nation through enhanced technology to build security architecture that will protect Nigerians.” Responding, Fayose said Nigeria needs a vibrant and youthful President to tackle the various challenges threatening its corporate existence noting that Tambuwal represents the youthful generation. Fayose described the APC-led Federal Government as a ‘monster’ that was only allegedly interested in oppressing people with power, rather
than transforming their lives. The Ekiti governor lambasted the federal government for allegedly excluding Ekiti from benefiting from N2.5 million Budget support and
N11 billion Paris Club Funds released to some states recently, alluding to such as anti-democratic and against the principles of federation. He charged the PDP presidential hopeful to campaign for the PDP the way he did in 2015 for President Buhari. Fayose said: “You (Tambuwal) were one of those who repackaged President Buhari in 2015 and ensured he won the presidential election.
You must make sure you do same in the 2019 election. “Everyone knows that we need a youthful President with energy. Someone who can see Nigeria as one indivisible entity, not a tribalist and religious bigot. The treasure of any man is his vitality, which would make him work harder to deliver his people from poverty. “Look at what they did now, they excluded Ekiti from N11.6b Paris Club and N2.5b budget support fund I would have used to pay the backlog of salaries. “I want to appeal to all workers to ensure that the money is not diverted. They should ensure that it was used to pay their salaries the way I would have loved to do. “So, in selecting the presidential candidate for our party, Ekiti delegates will vote wisely. We will vote for a president we can trust and the one that will see all Nigerians as one.”