EKITI State Governor Ayodele Fayose is on the watch-list of security agencies – about four weeks to the end of his tenure. Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) detectives want to question Fayose over his alleged involvement in a N4.685billion fraud in the Office of National Security Adviser (ONSA), The Nation has learnt. About N4.685 billon was transferred by ONSA to Sylva McNamara Limited, a company linked with a former Minister of State for Defence, Mr. Musiliu Obanikoro. Of the cash, about N3.880 billion was allocated to Governor Ayodele Fayose and Senator Iyiola Omisore through cash and bank transfers by Obanikoro. Omisore’s share was said to be about N1.7 billion. Fayose has promised to visit the EFCC on October 16. But the anti-graft agency is said to be working on clues that the governor’s plan to appear before its team may be a decoy. The EFCC has written security agencies to assist it to watch out for Fayose. In a September 12 letter to one of the agencies by the EFCC, the anti-graft agency claimed that the governor is wanted in connection with a “case of conspiracy, abuse of office, official corruption, theft and money laundering”. The letter reads in part:  “The under-listed suspect(Fayose) is under investigation in connection with the above mentioned offences and there is reasonable suspicion that  he may likely leave the country either through the land borders, airports or seaports in order to evade investigation. “Hence, you are kindly requested to watch-list and arrest him.” Fayose was described as a male suspect, who was born on November 15, 1960, with passport number A05804492. In his September 10, 2018 letter, Fayose said he was prepared to appear for interrogation on October 16. The letter said:  “Several and serial actions of your commission for some time now, including but not limited to freezing of my accounts and attempts to secure temporary forfeiture of my properties, are indicative of the commission’s desire to have me clarify some issues or answer some questions but for the immunity that I enjoy under Section 308 of the 1999 Constitution as sitting governor of Ekiti State. “I wish to inform you that my term of office pursuant to which I enjoy immunity against investigation and prosecution under the above provision shall lapse by effusion of time on Monday, October 15, 2018. “As a responsible citizen of our great country, who believes in the rule of law, I wish to inform you of my decision to make myself available in your office on Tuesday, 16th October, 2018 at 1pm to clarify issues or answer questions on issues within my knowledge. “Kindly confirm the suitability of the above date or indicate by return, the commission’s convenient date.” The EFCC’s September 13 letter to Fayose, written by the Director of Operations, Umar Mohammed, asked him to report on September 20th. The letter said in part: “I write to refer to your letter dated 10th September, 2018 relative above captioned subject. “I appreciate your sense of duty and responsibility as a law-abiding citizen who wishes to submit yourself voluntarily to the due processes of the law more so as your immunity as a governor shall soon come to an end. “In view of the above and your request to make yourself available on Tuesday, the 16th of October 2018 to make clarifications on ongoing investigations that affect you, we look forward to receiving you even earlier than the 16th of October, 2018. “In this regard, we shall be willing to receive you on Thursday, 20th September 2018 without prejudice to your immunity under Section 308 of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999. “Please accept the assurances of the Acting Executive Chairman’s highest regards.” 