…says no gov’t has performed like IBB”s Former National Democratic Party (NDP) chairman in Kaduna State and a strong ally of former Military President, Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida (IBB) during the build up to 2011 presidential race, Hassan Mohammed Jallo, has tackled the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo over the VP’s recent public comment against the past regime of IBB. Osinbajo who was answering questions from Nigerians at a town hall meeting in Minnesota, United States last Sunday, had spoken on how huge funds went down the drain in previous administrations, which earned much and invested little in infrastructure. On OPEC statistics on oil revenues accruable to Nigeria under successive administrations between 1990 and 2014, the Vice President said not much had been done in terms of infrastructure, despite the huge oil revenues. He said: “Under the IBB / Abacha administrations (1990 – 1998) Nigeria realised$199.8 billion; under the Obasanjo / Yar’Adua governments (1999 – 2009), the country got $401.1 billion; and during the Jonathan administration (2010 – 2014), Nigeria got $381.9 billion from oil revenues. “The question that we must all ask is, what exactly happened to resources? The question that I asked is that where is the infrastructure?”. However, addressing journalists on Monday, Jallo who said he is for IBB till eternity, advised Osinbajo to retrieve his comment, particularly against IBB administration. He said this was because IBB’s achievements were too lofty not to be noticed by any Nigerian, adding that the Aso Rock, the seat of the Federal Government was built by IBB. He listed few of IBB achievements out of 277 items to include construction of ECOWAS Headquarters, Abuja international airport phase 1&11, Nigerian Dockyard Snake Island, Lagos, National Assembly, Abuja, Maitama General Hospital, Abuja, boreholes for 1004 Housing Estate, Third mainland bridge, Lagos. Others, according to IBB supporter, was the removal of Decree 4 on the press, establishment of Nigerian Broadcasting Commission along with Nigerian Telecommunication Commission which has powers to give private lincense. He said, “It is unfortunate that since the declaration of intention of IBB to contest the 2011 presidential elections, certain negative reaction and stories are being made by very few unprogressive Nigerians, but the glorious image of IBB as an excellent God fearing leader, father, peacemaker, diplomat and a living legend of our time remains positive in the minds and memories of the Nigerian majority. “There is no respected statesman as much as IBB in Nigeria, and that is the role he is playing. He is ready to support whoever emerged the flag bearer of PDP presidential race because he is a founder and a card carrying member of the party. “I will continue to react and redirect whoever makes deragotary comments on my leader (IBB) because no Nigerian leader dead or alive had achieved what IBB had achieved for the country”.