•Aspirants uncomfortable with Port Harcourt
•Two aspirants present no educational certificates The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday screened most of its presidential aspirants. There was drama over the fate of two. The two could not present evidence of their educational certificates before the panel. The development led to a little disagreement between the screening committee chairman, former Vice President Namadi Sambo and other members. Some members wanted instant disqualification of the two (who are from the Northwest), Sambo exercised caution with a caveat that the party will know how best to handle those without educational certificates. Also yesterday, most of the aspirants were uncomfortable with the choice of Port Harcourt for the National Convention, following alleged undue interest of Governor Nyesom Wike in one of them. Those who appeared before the committee are: ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar; a former National Chairman of PDP, Sen. Ahmed Makarfi; former Minister Kabiru Tanimu Turaki; Sokoto State Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal; Senate President Bukola Saraki; former Jigawa State Governor Sule Lamido and former Sokoto State Governor Attahiru Bafarawa. Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso and Gombe State Governor Ibrahim Dakwambo were yet to be screened as at press time. A top source, who spoke in confidence, said: “The screening committee headed by Sambo, with the Governor of Akwa Ibom, Udom Emmanuel as Secretary, interacted with most of the aspirants. “They were basically asked questions on their educational qualifications, background, their professional callings, party membership, records of conviction by a court of law, and why they are in the presidential race. “All these questions border on the requirements for the Office of the President as enshrined in 1999 Constitution. “It was indeed revealing sessions with some of the aspirants who are more than qualified for the Office of the President.” But the source admitted that two of the aspirants did not measure up to expectations. The source added: “These two aspirants could not present their educational certificates to the Sambo panel. “Their deficiencies caused a little disagreement at the committee level. Some members of the screening committee wanted the affected aspirants from the Northwest disqualified, but Sambo called for caution and wanted their fate left to the PDP to decide. “At the end of the day, the committee will submit a comprehensive report to the National Secretariat of PDP to consider.” A spokesman of one of the aspirants, who spoke in confidence, confirmed the screening of some of the aspirants. The spokesman said: “Yes, our candidate appeared before the screening committee. It is part of the due process being followed by the party. It is only those who are no longer interested in the race that might not show up for the screening.” Some of the aspirants protested over the choice of Port Harcourt as the venue of the National Convention of PDP. One of the aspirants had barely arrived for the screening when he told his colleagues as follows: “I have been warning all of you, the choice of Port Harcourt is not ideal. Governor Nyesom Wike will take total control and he will crown whoever he likes. It is becoming obvious now.” Another presidential aspirant said: “The truth is that many of us are uncomfortable with Port Harcourt at all. The ticket would have been decided and conceded to Wike’s favourite before we get to the venue. “Some of us have protested to PDP leaders against the venue which will not guarantee a level-playing field.” 