It was a black Saturday for residents of Agbaraevo Street off No. 147 Omuma Road, Aba, Abia State as they woke up to the shock of the death of a 12-year-old by the mum’s lover. This is even as mob who had gathered at the location angrily lynched the lover to death. The man identified as Amadi, 45  was said to have killed the lover’s child over twenty naira that the deceased was said to have used to buy biscuit. Our reporter gathered that crowd was attracted by the alarm raised by other tenants when they noticed that Amandi had killed the lover’s son. A source in the area who spoke anonymously told our reporter that Amadi who got to know the family through the husband moved in with the widow few years ago after the demise of her husband and has since been having sexual affairs with her. According to the source, “The matter is too flimsy to result to the killing of that boy. Amandi has been sleeping with the woman since the demise of her husband. “When he was beating the boy, people asked him to stop, but he refused. It was when the boy died that he wanted to run away and we learnt the boy’s offense was just that he eat his own mother’s twenty Naira biscuit. And the mother’s lover didn’t like it.” Another resident said that the deceased identified as aboy was the youngest child of the widow. The source added that Amadi who runs a shop where she sells dry gin and also a weight lifter sees the widow who is said to be several years older than him as the only source satisfying his sexual desire. “The man is too old to beat that boy. Even the woman he’s sleeping with is older than him by many years. He is a weight lifter and sells dry gin. He surprised all of us when he moved in with the woman after her husband’s death. “Most people who were beating him thought he was dead and left him only for us to hear that he is still alive in a nearby hospital after his supposed dead body was moved away by the police.” It was learnt that residents of the area are leaving the area in droves to evade impending police arrests.