Though only about four per cent of the school-aged population of Lagos State is out of school, the state has been urged to do more to improve learning outcomes and infrastructure. The call came as a follow up to a report by The Education Partnership (TEP) Centre on the LearNigeria Lagos State 2017/2018 Survey Report Card, a household survey which studied enrolment, facilities, and learning outcomes in six Local Government Areas of the state. About 6,699 children in Badagry, Somolu, Eti-Osa, Apapa, Ifako-Ijaiye and Ikorodu were assessed for numeracy and literacy skills in the survey which covered both urban and rural areas of the LGAs.  They were among the 49,000 children assessed nationwide in the six geo-political zone under the project. Presenting the Lagos report at the Our Lady of Apostle Convent, Maryland, Lagos, Research Analyst for the TEP Centre, Mr Taylor Williams, said the survey assessed the numeracy and literacy skills of children, aged five to 15 in Primary three, six and JSS3, attending both public and private schools. Findings revealed that only 13 per cent of Primary Three pupils attending private schools and 16 per cent of Primary Three pupils in public schools surveyed could be called literate (able to read and comprehend Primary Two level work).  At Primary Six level, only 24 per cent of those attending private schools and 19 per cent of their public school peers could pass Basic English Literacy test; while at JSS3 level, 62 per cent of private and 54 per cent of public pupils passed the Basic Literacy test. For Basic Numeracy, the result was worse. Only 10 per cent of Primary Three pupils attending both public and private schools could pass the numeracy tests.  At Primary Six level, 52 per cent of private school pupils compared to 33 per cent of public school pupils passed the test; while at JSS3 level, only 43 per cent of private school pupils and 38 per cent of their public school counterparts passed. Public school pupils performed only marginally better than their private school counterparts only in Basic Yoruba Literacy.  However, the result for both categories of school was very poor. While only 19 per cent of public and 16 per cent of private schools could pass the Basic Yoruba Literacy test at Primary Three level; at Primary Six level, the performance dropped to 10 per cent for public and eight per cent for private schools; while at JSS3 level, 22 per cent of public and five per cent of private school pupils passed the test. The study also assessed the availability of perimeter fence, playground, water, Hand Washing Facility, and computer laboratories in schools in the six LGAS. Williams said as a flagship state, Lagos needs to invest more in education. “When it comes to actual literacy which is the hallmark for all the survey is about, we see that there are still challenges compared to the level that we expect of Lagos state which is investing a chunk of its budget on education.  In terms of performance, we could see where the males are not doing as well as females; we also see challenge in the private and public schools where we see private school doing better in numeracy and literacy,” he said.