National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Adams Oshiomhole has warned state chairmen of the party against pronouncements that will undermine the party’s primaries and cause it to lose the general election. The ruling party will tomorrow begin its primaries to pick candidates for next year’s elections. The presidential primary will hold through direct primary across the wards nationwide. On Saturday, it will be time for the governorship primaries while those for the Senate, House of Representatives and the Houses of Aseembly will hold next week. In Abuja yesterday, Oshiomhole told the chairmen that recent pronouncements by some state chapters adopting sole candidates was unconstitutional and against the spirit on which the party was founded. He warned that such chairmen and their state executives could be removed from office by the National Working Committee (NWC). He spoke while handing over party registers to them. Oshiomhole said it was their responsibility to create a level-playing ground for all aspirants to vie for offices. He told them to learn from the National Working Committee which had not pronounced anybody as the Presidential candidate of the party and not do so until the entire process is concluded, adding that as chairmen, they must not fall to the pressure of their governors, ministers or godfathers. Oshiomhole said: “The membership cards are for you to give to members of the party and not for you to keep or give to those that you like or withhold from members that you don’t like. We will hold you individually and collectively responsible as a state executive for mismanagement, misplacement, distortion, ulceration or mutilation of the register. “I believe that you are all men and women of integrity and understand your responsibility as provided for in the constitution of APC. “The state executive, like the National Working committee, must not only be neutral, but must be seen to be neutral. Of course, as human being, you all have your preferences. Even when you deny it, if you are to vote tomorrow, there is somebody that you will vote for. “But as leaders of the party, you must be seen to create a level playing field for all aspirants and not to toe the line of the powerful people in your respective states as some of you have already done.”