All Progressives Congress (APC) Lagos State governorship aspirant, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, yesterday debunked the insinuation on social media that local government chairmen are backing him for their economic gains. Those spreading such falsehood, he said, are either bereft of the knowledge of Lagos politics or are only out for mischief. The local government chairmen, under the aegis of Conference 57, have expressed their support for Sanwo-Olu to be APC’s candidate. He said the Conference 57’s endorsement was borne out of its desire to take Lagos to a greater height. A statement by the Media Director of Babajide Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation (BOSCO), Olusesan Daini, said it welcomed various endorsements and support with excitement. The statement said: “We are reading all sorts of lies, distortions of facts and some falsehood posts on social media aimed at disparaging our movement and our leader. But we have decided not to respond to them because most of the posts are without authors. Rather than dissipate energy on all that, we have concentrated work on mobilising our base and preparing everyone for the election. “Some party leaders who have openly identified with Mr. Sanwo-Olu include former minister and notable politicians, Mr. Ademola Seriki, Senator Gbenga Ashafa (Lagos East Senatorial District), former House of Representatives member Monsuru Owolabi (Bertola) and several current House of Representatives members; a one-time Commissioner for Finance, Mr. Wale Edun, frontline politician Mr. Shakirudeen Sola Giwa, Cardinal Omolaja Odumbaku (Baba Eto) among others. “We expressed joy and excitement at the outpouring of love from Lagosians, particularly the torrent of endorsements from various political and socio-economic groups across the state and several Lagosians living in the Diaspora. It is a confirmation that the people of Lagos are fully in support of my aspiration to administer the state as governor.” Apart from Conference 57, which listed the sterling qualities of the aspirant and stood behind him from the beginning, many other political associations and groups have come out to declare their support for him ahead of the party primary elections. “We have received calls from hundreds of notable politicians from across Lagos State, declaring their love for the choice of Sanwo-Olu. Some have actually written us letters to pledge their support and to endorse our man. Just yesterday (Wednesday), the Private Sector Participants (PSP) operators in Lagos issued a statement to applaud the choice of Sanwo-Olu, whom many have described as a great administrator, a listening leader and a man of character.