Allegation of importation of fake delegates has dogged the All Progressives Congress (APC) primary in Enugu State. Some aggrieved aspirants and party members alleged the delegates were shipped in from a neigbouring states to work in favour of Senator Ayogu Eze. It was learnt over 1,000 of them have already been briefed to wear coded insignia for direct pass at the primary venue. It was further gathered the delegates have taken choice hotel accommodations in the state with huge feeding allowances for their comfort. One of the ‘delegates,’ Mrs. Ivoke from Ishiagu in Ebonyi State said they were being fed four times daily with five thousand naira daily upkeep allowance plus an undisclosed lump of cash. A party chieftain, who addressed the ‘delegates before delivering their allowance yesterday afternoon was heard telling them to  guard jealously the insignia which would be handed them together with their ‘main allowance’ shortly before they move to the venue of the primary exercise for proper identification. “This money is your usual daily stipend. You will be given the main money together with a special insignia for proper identification as well as directive on who to vote for, which I believe that most of you are already aware of,” he said. An eyewitness and guest in one of the hotels where the Pseudo delegates were camped, Hon. Smart Asogwa, described the development as a product of vote-buying techniques of some determined elements within the APC to favour Eze. Asogwa, a former ardent APC faithful, who recently joined the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), told newsmen it was unfortunate some politicians would stretch their desperation to the extent of importing party faithful from neighbouring cities to achieve selfish political ends. According to him: “I am here and I heard most their discussions. Their man project is to edge out PDP in this (Enugu) State and their major targets are the governor (Rt. Hon. Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi) and (the Deputy President of the Senate) Professor Ike Ekweremadu. “Both leaders are their greatest nightmare but APC will fail just the same way God has exposed their plans. “But it would be unfortunate for Enugu APC to hand the party’s sole ticket to a new entrant, simply on their erroneous calculation that he has all it takes to edge out a performing Governor like Ugwuanyi. “They have goofed because they should have first gone to Enugu North Senatorial Zone to find out his electoral value before anointing him,” he said.