The National Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, on Thursday night declared that the APC government  in Osun State led by the outgoing Osun State Governor, Rauf Aragbesola, has laid  a good foundation for the party to retain the seat in the forthcoming governorship election. The election comes up on the 22nd of September, 2018. Tinubu spoke with State House correspondents at the end of the meeting of APC South West stakeholders with President Muhammadu Buhari  at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. According to him, the APC is also fielding a qualified technocrat in the forthcoming election. He said: “We expect victory. We have a progressive government there where the incumbent and the outgoing governor has worked and laid a good foundation. Therefore, we have successes to build upon. ”We equally are bringing in one of the most competent and qualified technocrat in the person of Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola. He is eminently qualified.” he said Asked if the Osun election is going to be a hard battle like the Ekiti governorship election, he said: “You don’t predict the activity of elections. It can always be unique from one state to the other. “But we believe that with our leadership in Osun from the state chairman down to the lowest level and the way they conducted the direct primary and the way people had turned out, are signals to the opposing parties that they have no way of beating us.” The Osun State governorship candidate for APC, Isiaka Adegboyega Oyetola, thanked  President Buhari for the opportunity of the visit. He said: “It shows that he is the father of all. He is committed to APC winning the Osun election come 22nd September this year. “He is committed to our party retaining the government, he is committed to free and fair elections. And I want to say categorically, that by the grace of God, we are winning that election on the 22nd of September.” he said The victory, he said, would be a foundation for the election of President Buhari in 2019. He added: “We are committed to it and I belong to Buhari Support Group. We have done very well as a party, we have done very well as a government, the governor has done very well. The state has changed from what it used to be. Huge development projects have been taking place.” While thanking the former APC aspirants for their love and understanding, he said that there was absolute reconciliation of all the aspirants. “We are all now working together, except for the few people that decided to defect. But that will not have any serious consequence on the outcome of the election.” he said Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Gamduje, who is the chairman of the Osun Governorship Campaign Council, said that the purpose of the meeting was to create an inclusive atmosphere so that they would face the election squarely. He said: “From what has transpired, all those who contested, the aspirants that lost the election, they have pledged their loyalty, commitment and that they are part and parcel of the election campaign. “So, that is very encouraging. And also other stakeholders have made their commitments in order to win this very important election. “And most importantly is that Mr President has blessed the Campaign Council. He has appreciated those aspirants who lost the election and he appreciated also the commitment of all those who matter in the South West geopolitical zone APC politics. I think that is very encouraging for us.” he added.