Over 200 Primary and secondary school students, all over the federation have been engaged in fierce battles for honours at the Juvenile Athletics competition in conjunction with Craig Academy Limited, held at the Sam Ethnan Air Force Base, Ikeja from Aug 31st to Sep 1. More than 200 students registered for the event which has drawn pupils from all parts of the federation, with many of them keen on claiming titles for their schools at the end of the two-day programme. The events competed in include the Boys’ and Girls’ 4x100m, 4x200m, 4x400m and 4x800m. The athletes focused on the heats of the 4x100m and 4x400m on Day 1 of the championship, as well as the quarterfinals of the sprint relays. They then competed in the heats of the 4x200m, and semis of the 4x100m and 4x400m on Day 2 of the competition, setting up mouth-watering clashes ahead of the finals on Saturday. In the boys’ category, Oshiyemi Praise and Adeyemi Ayomide, ran the overall fastest time to win final of the Boys’ 4x100m, with Kehinde Ramat and  Ezema Chizom and Samantha Edethanlem ran overall fastest time to win final of the Girls’ respectively. The boys’ category 2x200m was dominated by Timileyin Omotara, Kelechi Ugwuzonba and Oshiyemi Praise, while the female category 2x200m was dominated by Kehinde Ramat, Ariyo Racheal and Damattah Edethanley respectively. Joining them in the 4x400m were Olokun Iyanu, George Evans, Kelechi Ugwuesumba, Ojo Kehinde and Eze Awusa. The boys’ 4x800m was dominated by Edoke Samson, Ugbong Alex, and Attah Mark, while the girls’ category was dominated by Olowookere Omowunmi and Duwaniya Joy. For some of the athletes, competing in the Juvenile Athletics competition Lagos has been a worthwhile experience. Edoke Samson who competes for Dowen College Lagos in the Girls’ 4x800m says he’s looking forward to the next edition. He said:  “It’s been fun because I’ve seen new competitors that I don’t usually see on a normal day. I didn’t feel intimidated because my coach always tells me to come prepared to win irrespective of who my opponent is. I feel relieved that we qualified for the final because I performed very well, and I am happy that I made it to final.” Coach Adenuga Adegboyega, the Sports Director for the event disclosed that the event will become a permanent feature on the state’s calendar. He said “What we are trying to do is to bring a bit of excitement into Track and Field, and create variety as well. In the last couple of weeks, I have been attending a lot of sports competitions and the highlights are the invitational relay and I’ve seen a lot of talent, so we said to ourselves, “Why don’t we do something about relays?” Tony Adebanjo is the publicity manager of the event. He said “The relays are fast-paced and there’s a lot of excitement, and if the IAAF are doing World Relays, why can’t we bring it back home for the children? It’s an additional event for the schools to look forward to and we are seeing an amazing talent; that’s where the future is. So let’s look at the future preparing” 