The Osun State Government and the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) have asserted that only the party’s governorship candidate, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, has the capacity to continue the developmental strides of Governor Rauf Aregbesola. The government and the APC said there is need for continuity and consolidation of the Aregbesola’s legacy of good governance and effective service delivery to the people and that it is important for the people to vote Oyetola in the election. They stated this yesterday in Osogbo in a joint press conference addressed by the Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Adelani Baderinwa, Media Adviser to the Governor, Mr. Sola Fasure, and the APC Director of Research and Strategy, Mr Kunle Oyatomi. Baderinwa who spoke for the government said Aregbesola’s administration is a success. He said: “The governor himself is the architect of modern Osun and the APC is the party that is propelling and encouraging the government on the series of people’s friendly and popular programmes, policies and projects.” The commissioner said it is heartwarming that Aregbesola would handover to a competent, reliable and development-driven Oyetola who has been part of the transformation, because he understands all the issues and will continue the good work. Baderinwa said: “In eight years, Osun has been witnessing tremendous developments. Osun has since moved far from where it was when Aregbesola took over on November 27, 2010. All parts of the state are being given attention in terms of infrastructural growth. “All the sphere of governance and each of the sectors of the society at large have had its own share of Aregbesola’s innovation, passion and dedication to societal wellbeing. “About 2000 kilometres of road has been constructed and rehabilitated by the Aregbesola’s administration. “There is no part of Osun that is left out in the infrastructure development, the little of which is standard drainage construction and channelisation of erosion paths, which has helped in preventing flood in the state. “We have recorded success in both infrastructure and content delivery in the education sector. It is a fact that Aregbesola has undauntedly given priority to education. He had embarked on the construction of state-of-the-art 100 Elementary Schools, 50 Middle Schools and 11 High Schools.