The Dean, School of Science and Technology, Babcock University, Prof Dele Fapohunda, has called on the Oyo State government to take over ownership of the Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH). He wrote in an essay that the institution belonged more to the Oyo than Osun State. While its takeover by the Federal Government would have been desirous, Fapohunda pointed out that it would be unlikely as no state in Nigeria has two Federal universities (Oyo has the University of Ibadan; and Osun, Obafemi Awolowo University). He said though the school had some ties with Osun, Oyo had invested more in the institution. Fapohunda explained that  the only physical presence of  ownership of the school by Osun state  is the Teaching hospital at Osogbo which can be relocated, noting that an edifice was put up for the same purpose by the then Governor, Christopher Alao-Akala. “By name and location, LAUTECH effectively belongs to Oyo State. Chief Ladoke Akintola and Ogbomoso town are both from Oyo State and by the quantum of investment into the main campus, the state government should guide her investment jealously.   For ease of administration, Oyo state should take over LAUTECH as the sole proprietor with immediate effect. It   can conveniently be in same league as Bayelsa, Ondo, Ogun and Rivers among others who are managing two Universities in spite of dwindling resources”. He explained. He said the joint-owner status was affecting the level of commitment of both states to the university and urged both states to agree to cede ownership to one and share assets accordingly.  He gave examples of states that did so in the past. “At present, and in spite of all pretenses, the two states see LAUTECH as an irritant and a distraction,” said Fapohunda. He argued that the contention between both parties does not require judicial intervention but political therefore, political heads of the school should be consulted and other academic stakeholder to resolve the issue. “All outstanding issues should be settled out of court. It is doubtful if other similar states went to court before settling the ownership of common institutions.  Let Oyo be the sole owner of LAUTECH. So it was and so shall it be. This is however, without prejudice to legal resolutions. “Ownership of a University is not a judicial matter, it is political. Therefore the two governors can be invited by their political principal,  Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and any other stakeholder like the National Universities Commission (NUC), settle any other outstanding issue pick up their lives from there,” he said. 