A former caretaker committee chairman of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Ahmed Makarfi has blamed the incessant killings and banditry in the country on criminal collusion by some persons and government agencies. Markarfi, who stated this in Abuja on Thursday when he came to return his presidential nomination documents, added that as long as the collusion continued, it would be difficult to stop the killings. The former Kaduna State governor is one of the 13 aspirants jostling for the presidential ticket of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). The aspirant said if elected, he would establish a viable education trust fund, strengthen the private sector, unbundle the power chain, restructure the country and ensure that the country enjoyed peace and security once again. Makarfi said, “Nigeria need to be secure, there is too much bloodletting in this country today. We must restore sanity and stop these killings. “It is not possible for these killings to be going on, without one collusion or the other. The collusion can be from anybody, but there is no way these things are going on that there is not one collusion or the other. “If I happen to be nominated and elected, I have the history of having restored peace in Kaduna. It will also be replicated in the length and breadth of Nigeria. This is not theory, but practical because I have done it before”. Bemoaning the high number of out-of-school children in the country, the politician said if given the chance, he would implement economic and welfarist policies. He said, “I have spoken on the policy that our children must never quit school because of financial difficulties. So we must introduce students soft loan, where students facing financial difficulties can borrow and they will only pay back when they are permanently gainfully employed. “This will force the government to create job opportunities for our teeming youths so they can get the money refunded. “I have also spoken on power generation. We are running a unitary system, where whatever is generated is domiciled in one place and then redistributed. When you are generating you lose power, when you are distributing you lose power, anything that happens at any point the whole country goes into darkness, this must stop. “We will explore God given natural resources to satisfy any area of Nigeria with uninterrupted power supply. We must do so and we will do so under my leadership, so that within a short period of time the entire Nigeria can have power 24 hours. “Employment opportunities for our teeming youth must be created if we are to keep this country secure. The way we give stipends to our youths is not the way. We need to create good job opportunities that can retrain the middle class and redistribute wealth, not by giving stipends. “We need to also promote the private sector because there are too many regulations that do not go well with Small and Medium enterprises and large scale businesses. “We shall streamline regulations so that businesses can thrive and expand. And when they thrive and expand, they will be able to employ more. And when they employed more the country will be at peace. They will also make more profit and it means more taxes for the country. So it is a win win situation”. Similarly, Senator Abdul Ningi was also at the PDP secretariat to return his nomination form for the governorship contest in Bauchi State. Having been a member of the two chambers of the federal legislature for 16 years at different times, Ningi said he had garnered the required experience for govern Bauchi State. Said h, “I have not seen any government in the past that has acquired more experience than myself. “Bauchi has become like a cursed state in the last three years and if things continue to be the way they are in the next couple of years, I don’t know how we are going to describe Bauchi. “I see this as my obligation and my resolve to ensure that Bauchi story changes. I want to add value to the state and make sure it becomes one of the front line states in terms of development. “The story is that of unemployment, youth restiveness inability to provide basic education needs, among other challenges. Look at the Nigerian template in WAEC and JAMB and you will see that we are all below average. That is not a good story to tell”. Also on hand to submit his nomination form was Alhaji Ibrahim Ajia who is vying for the party’s ticket for the governorship election in Kwara State. A former senator, Patricia Akwashiki also came to return her nomination documents for the Nasarawa State governorship election.