Delta Central Senator Ovie Omo-Agege has rejected the content of the petition written against him by Chief O’tega Emerhor. He decribed the petition sent to Inspector General of Polie Ibrahim Idris by Emerhor as “malicious”. In  a statement by his media assistant Efe Duku, Omo-Agege said the petition was part of the blackmail against him that led to the alleged smear media campaign painting him as having been indicted by the California Bar Association. “Yesterday, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor petitioned the Inspector-General of Police, IGP, that the Distinguished Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (The Obarisi of Urhoboland) plans to kill him. Although Emerhor’s petition is a shocking, malicious, wicked and brazen lie calculated to blackmail, embarrass and demean Senator Omo-Agege and smear his reputation, our Senator has nonetheless called for its proper investigation. “We note that many have reasonably asked why Omo-Agege would ever plan anything against a so-called political opponent who has no electoral value – one who has never won an election in his own polling unit. “Today, barely 24 hours after Emerhor’s wild, wicked, childish and laughable petition became a media show, a new lie, blackmail and campaign of calumny was launched against Senator Omo-Agege. The blackmailer wants the world to believe that Omo-Agege bears a criminal conviction from California, USA that legally disqualifies him from the 2019 Delta Central senate race. Alleging that it was a proxy game by his political rival, Omo-Agege said he welcomed a healthy scrutiny of the backgrounds of all aspirants for political office. Affirming that he was at one point accused of breaking the law in California during what he described as an illustrious legal career, Omo-Agege said he was cleared of the allegation by the Honourables Lance A. Ito (who presided over the popular O.J. Simpson murder trial case) and G. Magnera of the Court of California, County of Los Angeles “We are not altogether surprised that the electorally infertile self-acclaimed ’Supreme Leader’ of the Delta APC believes that the easiest and only way to win his first election is to first bring down his own brother with cheap blackmail, lies and judicial magic.