 Nigeria’s telecoms sector regulator, the Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) on Tuesday said prospective investors into the telecoms sector would only need to pay 30 per cent of income tax, among other mouth-watering incentives rolled out by the Federal Government. The regulator also said the telecoms sector which attracted $70 billion foreign direct investment (FDI) last year, has been adding between $4 billion and $5billoon quarterly in FDI since the beginning of this year. Its Executive Vice-Chairman/CEO, Prof Umar Garba Danbatta, who unveiled the packages to prospective investors who thronged the Nigeria Pavilion during its opening at the ongoing International Telecoms Union (ITU) Telecom World in Durban, South Africa,  said investors stood to enjoy pioneer status as well as import duty waivers on essential equipment needed for them to setup businesses in the telecoms sector. He said the Executive Order of the Federal Government laid special emphasis on transparency in the discharge of official responsibility. According to Prof Dambatta, with a huge youthful population ever ready to communicate, investors needed not fear about quick returns on investment (RoI). He said the steady growth of telecoms sector’s contribution to the nation’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP) now at 10.5 per cent bore eloquent testimony to resilience of the sector.  He said the non-oil sector has been growing the GDP in line with Federal Government’s Economic diversification blueprint, adding the telecoms sector has been taking the lead in this area. He said opportunities for investment are available in the upstream, midstream and downstream sectors of the industry, stating while voice appears not to be doing badly, data is the next investment frontier. He said ITU forum usually provideo opportunity to learn about new technologies such as Internet of Things (IoT) and other new technologies. He said: “We also come to share our experiences and take home new ideas in global best practices that will assist us to strengthen our regulatory processes and interventions that will make the accelerated growth of telecommunications to dovetail into a better and stronger economy. “In our modest quest to bridge the digital divide, the board of the NCC has put in place initiatives to fast track internet access and taking services to several unserved and underserved areas of Nigeria “Although we have 162.3million active subscribers on our various networks, we at NCC believe there is much left to be done in terms of improvement of Quality of Service (QoS), more access to as many people as possible. “We must admit that the QoS is not where we want it to be yet, but with time and increase of infrastructure deployment, we should be there soonest than later,”Dambatta said. He recalled that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo launched the ICT Roadmap in the country, stressing that driving broadband penetration for accelerated economic growth formed the kernel of the roadmap. “With a population of 180million, active subscriber base of over 160million and internet penetration of over 100 million, Nigeria remains an attractive country for investors who crave for adequate RoIs. “While we celebrate the seemingly success story recorded in these directions, the NCC has put in place incentives for Infrastructure Companies (Infracos) in order to encourage speedy deployment of infrastructure that will deepen broadband penetration as quickly as possible. “This is part of the roadmap to take Nigeria to the next level under the Open Access Model template.  So far, six Infraco licences have been issued to cover Lagos, Northeast, Northwest, South South, Southwest and Southeast zones of the country. Arrangements are underway to re-licence the North Central zone,” he said. The Commission had earlier assigned 2.3GHz licence to Bitflux Consortium and six of the 14 slots available on 2.6GHz to MTN Nigeria and two slots to Openskys.  Six slots are still available for assignment. “We undertook these regulatory steps in line with the National Broadband Plan (NBP of 2013-2018) where it is anticipated that 30 per cent penetration will be attained, by the turn of 2018,” he said. Nigeria had a mere five per cent penetration of broadband in 2012 but now has 22 per cent and hopes to hit the 30 per cent prescribed by NBP (2013 – 2018) by December, 2018 through various initiatives including granting subsidies to Infraco licencees, Spectrum Trading among others. He said in line with the Commission’s initiatives to encourage investors for Infracos to roll out, it has created provisions in its 2017 and 2018 budgets as subsidies to the Infracos. “This is essentially to be disbursed piecemeal to the InfraCos as the deployment of their infrastructure progresses.  “We have assured all the licencees that this subsidy is based on the implementation/milestones of their roll out obligations,” he said. He told the investors thatb there are also opportunities for investors in digital transmission system including microwave, satellite and optic fibre; submarine cable communications; digital exchanges for both wired and wireless lines; billing systems; data communications networks; broadband and  Integrated Service Digital Network (ISDN). Nigeria, he said needs 120,000km metropolitan optic fibre coverage for ubiquitous network connections nationwide.  With only 38,000km coverage now, this area also beckons on both foreign and local investors, he said.