The new Managing Director and Regional Executive of Ecobank Nigeria, Patrick Akinwuntan, yesterday started his new role in the bank. The vastly experienced banking professional is passionate about bringing customer-friendly banking services to every household in Nigeria. This means that Nigerians can expect a more customer-friendly Ecobank as well as continued market-leading banking innovation that will make their banking easier, more convenient and an overall better experience. The Group aims to be serving 100 million customers by the end of 2020 and looks forawrd to having so many of them in the country. He said: “My mandate is to deliver the brand promise of Ecobank as a leading financial institution in Nigeria in the hearts of our customers by ensuring that we treat our customers well when they choose to open a bank account with us or do their payments, collections, savings and financing through us. In this manner, we will realize the vision of our founders, which is that Ecobank is the pan-African financial institution that empowers every African to realize their ambitions through convenient, accessible and affordable banking products and services delivered at a price point that is affordable to all and gives quality returns to shareholders. “The foundations that will ensure we serve the needs of our consumer, commercial and corporate clients through our digital solutions such as the Ecobank Mobile app, EcobankPay, Rapidtransfer, XpressAccount, Xpress Point agents, Ecobank OMNI and Bank Collect, have been laid. Ecobank has built an unrivalled banking platform in Africa and we have earned several accolades within and outside Africa in the past decade which is a testimony of the transformational role we play in various markets in Africa. “We will therefore continue to leverage the deep market knowledge of Nigeria that we have, our unrivalled panAfrican reach, digital platforms, Ecobank branches and Ecobank agencies (Ecobank- Xpress) to empower our customers, drive commerce, financial inclusion and support Nigeria’s renewed focus on becoming the trade hub of Africa.” Akinwutan said he is a thorough-bred Ecobanker and has the requisite skills, experience and background to enable a seamless transition as he takes up his new role. “My combined and diverse Group and country experience built over 20 years and covering virtually all key aspects of banking and the track record and trust built amongst my colleagues and customers of the bank will serve me well in this new role. I am indeed privileged for the opportunity to serve in the noble mission of Ecobank, bringing financial integration to our continent and it is a particular pleasure to be able to now do so in Nigeria,” he said.