…Court orders release of PDP chieftains arrested for allegedly buying voters’ cards  The Nigeria Police Force on Wednesday said its men and officers were prepared to deal decisively with any trouble maker before during and after the rerun election holding on Thursday in four council areas of the state. Addressing newsmen at the Police Command headquarters in Osogbo, Osun State, the Deputy Inspector-General of Police, Department of Operations (DOPS) in the Nigeria Police Force Headquarters, Abuja, Joshak Habila, said from intelligence report, some people are planning to disrupt election Thursday. The Supervising DIG for Osun 2018 governorship election said: “We have an intelligence report that, there is a grand plan to turn the election gruesomely violent and deadly by arming thugs to unleash mayhem at polling centers. As law enforcement agencies, the Police and other security agencies would not permit the breakdown of law and order. “Those of them preparing for “fire for fire” must be ready to bear the consequences of their actions which designed to undermine this particular democratic process. It should be noted that the Nigeria Police Force will remain proactive and would not rest it oars in its task to decode the identities of those democratic enemies. “Residents are requested to be law abiding and go about their lawful duties without fear and with the full assurance of the protection of law abiding citizens and voters who are out there to exercises their franchise. “The Police and other law enforcement agencies have been deployed to maintain law and order and protect lives and property of the residents in Osun. “In the areas where re-run election is to be held, only eligible voters with their voting cards and other personnel with due accreditation would be allowed to come near the polling units. “Residents should report all suspicious activities to the Police, such as solicitation for votes, buying of Permanent Voters Cards (PVC) and any plan to rig or disrupt the election. “Troublemakers and other interlopers are warned to keep away from the polling units and indeed from any part of the state. The police and other security agencies will leave no stone unturned to protect lives and property and maintain peace. Meanwhile, Justice A. O. Ayoola of an Osun State High Court sitting in Osogbo, has ordered the release of a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Alhaji Fatai Diekola Oyedele, and his two aides, Alhaji Adekilekun Segun and Alhaji Sikiru Lawal. They were arrested on Monday for allegedly buying voters’ cards at Alekuwodo, Osogbo, one of the poling units where the rerun will take place on Thursday. The trio had approached the court with a Motion Exparte, asking the court to order their release from police detention. Ruling on the Motion Exparte on Wednesday, Justice Ayoola, granted the prayer of the Applicants and ordered the police to release them immediately.