The police have arrested two persons, Olakunle Ogunyemi and Anthony Bello, for the death of an Austria returnee two years ago at Iba Housing Estate, Lagos, during a fight. Michael Chinedu was allegedly stabbed to death during the fight. The late Chinedu had come home for his traditional marriage and gone to the pitch to watch a friendly match on the fateful day. During the match, Ogunyemi alias Pedro and the late Chinedu had an argument that degenerated to a fight. When Chinedu was gaining the upper hand, Bello reportedly intervened and stabbed him on the chest with a knife. Bello and Ogunyemi immediately fled the scene, abandoning Chinedu, who died a week later in hospital. Some Federal Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS)  operatives apprehended the suspects at  their hideout in Iba last Thursday. Bello told The Nation on Thursday that he stabbed Chinedu in self-defence. He said: “I went to play ball at the pitch when I heard uproar. On reaching the scene, I saw a man engaged in scuffle with Pedro (Ogunyemi). In my attempt to intervene, the man slapped me. He left Pedro and faced me. He hit me on the ground twice and used a tyre rim to hit me. In defence, I rushed to an orange seller where I collected a knife and stabbed him on the shoulder. “I managed to escape from the scene and went into hiding, when I heard he was dead. In my hideout, I turned a new leaf and got married. I thought the case had died down since it has been long it happened. I was at home with my wife and child when the police came with Pedro to arrest me.” Ogunyemi, 31, who confessed to being a cultist, said he joined Aiye when he was 17. Ogunyemi said he was discussing with a friend, Lexi, when the deceased came and rudely interrupted them. He said: “He came and said I should ‘free’ Lexi, so that they could leave the field. I pretended not to have heard him and continued the discussion with Lexi. He repeated it again and I asked who he was and where he was from. This degenerated into quarrel before Bello came. “I did not know how the deceased died but all I could remember was seeing him on the ground because other boys at the field took me to a corner to pacify me and also prevented me from going where the fight was going on. “As they thought, I would join in the fight. I later left Lagos for Ghana to hide for fear of being arrested over the death of the man. I stayed there for sometime before I returned to Nigeria, only to be arrested.”