Global aircraft leasing market is expected to witness a remarkable growth as many carriers, including Nigeria’s are opting for aircraft leasing. Reduced interest rates, lease rates and the growth of low cost carriers (LCC’s) are the major driving forces behind the rise in aircraft leasing. The global aircraft leasing market is projected to hit $62,221.8 million by 2023 at 4.75 per cent growth rate. The prominent players in the aircraft leasing market include AerCap, Air Lease Corporation, BOC Aviation, GECAS, BBAM, CIT Commercial Air, Aviation Capital Group, Boeing Capital Corporation, SAAB Aircraft Leasing and International Lease Finance Corporation. Investigations reveal that major influencing factors driving the global aircraft leasing market are the dominance of Irish and Chinese companies, rising passenger traffic, low lease rates/interest rates and shifting of financial burden by airlines. Ireland is one of the major hubs for aircraft leasing, which has consumed half of the market share of the global market. Investigations reveal that global carriers are opting for wet leasing or ACMI (Aircraft Crew Maintenance Insurance) model. Under this model, the lessee receives basically everything: aircraft, its crew, covering the costs required for maintenance and aircraft insurance. The airline only takes costs of fuel, ground handling, catering, airport permit, over-flight permits and crew accommodation. Speaking during an interview with The Nation, Chairman of the Board at Avia Solutions Group, Gediminas Ziemelis, said global carriers were embracing wet leasing of aircraft for many reasons. Ziemelis said: “Rising passenger traffic means rising demand for aircraft but big fleets in low season are an issue for some airlines. Luckily there’s a great solution to this seasonal variability – wet leasing. “Airlines and charter companies can see a huge change between high and low season, especially in Europe. Wet leasing keeps their aircraft in the sky, generating revenue, while lessees get fully crewed, maintained and insured aircraft for their own high seasons. It’s a really good trade. “The leading players in wet leasing have a similar cost base to the main low-cost carriers. This is why even low-cost carriers benefit from wet leasing, expanding their markets and achieving almost the same profit margin. “As a result, Europe has become the major revenue generator for the global market. Additionally, the rising demand for wet leasing market is also driving the market as several new airlines companies are coming into the market.”