The lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) receives at least 100,000 calls daily via the emergency response numbers 767 and 112, its General Manager (GM), Mr Adesina Tiamiyu, said yesterday. Briefing reporters at Alausa, Ikeja, he said LASEMA would continue to upgrade its technical and manpower capacity to respond to emergencies. According to him, since the upgrade of the command and control centre in Alausa, the number of calls via the 767 and 112 emergency toll free lines rose from 15,000 to about 100,000 daily. “The Governor Akinwunmi Ambode administration has invested in increasing the capacity of our agency to respond to emergency situations anywhere in the state. It is a huge task, but I can assure you that we are capable of rising to the challenge and ensuring that we respond to such disasters promptly. “We are guided by the principle that prompt response to an emergency situation can save lives and property. So, for us, we treat all calls as an emergency and dispatch our men to the spot immediately to access and mitigate the situation and facilitate more assistance,” he said. He said the response centres were decentralised from one unit in Alausa to three at Cappa in Oshodi, Lekki Ikoyi Link Bridge and Onipanu on Ikorodu Road to bring the service closer to the people. Plans, he added, were on to establish three upgraded dispatch centres in Ijanikin by Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Temu junction, Epe and Lagos State Polytechnic LASPOTECH in Ikorodu. There will be a fourth conventional LASEMA Response Unit (LRU) at Costain, to cover Apapa axis and its environs. The Lekki Response Unit Tiamiyu said, would facilitate quick response to emergencies on the waterways, while there is a new ultra-modern LRU, strategically located on Ikorodu Road, a central location within Lagos Mainland. “The new unit situated at Onipanu, Ikorodu Road was centrally located to facilitate access to most mainland areas. This will complement equipment already acquired to boost the sea, air and land capabilities of our emergency responders. “Besides the already established relief camps in Agbowa and Igando, work has also begun on the building of a third Relief/Rehabilitation Camp in Ibeju Lekki, which was approved by Governor Ambode last year to cater for people in the senatorial district,” Tiamiyu said. LASEMA, he said, acquired in February light rescue equipment, which included hydraulic rescue equipment with power unit attached with spreader, rescue ram, cutters combi tools and concrete cutters for the rescue of trapped victims. Tiamiyu said BMW power bikes had been deployed in strategic locations across the state, especially on the Third Mainland Bridge. “LASEMA, in the last one year, has responded to fire incidents, road accidents, flooding, illegally-parked trucks, gas explosion/emission, among other emergencies in record time, thereby saving lives and property worth millions of naira. “Lagosians can recall the unfortunate incident of June 29 when a fuel-laden tanker exploded on Otedola bridge. It was a litmus test, but through coordination of the agencies concerned, we minimised the impact,” the LASEMA boss said. He said the agency had extended its response to emergencies beyond Lagos, even up to Redemption Camp, adding that in most cases, accidents on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway stretched to Lagos, thereby affecting residents who worked in Lagos but lived in boundary towns, including Magboro, Arepo, Kara, among others.