Books play an important role in in our life, they add to our intellectual development, encourage us when we are defeated and inspire us to work hard with hope and courage. Inside them, we can experience new things that we would not ordinarily be able to experience. With an active imagination, you can go to other worlds as if you are physically there. Books can change our lives and other people’s lives. As individuals, we are capable of inventing new ideas, creating manuals to teach others virtually everything under the sun. – writing books to teach our children about history, other cultures, the world around us and setting up new laws that will forever change our lives and the lives of others. We have educated ourselves beyond our ancestors by reading and studying books and various manuals. I read and reread four books recently which I feel are crucial to where we are as a nation today. I’ll use this space to highlight them. I found the 2012 book, “Why Nations Fail,” quite fascinating when I partially read through in mid-2013. The more I read, the more I appreciated the thoughts that went into it. Co-authored by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) economist Daron Acemoglu and the Harvard University political scientist James A. Robinson, the book argues that the key differentiator between countries is “institutions.” Nations thrive when they develop “inclusive” political and economic institutions, and they fail when those institutions become “extractive” and concentrate power and opportunity in the hands of only a few. So why is Nigeria and most of African countries poor? Africa, from their perspective,  is poor because it has suffered from a long history of “extractive economic and political institutions.” These are part of deeply rooted historical processes which manifested in slow development. The negative impact of the slave trade, which had a devastating institutional impact, the “extractive nature” of colonial rule and the legacy of colonialism since independence equally formed part of why we are poor. They raised two salient and age old questions: Why is it that some parts of the world are much richer and more successful economically than other parts of the world? What can poor countries do to make themselves richer? To answer these simple, yet difficult questions, they propose a theory based on differences in economic and political institutions. “Institutions” are defined as the rules (both formal – written laws and the constitution – and informal – like social norms) that structure economic, political and social life and generate different patterns of incentives, rewards, benefits and costs. The “extractive political institutions” that was in place for a better part of our post-independence period took the form of military dictatorship which led to a weak state unable to raise taxes, enforce law and control violence as is evident with the Boko Haram insurgency and the spate of kidnappings and armed robbery. This weak state is at its best creating monopolies for the politically connected. But as expected, the result has been economic decline. What is their solution? The broader evidence is the need to move towards “inclusive” institutions. “Our framework emphasizes that this is not a technocratic economic problem, this is a political problem. Focus first on developing inclusive political institutions and the economics will sort itself out. All countries which now have inclusive institutions historically had extractive institutions. How did they change them? We emphasize the emergence of a broad coalition which pushes for and underpins inclusive institutions (e.g. The British Glorious Revolution of 1688).” In a bold and provocative interpretation of economic history, Matt Ridley, the New York Times-bestselling author, makes the case for an economics of hope in “The Rational Optimist: How Prosperity Evolves,” arguing that the benefits of commerce, technology, innovation, and change – what he calls cultural evolution – will inevitably increase human prosperity. Over the years, the word “market” tends to set off what is akin to a religious war. Opponents accuse proponents of blind faith in the ‘Miracle of the Market.’ The proponents too often seem to confirm this accusation by overpromising and underproving what the market can do. Each side recites its creeds. In the book, Ridley argues for markets as the dominant source of human progress. He synthesizes a great deal of material, spinning the history of humanity from the stone ax to the computer mouse. The chapters tracing the human story from 50,000 years ago through the 17th century are themselves worth the price of reading. With vivid storytelling he illuminates the huge role of markets and trade in material progress. Ridley’s key concept is gains from exchange, which make possible gains from specialisation, which in turn make possible technological innovation. Gains from exchange and specialisation certainly rank as the most important economic ideas of all time. Combining technologies to make new technologies is another favourite idea of Ridley. If we look beyond his too casual metaphors he makes sense. How about his cringe-inducing metaphor, “ideas have sex.” For example, the telephone had carnal relations with the computer, and their love child was the Internet. He strains to fit the notion of ideas having sex into what he calls the “Procrustean bed” of his “gains from exchange” story of progress. But sharing ideas is not the same as exchanging goods. It is often accidental and involuntary: it’s hard to keep a good idea a secret, so strangers are likely to gain from your idea without your getting anything in exchange. The dissemination of ideas is therefore more mysterious than the gains from exchange of goods. I also find “Portfolios of the Poor: How the World’s Poor Live on $2 a Day,” written by Daryl Collins, Jonathan Morduch, Stuart Rutherford and Orlanda Ruthven a nice read. It is based on the analysis of financial diaries, tracking every financial transaction of individual households, taken from studies between 1999 and 2005 in rural and urban areas of Bangladesh, India, and South Africa. A key strength of their analysis is that it is “bottom up,” starting with how people actually live, and not narrowly focused on the evaluation of interventions. A central role for finance is in smoothing out income fluctuations to ensure that there is enough money to provide food and other basic requirements on a daily basis. To this end households use savings and borrowings simultaneously, mixing informal, interest free loans from friends and family, wage advances and rent arrears, semi-formal (microfinance) loans, and in occasional cases formal (bank) services. Here the cash flow analysis captures what matters, not the balance-sheet. This leads into some suggestions for ways in which microfinance could be improved. There’s demand for a cash-flow management facility that combines the ability to make small savings of any size at any time with loans of modest value that can be accessed quickly. Finally, in “The End of Power: From Boardrooms to Battlefields and Churches to States, Why Being In Charge Isn’t What It Used to Be,” Moisés Naím argues that power is not merely shifting and dispersing, it is also decaying. Those in power today are more constrained in what they can do with it and more at risk of losing it than ever before. He illuminates the struggle between once-dominant megaplayers and the new micropowers challenging them in every field of human endeavour. Drawing on provocative, original research, Naim shows how the antiestablishment drive of micropowers can topple tyrants, dislodge monopolies, and open remarkable new opportunities, but it can also lead to chaos and paralysis. The author deftly covers the seismic changes underway in business, religion, education, within families, and in all matters of war and peace. Accessible and captivating, Naim offers a revolutionary look at the inevitable end of power – and how it will change your world. He acknowledges that wealth is now more concentrated than ever in the hands of elites and the institutions they control. But he argues further that the ability of elites to use their assets to influence and shape the world has dissipated. Rather, power now manifests itself in new ways and places. New technologies and novel social groupings have allowed inventors, activists, terrorists, and many other types of people to exercise more influence.