The aspiration and desire for President Muhammadu Buhari to retain the number one seat in the country received a major boost last week. He eventually emerged the sole Presidential candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the 2019 elections. This was in line with the decision of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party, which had earlier endorsed Buhari for second term as President. So as at the last day for submission of the Presidential aspirants nomination form, no other individual in the party collected nor submitted the form. All members of the party, including those who might have had secret aspirations to run for the number ones  seat in the country, kept it in their minds and gave President Buhari the right of first refusal in line with the provisions of the party. None of them took any action inspite of the calls that those who were really desirous of contesting for the Presidential ticket of the APC were free to do so. Speak while the Presidential form of the party was still on sale, the National Secretary of the APC, Maimala Buni said “Once the National Executive Committee (NEC) of the party passes a vote of confidence on the President, that President stands accepted because the NEC is the highest organ of the party and it met to take the decision, where every interest was represented. “So the National Executive Committee of the APC has passed a vote of confidence on our President and that means every APC member has endorsed him.” he said Pointing out that Nigeria’s case was not different from what obtains in advanced democracies, he said “In advance democracy, ones the NEC of a party passes vote of confidence on the President, nobody contest against the President. The President has been accepted.” Noting that the moment Buhari accepted the nomination form, he automatically became the party’s candidate in 2019 election. “But we are in a democracy, we are not saying nobody should come out and contest with him, but he has the right of first refusal. “It is unlike the PDP that printed one form.” he added Buhari, definitely has scaled the first major hurdle, but must now focus on how to defeat other parties’ candidates that would emerge against him. Submitting his expression of interest and nomination form last Wednesday, Buhari said “I am here in person among friends and colleagues to put my name forward to my party, the All Progressives Congress, seeking nomination to contest the Presidential Elections next year, 2019. “Fellow party members, I am taking this step with all humility, sense of responsibility and an unquestionable desire to serve and protect the interests of all Nigerians. “I am very grateful to those dozens of organizations who have joined together and contributed funds to purchase these forms. “I assure them and the rest of Nigerians that, if nominated and if elected, I shall continue to serve you to the best of my ability. “Let me today appeal to party members not to be complacent but to prepare, strategize and win in 2019 elections. “We must not allow those who brought the country to its knees from 1999 to 2015 to come and take us back.” he said While the case of the APC can be said to be settled concerning the Presidential race for next year, the case of the major opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is a different scenario. Many aspirants, under PDP,  have indicated interests to run for the Presidential elections next year. Unless a consensus candidate emerge among those who have shown interest, the PDP Presidential candidate would have to emerge through the primary elections. So, as it is for now, Buhari is yet to know who will contest against him from PDP next year. All he can do for now is for his men to continue to put in place general strategies that will defeat any candidate that will eventually emerge on the PDP platform. The ruling party will then zero in on the PDP candidate that will emerge at the end of the primary election. Bowing out for integrity It is no longer news that the immediate past Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, has resigned from the cabinet of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. The issue of the non-genuineness of her National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) exemption certificate has also been in the public domain for some months. But the drama and deception that proceeded her resignation from the office last Friday caused great confusion among Nigerians. While some online media reported her resignation from office early on that Friday, there was no immediate official confirmation of the development. Journalists, and the nation in general, were even misled to believe that there no truth in the resignation story and that Adeosun was busy with her official duties in her office. The journalists covering the beat were shielded from knowing that Adeosun, who did not attend last Wednesday Federal Executive Council meeting,  was busy on that Friday clearing her desk. With no information coming from the ministry, pressure was then mounted on Presidency correspondents to get the feelers at the seat of power. Those who were supposed to know the correct situation of things kept sealed lips till the last moment. An official confirmation of the development was however issued late Friday night to confirm the issue, which engaged the social media earlier in the day. Along with the official statement stating that President Muhammadu Buhari has accepted her resignation was Adeosun’s resignation letter. She not only thanked the President for the opportunity to serve the nation, she maintained that she had to step aside for the sake of integrity. She said “Let me commence by thanking you profusely for the honour and privilege of serving under your inspirational leadership. “It has been a truly rewarding experience to learn from you and to observe at close quarters your integrity and sense of duty. “I have, today, become privy to the findings of the investigation into the allegation made in an online medium that the Certificate of Exemption from National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) that I had presented was not genuine. “This has come as a shock to me and I believe that in line with this administration’s focus on integrity, I must do the honourable thing and resign.” she added Only time will tell if that is the end of the episode. 