The decision of the Speaker of the House of Representatives Yakubu Dogara to pick People’s Democratic Party (PDP) is a personal decision that it has nothing to do with the House of Representatives, the Spokesman Abdulrazak Namdas has said. Dogara, a member of the ruling All Peoples Congress (APC) was reported to have picked PDP’s Nomination and Expression of Interest forms on Wednesday. It would be recalled that prior to Dogara’s purchase of the forms, he had denied having endorsed the decision of two of his aides that defected to PDP. However, when asked what the decision of the Speaker to seek re-election on the platform of another party portends for the position of the Presiding officer of the House, Namdas said it was a personal decision that has no connection with the House. He said:  “This is a personal decision, the Speaker can pick forms from wherever he wants, but as a House, we cannot stop anyone from wanting to pursue his aspirations as he deems fit. “However, let me say it here, that I am still in APC and we are still in the majority. We will have to wait till the House resumes before we can officially make a comment on this. “You know, formal notice is usually given and read on the floor on a situation like this, so we have to wait to get an official communications from the Speaker”. As for the consideration of the budget for 2019 elections by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the Spokesman said lawmakers would be available as soon as the leadership of the National Assembly communicates to that effect. “We are waiting for the report of the joint Committee on Electoral Matters, as soon as they are through with their job and the leadership gives the go ahead, we will reconvene to consider it”. The Majority leader of the House has refused to comment on the defection of Speaker Dogara. Several calls and text messages to his phone were not returned. However, a National Assembly source, who pleaded not to be named, said the media report of the purchase of the forms was a huge disappointment to the Speaker’s group. According to him, the purchase of the form was meant to be a top secret, “It was not supposed to be a public knowledge for now. According to their plans, the defection was supposed to carry the same weight like the earlier defections of the over 36 members in the House and that of the Senate President Bukola Saraki. ‘I can authoritatively tell you that that was why the forms were obtained secretly, someone else was sent to procure them. “As it is now, the cat is out of the bag, the formal defection, on resumption from the annual recess would no longer carry the same effect, it would be like, we already know. His body language has indicated that much anyway. “As a matter of fact, Dogara and Governor Tambuwal are working in concert about the defection but I assure you, when we resume and we confront them with a list of defections from PDP, they’ll be shocked”. On his part, Bashir Babale (APC, Kano) expressed disappointment at the Speaker, who kept his decision to his chest while discussions were ongoing about his status in APC. “Even though it was a personal decision, which I must respect, I am still disappointed because he didn’t show any sign of having made up his mind about leaving all the time we were discussing his stay in APC. “All politics is local and the issue of cross-carpeting is a personal decision, but the sad thing is that he should have informed us earlier. We have been having meetings with him, thinking he is part of us. “Notwithstanding, APC is still in the majority in the House, so on the issue of his Speakership, we will decide that when we resume”. When contacted on the phone, Abdulmumin Jibrin (APC, Kano) said he has been indisposed and not aware of the Speaker’s picking of PDP Nomination form. Jibrin was reported to be working to remove Gbajabiamila as House Leader for allegedly working to unseat Dogara. He later denied it on his Twitter account stating that the issue had been resolved and that Gbajabiamila remained the House Leader. Similarly, calls to the Deputy Minority Leader, Chukwuka Onyema as  well as Tajudeen Yusuf for their comments on the development were not returned.