They protested on the streets. They caused disturbances in the creeks. Some of them took up arms, which later earned them recognition and monthly stipends. But all of them claim they are fighting for the liberation of the Niger Delta. They want self determinism and resource control. The struggle for a better deal for the Niger Delta has evolved over time taking various shapes. But some past and present leaders at the forefront of the struggle believe it is time to take the agitation to the hallowed chambers of the state and the National Assemblies. A former President of the Ijaw Youths Council ( IYC) Worldwide, Udengs Eradiri, shares the same belief. Eradiri led the most vibrant, most vocal and most enterprising IYC in the history of the organisation. His achievements remain indelible. In fact, shortly after he left office, the Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo described Eradiri as a resourceful and articulate Niger Delta youth when the number two man in the country visited Bayelsa State as part of his Niger Delta tour for peace and development. Eradiri, therefore, believed that it was time for him and other leaders in the region to become part and parcel of lawmaking. He is of the opinion that being a lawmaker will enable him continue with the agitation for a better Niger Delta. He picked his nomination form for ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to contest the Kolokuma/Opokuma-Yenagoa Federal Constituency seat in the National Assembly. As expected, his ambition has gained traction. Prior to picking his forms, Eradiri consulted all the stakeholders in the constituency. He made out time to visit traditional rulers, elders, youth groups, women and various organisations in the constituency. He is believed to be the favorite to clinch the ticket. In fact, there is a general impression that Eradiri has a popular appeal across party lines. The youth leader came in style recently to submit his form at the PDP Secretariat, Yenagoa. He was accompanied by crowd of youths in solidarity. Eradiri said the only solution to Niger Delta problem is to move street agitations the corridors of power and hallowed chambers of house of assemblies. Eradiri said: “So far so good, I have just started the process of taking  leadership. As a young man, I wouldn’t have been participating in the struggles for justice in the Niger Delta and then when it is time for leadership, I will be sitting by the corner. “No, we must do everything possible to be part of those who will make laws. Let me inform you that the only solution to Niger Delta problem is when we begin to migrate from street agitation to taking political power; that is the only way we can begin to resolve our problems. “The laws in Nigeria are not favoring the Niger Delta and until we begin to change the laws and rules, we cannot make progress. And I think that having participated as a young person in school as well as the IYC for the agitation for a better Niger Delta, the only way we can make a better society is when we find ourselves in politics and do what is necessary to change the situation.” He advised the party against imposition of candidate during the party’s primaries and called on the party leadership to ensure level-playing field for all the aspirants. Eradiri said: “I think that nobody needs to tell the PDP what it has gone through in the past. As a result of not doing the right thing internally as a party, led us to losing an election which has kept a lot of us in the cold. “Today, we are going in for a new process and we expect that the party will democratize its process because that is the only way a man who loses the election at the primaries will embrace the winner and work with the person. “But When we start to do all these ‘oga’s anointed candidate’, I begin to ask my people, who is the candidate? Even if I will be anointed by the leaders, it is not the leaders that  I want to represent; it is the people that we will represent, and that is why we are going to seek the mandate of the people for us to do well. “Even when we get to the National Assembly it is because we have genuinely got the support of the people. “For me, the PDP is facing a very serious challenge in Nigeria today. People like us will add value to the PDP. We are going into a very tought battle in Bayelsa and in order for us to win, we must ensure that popular candidates win party primaries because once we impose a candidate it is very clear that we will lose an election. “This is because this is not like Bayelsa of before where everybody was PDP, we were at the centre, so people can do what they like, right now there is an opposition and the opposition is coming financially, the opposition is coming with power, they are using impunity. “The only way we can win an election in Bayelsa is that our people stand firm the way they stood when the governorship election was done. We must note that today we don’t enjoy that solidarity we used to enjoy as a party. We need to do a lot of work to build our party as a very strong and veritable force. “And in order for us to make progress, we must ensure that popular candidates, candidates who carry the mandate of the people win the party primaries so we can ultimately win elections for the PDP.” Another IYC leader seeking a slot to be involved in state legislation is the incumbent Central Zone Chairman of the youth body, Tare Porri. Made of the same stoic with Eradiri, Porri has made himself more vocal than the two incumbent factional presidents of IYC put together. Hate or like him,  he is forward-looking and pursues issues with uncommon tenacity. He understands the language of the youths. Even when he was the Legal Adviser of IYC under Eradiri, the central zone chairman used his position to confront perceived forces of oppression. He intervened in granting freedom to many Ijaw youths, who were allegedly arrested and detained illegally by security agencies. Indeed, Porri has redefined the leadership of zonal IYC. He is loved by his community, Aleibiri in Ekeremor Local Government Area, Bayelsa State. Stakeholders from the community procured his PDP form for Ekeremor Constituency 1 in the state House of Assembly. His reception in Aleibiri following submission  of his form was intimidating. Porri said that his burning desire for effective and efficient representation has prompted his ambition to contest for the state legislative house to take Ekeremor Constituency 1 to an enviable level. The four traditional rulers in Aleibiri Federated Communities (AFC) gave him traditional decorations signifying their endorsements for his ambition. Porri in the carnival reception appreciated Governor Seriake Dickson for creating enabling environment and opportunity for young people of Ijaw nation to participate in elective positions. He said: “It is a very simple arithmetic, it is not a rocket science. What the people need is a proper representation nothing more. So what am going to bring to the table first and foremost, am going to bring quality and effective, efficient representation. “Governor Seriake Dickson has declared free education in Bayelsa State from primary to tertiary education. What am going to do is to replicate same at the constituency level by creating scholarship for young people in all the wards. “I will also put in place machineries to engage women and I have also resolved to breach the gap between the elders and the young people. This is about the future of the young people and the governor who has given us this opportunity will not be disappointed. “Am going to come up with a capacity building programmes that will empower young and vibrant people of this constituency. I am going to creat soft loan policy working with world bank and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) for the women in order to encourage them in their farming and other activities. “I am going to establish the first ever constituency building at the Aleibiri headquarters. Two years to my tenure, I will establish a constituency building where all our communities, all our wards will be proud of and will be reporting. I will be coming home to take direct information, hear from them and take their problems and concerns to the state assembly” Also, the Direct General of the Tare Porri Campaign Organization, Mr. Dimaro Ebikons Kelvin expressed confidence that Porri will defeat any other contestant in Ekeremor Constituency 1 because of his leadership qualities.