Ekiti State Governor Ayodele Fayose has challenged the Debt Management Office (DMO), commercial banks and the All Progressives Congress (APC) to publish any debt he owes since coming to power. Contrary to the claims of the opposition, Fayose insisted that he had not committed the state to any debt through bonds from the capital market or loans from commercial banks. Addressing reporters yesterday at the Governor’s Office in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, the governor justified the purchase of a N75 million Lexus Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV) for himself as a “parting gift”. Reacting to the claim of the Transition Committee set up by Governor-elect Dr Kayode Fayemi that the records at the DMO showed Ekiti debt profile under him ballooned to N117 million, Fayose said the allegation was a “cheap blackmail and lie from the pit of hell”. Fayose said: “When Fayemi was leaving as governor in 2014, he left with in a car and so did other governors before him. So, you can’t expect me also not to have a befitting car when I am leaving office. “Fayemi himself ordered a Jeep of almost N7 million for me when I was still governor-elect in 2014, but he didn’t pay for it. I had also bought a Jeep for former Governor Niyi Adebayo to honour him. That is how it is done every four years. “If Fayemi’s government wants to probe me, I will present myself and will not behave like a coward, like he did. I have served Ekiti, l have given my best. Relevant documents will be handed over to the incoming administration at the appropriate time. “I have not committed Ekiti to one naira since I assumed office as governor for the second term. I haven’t borrowed from any financial institution. “They should stop saying it and publish any record of debt from any bank or the Debt Management Office (DMO) as evidence. I did not borrow, take any bond or borrow from any financial bank. “In my first tenure, I left N10.4 billion in the covers of government, but I started this administration on October 16, 2014, meeting a huge debt incurred by my predecessor, John Kayode Fayemi. “The last administration of Fayemj brought Ekiti to N25 billion bond and N32 billion commercial loan and the state will pay the bond until year 2022. The commercial loan was restructured, like it was done for other states.”