THOSE expecting the Federal Government to float a national carrier before the end of this year have to wait a little longer. The project – Nigeria Air – has been suspended indefinitely. Minister of State for Aviation Hadi Sirika said the decision to put the project on hold was taken yesterday at the weekly Federal Executive Council (FEC) in Abuja at his office in Abuja. Sirika, who broke the news in his office, said the decision was strategic, dismissing claims that the suspension was due to pressure from stakeholders and the politics. He said: “Today in Council (FEC), the Federal Government of Nigeria decided to suspend the National Carrier project for some strategic reasons and we would advise you in due course. “The decision has nothing to do with the pressure from stakeholders because I have explained that as a government for 40 years (since 1978 to 1980) when decision was made to liberalise the sector, we saw the coming of Okada, Kabo, ABC and Bellview. We have seen their coming and their exit and right now, we have got Medview, Airpeace, Arik, we have got all of these people with permission to go international. “We have given them Banjul, Dubai, London, South Africa and we have given them everywhere. Of course, none of them is meeting the need by Nigerian people to have robust national carrier and that is to say that something is amiss. “That was the intention of government to be able to set up a carrier that would deliver this service to Nigerian people. “So, the service is needed and that is why the Federal Government went ahead to appoint Transaction Adviser to continue the process. “So, it has nothing to do with pressure. There is no pressure and you and I know that the service is not being delivered in Nigeria; locally here and internationally as well. “Prices of tickets are astronomical within international routes and certain routes in Nigeria that ought to be developed are not developed. In the past, Nigerian Airways was doing Makurdi, Sokoto, Calabar, Maiduguri with BC10 and full. “So, with this absence, the gap is there. With all the number of airlines flying the country, this sudden growth to 20 airplanes, we have seen it in Okada, Kabo, Arik and many others but the service is not being delivered. “So, there is no argument from stakeholders to say we should not proceed.” On whether the decision was political, he said: “I think those saying it was politically motivated are being very unfair to Mr. President. “Seating to my right is the Rector of Nigeria College of Aviation Technology (NCAT) Captain Abdulsalam Muhammed, even before I was made the minister, shortly after the Mr. President was sworn in, he was made the chairman of the Task Force to establish a national carrier and once I became minister,  they handed over the report to government and government gave me the report and asked me to implement to set up a national carrier. “So it had nothing to do with politics. It is strategic and let’s leave it at that. It has been suspended for now.” On how the international stakeholders would perceive the decision, Sirika said: “Since there is lot of international engagements and banks, consulting companies and all and how do they beleive in us that we are serious again in future?