Torrential rains that lasted many hours in Ilorin, the Kwara state capital have wreaked havoc causing huge floods in the metropolis. In the aftermath of the floods, property worth millions of naira has been lost to the menace. It was gathered that the rains, which started around 8:00pm on Thursday, pounded the earth till early hours of on Friday. Some of the affected areas include Harmony Estate, Akerebiata, Gerin Alimi, Isale Koko, and Kulende among other parts of the metropolis. It was also gathered that the flood swept many vehicles, several meters away, from where they were parked in some areas. Among affected victims of the floods were concrete block makers and traders who had outlets along the roads and selling such items as bagged food items, tailoring materials and household items, among other wares. It was also gathered that chillers, used in refrigerating drinks by soft drink shop owners, were destroyed by the rain that entered their shops. Some residents of the affected areas said that effect of the floods was made worse due to narrow drainages, thus flooding the affected homes and shops. The state government has therefore; advised residents of the state living along banks of River Niger to immediately relocate to safer areas to avoid loss of lives and property that could result from impending flooding. The State Commissioner for Environment and Forestry, Mr Amos Justus, said the directive followed the alert of looming flooding issued by the Nigeria Hydrological Services Agency (NiHSA). He, therefore, called on residents of riverine communities in Lafiagi, Patigi, Jebba and other flood-prone areas in the state to immediately relocate to avoid casualties. The commissioner assured that his ministry would ensure strict compliance, and also urged residents of the state to shun indiscriminate dumping of refuse in water ways. NiHSA on Wednesday warned of possible flooding in seven states of the federation including Kwara. Other vulnerable states identified by the agency are Niger, Kebbi, Kogi, Delta, Anambra and Bayelsa. The agency disclosed that both Kainji and Jebba dams were already spilling water downstream while the level of water in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital has exceeded the corresponding value in 2012.