With poverty statistics in Nigeria spiralling out of control, Nigeria is standing precariously on the edge of a social crisis like never before. Resources are spread thin across the nation’s citizens, and with the government struggling to keep the nation’s economy adrift, poverty figures are soaring at an alarming rate. A report by the National Bureau of Statistics estimates that six Nigerians drop into extreme poverty every minute, with projections indicating a staggering 46 percent (over 87 million Nigerians) living below the poverty line. With this backdrop of poverty looming large over the nation, several elements from within and without are combining efforts to tackle this concern using a combination of tools. “Open Hands”, a technology non-profit organization stands at the forefront of this endeavour, using an astute blend of human resources and information technology tools to create a civilization where resources are readily accessible, and spread more evenly across society. One particularly useful instrument that has been developed over the last half decade has been Artificial Intelligence (AI), which allows machines to “learn” by simulating human intelligence processes. Artificial Intelligence provides the capability to acquire, categorize, process, apply and extrapolate data at speeds that are physically impossible for the human mind to reach. Using applications like speech recognition, machine vision and expert systems, gigabytes of information can be compiled and manipulated at a moment’s notice. It stands to reason that with tools like Artificial Intelligence, an increasing number of socially-motivated private institutions, government organizations and initiatives, and with an engaged civil society, poverty should be on the decline in Nigeria. In reality however, access to resources for the needy and vulnerable is at an all time low. Initiatives developed to foster poverty relief are uncoordinated and disorganized. With several domestic, foreign, governmental and non-governmental organizations seeking to tackle the resource imbalance in their own way, resources are sometimes mismanaged, and many times, severely underutilized. The real casualties of this disorganized approach are often the poorest of the poor, who have no means to alleviate their suffering. Open Hands Tech has taken up the challenge of synergizing the efforts of all these individual platforms. Run by a team of astute professionals including Nigerian Joshua Omisore, the company’s mandate is to use technology to serve the most vulnerable with support and with innovative solutions to their problems. Omisore, a tech entrepreneur with perfect SAT scores and a plethora of high level connections put together a great team of business and community leaders from across the United States and Nigeria to create a medium that provides agency for the underserved. Using emerging, interactive information and machine learning technologies, Open Hands Tech has developed an all-encompassing solution: a platform which provides real-time, pertinent information on the location and availability of much-need resources and solutions. Open Hands Tech leverages on the capabilities that Artificial Intelligence technology provides by creating an all-inclusive application which acts as a primary access point for the provision of key resources to those in need. Using voice and text services, this application will serve as a “lifeline assistance program”, providing users across myriad platforms with a portal to resources and lifelines. Open Hands Tech’s mission is to devise a platform that allows for synergy and optimized coordination in the circulation of aid and resources to those who need it the most. With more support, Open Hands Tech can effectively use interactive information to bridge the gap between solutions providers and their target market, while simultaneously expanding their reach. The ultimate goal is to build a community and network of people and organizations, and synergize their efforts by integrating the efforts of NGOs and organizations who offer the same or similar services. By creating a unified front, information dissemination and service delivery are optimised. We can ensure that vital resources are efficiently delivered to those who need them, and that those who benefit from these services are always satisfied. This vision sounds simple, but it is not easy. But with the statistics reflecting just how dire the situation is, this is the time for action, and Open Hands Tech is digging into the task at hand, backed with the intelligent technology and a dedicated team of experts seeking to catalyze truly positive social change, so no one falls through the cracks. For more information on Open Hands Tech, please visit openhandstech.org or contact us at toluwanimiadesiyan@openhandstech.org.