Health Minister Prof Isaac Adewole has assured of Nigeria’s commitment to immunisation to save lives and improve health outcomes. He said the country has conducted a Multi Indicator Cluster Survey (MICS) that gives a clearer picture of the immunisation status and declared a Public Health Emergency on immunisation to close identified gaps. Accordingly, the government came up with some initiatives to address challenges such as the establishment of National Emergency Routine Immunisation Center (NERIC) to revamp the Routine Immunisation (RI) Programme. Adewole stated this as Nigeria joined other members of the Global Alliance for Vaccine and Immunisation (GAVI) to share challenges and successes in the immunisation regime, and to review strategies for improvement  on the sidelines of the 68th Meeting of the WHO Regional Committee for Africa, in Dakar, Senegal. He said some of the major challenges were poor coordination, accountability, weak service delivery and inaccurate data, among others. To address these, Adewole said the country has adopted zero tolerance for data falsification. NERIC has developed a strong coordination and accountability structure, with reward and sanction for actors at the federal, state and local government levels; and conducts daily progress monitoring meetings to identify gaps and deal with them appropriately. He said the GAVI’s decision to extend the transition period to 10 years as against the earlier 5-year deadline has helped the country in mapping out funding plans to ensure sustainability after the withdrawal of GAVI support. “Government of Nigeria has an annual funding plan of 10 percent increase in immunisation budget which will enable the country take responsibility for immunisation of its citizens by the end of the transition programme in 2028.” According to him, the country has a target of 80 percent immunisation coverage, adding that the government was very grateful to GAVI for the extension. He added: “The country would keep faith to our commitments to GAVI and all our other development partners”. Other African countries also shared ideas and challenges similar to Nigeria’s andh the meeting agreed on the need to adopt measures to achieve better outcomes, increase in political commitment of state actors especially in the areas of strong leadership and transparency, ensure community and group participation which also targets women and youths, have a strong data integrity regime, and strong commitment to right recruitment which targets human resources with right profile and invest in capacity building. The GAVI Alliance Group comprises of donors and beneficiary countries who come together to advance immunization and jointly contribute to funds for their activities. The Alliance is being managed by a board where we currently have Ghana and Code ‘Ivoire representing African Countries. 