The final phase of the Prudent Energy Handball League will take place from September 25 to October 7 at the Mobalaji Johnson Sports Centre, Rowe Park with over 150 games to be played in the men’s and women’s categories. At a media parley held yesterday in Lagos, Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer, Prudent Energy and Services Limited (PESL), Abdulwasiu Olatunde Sowami said that his outfit is excited to partner with Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN) to develop the game in the country. He also stated that Prudent is backing handball because it enjoys little support from government and private sector. “We are particularly interested in handball because we realise the games is not well supported in Nigeria by the government and the private sector. “PESL is happy to partner with the HFN and will actively support, promote and help develop the league because we share common passion with the current HFN board. Our involvement with the game is a step further in cementing our commitment to Corporate Social Responsibility, while boosting our brand profile,” he added. He commended the teams for their effort in the first phase which took place in Abuja in April and urged them to do better in the final phase. The president of HFN, Sam Ocheho stated the coming of Prudent Energy into handball has led to the revival of the game with the league becoming more vibrant and competitive. He added that the league from increased 10 to 12 days because of the need to take care of the players who are the major actors in the game. He said that the league would be played in a round robin format with the teams (in both categories) with the most points from the two phases emerging the winners. Ocheho noted each team will get N500, 000 subsidy from the sponsors, while the winner in both categories will smile home with N1m.  The second placed teams will take home N750, 000 while the third placed teams will pocket N500, 000. Niger United and Safety Babes of Abuja currently top the table in the men’s and women categories.