The Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside, has urged foreign investors to tap into the opportunities that abound in the African maritime sector. He said the continent was one of the largest in terms of cargo contributions to global maritime trade. Dakuku, who spoke at the Nigerian Business Summit on the sidelines of the recently concluded Shipbuilding, Machinery Technology (SMM) Conference held in Hamburg, Germany, said Africa generated and received a lot of cargo “and this makes it a market hub of the present and future.” He said the maritime sector was open to investments, adding that the President Muhammadu Buhari-led Federal Government had put policies in place that would be beneficial to investors. Dakuku said: “It is known worldwide that Africa is the world’s biggest untapped market waiting to be unveiled. If you want to tap into the market of today and market of future, then Nigeria is your destination. The country is welcoming you. Nigeria is the investment destination of today and future.” He said any investment from outside the continent must be beneficial to both parties, adding that Africa would not be shortchanged. The NIMASA D-G advised foreigners willing to participate in the biggest maritime industry to propose symbiotic terms that would ensure sincere trade among participants. He said the continent is leaning towards China because it offers better understanding of the African market. Dakuku noted that Europeans must also come to the party with genuine interest and opportunities of financing for the sector, which the industry was in dire need of. Said he: “China appears to be offering Africa favourable terms of engagement in terms of cost of financing project. In terms of the duration for the payment of facilities and in terms of ease of transfer of technology, Europe may offer better technology, Europe may even offer better managerial capability, but what of the issue of financing? It is up to Europe to realise that the market of future is in Africa and it offers mutually beneficial terms, not terms that benefit Europe only to the detriment of Africa. So if you offer us favourable terms of engagement, then Africa is open for business, Nigeria is open for business.” Nigerian Ambassador to Germany Yusuf Maitama Tuggar said the SMM Hamburg offered a platform for maritime investors across the globe to cross fertilise ideas. He said Nigeria was ready for investment, adding that the Buhari administration  remained resolute and determined in providing an enabling environment and repositioning the maritime industry to compete with its counterparts around the world, especially with the introduction of policies and programmes that had impacts on the sector, thereby making it more attractive for foreign investments. The SMM, Hamburg is a maritime trade fair organised biannually in Germany to discuss germane issues of maritime by key players in the industry worldwide. This year’s summit brought to the fore the impact of emissions from ships, requesting every maritime nation to seek avenues of emission reduction.   