Mrs. Toke Benson-Awoyinka is aspiring to represent Ikeja Federal Constituency, Lagos at the National Assembly on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, she explains the challenges the constituency has been facing in the last three years and why she should be elected. Why are you contesting? I am contesting to correct some anomalies observed in the system. There are some issues that should be brought to the front-burners. I believe that Ikeja Federal Constituency should show the way for others, in term of good example on how things should be done. These things bothered on Lagos being the commercial capital of Nigeria, the most populous state in the country, whether you want to compare it to Kano or not. With 37 local council development areas (LCDA) and 20 local governments (LG), I believe Lagos represents Nigeria’s diversity. What is the reason for the 37 LCDAs? It is to bring down governance closer to the people. And which other way do we impress it upon the authorities to have it recognised by the constitution. Right now, Lagos is being threatened, in my opinion, because it deserves more than what it is receiving at the moment from the Federation Account. The state collects revenue for only 20 local governments from the Federation Account. Sixty-five per cent of the revenue that accrues to the account is derived from Lagos. I am also interested in tackling the issue of the girl-child education and the marginalisation of women in our society. You will be contesting against the incumbent lawmaker. How prepared are you for the race? In my letter of intent, which I will make available to the media in due course, I listed some of the burning issues that necessitated my vying for the seat. The truth is that we have an incumbent who had been in Kogi State since 2015. In my view, he is not representing Ikeja right now, because Kogi is part of the Northcentral, while Lagos belongs to the Southwest. It is not possible for you to be politicking in Kogi and at the same time politicking in Lagos. Having moved to Kogi State since 2015, the incumbent is no longer qualified to represent Ikeja Federal Constituency, which he abandoned in the last three and half years. I think such abnormality is an issue that needs to be dealt with in our constitution and laws. We had the issue raised during the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) meeting recently, on how someone can move from one part of Nigeria to another in the course of politicking. We have diversity of culture, diversity of economy; it is immoral, illogical and it is absurd for you to have a candidate in Ikeja in 2015 moved to Kogi in 2016 and then back to Ikeja in 2018. So, our laws need to be reviewed to deal with such absurdity. Right now, there is no occupant for the Ikeja seat at the House of Representatives. That is one of the issues that should be addressed. It is to the detriment of every one of us in Ikeja that we do not have someone representing our interests in the last three and half years. The issue has not been given much attention, because of distraction. A few days ago, he came around and said he was doing poverty alleviation; donating cars in an age where we need to engage our youths. When we should tackle unemployment and increase vocation for the people. What will the Uber car scheme do for 18 people in the whole of Ikeja? How does that give representation to the people of Ikeja? We have the ‘Empower programme’; if I were in his shoe, I will have keyed into it. I will make sure that all the schemes that come from the Federal Government are brought to Lagos. Honestly, Lagos contributes too much to the centre and gets nothing back. How will you deal with the issues of special status for Lagos State? I do believe in special status for Lagos State. This is one of the things in my letter of intent. Lagos is the commercial nerve-centre of Nigeria; when Lagos coughs, Nigeria will catch cold. Lagos is too diverse; that is why the issue of special status should be brought into resource control that I spoke about. We need to have a convergence of ideas on how to promote Lagos as a special entity within Nigeria. We used to have the Protectorate of Lagos, so you cannot take away that special interest accorded Lagos right from time. Obviously, Lagos should be recognised as a special state. The resources and revenue infrastructure in Lagos is overstretched and it is probably the most indebted state in the Nigeria. The infrastructure is dilapidated; the major roads are being overworked, because of the movement of goods and services. Take the issue of Apapa/Oshodi Expressway, as long as I can remember everything that comes into Nigeria comes through Apapa ports and from there, they are moved to the rest of Nigeria. I think we lack vision about addressing the issue of Lagos State. Lagos as a special entity should not be debated. Women don’t support themselves. How are you going to enlist their support? The greatest challenge I have is having women on our side each time a woman is aspiring. When we have women supporting men against women, it becomes an issue the party should wade into. My greatest challenger is also a woman. But, I am being encouraged by the feat already achieved by Senator Oluremi Tinubu. She has been encouraging me and other women alike; telling me that I can do it. She urges me to fight for my right; that I can do it. She is actually an advocate for women legislators; she believes women can do it and break the barrier. She believes politics is not for the lily-livered. Yet, there is this woman who is trying to discourage me in my constituency. She says something like: Toke, it is not yet your turn. So, how are you going to achieve your ambition? Well, I will get the men who are cheering me on to continue. I will ignore the woman and my advice to women is that they should take the bull by the horns. There is nothing you will do in life that is not challenging; you want to start a business or venture into anything resourceful, the challenge is always there. The incumbent has been in government for 17 years. I will spend my hard-earned resource to galvanize and encourage people to vote for me. I think I will get the support of the people.