…Praises Army for relocating base to Gudumbali  A former Senate Leader, Sen. Ali Ndume on Thursday said the war against Boko Haram is winnable at the rate at which the military is going. He also praised the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Tukur Buratai for relocating the operational headquarters of the Nigerian Army to Gudumbali in Guzamala Local Government Area of Borno State. He advised the military to sustain its campaign to take the battle to the insurgents on Mandara Mountains where Boko Haram members are hiding. Ndume, who spoke with newsmen in Abuja, pleaded with the people of Borno State not to panic. He said: “So far, I believe the war against Boko Haram is winnable by Nigerian military. The troops have adopted the strategy of taking the battle to the insurgents and with this development; the war will soon be over. “If the military can sustain the offensive, they can win the war within a short time.
He said there were indications that the “ insurgents are trapped in Mandara Mountains from where they sneaked out in the afternoon and night to look for maize and other foodstuffs from innocent villagers. “The troops should continue to do their best to fish them out on Mandara Mountains.”
Ndume commended the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.Gen. Tukur Buratai for relocating the operational headquarters of the Nigerian Army to Gudumbali He added: “The prompt response to the attack on Gudumbali and the repelling of the insurgents by the military have shown that we are capable of overcoming the Boko Haram insurgency
“It is heartwarming that the Nigerian Army has also relocated its operational headquarters to Gudumbali in response to the escalation of attacks by the insurgents.
“We are hoping that other security agencies will emulate and cooperate with the Nigerian Army in order to bring this issue of insurgency to an end.” He pleaded with the people of Borno State to assist the military with intelligence and other information to win the war against insurgency. “My advice to our people is not to panic and cooperate with the Nigerian Army in order to get the necessary information to curtail Boko Haram insurgents.”