 Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello has posted some senior officers to oversee some agencies, it was learnt on Wednesday. The development is due to the vacation of positions by some political office holders who are seeking political offices in the forthcoming 2019 general elections. The appointments, the minister said became necessary in order not to leave any vacuum in the operations of the affected Agencies. Accordingly, the Chief of Staff, Malam Muhammad Bashir Mai Bornu, is to oversee the activities of the Transportation Secretariat while Dr. Aminu Mohammadu Mai, General Manager of the FCT Hospital Services Management Board, would be in charge of the Health and Human Services Secretariat. In a statement issued on Wednesday by the Special Assistant (Media) to FCT Minister, Abubakar Sani, Mr. Sunny Monedafe, Board Member I, Secondary Education Board, is now to oversee the affairs of the Board while Malam Bashir Muhammad, Director, FCT Muslim Pilgrims Welfare Board, is to superintend over the Social Development Secretariat. Also, Mr. Chika Alexander Nwatu, Special Assistant on Community Relations would continue in that capacity with additional responsibility over Abuja North while Dr. Bala Mohammed Liman, Senior Special Assistant on Finance and Economic Matters would oversee the Education Secretariat. It would be recalled that the minister had issued a strong directive that they should first resign before going ahead with their political ambitions. This strong directive, which was contained in a circular PS/FCTA/589, dated 38th August, 2018, was made available to Executive Secretary, FCDA, Chief of State to the FCT Minister, Secretaries of Mandate Secretariats and Senior Special Assistants for onward circulation to the entire workforce. It was also made available to all Directors in the FCTA and FCDA, Special Advisers (Community Relations), Special Assistants, Heads of FCT parastatals and agencies. Findings revealed that a lot of political office holders were nursing the ambition to contest for an office in the forthcoming 2019 general elections, but they have not made their intentions publicly known. Many are according to sources considering the options before taking final decisions. The circular which was personally signed by the FCT Permanent Secretary, Sir Christian Ohaa, reads in parts: “You may wish to note that in compliance with the provisions of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999, (as amended) and the Electoral Act 2010, (as amended), the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has issued the Timetable and  Schedule of Activities for the conduct of the 2019 General Elections “Consequently, the Honourable Minister of FCT, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello has directed political appointees and other employees in the Federal Capital Territory Administration who wish to seek elective positions to formerly resign from their current positions to enable them pursue their political  ambitions.” It also directed thus: “Those affected are expected to handover all government property in their custody to the Permanent Secretary, upon the submission of their letters of resignation.” 