Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation Abubakar Malami, SAN, has said the government through its whistleblower policy has recovered billions of naira. He said the recovery was made possible through measures, such as establishment of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Executive Order No.6, etc. Speaking at the 2nd annual conference/induction for members of the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors (CIFIA), Malami said the administration through his office ensured that corrupt individuals were unable to use the money or property obtained through corrupt means. He said it was the belief of the Buhari administration that those, who corruptly enriched themselves with public funds, should be jailed, to act as a deterrent to others. Malami said: “Mr. President has since assumption of office, through my office as the Honourable Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, introduced measures aimed at preventing culprits of corruption from using money or properties obtained through corrupt means. “Some of these measures include the introduction of the whistleblower policy, Executive Order No.6, establishment of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), just to mention a few. “These measures have yielded positive results, particularly in the recovery of proceeds of crime running into billions of Naira through the whistleblower policy. “While such measures will be strengthened to achieve the desired objective, it is the belief of this administration that those, who corruptly enrich themselves with public funds, should not only be denied the benefits of the proceeds of their corrupt practices, but should also be tried in court and where found guilty should be jailed to act as a deterrent to others.” CIFIA President Dr. Victoria Enape said the primary domain of forensic and investigative auditing was to work within the investigative process from the scene of financial fraud to court. She said: “The primary domain of forensic and investigative auditing is to work within the investigative process from the scene of financial fraud to court, providing information and evidence for administration of justice. “This, we believe, will be a major boost to activities of anti-corruption agencies, such as the EFCC, ICPC and CCT.”  