Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has assured that Edo State Polytechnic, Usen, formerly Edo State Institute of Technology and Management, will become a hub for world-class innovators, entrepreneurs and employers of labour, with the renewed focus of the institution to link academia and research to industry. Obaseki, who said this while declaring open the 2nd Eminent Scholar Lecture series organised by the institution, said that the growing synergy between the Polytechnic and industry is commendable. The governor, who was represented by the Commissioner for Science and Technology, Hon. Christopher Adesotu, noted that the Polytechnic will produce students that would be employable after graduation and provide solutions to day-to-day challenges. He said, “The students would be trained to be employable and also employers of labour. As such, we will put all necessary facilities for efficient learning to make them innovators.” He said the theme for the Lecture series, Security challenges and the Implications on National Development in Nigeria: Engineering Technology Perspective, was apt as Nigeria seeks solutions to her security challenges. Obaseki said his administration is committed to providing solutions to challenges in the 21st century world, adding, “We shall spare no effort to build stronger ties with our institutions such as Edo State Polytechnic, to create solutions to security challenges. “My administration is keen on delivering our transformation through building local workforce and we are depending on the Polytechnic as one of the institutions to equip students with skills to drive development in the state.” Guest Lecturer for the 2nd lecture series, Commandant, Nigerian Army School of Electrical and Mechanical Engineering, Auchi, Brig. Gen. Dickson Ehiorobo, reiterated the place of engineering equipment and technology in addressing security challenges. “This is an opportunity to sensitise the students, researchers, engineers, technologists and others involved in designing and carrying out research on military equipment on the need for a synergy to professing solutions to security challenges,” Ehiorobo added. Chairman, Ovia South West Local Government Area, Hon. Destiny Enabulele, commended Governor Obaseki and the management of Edo State Polytechnic for organising the lecture, noting that the council will work with the institution in line with the vision of the new management to transform it to a world-class institution. Rector, Edo State Polytechnic, Prof. Abiodun Falodun, said the lecture was organised to stimulate academic discourse, noting that the partnership will metamorphose into a stronger collaborative relationship between Edo State Polytechnic and the Nigerian military. He added, “Our students now have full access in placement for industrial training and we have an exchange programme of staff between Edo State Polytechnic and the military.”