A security “Plan B” has been activated, following the inconclusive Osun State governorship election, the Police said yesterday. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) declared the election inconclusive on grounds that the total number of cancelled votes was more than the margin of win between the two strong contenders, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and opposition People’s Democratic Party (PDP). According to INEC, APC scored 254,345; PDP had 254,698 leaving a margin of 353 votes, a far cry from the 3,498 total cancelled votes. The cancelled units include two at Orolu, one each at Ife South, Ife North and Osogbo. There were attempted ballot box snatching and other infractions. INEC announced a rerun for the polling units on Thursday. The Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) in charge of Operations and Security Coordinator for the election, Mr. Taiwo Lakanu assured all of the readiness of operatives for a hitch-free exercise. He said: “We have already activated plan B. I told you earlier that we had contingency arrangement for the election. That is how we do our planning. We make provisions for any eventuality. “There is no cause for alarm, but politicians must play by the rules of the game. They should improve on their conduct. “There were two attempts to snatch ballot boxes but security averted them. Political thugs and all those who have no business at the affected polling units should steer clear. “This is a warning to those who think they can cause trouble in the state. We will ensure they face the wrath of the law. The electorate should not be afraid because we are very much on ground.” At about 1:30am, gunshots were heard at the INEC LGA collation centre in Osogbo. Bystanders, who were awaiting the announcement of results, were scampering to safety as the torch wielding thugs, who fired shots in the air, smashed the back windscreen of a Sports Utility Vehicle. It was later gathered that they had attempted to snatch the ballot boxes but were prevented by policemen attached to the centre who called for reinforcement. By the time two of our reporters resurfaced from their hiding place, armed security operatives had taken over the street and calm restored.