Oyo State Governor, Abiola Ajimobi, has described as ‘unsubstantiated’ the allegation by his predecessor and a governorship aspirant in the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adebayo Alao-Akala, that he has chosen to impose Mr Joseph Olasunkanmi Tegbe in today’s (Sunday) primary. Eight aspirants are jostling to succeed Ajimobi in the party. In a statement by his media aide, Jeremiah Akande on Saturday, Alao-Akala announced his boycott of the election and directed his supporters to do the same. The primary is scheduled to hold on Sunday in Ibadan, the state capital. Alao-Akala, in the statement, alleged that Ajimobi had sent words round to coerce and intimidate delegates into voting for Tegbe today. He, therefore, called on the national leadership of the party to come to the rescue of the party which he said was heading towards collapse. The statement read in part: “His Excellency, Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala, a true party man and committed loyalist to any cause he believes in, wishes to state categorically that he is not a push-over in the game of politics and as a well-grounded and groomed politician who has occupied the number one seat of a politically conscious state as Oyo State will not be part of any move or attempt to subvert the true will and wish of the people by the selfish interest of an Individual.\ “The general public should also note that Gov. Abiola Ajimobi has clandestinely offered Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala the ministerial slot of Oyo State in an attempt to pitch him against Barr. Adebayo Shittu, an offer he has rejected in its entirety as he is not one to be tailored or shown the way round in the game of politics.” But Ajimobi’s spokesman, Mr Bolaji Tunji, described the allegation as unsubstantiated, stressing that the governor has thoroughly demonstrated that he has no preference for any aspirant. Tunji reminded Alao-Akala, who he described as a respected politicians and who has played a good role in fostering unity in the party, that Ajimobi once met the aspirants and advised them to pick a few among them that will go into the primary. Tunji, who is the Special Adviser to Governor Ajimobi on Communication and Strategy, explained that the governor has emphasized severally at the meeting that he has not anointed any of them. He added that the aspirants, who were originally up to 26, did not get back to the governor on those they have chosen to participate in the primary. Tunji said it is not uncommon for aspirants to come up with excuses and unsubstantiated allegations when it becomes clear to them that they may not win an election.