Supporters of Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi are accusing Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike of plotting to scuttle the All Progressives Congress (APC) September 29 governorship primary election. Speaking on behalf of the minister’s supporters, a chieftain of the APC in Rivers, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, yesterday said a legislative aide to a serving senator, Kennedy Friday, boasted in Port Harcourt that his boss’ loyalists would get favourable judgment today at the Rivers High Court, Port Harcourt,  to quash the APC congresses that produced Ojukaye Flag-Amachree. When contacted for his reaction, Friday said: “Every Nigerian knows Chief Eze as a hireling of the Minister for Transportation, with the duty to blackmail Senator Abe. Where, when and how did I make such statement?” Commissioner for Information and Communications in Rivers Emma Okah also asked members and leaders of Rivers APC to leave out Wike, a chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), out of their internal matter, thereby putting their house in order, while maintaining that Rivers governor had no hand in the crisis and alleged factionalisation of Rivers APC. The Rivers Publicity Secretary of APC, Chief Chris Finebone, however, maintained that the attempt by Abe’s loyalists to vacate the order of perpetual injunction granted in favour of Flag-Amachree-led executive of Rivers APC had failed, with the Abuja court adjourning indefinitely, making the senator, backed by Wike, to seek alternative judgment in Port Harcourt high court. In a ruling delivered by the presiding judge, Justice H.B. Yusuf, of an Abuja High Court, sitting in Maitama, on September 20, the court declined to rule on a suit, with reference number: FCT/HC/CV/2705/18, filed by the 23 claimants (Abe’s allies). The judge ruled that: “Based on all that I have said, it is my honest view that it is unwise and unprofitable to make further progress in this case, but rather to stay further proceedings pending the decision of the Court of Appeal. This case is accordingly adjourned sine die.” While H.A. Bello appeared for the 23 claimants, Oluwole Adaja put up appearance for the first set of defendants (Flag-Amachree-led executive) and O.H. Arono for the second set of defendants (APC and its National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole). Abuja High Court 14, presided over by Justice A. O. Musa, on September 4, 2018 granted an order of perpetual injunction, restraining the APC and its national chairman (first and second defendants) from tampering with the mandates of the elected officials/delegates elected at the first defendant’s ward, local government and state congresses in Rivers State on May 19, 20 and 21, 2018 respectively, either by nullifying, removing or in any way refusing to give effect to the outcome of the congresses or by purporting to conduct another congress in respect of Rivers State. With the ruling by Justice Yusuf to adjourn the matter sine die, all pending appeals arising from the initial ruling by Court 14 presided by Justice Musa will have to be done with, before further action can continue on the matter.