The candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the Osun State governorship election, Sen. Iyiola Omisore, has given an insight into why he rejected the offer by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to cooperate with it in today’s rerun election. Omisore and SDP leaders revealed in a number of communique that PDP leaders and the party’s candidate, Sen. Ademola Adeleke, are ‘not trustworthy, reliable and dependable in their past dealings’ with them. They added that judging by many standards; Gboyega Oyetola is a far better candidate than Adeleke who will likely do well for Osun State. The communiques were issued after meetings of leaders in each zone of the state including Iwo, Ijesa land, Ikirun and Ile-Ife. The SDP leaders recalled how Sen. Adeleke, with the collaboration of the National Chairman of the party, Chief Uche Secondus, “masterminded the conduct of another congress which rubbished the earlier congress already approved by the PDP National Executive Committee (NEC) which favoured Otunba Omisore.” According to them, Adeleke has confirmed at different times as somebody that cannot be trusted judging by his previous alleged betrayals. The incidents, they claimed, include his initial agreement not to throw his hat into the governorship ring when he approached Omisore for his senatorial ambition; an agreement to have at least one legislative assistant ‘selected through each of the aspirants that stood down for him on which he reneged till date and alleged failure to respect the agreement to compensate Dr Akin Ogunbiyi with the deputy governorship slot, even when the election was at sight.” Now that the election would be over, the SDP leaders wondered how such a man can honour any agreement made. The SDP leaders also expressed the fear that the PDP governorship candidate would most likely be prosecuted for ‘aiding and abetting’ before he is sworn in or even be impeached for frivolous reasons by the House of Assembly shortly after his swearing-in. Additionally, the leaders viewed the control of the Federal Government by the All Progressives Congress (APC) as an advantage, stressing that the PDP is the ‘architect of the present predicament.’ They posited that joining forces with the party can spell doom for the SDP. They also stated that numerous leaders within the PDP will not allow the party to function well because “too many cooks spoil the dish (broth).’ They added: “Because of the fact that we want the best for our people in Osun State, we see Oyetola as a more capable and qualified candidate.” They also posited that they would enjoy more possible positions and privileges in the APC government than in a PDP government. “The APC is a more reliable party than the PDP. For instance, the APC promised Isiaka Adeleke the senatorial ticket of Osun West and it was honoured unlike the promise made by the PDP to Dr Ogunbiyi which it reneged on.” Based on the above, the leaders concluded that the APC would be more beneficial to the state and SDP members. The communiques were signed by virtually all the leaders in the zones.