Nigeria youth international, Victor Osimhen, with incredible introspection recalled his humble beginning and European trajectory through VfL Wolfsburg to Charleroi in the Belgian Jupiler League, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Apart from soccer, music is certainly the only thing that catches his fancy. Former Nigeria junior international Victor Osimhen has waxed lyrically about his life-changing loan deal from Wolfsburg in the German Bundesliga to Charleroi in the Belgian Jupiler League. “I believe I can fly now,” Osimhen told THE NATION in apt reference to music star R Kelly’s hit track ‘I believe I can fly’ after scoring his first goal for Charleroi last weekend against Waasland-Beveren Here was a lad who loved to be ‘sitting on the throne’ in accordance with the hit track of his favourite musician Nigeria’s rapper, Olamide, but he was nearly turned to a  wreck in the tough Teutonic environment. Osimhen, despite arriving Wolfsburg on high recommendation following his goal-rious exploit at the Chile 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup – where he won the golden boot as top scorer and silver ball as second most valuable player behind compatriot, Kelechi Nwakali – he was virtually consigned to the bench at the Volkswagen Arena. But on his first debut for the Les Zebres (The Zebras) in an away tie to Waasland-Beveren on Match Day 8 of the Belgian Jupiler League, Osimhen’s quality was there for all to see as he struck with an uncommon élan that is worthy of recollection. After receiving a deep-lying cross in the box, the burly striker in a spectacular show of skill and precision, nutmegged an on-rushing defender and within a twinkle of an eye, he scored with a back heel goal much to the delight of over 8,000 spectators at Freethel Stadion with thousands humming on the social media over the well-executed goal. “It’s a great feeling for me to get my first league goal in Europe after two years,” stated Osimhen with an emotion-laden voice. Yet, Osimhen means ‘God is good’ in Victor’s native Ishan dialect in Esan South East Local Government Area of Edo State in Nigeria and the lad is full of splendour about the turn of events. “I’m really happy because I have been working hard; and I think the hard work has started paying off again. “I really want to thank God because this goal is important for me, my family and all my loved ones.” The goal indeed is worth its weight in gold and it’s the sort of goal that naturally, easily elicits frenzy on the internet even when it wasn’t done by the likes of Mohammed Salah, Lionel Messi or Cristiano Ronaldo. At the last check, the picture of Osimhen celebrating first goal for his new Belgian club has attracted over 1000 likes and over 300 comments on just one social media platform. “I think my first goal for Charleroi against Waasland-Beveren was special,” he volunteered. “I have been watching the different styles of all the top strikers, especially with the way they score some marvellous goals to add to my own skill and I didn’t think twice when I had a similar opportunity to score with the back heel against Waasland-Beveren. “All along, I had the mentality that I was going to try out one of the tricks and this really helped me; I’m grateful to God.” Osimhen has reasons to be grateful for what can best be described as divine intervention after going through the vicissitudes of life at Wolfsburg. After some cameo appearances for Wolfsburg, he copped an injury and ended his two seasons at Volkswagen Arena with an unimpressive14 matches that included just 12 Bundesliga games, two German Cup matches and one other inconsequential game of which he was mostly coming on as a substitute without a single goal to his credit. Of course, the knives were out as the cynical press and public lacerated the youngster to shreds by writing off his budding career. “I wasn’t disturbed in any way by some of the negative comments and stuff that were written about me during my period at Wolfsburg,” noted Osimhen who hustled and hawked sachet water on the streets of Lagos in his formative years. “Some journalists speculated so much about my career but the truth was that I was even sick and I couldn’t join them for the preseason. It took me about three weeks to come out of that sickness and I really thank God for my life. “My friends sent me all what some journalists were saying; that I went for trials at Zulte-Waregem and Club Brugge which wasn’t the truth in any way. But rather than discouraging me, it actually got me motivated and I’m happy everything is now on the positive note for me at Charleroi.” For years, the Belgian Jupiler had been a Mecca of a sort for Nigerian footballers and at some point, Anderlecht housed former national team captain and coach, the late Stephen Keshi, who actually led the exodus of talents to Europe in the late 1980s. There was also Daniel Amokachi at Club Brugge while Victor Ikpeba, Sunday Oliseh and goalkeeper Alloy Agu were the three musketeers at Standard Liege in the 1990s. Other Nigerian standard bearers in Belgium include Celestine Babayaro who won the annual Ebony Shoe Award for the best African or Africa origin player in the Belgian league. “This season, I’m not setting any standard for myself because so many Nigerian players have done well in the past here in Belgium. But I just want to score as many goals as possible at Charleroi,” he offered with a breathy purr. “The most important thing is to achieve the target set by the club and it’s my hope to contribute my quota towards the success of the club this season. I want to be an important player and help the club in the best way I can.” Weaned on the streets of Lagos where he learnt preservation and perseverance, the message on the display photo on Osimhen’s Whatsapp logo easily elicits the interest of this writer since it’s very instructive with three heavy-duty words: Focus-Hustle-Believe. “I actually received the display photo on my Whatsapp as a message from one of my fans and this means so much to me because it sums up the philosophy of my life,” noted Osimhen who has cult followership numbering over 50,000 Instagram. “Strangely, I’ve not met this great fan of mine but he perfectly understood all what I went through at Wolfsburg. He kept urging me to work hard and asked me to put the picture at a place I can see every day. “That picture has been on my Whatsapp logo for over one year now and it’s going to be there for a while and I may probably not even change it. “I believe I can achieve all that I conceive in my mind with focus and that means, I have to continue to hustle and believe that God will certainly bless my efforts.” It has indeed taken Osimhen some years to arrive at this point after starting his budding career in Lagos at a neighbourhood side now known prize. “I learnt a lot in terms of football and life at Wolfsburg because I was surrounded by good people,” admitted Osimhen who will be 20 on December 29. “I perfectly understood almost 90% of the way they play in Germany because I wanted to learn and improve on my quality and that was the main reason I actually went to Wolfsburg. “They have one of the best facilities in the world at Wolfsburg and Germany is one of the most powerful countries in the world. “Everything, and I mean about everything, is different from where I was coming from. The first five months were very strange to me because the mentality is different, but luckily I met this wonderful French guy of African origin and I mean Joshua Guilavogui who has been with Wolfsburg for three years and he really assisted me in settling down to a new life in Europe. “He was my guardian all through my stay at Wolfsburg and it was a great experience because I was able to increase my knowledge. Aside playing football, I can now live in any European country on my own without difficulties because my mentality is great, very great.” Of course, it has been well said that you have to behave like Romans if you’re in Rome and this sense of mission is not lost on Osimhen as he settles down to a new lease of life at Charleroi in the province of Hainaut which is the fifth largest Belgian city by population and sometimes referred to as French Hainaut because of its origin. “My German is not so fluent because I can only speak some few words and hopefully I can be fluent with it if I have the opportunity of going back there to play because,  for now, my focus is doing well with Charleroi;  and I have to learn to speak in French or the Belgian language.” Meanwhile, the language of football and standard for  measuring  progress of youngsters by discerning managers remains the same from Germany to Greece or from France to Faroe Island following hints by Super Eagles’ Franco-German manager Gernot Rohr about the possibility of Osimhen joining the new guns in Nigeria’s national team now undergoing a rebuilding process post  Russia 2018  FIFA World Cup. “We have an exciting crop of young players and I think Victor Osimhen would be useful in the future after he moved from Wolfsburg to Charleroi. The coach of Charleroi is my personal friend and I told him about the quality of Victor,” Rohr revealed ahead of the 2019 AFCON qualifier against Seychelles in Victoria. On the basis of Rohr’s testament, Osimhen readily admitted that his future for both club and country is bright as he enthused about the prospect of donning the famous green-white-green colours of Nigeria. “I missed the opportunity of playing for the Super Eagles while at Wolfsburg,” admitted Osimhen who earned his first cap for Super Eagles after coming on as a second half substitute for Ahmed Musa in the 3-0 thrashing of Togo in international friendly match at the Stade Municipal de Saint Leu La Foret in Paris .“But I’m hopeful now for more games with the Super Eagles by playing regularly for Charleroi. “Gernot Rohr is a top coach and everybody he has extended invitation to deserves it and this sort of gives me confidence that I would get my chance if I start scoring goals and doing very well in Belgium. “Right from my childhood, I have always been a big fan of the Super Eagles and I was rooting for them even while I was in the hospital during the Russia 2018 Wold Cup and I think they did the country proud though some people felt otherwise. “I will remain a fan whether I’m invited to play or not and I’m wishing the Super Eagles the best in upcoming fixtures and I know with quality we have as a country, we can be a major contender for the next  AFCON and World Cup in the future. “For now, I’m  keeping my fingers crossed and will continue to work hard here at Charleroi since I know with time, I’m going to have the chance of playing for the Super Eagles and Nigeria again,” stated  Osimhen who equally  featured for the Nigeria national Under-20 side (Flying Eagles) under Amuneke that he’s immensely  indebted to. He explained: “Coach Amuneke is a good man; and he’s like a father to me and I can only wish him all the best and I pray he’ll be able to take Tanzanian football to the next level.” Similarly, Osimhen seems to be inching forth to the next level in Belgium as he grabbed his second goal for Charleroi in as many matches after coming on as a second half substitute on Wednesday night in the 2-0 defeat of Aalst in the Belgian Cup. “I feel great and overwhelmed about my second goal for Charleroi and I’m really happy to be here in order to get my career back on track; the people here are nice and the coach (Felize Mazzu) believes so much in me and I really want to learn more. “The good thing is that the period I spent in Wolfsburg has really shaped me into the kind of striker that I wanted to be. I’m still learning and under construction but it’s good to be back in my scoring way,” he stated.  