Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party ( ANRP ) has expressed `deep sadness’ over the murder of Saifura Hussaini Ahmed, a midwife and humanitarian worker with the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) in Borno by Boko Haram. Mr Sesugh Akume, the National Publicity Secretary, ANRP, in a statement on Wednesday in Abuja expressed deep condolences to the family and loved ones of Saifura, and wished them the strength to bear the loss. The late Saifura Hussaini was abducted by the terrorists on March 1, alongside two other colleagues, Alice Loksha Nggadah of the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) and Hauwa Muhammad Liman, also of ICRC. Akume said that images of Saifura Hussaini had early been released by the terrorists before and after she was gruesomely shot in the head. He said that messages warning that the same fate would befall the other two abductees in the next one month if nothing was done were also released. It would be recalled that the three aid workers had released messages, one handwritten note, and the other a voice message pleading to their employers, their families, and President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure their rescue. “We were there for the vulnerable but now we are vulnerable,” they had cried out. Akume expressed disappointment at the manner in which the international aid agencies, ICRC and UNICEF had handled the unfortunate incident. “This was rather handled in a lackadaisical manner leading to the murder of one of the abductees,’’ he said. He lamented that such agencies had a dichotomy between ‘expatriate’ and ‘local’ staff, noting that the three compatriots were deemed local staff and therefore treated as such. Akume expressed doubts that the treatment the three compatriots received would not have been accorded them if they staff from other countries. He insisted that all lives mattered equally and must be accorded same dignity and importance. He expressed disappointment at the manner the Federal Government had attended to the matter, noting that there was no communication on the murder of its citizen and the fate of those in captivity. “The president has not only been silent but has been occupied with political activities in the light of this gruesome murder of its citizen. “This insensitivity of our collective conscience and consciousness, as well as trivialising the lives of Nigerians stand vehemently condemned. “We appeal to Mr President to come to the aid and rescue of the life of Nigerians,’’ he said. He said that the threat to murder Sufaira’s colleagues and other dear compatriots in captivity should not be allowed to happen and urged that all necessary measures to ensure their safe release should be adopted.