Nigeria is over deploying its military personnel to maintain law and order in different parts of the country and the areas where security is most needed is becoming vulnerable, former Inspector General of Police (IGP), Mr. Solomon Arase has said. The former IGP stated this in Zaria on Monday while presenting a lead paper at the 50th Anniversary and International Conference of Department of Political Science and International Studies, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, said such action should be a source of serious concern to the nation. Arase, who is an ABU alumnus having graduated 38 years ago from the department, also said the country’s soldiers were deployed to 28 states across the federation and that this would continue to undermine the country’s civil police. The former police boss said the country should as a matter of urgency national importance strengthen its civil police to allow the military face its primary traditional assignment of defending the country’s external aggression. He expressed concern that most state governments hardly convened regular security meeting except when there was a serious security breach, saying that state governors should as matter of priority accord genuine attention to community policing to confront head on the security challenges facing the nation. Arase also canvassed for the development of a comprehensive national policy framework for effective security network with much emphasis on community policing where traditional institutions would be deeply involved in security handling. The former IG said no society could get its security system right without, first and foremost, the consent of its people since security matters were the concerns of everybody. He said Nigerian government should take the advantage of ICT to improve its security system, saying that when he was IG he once requested the then President to send an executive bill to the National Assembly to make it mandatory the installation of CCTV cameras in all shopping malls in Abuja and other cities across the nation. In his goodwill message at the occasion, the Emir of Birnin Gwari in Kaduna State, Malam Zubairu Jibrin, concurred with the position of the former IG on security measures, saying community policing was inevitable if the country was serious in the search for effective security system. “Community policing is not new to us (traditional rulers); it has been with us since time immemorial; and it is still relevant to our present situation. In fact, the complete picture of the former IG’s lecture is that security issue is also part of the responsibility of the traditional institutions,” he said. The emir, who graced the occasion in his capacity as an alumnus of Department of Political Science and International Studies, urged Nigerian leaders to make it a top priority the welfare of soldiers and police personnel in view of their delicate assignments. 