 The power supply from the Nigeria Electricity Supply Industry (NESI) at the weekend dropped to 83,570.30mwh (2006mw), according to the Independent System Operator (ISO) of the Transmission Company of Nigeria (TCN). Its operational report of Sunday showed that the industry recorded a peak generation of 4,452mw and lowest generation of 3,041mw on the previous day. The report also noted that “energy recorded on 22/09/2018 was 83,570.30MWH.” It however added that the generation at 06:00hour on Sunday was 3,340mw. The TCN however explained in a press statement that due to the tripping on fault of the Jos-Gombe 330kV Transmission Line, which had just undergone Annual Scheduled Maintenance, the North Eastern States including Bauchi, Gombe, Adamawa Borno, Yobe and Taraba are currently out of power supply. Its General Manager Public Affairs, Mrs. Ndidi Mbah, who issued the statement, noted that the line tripping occurred on 19:09 hour Saturday after it was re-energized. All efforts are being made by the company’s line engineering crew to resolve the problem and restore the transmission line accordingly. The statement added that the company took advantage of the outage to undertake the Annual Scheduled Maintenance of the 330kV transmission line from Jos to Gombe. After the maintenance work has been completed by the combined engineering maintenance crew from Gombe and Jos Transmission Substations, the transmission line was re closed and energized at about 15:09 hours Saturday at 19:09 hours however, the line tripped due to fault on the line. TCN quickly initiated the patrol of the transmission line to detect and rectify the fault. The release noted that as at 18:30 pm, on Sunday the line engineering crew patrolling the Jos part of the 330kV transmission line has completed investigations on that part of the line, while the Gombe part of the transmission line trace is still ongoing. The entire line cannot be energized until both ends of the line trace have been concluded. Once completed, the findings would be analyzed and faults cleared, TCN will then re-energized the transmission line. Mbah said that the “TCN sincerely regrets inconveniences caused by the outage and also apologizes to the Government and people of the six North Eastern states affected by the outage, while assuring that efforts are ongoing to ensure a speedy completion of the transmission line trace and faults clearance in other to re close and energize the 330kV transmission line. Please bear with us.”