Let me introduce you to a man I met for the first time on Sunday: His name is Yinka. This bundle of deceit is evil. Almost everything about him, including his quest to become a lawmaker, has ulterior motive. Like a typical politician, he feigns ‘lack of interest’ when a sponsored delegation visits to beg him to run for office. He pleads for time to pray about the offer when the truth is that he bribed the chairman of the party to lead the delegation to offer him the ticket to replace the stingy incumbent. Pardon me to tell you more about Yinka. He does it all— hard drugs merchant, human trafficker, advanced free fraudster, internet fraudster and every other bad business you can imagine. He wants to clean up by becoming a lawmaker and is dreaming of moving into Banana Island, the rich enclave in Ikoyi, Lagos. I am sure a number of Yinkas have been prowling the streets in the last few months. Many politicians are being begged by their people to run for offices. Forms have been bought for money bags and tears have been shed. Like Yinka, we have seen those who have asked for time to pray about the offer to run for political offices when they are actually the script writer, the producer and director. Sorry, Yinka is a fictional character, but you and I also know he is real. Nze Sylva Ifedigbo created him, obviously from the realities of our time. Ifedigbo’s debut novel My Mind is No Longer Here just released by Parresia Publishers is the story of four men—Donatus, Chidi, Osahon and Haruna. Connecting all of them is Yinka, who preys on their avarice and ignorance. Donatus is a photojournalist, who worked for a newspaper whose publisher is a big-for-nothing fool. Salaries were not paid promptly, allowances non-existent and welfare zero. Chidi is an undergraduate who suddenly feels the urge to hit it big. Osahon, on the other hand, has been on the run from Benin where he is wanted for cult-related offence. As for Haruna, his case is different. The medical doctor just feels tired of Nigeria after his mother’s death and he feels going abroad is it. Their displeasure with Nigeria leads them all to Yinka, whose motive for wanting to help them go abroad is far from noble. The signs that Yinka’s gestures may not be noble are glaring, but these men are blinded by their frustration with Nigeria. Their minds are simply no longer here. Even when family members call these guys’ attention to possible danger in the offer from Yinka, they lie to make the whole thing look good. All that is important is to just get out of Nigeria, which is likened to hell. The near monologue between these guys and Otunba shows how crooks with money prey on the desperate. Otunba says to the guys: “You see, eyin boys, let me tell you something nobody else will tell you. Hunger is a very good thing. Our people do not know this. That is why they remain poor. They think hunger is a bad thing. No Hunger is a blessing, I tell you. There is no motivator like hunger. It is only hunger that can make you do anything without fear. You see, when I see young men like you wallowing aimlessly about, I tell myself they have not yet tasted hunger. Because when you taste hunger, nobody will tell you to get serious and do something about it.” In another instance, he says: “I tell people I am rich today because I was hungry yesterday.” But he adds the icing on it all, when he says: “But I was not just hungry, I did something about it. Today, see where I am? All those mouths that were running like watery toilet, talking nonsense against me back then, where are they today? The ones that are not dead yet are well on their way there. Every day they are on my phone, begging me for pocket money. These are the same people who said I was doing boy-boy for the military and that I was a friend of killers. They said the army people were using me to do this and that. What did they not say about me? Guess what happened when I started a newspaper? All those hungry journalists that use to write rubbish about the military, all of them were coming to beg me for job. They had forgotten where the money came from. You know why? “Hunger! The thing pushes you to do something that you did not imagine you could do before. Because this thing that Yinka has brought you people for is not for people that are not hungry.” Ifedigbo’s skillful management of suspense sweetens my belly with the revealation that  the Otunba whose ‘magnanimity’ is to see them leave Nigeria is the publisher whose nonchalant attitude to staff welfare led to Donatus’ resignation. It is a very good twist to the tale, which is practically impossible for a reader to guess. Good job! Then, there is the aspect where Ifedigbo reveals the identity of the strange man at Haruna’s mother’s eighth day fiddau. This revelation brought smile to my face because somehow I knew there was more to the stranger and really looked forward to finding out and it was nothing I imagined. Wao! The stories the man tell mark Ifedigbo out as a good story teller. I like Ifedigbo’s sentencing. One of my favourite sentences in the book is “Weeding someone else’s farm.” There are many nice similes, such as “like an old man with scoliosis”, and “like a medieval castle in a movie”. You will also encounter nice lines, such as “emerging stomach subdued by daily treadmills sessions”. The novel also has the right dosage of humour that keeps you turning the pages. The sex is equally of the right dosage and you are allowed to complete the process in your mind. The book shows that literature is a reflection of the society. Aside the major theme of the young generation, which feels disillusioned and wants to check out of the country at all costs, there are sub-themes, such as police randomly picking up innocent people at scenes of crime and only releasing them after bribe is paid;  the problem with the medical sector in the country; and how a dutiful wife becomes a slut all because her husband can no longer pick the bills. Ifedigbo’s handling of Otunba’s character shows us that many of the rich people around are agents of filthy lucre gathered through the sweat and blood of the poor, the desperate and the greedy. I dare say My Mind is No Longer Here is a damn good novel with characters you will remember long after closing page 312. Yinka, for instance, is just difficult to forget. He is a very good bad guy one needs to watch out for and avoid at all cost. The resolution of the conflicts leaves me with the impression that this book will serve as a good campaign material for the National Agency for Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) and the National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA). My final take: The main message in this book is: “There is no place like home.”  This particular line also rings loud: “When your home cannot offer you a bed to sleep peacefully on, a neigbour’s home becomes appealing.” Are Donatus, Chidi, Haruna and Osahon abroad now? For the answer, please go grab a copy of this highly recommended work of art! You will be glad!