D’Tigers coach Alex Nwora has said that his team still has unfinished business in the last round of qualifiers in February despite the D’Tigers’ qualification for the 2019 World Cup in China. Nwora, who stated this after the Nigerian team defeated Senegal 89-61 to make it nine wins from nine games, said that it felt good to have the opportunity to do well in front of the home fans. The coach also assured that the team would give its best in the last round of the qualifiers in February, assuring that the best Nigerian players would always be selected. “it feels good to qualify for the World Cup especially in front of our fans in Lagos. “I appreciate the support of the fans, I commend the players for the good job and credit must go to Ike Diogu for making himself available for all our games and for being a good leader.” he added. The coach who got a technical foul towards the end of the game, said he was not angry with the referees but was animated and should have been be more careful to avoid getting booked. “It was a tough game and we knew they were going to make some mistakes. You can’t rule out human errors in games like this this. I am sure that the referees did a good job.” Skipper of the team, Ike Diogu said he was sure that Nigeria have the better players in Africa and was pleased that the team has stayed strong to record nine wins from nine games in the qualifiers. He said he it was exciting to see what the team has achieved with a mixture of experienced and young players, noting that a good selection process would always see Nigeria do well at international competition. While admitting that he wasn’t averse to the coaching team bringing in more players from the NBA, he stated that the focus should be on the young players who are currently making the team thick. He opined that clamouring for NBA stars could be a distraction to the team. “We are progressing and it will be scary to see what the D’Tigers can do. If we have the best players on the team, it will be good for us,” Diogu added.