Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello has described the state as the second most peaceful state in the country. He spoke at a rally organised in partnership with ActionAid Nigeria (AAN) and Participation Initiative for Behavioural Change in Development (PIBCID) to mark the International Peace Day in Lokoja. According to him, Kogi, which was known for robbery and communal clashes, emerged the second position from 36. He said: “Once upon a time, Kogi was the headquarters of kidnapping and highway robbery, but this has become history. Today, Kogi is adjudged the second peaceful state in Nigeria from a position of 36. Without doubt, in the next year, we shall be number one. “In progress is where you see quality and affordable healthcare delivery, especially for the vulnerable in the society – women and children, in progress is where you see security and tranquillity.” Bello, who was represented by his Chief of Staff, Edward Onoja, hailed the organisers of the rally, stressing that peaceful coexistence is for the interest of all. He advocated for peace and unity of the country. Board Member of AAN Dr. Stella Adejo called for more support from the government to create an enabling environment for the youths to thrive. She promised to strengthen collaboration with the Kogi State government to create lasting peace. Vice Chairperson of Kogi NGO Network (KONGONET) Mrs. Eunice Agbogun called on the youths to remain focused rather than being used wrongly. She said: “Peace is a very important component to the development of any state or country, and that is why today, we are joining the youths to project the message of peace. Peace is very important because without it you cannot have an enabling environment that will thrive for development, give you space for education, health amenities and so many empowerments.” AAN Ambassador Mark Angel praised the government’s peace, saying “I have gone through the state to inspect the level of peace and I am impressed with what I saw, compared to what it used to be.”