A House of Representatives aspirant in Ekiti State, Mr. Olusola Fatoba, has hailed governor-elect, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, for planning to improve agricultural production. He noted that huge investment in processing units across the value chains of crop export produce will be given priority by the incoming All Progressives Congress (APC) administration in the state. Fatoba, who is aspiring to represent Ekiti Central Federal Constituency I, expressed his willingness to work with the governor-elect to develop agriculture across the state. Ekiti State has comparative advantage in food and cash crops, including cocoa, coffee, cassava, rubber, cashew, rice and yam. He said Fayemi’s vision to boost agriculture requires the supports of like-minds to make the state great again. The APC chieftain, who addressed reporters yesterday in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, was reacting to Fayemi’s visit to the Minister of Agriculture and Rural Development, Chief Audu Ogbeh, to seek the ministry’s cooperation on how to improve agricultural production and employment in the state, especially among the youths and build on an agricultural development initiative he initiated during his first time in office. Fatoba noted that agriculture should be given more attention to enable it engage teeming unemployed youths and graduates. According to him, this will promote food production and reduce hunger among the people. He said: “Part of our blueprint is to strengthen the Agriculture sector because it has the potential to proffer solutions to major economic challenges bedevilling the society. “The fact that this lofty ideas and vision of Dr Fayemi in the Agricultural sector require a collective efforts, that is why I am offering myself to join in making this vision a reality for Ekiti State to be great again.” Fatoba said boosting the economy of the state through agriculture requires the political will of Nigerian leaders at all levels. The aspirant promised to complement the efforts of the state government to boost agricultural, if elected as member of the House of Representatives.