An aspirant for the House of Representatives on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Alimosho Constituency, Amuludun Gbenga Ahmed, has called for a part-time legislature to cut down the cost of governance in the country. Gbenga disclosed this in an interview with reporters at the launch of his campaign in Lagos. The event was witnessed by  friends, party faithful and party leaders. He said: “I am in support of part-time legislature and it will help to reduce the high cost of governance in Nigeria.” Has lamented that many people are vying for public office in Nigeria because of pecuniary gain and not because they want to serve in the best interest of the people. Ahmed said making legislative arm of government a part-time work like its was in the first republic will help to thrown up astute professionals and highly motivated people who want to give their best and skills to serve the country. “I believe that we will have fewer incidences of money bag politicians who have failed in their homes and businesses but are seeking for public office as another business investment opportunity”, he said. Amuudun noted that the current representative have done his best to serve the people of Alimosho Constituency 1, but I want to improve on the representation of Alimosho people at the House of Representatives with selfless service and innovation that is needed in today’s world. He said “Lagos is the most populated state and economy epic centre of Nigeria, Alimosho is the biggest local government in Nigeria; its deserve better representation at the National Assembly”, He noted that his grand strategy is active engagement through continuous enlightenment and respectful engagement with stakeholders in the constituency. “My goal will always be clear. My agenda will always be open. At any given point, constituents will always know what I am up to. In every sense of the world, I shall be a servant-represent. My duty is to be humble enough to know what my people want, and then proceed to work for its achievement by all means necessary within the ambit of law. My law constituents will always have the final word”, he said. He added “I will see myself as the representative of my people in Alimosho. I shall do my best to further acquire and understand All Material facts about governance and political issues. then It shall be my duty to explain it to my people at periodic town hall (Constituent)”. “My aim is to immediately register and set up a non-governmental organisation that will be devoted to exclusively provide and give practical assistance to constituents by creating social intervention programmes for constituent of Alimosho. Amuudun said my agenda is to provide additional education and primary health care information. at least one each in all wars in Alimosho and upgrading of existing ones sponsor bills for the creation of an additional federal constituent in Alimosho seeking for their delineation of Alimosho into more local governments to be in line with the average size of local government in the country. 