The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, yesterday in Kano hailed the state governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for being the first  Governor  to sign Executive Order on Open Government Partnership (OGP). Malami who was represented by Mr. Benjamin Ogu during the inauguration of OGP steering committee and launching of state Action Plan, held at Coronation Hall, Government House, further congratulated Ganduje for successfully drafting the Kano State OGP Action Plan. According to him, “I hope that the inauguration of the state Steering Committee today will further engage with citizens in other to deliver on the objectives of good governance. If the principles of openness, transparency and inclusiveness are replicated at the state level, it will have greater impact on the lives of ordinary people.” Malami pointed out that Nigeria’s participation in the OGP process ‘has added value in governance in the several areas through enhanced coordination of government reform efforts, communication among government agencies, better responsiveness and improvement of trust between government and citizens. Ii will expect nothing less in Kano state.’ Also in her speech, the Special Adviser to President on Justice Sector Reform and the OGP National Coordinator, Mrs. Juliet Ibeaku Nwagwu, also commended Kano State for its commitment to good governance and anti-corruption initiatives. Mrs. Nwagwu who was represented by Mrs. Chidinma Elechukwu, expressed happiness that good governance and anti-corruption campaign are highly  exemplified in Kano She said:  “With their focus, resilience and determination towards ensuring that they not only sign unto OGP but followed through with the drafting of their State Action Plan as well as constituting the State Steering Committee which we are gathered today to launch and inaugurate respectively.” She added that through OGP, Nigeria has continued to intensify the fight against corruption, sharing more information about the way public officials are managing public resources, increasing civil society engagement in decision making and harnessing new technologies to strengthen governance. In his address, Kano state Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje who was represented at the event by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Alhaji Usman Alhaji, said Kano remained committed in ensuring transparency, accountability and openness in governance. His words: “Since inception, we made it categorically clear that, our administration would be up and doing in making sure that governance at all levels in the state becomes transparent, accountable and wide open, where citizen access to government’s affairs would be stretched to all listening ears; with this, we promote openness and citizen participation, as well as access to public information. “We, as the case being with the Federal Government under President Muhammadu Buhari, abhor any corrupt tendencies and behaviours, as always, being championed by our dear President. We have already resolved to fight corruption to standstill. “Even before the coming up of OGP, our administration found it necessary to strengthen institutions with the necessary requisites to build stronger society devoid of corruption and other related societal ills. That was why we decided to appoint somebody who is known for high level anti corruption stance to head the state anti-graft body, Kano State Public Complaints and Anti-Corruption Commission.” 