Worried by poor birth registration in the country, stakeholders have converged on Kano to seek a lasting solution. SINA FADARE was there. The news is grim: millions of children born in Nigeria are not registered with the National Population Commission (NPopC). They don’t have any legal document identitying them as Nigerians. According to the recent statistics released by the Nigerian Demographic Health Survey (NDHS), about 20 million children between the ages of zero and five years were not registered at birth. The implication is that about 70 per cent of the children born in Nigeria are not recognised in the nation’s data base because they were not registered by the Nigerian Population Commission (NPopC). And most parents do not bother as they do not know the implications of not registering their children’s births. The survey showed that of the 24,890 health centres with birth registration facilities across the country, only 7,499 are operational, which account for about 30 per cent while the others do not conduct routine birth registration services. Against this backdrop, millions of children have  been missed and are not accounted for in the national data base.   Giving credence to this, the United Nations Children Education Fund (UNICEF) has expressed concern over the alarming low birth registration in the country, saying of the  seven million children born annually, only 1.4m are registered. The commission lamented that about 62 per cent of the children were born outside health facilities in Nigeria. This was disclosed by a UNICEF child protection specialist, Sharon Oladiji at a  media dialogue on birth registration, organised by UNICEF in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Information. The event held in Kano. Oladiji  canvassed a strong advocacy at all levels to support the registration of about 32 million under- five children this year, adding that only eight percent are registered. “People are not registering births because they do not know. Not many states have done well in the course of the year. For instance, of the 24,890 available health centres, there are only 799 registration officers.” She said: “With birth registration, the government will be able to know the number of schools to be built, projects to undertake and health workers to employ. In 2016, registered births under age one was 2,519,017 which amounted to 51 per cent of estimated births in the country while about 57 per cent was registered in 2017. “It is therefore worrisome this year, where the performance of birth registration is only 32 per cent. This also shows that all the states have low registration and this can be traced to some limitations which must be urgently addressed”. However, investigation revealed that, for many years, the Federal Government has failed to make available adequate resources to NPopC to execute the  challenging task. Although at the conference, the Minister of Information, Culture and Tourism, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, has said birth registration was crucial for effective planning and to give identity to every Nigerian child, no measures have been taken to that effect. Most states visited by The Nation lacked the manpower and adequate logistics for birth registration, which  has denied millions of Nigerian children their identity. Speaking to The Nation on condition of anonymity, a Director in one of the states in the Northcentral lamented that the government was only playing lip service to the issue  and lacked the political will to tackle the birth registration holistically. He said: “As l am talking to you now, we are yet to get a dime for our logistics this year. If not for the constant intervention of international agencies like UNICEF, the situation would have been worse than this. How can a country abandon her responsibility of getting an accurate data on births. This is not only embarrassing but unfortunate”. The Nation also gathered that the NPopC headquartres in Abuja is a rented apartment and 11 other states are also using rented apartments for offices. The implication of this, according to demographic experts, is  absolute neglect of a vital segment of the society and a deliberate step by the powers that be not to give the Nigerian child an identity. The poor state of facilities in most of the offices across the country with nothing on ground to operate is an eyesore. Aside the fact that data collation in the states is still analogue format, most of the data are dumped in stores awaiting to be transported to Abuja for processing. In the process, majority of the vital documents get spoiled, or are eaten by termites where they are dumped for many months. As if this is not enough, no state can boast of any operational vehicle and available ones are nothing to write home about. Investigation also revealed that about 10 Directors of the commission have no official vehicle to move around. This has forced the commission to zone its operations in which materials that are supposed to go directly to some states are dumped in the zonal offices. It was also gathered that some materials  provided by UNICEF for Oyo, Osun and Kwara states were dumped in Osogbo, Osun State. This in no small way has contributed to the poor registration of births in the country. A source at the commission’s office in Abuja said birth registration had been abandoned in the last two decades by the Federal Government, which did not value data generation and most times relied on data from international agencies for  domestic operational plan. “This is the precarious situation we have been operating in for many years. Data generation all over the world is capital intensive  and unless the government declares an emergency in birth registration with deliberate funding, we will just talk about the issue year in, year out. “Imagine a commission that has been existing since independence still using a rented apartment as headquartres, if not for the intervention of UNICEF, the situation could have been worse,” he lamented. On the implication of poor birth registration, a demographer, Dr. Tunde Ariyo, noted that with the data released by the NDHS, it was obvious that the country has a long way to go in birth registration of under fives. Ariyo regretted that the NPopC  saddled with the responsibility has been neglected for so long, in terms of funding that it cannot cope with current challenges. “The intervention by UNICEF  and other agencies in providing logistics and printable materials for birth registration has been the saving grace, otherwise, the situation would have been  a disaster.  I have never seen a country like ours that will rely so much on foreign intervention before they can do the needful in birth registration,” said Ariyo. He pointed out that without funding and employment of adequate registrars that can collate raw data from the nooks and crannies of the country, millions of children would still be denied their identities. Ariyo said developments like access to health care, admission to schools, provision of social amenities and ability to plan ahead for the expected children  were tied to accurate birth registration data. “If about 20 million Nigerian children are not registered in the next 10 years, how is the country going to cater for them? That is why you see an army of unemployed graduates roaming the streets with all strata of government helpless,” he said. Speaking in the same vein, a food specialist with NAFDAC, Mr Emmanuel Ajayi, argued that most baby milk industries are always in a dilemma in terms of production due to poor data availability of the children from NPopC, which to a greater extent has hindered their production capacity. Although Assistant Director, (VRD) at NPopC, Abuja, Mrs Hapsatu Husaini Isiyaku, said all hope was not lost, she added that some achievements had been  recorded by the commission with available resources at its disposal. She said the commission collaborated with other stakeholders on some activities that are yielding results. ”To further straighten the collection of data on civil registration and vital statistics, the commission collaborates with the UNICEF, Ministries of Health, Education, and Women Affairs, Nigerian Immigration Services, National Identity Management Commission and the result is encouraging,”she said. Way Out To achieve accurate birth registration across the country, Ariyo said that an emergency should be declared in the sector and a holistic approach, in terms  of adequate funding, should be embarked upon by the Federal Government so that complementary  logistics from international agencies could have the intended impact. Aside this, he challenged state governments to see birth registration as a national call that should be supported with everything at their disposal. According to him, it will not be out of place for the  Federal Government to provide thousands of durable motor cycles across the offices of NPopC in the country so they can be effectively used to gather the needed data from the remotest village. Oladiji advocated for the establishment of additional health centres, employment of more registrars as well as continuous sensitisation of the public on the importance of birth registration. She lamented that about 40 per cent of women in the country do not access healthcare facilities, which is a major problem in birth registration. She noted that the 2013 NDHS report noted that low birth registration  was traceable to the ignorance of rural community dwellers, and called on civil society organisations as well as media practitioners to rise up to the challenge. The Head of Child Rights Information Bureau Advocacy Unit in the Federal Ministry of Information Abuja, Mr. Olamide Osanyinpelu, noted that birth registration was crucial for effective planning and a vessel to give an identity to every Nigerian. To address the problem, he said there should be improved partnerships with the health sector as well as filling the human resources gap in the National Population Commission. He also canvassed an aggressive media campaign to drive the demand for birth registration services and promote increased knowledge on the importance of the exercise.