The Executive Vice Chairman, Nigerian Communication Commission, Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta has said that Internet and Information and Communication Technology (ICT) are key to national security as both would continue to impact on transformation of the nation at various levels of the society and economy. Speaking as guest lecturer on the topic, ‘Leveraging ICT for enhanced national defence and security in Nigeria’, at the 17th Convocation lecture of the 66th Regular course and postgraduate students of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), Kaduna, Danbatta said despite the slow start of internet and ICT usage in Nigeria, they  have been on the increase in the country. He noted that as at May 2018, the volume of communication, through voice technology in the country, it has reached 162 million active lines. He disclosed that the commission is working towards establishing a Cyber Security Incidence Response Team (CSIRT) exclusively for the telecommunication sector. The CSIRT, he added, would also facilitate intervention, identification of threat and sharing of valuable information and resources to help in fortifying national security. “ICT infrastructure and systems are becoming very useful in producing intelligence information and reports that could be very essential and invaluable in the task of thwarting and combating crime. “The deployment of ICT infrastructure has transformed our society in spectacular ways by enabling profound social and economic transformation. “As at May 2018, the volume of communication through voice technology in Nigeria has reached 163 million active lines. “ICT is progressively influencing all aspects of our systems, institutions, processes and services, particularly in key sector such as education, finance, commerce, governance, security and health. “Also, the internet, a network of networks that depends on ICT infrastructure and systems, continues to grow at an exponential rate, bringing with it  new waves of transacting, communicating, learning, socializing, etc for the benefit of all,” he added.