One of those involved in the dispute that led to Saturday’s bloody clash between commercial bus drivers and students of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida (BIDA POLY) in Niger State, Sadiq Ahmad, has relived how it all started. He blamed the destruction in the town on hoodlums, who, he said, hijacked the students’ protest. MAHMUD ABDULSALAM reports. Bida is a quiet Nupe province in Niger State. But last Saturday, it was the epicentre of bloodshed when students of the Federal Polytechnic, Bida (BIDA Poly) and some members of the school’s host community clashed. Three persons, including a student died; many others were injured. The fracas, CAMPUSLIFE gathered, started following an argument between some students and a commercial bus driver at the Etsu Yahaya Abubakar Motor Park. The students, it was learnt, travelled to Bida from Minna, the Niger State capital, on Saturday evening. The argument degenerated into a skirmish, with  some drivers wounding the students. When others on campus heard what happened, they trooped out, smashing vehicles’windscreens and destroying shops and properties at the motor park. The protesters barricaded all access roads to the institution. The drivers’union fought back, with clubs, iron rods, machetes and daggers. Sadiq Ahmad, one of the five students involved in the dispute with the drivers, blamed it all on the drivers. Sadiq, who sustained a fracture on his leg, denied that students were responsible for the destruction of properties. He said some motor park thugs hijacked the protest to unleash mayhem in the town. He said: “We went to the park peacefully to demand the money we had paid as fare from Minna to Bida, since the driver did not take us to our hostels as agreed before we left Minna. Mid-way into the negotiation, an argument ensued. A member of the transport workers’ union at the park slapped a student, saying he was rude. We reacted and they pounced on the rest of us. Some of our colleagues were injured. This is what led to the fight. “The fight spilled over to the town and students quickly fled for safety when the drivers brought out deadly weapons. We did not destroy anything in the town. Touts around the motor park used the opportunity to loot shops and vandalise property.” A worker at the park, Zakari Yanda, confirmed that the dispute started when the driver broke his agreement with the students. Yanda said: “The quarrel was between a driver of a Sharon Bus and five students. We learnt that the driver asked the students to disembark from the bus against the agreement reached with them. Then, an argument ensued.The students were adamant, insisting that bus driver must convey them to their off-campus hostels as agreed before departing Minna. “When the driver refused to do so, the students demanded the refund of their fare since the driver breached the agreement. But, colleagues of the driver and some youths in the town asked the driver not to refund their fare. The students were assaulted on the spot and they left.” It was gathered that students mobilised themselves to the park on Sunday morning to fight back. A woman-trader at the park, Mrs Rebecca Salisu, who witnessed the skirmish, said: “We were frightened how the warring parties pounced on one another. When they started to exchange punches and hit one another with dangerous items, we fled. Some properties were vandalised. Several persons were injured during the fight. For hours, the entire town was enveloped in chaos.” She said the fracas could have been prevented if some drivers did not support their colleagues to assult the students. A Students Union Government (SUG) official, who spoke with CAMPUSLIFE, rejected the claim that the president and some students, led the  protest to the motor park. He said the drivers had, on many occasions, dealt with students, noting that the students could no longer tolerate the drivers’ brutality. The union official accused the drivers of causing the violence, noting that the students who visited the park went for settlement, but were attacked by the drivers. A student said the protesters “boldly challenged” the drivers to send a “strong message”to those who attack students at will. He said: “It beggars belief that harmless students will be treated cruelly by people of Bida town. We reacted violently because we were pushed to the wall. I was among the students manhandled and thoroughly beaten at the park. If nobody came to our defence, then nobody should blame us for the revenge we sought.” The deployment of a team of soldiers, riot policemen and Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) forestalled further bloodshed and destruction of properties. A student, Mubarak Alhassan, with a bandaged face, was stabbed multiple times in the head. He said he could have been lynched by the drivers, if not for some elders in the town who rescued him. He said the drivers used planks, clubs and iron rods on him and other students who were fleeing for safety. The security operatives arrested some people. It was learnt that students fled their off-campus hostels for fear of being arrested. The injured are at the Federal Medical Centre (FMC) in Bida. CAMPUSLIFE spoke with the Rector, Dr Abubakar Dzukugi, who expressed concern over the destruction. He praised the security agencies for their intervention, saying: “Efforts will be intensified to calm frayed nerves. I appeal to students and the commercial drivers to allow peace to return. Violence must not be used to settle simple disagreement. It only escalates tension. Students and members of their host community should learn to co-habit and live harmoniously.” Dzukugi said a seven-man committee had been constituted to investigate the violence, noting that it would determine how to prevent a reoccurence. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Abubakar Muhammad, said investigation was on to unravel the cause of the mayhem. Culprits would face the law, he said. He said security personnel would remain in the town for now, appealing to residents and students to eschew violence. At the time of this report, charred motorcycles, bonfire ashes and vandalised vehicles littered some strategic places in the town.