Fire has gutted some shops at the ultra-modern market of the Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUT MINNA), provoking the anger of students and traders. They are blaming the school fire fighters for not rising to the occasion. MAHMUD ABDULSALAM reports. IT was dusk when fire broke out at the ultra-modern market of the Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUT MINNA) in Niger State. The fire was said to have been caused by power surge. Traders ran helter-skelter in a bid to salvage their goods. The inferno, which lasted for almost two hours, started at 5:30 pm from a shop. Eyewitnesses said the fire followed a spark from an overheated change-over circuit in front of Shop Number 7. It was gathered that the owner had closed before the incident. Rescuers used heavy stones and planks to force the shop open in order to put out the inferno. Students and other sympathisers joined traders in evacuating goods from shops. A student, Razaq Ayomide, said they saw smoke billowing from the shop’s roof. He said: “I was inside the hostel mosque close to the market when I heard students screaming for help after the fire started. I ran out and saw several people running towards the market with buckets, sands and detergents. Traders  made frantic efforts to salvage their goods from their shops.” Three shops were razed. Seven others were partly burnt. Another eyewitness, Safina Ibrahim, a 300-Level student, said the damage would have been more, if not for the students, who fetched water from a nearby reservoir, mixed it with detergents and sands to quell the fire. She said the students’ effort prevented the inferno from spreading. A woman, simply identified as Mrs Blessing, who sells snacks in the market, said: “The whole market could have been razed if not the timely intervention of students. Many of the traders were helpless; they were seen wailing as they made efforts to evacuate their goods and valuable items from their shops. The thick smoke made everyone to be helpless. It would have been an ugly narrative if the fire was not put out on time.” She praised students, who, she said, climbed a scaffold and disconnected wires connecting the shops from the source of electricity. An engineering student, Segun Folarin, said students could not watch the campus market on fire without doing anything to salvage the situation. He decried the sloppiness of the school firefighters, saying: “We were upset when we learnt that the hostel caretaker, Mr. Wale, was not available to mobilise the school fire fighters. When students put a call to the fire station on campus, we were told their van had no fuel.” Some of the affected traders were counting their losses when CAMPUSLIFE visited the scene. Some of the burnt items are a generator, photocopy machines, printers, stabiliser and a desktop computer. Reams of A4 papers and an undisclosed amount of cash, stationery,  furniture and cartons of noodles were destroyed. Speaking when he visited the scene, Dean of Students’ Affairs (DSA) Prof. Abdulmajeed Ijaiya  described the incident as “unfortunate”. He advised the traders not to allow the incident to dampen their entrepreneurial spirits. He praised students for their “speedy intervention”. Ijaiya said: “There is need for traders in the market to be safety-conscious. They need not be reminded to regularly check the state of electrical appliances in their shops in order to prevent this kind of ugly event. Being safety-conscious is to ensure that they don’t overload electrical fuses with all the power-consuming electronics. This will help to mitigate incident such as this. Above all, they must ensure they switch off and disconnect all appliances before closing for business each day.” He said the burnt shops would be rebuilt. The Students’ Union Government (SUG) president-elect, Mathew Fayoje, expressed regret over the  incident, saying: “This terrible event will definitely traumatise the affected traders. But moving forward, I expect that every trader in the market will be more conscious and report cases of electrical faults to the authorities.” He criticised the fire department for what he called “insensitivity and carelessness.” A worker, simply identified as Abubakar, who works close to the market, dismissed the students’ claim that no staff member was around during the incident. According to him, workers were the first set of responders on the scene. The students, he admitted, joined in the efforts to put out the fire. Mallam Aminu Adamu, an electrician in the market, said the incident would make the traders to listen to his advice on the use of electrical appliances. “Much as visitors to the market will consider the fire as unfortunate, the incident was inevitable. There were countless times traders had been advised to stop overloading their electrical devices with many appliances. When electronics are not switched off when going home, it would result in disaster when there is a power surge. This was what happened in this case. We are glad that no life was lost, but we must not repeat what led to the fire.” The affected traders bemoaned their fate when CAMPUSLIFE spoke with them. Most of them expressed anger that the school fire fighters did not respond to distress calls,  wondering what they would say if it was the administrative building. “Will they have offered the excuse they gave us if it was the administrative building that was on fire? Their response to our plight showed how incompetent the people working in the fire department are in performing their duty,” a trader said. The owner of Shop Number 7,  was in consolable as she counted her loss. She said: “I was at home when I received a call that my shop was on fire. By the time I arrived, everything I left in the shop had been burnt completely. I ran a provisions store and a computer business centre. I am more than traumatised by the disaster. I cannot quantify the worth of the goods and machines burnt in my shop. What can I do than to accept my fate?” A student, Isa Adeiza, asked management to establish an Accident Response Unit close to the market. According to him, management’s effort to address infrastructure would be worthwhile if safety of lives and properties is guaranteed. A student, Aisha Suleiman, asked that the  traders be compensated. She urged management to investigate the cause of the fire and also renovate the destroyed shops. She added that security officers, hostel staff and the  firefighters should be trained to provide emergency response during disasters. A student, who simply gave her name as Sandra, urged the shop owners to avoid illegal electrical connections to prevent a recurrence. She said: “There should be periodic maintenance of faulty electrical gadget in the market. Naked wires and faulty change-over boxes should be replaced. It is not enough to ask the traders to be safety-conscious. There shouldn’t be laxity on the part of those who are saddled with emergency response duty.”