The Acting Director-General, National Pension Commission, Mrs Aisha Dahir-Umar has blamed the persistent delays in the payment of pension benefits to retired civil servants in the past few years to lack of budgetary allocation. Speaking in an interview with The Nation at the weekend, she said, a number of factors could be responsible for such delays. “We wish to explain that payment of pension benefit under the Contributory Pension Scheme is based on the balance on the retirees’ Retirement Savings Account (RSA) upon retirement. The components of the RSA/Retirement Benefit include Accrued Right, Monthly Contributions and Accrued Investment Income. All these have to be consolidated prior to payment of the benefits.” Pressed further, she said: “In the case of the Treasury Funded MDA’s retirees, the accrued rights represent benefits relating to their past service up to June 25, 2004 which has to be redeemed and paid into their RSA. in line with Section 15 1(a) of PRA 2014. Consequently, the Commission each year conducts Verification and Enrolment Exercise to obtain data and determine the accrued rights of FGN employees of the Treasury Funded MDA’s who would retire the following year. The amount of accrued rights determined is submitted for budgetary preparation and appropriation. This arrangement provided for seamless payment of accrued rights as amounts due to retirees for each month were released by the Federal Government. However, in the last two years, budgetary funding/releases had not been regular and adequate for the payment of the Accrued Rights falling due in the year due to decline in government revenue. As a result, there had been delays in the payment of pension benefits to FGN retirees. “contributors under the private sector and those working for agencies that are not FGN Treasury Funded, the payment of their retirement benefits had been prompt and regular.” Also, Budget Office of the Federation had been requested to create a separate expenditure sub-head for the payment and open a dedicated account with the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) into which the releases of the appropriated funds will be remitted. Subsequently, on monthly basis, funds released into the dedicated account with the CBN will be transferred to the PFAs to enable the PFAs pay to bank accounts of the Political Appointees. We know that your Commission has reduced the 50% lump sum payable to retirees as gratuity on retirement from their Retirement Savings Account (RSA) to enable retirees earn at least 50% of their last monthly salary as pension. Why the change in payment template? As you may be aware the Commission introduced a new template for programmed withdrawal, which took effect from 15th May, 2018.  There has however being concerns expressed by some stakeholders. The Commission in its usual responsive and consultative manner has decided to review the template. Consequently, the Commission has directed that Pension Fund Administrators (PFAs) revert to the old template till further notice.