Samsung on Friday introduced its newest flagship Smartphone, the Galaxy Note9  in Nigeria. The Note9 unveiled in Lagos has exciting, and innovative features which are unique and stunning. The smartphone dubbed; The Game Changer, was launched with a state-of-the-art S Pen with automatic features and sensory control aesthetics for intelligent camera. Speaking at the launch of the Note9, Managing Director, Samsung Electronics West Africa, Mr. Jingak Chung said the Note9 has raised the bar for smartphones performance. Mr. Olumide Ojo, Director, Information Technology & Mobile (IM); Mr. Jingak Chung, Managing Director; Mr. Awomodu Olugbenga, Marketing Manager, all of Samsung Electronics West Africa and Bankole Wellington, Samsung Ambassador/Host during the launch of Samsung Galaxy Note9 into the Nigerian market at Samsung Experience Store, Ikeja City Mall, Lagos on Friday. “The Galaxy Note9 is a revolutionary smartphone that delivers the ultimate in performance; a new S Pen with connectivity for the first time ever; and Samsung’s most intelligent camera yet. These are just some of the features that will allow users to do so much more. An all day, longer lasting battery is just another reason why. Users can now talk, message, play games and watch movies for as long as they desire. The Galaxy Note9 is bigger, better and so much stronger. For business or play, it’s a game changer,” Jingak said. What stands the Galaxy Note9 head and shoulders above all other hand-held devices is the creativity, innovation and a burning desire to match and exceed consumer needs in the world of mobile technology. While speaking on the functionality of the phone, Director, Information Technology & Mobile (IM), Samsung Electronics West Africa, Mr. Olumide Ojo explained that a lot of thought had gone into the creation of the Note9, a fascinating addition to the Galaxy family specifically crafted for the busy exec. “The S Pen is just one of the ways we have modified our consumer’s user experience. From a classic portable and functional design to a sleek multifaceted power tool, the pen-like device now features a Bluetooth chip that allows the pen function aside of its natural form. With the S Pen, consumers can change slides during presentations, activate their cameras or skip songs on their playlists. The S Pen is truly a modern day magic wand,” Ojo added. The Samsung Galaxy Note9 builds on Samsung’s industry-leading camera technologies with new capabilities that use intelligence to identify elements of a photo, such as scene and subject, and adapt accordingly. It can even detect flaws in images to ensure users capture those precious moments exactly how the intended. The result is stunning, life like images with bold colours and dynamic definition. With the Samsung Dex, users can effortlessly connect to a monitor with an easy to carry HDMI adaptor, which means they instantly have a big screen, a full-size keyboard and a mouse. It is like having a second screen whenever you want one. Just connect your phone to an external display to use apps, review documents and watch videos on a PC-like interface. Users can also look forward to experiencing the largest edge-to-edge display ever on a Note. The 6.4-inch Super Amoled Infinity Display provides a truly immersive multimedia experience. The Samsung Galaxy Note9’s Infinity Display is complemented with stereo speakers, which are tuned by AKG, and have the ability to deliver Dolby Atmos® immersive sound for an audio adventure like no other. The Galaxy Note 9 is available in Midnight Black, and Metallic Copper with matching S Pen, or Ocean Blue with a Yellow S Pen. To celebrate the launch, the first customers to purchase the Note9 will get a limited pre-order gifts valued at over NGN 50,000. This welcome pack includes a wireless charger for convenient, fast charging during those heavy-use days; a tripod for S-Pen selfies on which users can effortlessly set up their devices to capture a moment, while the S-Pen does the rest; and the ultra-convenient DeX HDMI cable. In addition, customers will receive a Protective Dome Glass. Packed with innovative features and additional gifts, the Note9 is a device you will definitely want to get your hands on. To purchase the device, customers can visit the network providers, MTN, Airtel, 9Mobile and Glo; Samsung Experience Stores, and select retail partners nationwide. Customers are encouraged to purchase their Galaxy Note 9 only in Nigeria and only from authorized dealers so they can enjoy a 24-month warranty.