IT is no longer news that Bianca, the widow of the late Ikemba Nnewi, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, is seeking to get the ticket of the  All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) to contest for the Anambra South senatorial seat in the 2019 election. The matter for the former beauty queen is the numerous hurdles that are standing between her and her quest to achieving her political ambition. One of the challenges staring the former ambassador of Nigeria to Spain in the face is  the formidable opposition in APGA that she must subdue  to  clinch the ticket and go on to represent the party in the coming election. Bianca, it was learnt, is very  dear to the heart of the state governor, Chief Willie Obiano, to represent her people at the Red Chambers,  but majority of the APGA family are said to be against such move. The late Ojukwu’s wife is contesting  for the position in APGA against other solid opponents like the oil magnate, Dr Ifeanyi Ubah and Prince Nicholas Ukachukwu. Though Bianca  has the support of one of the richest men in Anambra, Dr Godwin Maduka and former Governor of Imo state, Chief Ikedi Ohakim among other chieftains,   feelers from the party have it that   the chairman of Capital Oil and Gas, Ubah is being favoured to grab the  ticket . During the retreat and book launch of the party penultimate week at Finotel Hotel in Awka, entitled “APGA, the Trials, Tribulations and Triumphs “, the former National Chairman of the party, Chief Victor Umeh, reminded the guests how Ubah rescued the party when it had problems in 2012. He told the audience that Ubah deserves compensation, adding that no other person had suffered for the party more than the Capital Oil boss. Umeh’s glowing tributes about Ubah were greeted with some murmurings, suspected to be  from the camp of Bianca and her promoters who were all in attendance. Apart from Umeh’s open endorsement of  Ubah, some APGA chieftains told The Nation that the ambition of Ojukwu’s wife is tearing their party apart and “if not checked by the powers that be, it might lead to the party losing Anambra South senatorial election in 2019.” The other  battle confronting  the delectable widow of  the ex- Biafra warlord, is the internal  wrangling with members of  her late husband’s family. Some members of the Ojukwu’s family are reported  not to be  in good terms with the ex-beauty queen turned politician. Some of them, including Ikemba The Second, Chief Emeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, are said to be seeing  her as a stranger in their family. Besides, The Nation gathered that some of the family members and APGA faithful, see her as arrogant, pompous and a snub who will never remember any of them if she wins any election. In spite of the numerous  rivers she has to cross, political observers in the state believe that Bianca still has some things  working for her. “ Though she may not be an oil magnate or a money bag, being the widow of Ojukwu and being the daughter of late former governor of the  old Anambra State, Chief Christian C Onoh, endears her to many of us. Again, Mrs Ojukwu, who is a lawyer is the most qualified among the contestants and has the pedigree and mien to wrestle the ticket from the others,” said  a chieftain of the party loyal to Bianca  who did not want his name  in print. Another  political bigwig in the state, Dr Godwin Maduka from Umuchukwu in Orumba South Local Government Area, that falls within the zone, believes that Bianca is the best thing that could happen to the zone. Just like Umeh publicly sought support for Ubah,  Maduka urged the people of Anambra South to support the ambition of Bianca Ojukwu, as she had the capacity to showcase Nigeria as a country of heroes and heroines through her academics, family and political experiences. According to him:”We know her life history.  Money  alone cannot be equated to leadership. Having the education, money, compassion, empathy, sympathy and having passed through poverty make her the best to run for the seat. “We should appreciate Bianca Ojukwu for agreeing to run for public office.  I believe that she is not only qualified, but over qualified. “I am sure she has learnt a lot from her late husband, Ikemba Nnewi, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, the Igbo supreme leader and from her father, late C C Onoh. I’m happy she has accepted to run for public office, “Maduka said To show his support for  Bianca’s ambition,  Maduka at the book launch and retreat of the party in Awka, donated N20million to dwarf Ubah, Ukachukwu and others’ donations. The fate of Bianca Ojukwu as it stands, is hanging in the balance, as the people of Nnewi are said not to be in support of her ambition since their son, Dr Ubah is also in the race. But the wife of the late  Ikemba appeared unruffled as she is said to be convinced that majority of the people, especially the youths,  are solidly behind her aspirations. As the aspirants continue their quests for the senatorial ticket of APGA in the south zone, would Bianca react in the political arena, the feat that fetched her  the most beautiful queen crown?  Only time will tell.