The Nigeria Academy of Pharmacy will on Wednesday 12th September, 2018, honour two distinguished Nigerians with Lifetime Achievement award and Honorary Fellowship. A special ceremony which will also feature a lecture by a distinguished scientist. According to Sir Ifeanyi Atueyi, Vice President of the Academy, who also serves as the Chairman of the Planning Committee, the lecture which is themed From Plant to Patient: Driving Research and Innovation for Industry, will be delivered by a former Vice Chancellor, Benson Idahosa University, Benin-City, Professor Ernest Izevbigie. For his pioneering and entrepreneurial trailblazing efforts in the nation’s pharmaceutical manufacturing sector, Chief Oludolapo Ibukun Akinkugbe, the pioneer General Secretary of the defunct Nigerian Union of Pharmacists (NUP) and fourth President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) will receive the Academy’s Lifetime Achievement award. Founder of the TY Danjuma Foundation and Chairman of May & Baker Nigeria Plc, Gen. Theophilus Danjuma (rtd) will receive an Honorary Fellowship in recognition of his philanthropic contributions in building a country where all citizens have access to quality health care. Prof Izevbigie, who will deliver the Academy Lecture, is an accomplished researcher and world-renowned authority recognized for his ground breaking focus on the use of bitter leaf in cancer and diabetes management. He is also Founder and Chief Scientific Officer, EdoBotanics, a leading firm in the production of phytoceuticals, nutraceuticals, and dietary supplements. The Nigeria Academy of Pharmacy is a specialized academy that, among others, seeks to promote scientific research and professional development, especially in the health, pharmaceutical and related sectors in order to help overcome challenges posed by pain and disease as well as fast-track social and economic development in Nigeria and beyond.  The Academy is the fourth such specialized academies in Nigeria, with others being the Academies of Science, Letters, and Engineering. 