Mrs. Mercy Ayodele the governorship candidate of the Restoration Party of Nigeria (RPN), in this interview with Bisi Oladele, describes politics as “very hectic and deep.” WHAT made you join the governorship race? What actually bought me to limelight is just because of the situation of the state and the country at large. We must accept that women are the most endangered species in politics. So, I felt it’s time we women stood up and stop being in the other room and come out. We have the potentials and we have what it takes. A woman is always like five-in-one; we are the home managers, we are always into career, we take care of the children, we take care of our husbands. If we can do that, we can as well manage a nation. You refer to leaving the other room. What did you mean by that? Well, most people believe that women are meant to be at home, taking care of the home front, taking care of the kitchen and not coming out like this to face the big wigs, who are mostly men. So, they believe we are meant to be in the room or in the kitchen serving them. But nowadays, the current president of Germany is a woman, a mother. And I must tell you, a mother is always emotional. A good mother will always take care of the family. For example, if she cooks and wants to dish out the food, the first food she will dish is for her husband, the children, even the visitors. Sometimes the mother at home will not even eat or may be left with just a little. She is always in charge of taking care of people. So, I felt it’s time we came out and take good care of our people instead of deceiving them. Governorship race is a big project. How did you come about your conviction that you deserve to be a governor, not a councilor, House of Assembly member, etc.,? Well it’s all about vision. If you have vision, you are going to get there. Like I always say, I’m giving it to my husband. When this race was about to start, he was the one that said “you can do it.” By saying that, he knew I have the potentials of doing it. He said you can do it and when I look back, I will always say “thank you” to him for giving me the opportunity to be where I am today in the political terrain. When it settled in your mind that you needed to vie for governorship, why didn’t you join one of the popularly parties such as APC, PDP etc.,? I think the ideology of Restoration Party fits my own ideology. RPN is a female-friendly political party and also it’s very friendly to those who are physically challenged. It is a very good platform for us to vie for any position.