Less than three months after declaring the state free from the menace of Cholera, the disease has resurfaced again and claimed 61 lives. Confirming the resurgence of disease in the state, Yobe State  commissioner of Health, Dr Muhammad Bello Kawuwa in  a press release made available to newsmen yesterday, in Damaturu, said  laboratory tests have  verified some cases of  Acute Watery Diarrhea (AWD) as being caused by Vibrio bacterae, the bacteria that causes cholera. Dr Kawuwa said  a total of 906 cases of the AWD has been recorded from July to September 17, 2018 in five (5) local government areas of Gujba, Gulani, Damaturu, Fune, Potiskum and Nangere. He attributed the huge death toll to delay in reporting the cases especially from the rural areas. “As a result, over 795 patients were successfully treated and discharged, 50 are still on admission in various health facilities across the state. Unfortunately, we lost 61 patients mainly due to delays in timely reporting to the healthcare facilities for life saving treatment. “It pains us so much that the state has lost its dear sons and daughters. We assure all citizens that we will try our best to preserve their lives”, he said. He explained that the state ministry of health, in  collaboration with  World Health Organisation (WHO), are  working tirelessly  with laboratories in the University of Maiduguri Teaching Hospital and Nigeria Center for Disease control (NCDC) Abuja, to verify the cause of the AWD outbreak. Kawuwa also blame some of the cases of  the outbreak on bad hygiene, sanitation and lack of safe drinking water due to the last heavy down pours. He called on  stakeholders including  all health and  sector partners,  religious and traditional leaders as well as citizens to join hands with concern ministries to ensure that the outbreak is contained within a shortest time, while also charging  the international and humanitarian partners – the UN agencies, international and local NGOs to bring their full expertise to bear on the cholera response effort in the state.