Organised Labour has suspended the seven days warning strike it called to protest the indefinite adjournment of the meetings of the tripartite committee on the new National minimum wage and to compel government to reconvene the meeting with a view to concluding its assignment. The Minister of Labour, Senator Chris Ngige had at a meeting of the tripartite committee on the 5th of September said that the government needed more time consultation before arriving at a figure for the committee to consider and thereafter, the meeting adjourned indefinitely, a position that angered Organised Labour. A two weeks ultimatum issued by Organised Labour made up of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Trade Union of Nigeria (TUC) and the United Labour Congress(ULC) for government t to reconvene the committee failed to achieved the purpose, forcing Labour to ask workers to stay at home till further notice. However, the Chief to the President, Abba Kyari was said to have invited the leadership of Labour to a meeting at the Presidential villa with a view to finding out what led to the strike. Announcing the suspension of the warning strike on Sunday, President of the Nigeria Labour Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba said Organised Labour has received a firm and formal invitation to a reconvened meeting of the tripartite committee scheduled for 4‘” and 5th of October, 2018. He said the leadership of Organised Labour however insist that the two day meeting would be the final session of the committee and that a final report will be submitted to Mr. President immediately. Wabba, flanked by other leaders of Organised Labour said “you may wish to recall that four days ago, we informed you that organised labour was embarking on a warning strike as from Thursday, September 26, 2018, after our 14-day ultimatum to government to reconvene the meeting and conclude the work of the Tripartite National Minimum Wage Committee elapsed. “Indeed on Thursday morning, the strike action commenced and was observed across the country. We wish to appreciate our workers and affiliate unions for their commitment and determination. We similarly commend members of the press for their vigorous and comprehensive reportage of the strike action. We thank all Nigerians for their support. “We invite you here today to inform you that we have received a firm and formal invitation to a reconvened meeting of the tripartite committee scheduled for 4‘” and 5th of October, 2018. We demand that this shall be the final session of the committee and that a final report will be submitted to Mr. President immediately. “In order to avail the committee the necessary conducive environment to hold this crucial meeting and conclude its work, organized labour has, after obtaining the mandate of their necessary organs, decided to suspend the strike action with effect from today, Sunday September 30th, 2018. “Once again, our commendations and appreciation go to you all who have been with us in this struggle. We urge all our unions and state councils to maintain a high level of mobilization and readiness until the struggle for a reasonable minimum wage is achieved.”