With a margin of 482 votes, All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Gboyega Oyetola was this morning declared Osun State governor-elect by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Returning Officer Prof. Joseph Afuwape declared Oyetola winner at exactly 1:23am. He said: “Oyetola, having satisfied the requirement of the law, having scored the highest number of votes, is hereby declared the winner and he is returned elected.” Oyetola won after yesterday’s supplementary election held in seven units across  four local government areas where election could either not hold on September 22 or was cancelled due to irregularities. The APC candidate scored 1,160 votes. In the first ballot, he got 254,345 votes to take his total tally to 255,505. Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate Senator Ademola Adeleke scored 325 votes. In the first ballot he got 254,698 votes. His final tally is 255,023. Saturday’s election was declared inconclusive by INEC because the margin of lead is lower that the number of registered voters (which is 3,498) in the disputed areas. The electoral agency consequently fixed yesterday for the supplementary election in Ife North Oyere 11 unit 10, Ife South Olode unit 07, Ife South Osi unit 08, Orolu Olufon unit 08, Orulu Olufon unit 08, Orolu Olufon unit 09 and Osogbo Ataoja E unit 05. At Garage-Olode in  Ife South Local Government Area of Osun, voters defied an early morning downpour to participate in the election. Voters at the Adereti Polling Unit 012 arrived as early as 7 am to check their names on the voters’ register while voting and accreditation commenced at 8.am. At the Ward 5, Unit 17  Polling Unit on Adewale Street at Alekuwodo, Osogbo, accreditation and voting commenced at exactly 8 am under a downpour. INEC officials set up their tents and cubicles  as early as 7 am while many of the voters arrived as early as 6.30am. In Orolu, however, suspected thugs were said to have prevented some voters from reaching the three polling units in the council area although policemen were later drafted in to restore normalcy. During the election, the Police arrested 16 suspects for illegally possessing customised INEC tags, fez caps and jackets and PDP membership cards. Police spokesman Folashade Odoro said that the suspects were arrested by the police during a routine stop- and-search in Orolu Local Government. Odoro said that the suspects used the ‘’official items’’ to gain access to restricted areas meant for accredited personnel of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). “Police team on stop and search duties at Orolu intercepted vehicles with sixteen persons on board in possession of customised INEC tags, fez cap and jackets with the inscription of ‘INEC Osun 2018 Election Observer’ and PDP membership cards,” she said. Odoro said there was no truth in the reports making the rounds that some accredited INEC observers were arrested or denied access to polling units. “The Nigeria Police Force wishes to debunk the report that some accredited INEC Observers were arrested or denied access to polling units. “Therefore, assuring the good people of Osun State and other critical stakeholders of its renewed commitment and resolve to ensure adequate security for a free and fair re-run election while investigation continues,” the police spokesperson said. She named the 16 suspects as: Moshood Adejare ‘M’ – People’s Democratic Party (PDP) House of Representatives aspirant in Orolu Federal Constituency, Oyelayo Dayo ‘M’- PDP member Orolu LGA, Olaoye Asimi ‘M’- PDP member Orolu LGA. Others are; Raimi Taofeeq ‘M’-secretary, PDP Orolu LGA, Gbenga Olapade ,Charles Amibiogoiu ‘M’, Ayomide Ayansola ‘M’, Kayode Dada ‘M’, Daramola Segun ‘M’, Tunji Akinroyinmi ‘M’, Kunle ADEDEJI ‘M’, Habeeb Bahiru ‘M’, Yisa Sodiq ‘M’, Adeolu Bamijoko ‘M’, Oladipo Samson ‘M’ and Adeolu Bamidele ‘M’.