 The governorship aspirant of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Kwara State, Hon. Mashood Mustapha on Monday declared his total support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s change agenda. The ex-special to Senate President Bukola Saraki on parliamentary affairs dispelled the rumour making the round that he an agent of Saraki in APC. The governorship aspirant said this in Ilorin, the state capital when he formally declared his intention to contest the 2019 governorship election in the state. He added that if elected, he would consolidate on the efforts of the Federal Government in sustaining and adding value to the development Nigeria is currently enjoying. “I reiterate my unwavering loyalty to President Buhari, the good people of Kwara state, the national and state leadership of the APC. I however, want to implore the leadership of our party to give room for internal democracy within our party. Every aspirant should be given a level playing ground so as to achieve a rancor free primary election. “Whoever emerges as the party’s flag bearer should bear in mind that there is no victor or vanquished; we have a common goal and we must unite to make our goal a reality,” he said. Said he: “I want to use this opportunity to address the rumour of me being a mole in APC. When I first heard that allegation I waved it off thinking it will fade out when my party members see my efforts and commitment to the party. Ironically, some elements within and outside our party have seen that as an opportunity to dent my image owing to the fact that I have an unblemished record asides my past relationship with the Senate President. “It is on record that virtually all politicians in the state have had one form of relationship or the other with the Saraki’s until political differences tear them apart. Mine is not an exception. I worked Senator Saraki right from when he became the governor of the state up till when he became the Senate President, but I had to quit after all efforts to allow for internal democracy failed and I could no longer cope with the way he imposes his decision on others. I have a mind of my own and I cannot be a puppet to anyone. “For those who say I am a mole to Senator Saraki in APC, I want you to search your hearts deeply and ask yourselves if a mole bears the kind of persecution I suffered in hands of the Sarakites. I also want you to sincerely ask yourselves if a mole can openly criticize the policies of the incumbent government of the state and also take a position when some opportunists attempted to exhume our defunct nPDP platform to derail the president and his administration through the formation of illegal and irresponsible Reformed APC.”