Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday urged workers to show greater commitment to duty. He said the state would remain prosperous through their hard work. Ambode spoke in Alausa, Ikeja at the long service award ceremony organised by the Office of Local Government Establishment, Training and Pensions (LGETP) for 296 workers drawn from the 57 councils of the state. The awardees have spent between 27 and 35 years in service, but attained the mandatory retirement age of 60. The governor, represented by the Head of Service (HoS), Mrs. Folasade Adesoye, said their commitment helped the state to attain great heights. He said the government would create a level playing field and support those hardworking  to get to the peak of their career. Ambode said: “Your celebration is a motivation to those you are leaving behind that the government remains committed to celebrating hard working workers. You must bear in mind that the honour is an acknowledgement for hard work, credibility, diligence and efficiency, which must be upheld.” Deputy Governor Idiat Adebule described the local government as the heartbeat of government. Adebule, represented by the Permanent Secretary in the Office of the Deputy Governor, Mrs. Yetunde Odejayi, urged the workers to support the government in its efforts to serve people at the grassroots. Local Government Service Commission Chairman Alhaji Babatunde Rotinwa enjoined workers to remain steadfast. The Permanent Secretary, Mrs. Tola Akinsanya, said the forum had over the years become where workers are celebrated. “You have all persevered and served as models for your younger colleagues over the years. This is why the government has decided to celebrate you, to motivate others,” she said. The high point of the event was the presentation of Special Recognition award to Adesoye and Rotinwa, who retired as H.S. A recipient, Mr. Gbesoevie Olorunnishola Gbeleyi, an assistant director of Education from Ifako-Ijaiye, hailed the government for the honour done to them.