The All Progressives Congress (APC) has extended the deadline for the sale and submission of Presidential, Governorship, National Assembly and State House of Assembly forms to Tuesday, Sept. 11. Mr Yekini Nabena, the APC National Publicity Secretary announced the extension in a statement on Friday in Abuja. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the previous deadline was Monday, Sept. 10. “All aspirants for the listed positions are to submit their duly completed forms to the APC national secretariat,“ Nabena said. He urged those for the state House of Assembly election to do so at the party state secretariat on or before the close of work of the new deadline. NAN reports that the party national secretariat has become a beehive of activities since it commenced the sale of Expression of Interest and Nomination forms to aspirants on Sept.5. This, is especially so, as aspirants from all states of the federation and their supporters troop to the secretariat to obtain the forms. Traders have also taken advantage of the large turnout of party members and supporters at the secretariat, located at Blantyre Street in Wuse zone two, to do brisk business. While some traders take the opportunity to display various souvenirs, others were seen selling the party Constitution to members. Commercial photographers also struggled to get the attention of party members who may want to take photographs for posterity. A drive through the street has, however, become a herculean task due to heavy human and vehicular traffic, as security operatives attached to the party were seen ensuring orderliness. However, the two hotels located on the street, Valencia and Barcelona, continued to record high patronage. Mr Ade Omole, leader of the APC United Kingdom chapter, while speaking on the large crowd of party members, told NAN that it was a testimony that Nigerians still believed in the party, contrary to the opposition’s claim. “It shows that Nigerians still believe in the party and that good will always prevails over bad and evil. “The erroneous perception created by fake news has been shattered by the reality of Nigerians flooding APC national headquarters to pick forms to contest elective positions in 2019,” he said.