•‘President’s wife dissociates self from his activities’ Security agents are investigating how the Aide de Camp (ADC) to the President’s wife, Aisha Buhari, Mr. Sani Baba-Inna, allegedly fleeced high-placed Nigerians of N2.5billion. Mrs Buhari has distanced herself from the fraud allegation against Baba-Inna, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP). Department of State Services (DSS) spokesperson Peter Afunanya confirmed that Baba-Inna had been taken into the secret security outfit’s custody for further investigation after he was quizzed by the police. Afunnaya said: “He was handed over by the Police and investigation is ongoing.” Mrs Aisha had alleged that Baba-Inna received huge donations from politicians and business people on her behalf and kept the cash to himself. She urged Inspector General of Police Ibrahim Idris to compel Mr. Baba-Inna to refund the money estimated at  N2.5billion. In a statement, the Director of Information in the office of the Wife of the President, Suleiman Haruna, said she has never sent any of her official to seek favour on her behalf or on behalf of her children and would never do so. She said she would not condone any fraudulent behavior from any official working with her. The statement said:  “The attention of wife of the President, Dr. Mrs. Aisha Muhammadu Buhari has been drawn to some media publications and releases purporting illegal detention of her Aide De Camp (ADC) over allegations of fraud. “The story as it pertains to her ADC, Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Sani Baban-Inna has it that he has been detained on the orders of Her Excellency for dropping her name and defrauding unsuspecting officials and associates. “She wishes to use this opportunity to refute such allegation and to state that she has no hand in his arrest and detention. “CSP Sani Baban-Inna has been her ADC since 2016 and has been associated with her ever since. To the utter dismay of Her Excellency, he has used the opportunity to defraud unsuspecting associates and officials as initial investigations have shown. “The Nigeria Police Force, his employers, arrested him to investigate the allegations levelled against him, this, being within their jurisdiction. “She therefore wishes to use this opportunity to inform the general public that she has never sent any of her staff to collect any favours on her behalf or on behalf of her children and will never do so. She is therefore imploring anyone that has been defrauded by Mr. Baban-Inna to get across to him to retrieve whatever he took from them. Mrs. Buhari wishes to reiterate that she will not condone fraudulent behavior by any of her staff. “She uses this opportunity to call on all those in positions of authority to rise above intimidation by their aides and deal with such attitudes as extortion by name-dropping, especially within the Presidency. As she always emphasizes, this government was voted into office based on the trust and confidence of the people.”