The desire for gubernatorial mandate has refreshed politics at the state level nationwide. In this piece, YUSUF ALLI, Managing Editor, Northern Operation re-examines the shape of things in 29 states. IN barely two weeks, the governorship primaries would have been over for serious and pedestrian aspirants. Like twins, the two dominant parties(the All Progressives Congress) and the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) have both fixed September 25 and 26 respectively for gubernatorial primaries. Expectedly, the states are in a campaign frenzy dotted by the good, the bad and the ugly. The battlegrounds for 2019 governorship race are in 29 out of the nation’s 36 states having excluded Osun whose poll is fixed for next week. ADAMAWA The battle is apparently between the incumbent Governor Jibrilla Bindow and others in either APC or PDP including ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar who has a preferred candidate. Silently, the First Lady, Hajiya Aisha Buhari is said to be pulling the strings for his brother while trying to decode the mood of President Muhammadu Buhari. The political intensity has led to mudslinging, conspiracy, and barefaced opposition against Bindow, whose emergence as a governor from a minority tribe (Njanyi) in a state with 87 officially recognized ethnic groups and 32 underrated, was a mystery. Apart from ethnic sentiments, the performance of the governor has redefined the politics of the state leading to more hurdles for his opponents. The elites are angry with Bindow for not sharing largesse like some of his predecessors. Notwithstanding, those seeking the ticket in APC against the governor include Dr. Mahmoud Halilu, who is a brother to the First Lady and a former Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, whose sterling records are internationally acclaimed till date. Modi’s choice might prove an albatross for Buhari whose anti-corruption preachment is against godfather politics. In PDP, the gubernatorial cloud is thicker with ex-VP Atiku in between anointing his banker son-in-law, Adamu Modibbo and godson, ex-Commissioner for Lands and Survey, Yayaji Mijinyawa who defected with him from APC to PDP. Others in the race in PDP are a former Acting Governor of Adamawa State, Ahmed Fintiri, who has been funding PDP before Atiku and others defected; Jamilu Waziri, who was a former protocol officer to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan; Saad M. T. Tahir(ex-Deputy Governor) and ex-Governor James Bala Ngilari. Although the two parties might experience some tremor from the gubernatorial primaries, the impact will be felt more in PDP. If Atiku’s candidate loses intra-party primaries and goes ahead to fall at the governorship poll, he would have become a proverbial prophet without honour at home. BORNO The contest is between the locals led by Governor Kashim Shettima and Abuja-based politicians including ex- Governor Ali Modu Sheriff who is fast becoming alienated from the grassroots. Like every incumbent, Shettima is interested in installing his successor to preserve his legacies but his traducers in Abuja have a plot to impose their candidate. As at press time, Shettima controls the party’s structure and the Abuja politicians scavenge with much hope on the APC National Secretariat for succour. The adoption of indirect primaries by APC stakeholders gives the governor the Sword of Damocles to anoint his favourite. Another factor which may interplay in Borno State is the agitation for power shift to Borno South. The last time the zone almost ruled the state was when Mohammed Abba Gana of the defunct GNPP won the race in 1983 but his election was upturned by the Election Petitions Tribunal in favour of NPN candidate, Asheikh Jarma. The third issue is the much-vaunted power swap deal between the governor and his friend, Senator Kaka Bashir Garbai (Borno Central). The governor is interested in seeking Borno Central ticket in the Senate and in exchange, he might favour Garbai. The deal is the talk of the town and a novel politics in Borno. Checks however revealed that close to 12 aspirants have obtained forms for APC ticket. They are the Minister of State for Works, Baba Shehuri; Nigeria’s Ambassador to China Ambassador Baba Ahmed Jidda; ex- Deputy Governor Adamu Dibal; Senator Kaka Bashir Garbai (Borno Central); the Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice in Borno State, Kaka Shehu; the Commissioner for Resettlement, Professor Babagana Zulum; Senator Abubakar Kyari (Borno North); the Commissioner for Works, Adamu Lawan Zaufanjimba, and a former commissioner, Mohammed Makinta. The PDP in Borno is managing to survive but it boasts of Mohammed Imam(Millionnaire) and Grema Terab as its aspirants so far. YOBE Except for the latest spat between Governor Ibrahim Geidam and his predecessor, Sen. Bukar Abba Ibrahim over senatorial seat, Yobe State has always been politically homogenous with APC still the rave of the moment. Following consultations with APC stakeholders, the governor has announced the National Secretary of the party, Mai Mala Buni as the consensus governorship candidate of the party. And to pave the way for Buni, the governor engaged in tactical maouevre by conceding automatic senatorial ticket to the Senate Leader, Dr. Ahmad Lawan and the Deputy Governor of the state, Alhaji Abubakar Ali. But some aspirants and stalwarts of the party have rejected the allegedly contrived consensus by the governor to assert his grip on APC. The choice of Buni will preserve the dominance of Zone A in the state and it will be holding power in the state for about 20 out of the state’s 27 years of existence. Although there was power shift to Zone B in 2007 with the election of late Governor Mamman Bello Ali, it was shortlived due to his death in 2009. Up till now, Zone C is yet to earn the privilege of leading the state. Three aspirants in APC, who have refused to be intimidated are a former Treasurer of the FCT, Ibrahim Bomoi, a member of the House of Representatives from Zone C, Yakubu Sidi Karasuwa and Aji Kolo. With the exit of ex-Minister of Police Affairs, Adamu Maina Waziri from governorship battle and the defection of a former Minister of State for Finance, Dr Yerima Lawan Ngama from PDP to APC, the opposition party is virtually dead in Yobe State. Holding the governorship flag for PDP in Yobe State however is Umaru Ilya. KWARA For Kwara State, it is still a battle between the hegemonists in the Peoples Democratic Party(PDP) led by the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki and the resisters in the All Progressives Congress (APC). This is the first time, since Bukola Saraki seized power 18 years ago from the late Governor Mohammed Lawal that he is facing a major opposition from within and without. Behind his presidential shuttles is the political headache at home on how to reestablish link between him and the electorates in the state; put APC in check; smoothen rough edges in his camp and pick a credible candidate among many to succeed Governor Abdul Fatah Ahmed. The number of aspirants in PDP is as much as those of APC underscoring the fact that the scramble will be for the toughest. How the two parties will walk over the landmines is what an average Kwaran is interested in. When on Wednesday, the Minister of Information, Alh. Lai Mohammed told the National Chairman of APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole that the party