The week has been filled with interesting stories on trends in football, with the biggest poser coming from Antoine Griezmann, one of the French players who did well for both his club Atletico Madrid and country France, questioning the absence of Frenchmen from FIFA’s The Best awards scheduled to hold in England on September 24. Griezmann submitted his resume for last season, which includes winning the Europa League and the Super Cup with Atletico Madrid of Spain and helping France seal their second World Cup triumph in Russia. If FIFA’s point scoring indices are anything to go by, it will be difficult to explain why  Griezmann didn’t make the three-man list in a World Cup year. Such feats don’t happen all the time. Tears for Griezmann. No World Cup winner in FIFA’s The Best’s award in a Mundial year leaves much to be desired. It would have been understandable if no player merited it. But in Griezmann is a World Cup champion and a winner of two of UEFA’s best competitions (Europa Cup and Super Cup). FIFA’s biggest competition is the World Cup and Griezmann played crucial roles in France’s feat, scoring goals that mattered, aside being the pivot of the team’s attacking onslaughts. Besides, UEFA’s second biggest competition behind the Champions League is the Europa Cup, which Griezmann and his Atletico  Madrid mates won. What has made Griezmann’s protest more significant is that Atletico beat Real Madrid in the Super Cup, a one match game between the winners of the Champions League and the Europa. Simply put, that Super Cup victory earned Griezmann and his mates the best team and best set of players in Europe for last season. It explains why Griezmann should be listed in FIFA’s The Best’s top three, going by players’. FIFA’s The Best three nominees are Cristiano Ronaldo, Luka Modric and Mohamed Salah. In terms of achievements for their clubs, Ronaldo towers high, besides sharing the glory of winning the Champions League diadem with Modric, which is the only trophy the Portuguese won last year. Ronaldo was outstanding in goal-scoring but the goals came from the midfield ingenuity of Modric, Kroos et al. In a World Cup year, I won’t give the best footballer of the year to Ronaldo, even if goals make the game beautiful and exciting to watch. I won’t pick Salah. He didn’t win a trophy for his club and country. Looking at what FIFA has thrown up through votes from coaches, managers, captains of national teams and other technical men, I will give the diadem to Modric, who won the Champions League trophy like Ronaldo and played at the finals of the Russia 2018 World Cup. But this is where Greizmann’s protest is important. He won the World Cup, which Ronaldo, Modric and Salah didn’t; he won the Europa Cup, although both Ronaldo and Modirc won the bigger trophy in UEFA’s calendar. But winning the Super Cup, ahead of Modric would have been the clincher for Griezmann, having done well for both club and country, winning trophies in both categories. ‘’It’s weird and a pity,’’ Griezmann told L’Equipe. ‘’This is a trophy that’s awarded by FIFA, right? We won the World Cup and On Tuesday, Atletico gave a brilliant response to Griezmann’s snub. The Spanish side posted a photo of their star striker inside an empty Wanda Metropolitano surrounded by the World Cup trophy, UEFA Europa League title and the UEFA Super Cup. ”No words necessary,” was their short-but-sweet verdict. Griezmann did make the shortlist in 2016, only to finish third behind Ronaldo and Messi, due to defeats in both the Champions League and Euro 2016 finals. Griezmann argued that his successful year should merit his inclusion this time round. He told L’Equipe: ”That year, I lost two finals, this year I’ve won three, so normally…” Is Griezmann asking for too much? Please, let me have your comments on this topic, dear reader.  Mourinho, the enigma I love Jose Mourinho. He is a fighter. He knows when the stakes are high and delivers. When the job is done, he takes on critics, reminding them of his qualities, which are unassailable. But he learned a new lesson now warming himself up with the players lest he capitulates like he did at Chelsea. The setting with the Blues is, however, different- only Ambrahmovic calls the shot at Chelsea. His word is irreversible, unlike at Manchester United, which has a board. Otherwise, what the fans did on the manager’s behalf translates to mutiny. But the big question is, will Mourinho survive the third season syndrome? Mourinho is a serial winner. He operates best under pressure. He flows with the supporters who he calls the 12th man in the field. He makes them happy with victories when the team has the right calibre of players and team balance. When management puts obstacles to his quest for new players, he cries out when things go awry; the fans know why. Little wonder the fans hoisted a banner calling for the sack of Manchester United’s Vice-Chairman Ed Woodward, thus putting him on the spot. The world awaits the chairman’s reaction to the club’s transfers in January but he knows that he has a bad customer in Mourinho who doesn’t stoop to conquer. The story broke on Tuesday that Mourinho accepted a one-year prison sentence as part of a plea bargain deal with prosecutors accusing him of a £2.9million (€3.3m) tax fraud. He also accepted a six-month jail sentence for each of the two financial crimes he was accused of accepting wrongdoing as part of the agreement with prosecutors, respected Spanish newspaper El Mundo said on Tuesday. El Mundo reported the 55-year-old, whose future at United has been called into question after a disappointing start to the season, had also agreed to pay a fine totalling £1.78m (€1.98m) representing 60 per cent of the amount defrauded. First-time offenders in Spain do not normally serve jail sentences of two years or less – meaning the one-year jail term Mourinho has reportedly accepted for two counts of tax fraud will almost certainly be suspended at a later date after the investigating court has been officially informed of the situation. These are indeed difficult times for Mourinho but his lawyers have shown their mastery of the situation, giving the iconic manager enough time to concentrate on the profession that brought him fame and wealth. The Spaniards need the cash. The only businesses that thrive in Spain are the two teams- Real Madrid and Barcelona. Both teams spend so much to get the big boys into their squads, which translates to megabucks for the country’s tax offices. The backlash will be that big players will stop looking in the direction of Spain, learning from what happened to Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi and now Mourinho. Others who have fallen into the trap are Javier Mascherano, Angel di Maria, Samuel Eto’o, Radamel Falcao and Jorge Mendes. But why do the stars fall prey to the tax laws? I don’t think so. After all, celebrities, such as David Beckham, played in Spain with all his marketing franchises without qualms. Why did Beckham escape these laws? In 2005, a special law was passed for foreigners coming to work in Spain on an employment contract with a Spanish company. According to this law, a person is taxed at 24% of his/her income. This law was dubbed “Beckham’s Law” after David Beckham became one of the first beneficiaries. This law has been further modified, and had come under major scrutiny in 2009. So, what has stopped Mourinho, Ronaldo, Messi, Mascherano, Angel di Maria, Eto’o, Radamel Falcao, to mention a few, from enjoying this Beckham law? According to Spanish tax laws, a person is classified as a resident of Spain if he/she has stayed in Spain for the last six months or so. Further, if a person has income above 60,000 EUR, he/she is liable to pay around 45–47% of his/her income. The questions are how come such big brands find it difficult to pay their taxes, given the volume of money associated with their celebrated transfers to these clubs? Could it be that the clubs collude with the players’ agents to hide vital information, knowing that the tax offices have mechanisms to discover underhand deals? ”However, in an ironic twist, professional footballers were excluded from this scheme in 2015. This led to footballers having offshore accounts in a bid to hoodwink the authorities into believing that their income was not derived on Spanish soil. This is the major reason why you’ll find that all the tax evasion scandals that come up in the newspapers are in the timeline of 2009–2014. This is because, during that period, there was a lot of confusion regarding the prevalent law, which has led to footballers being accused of fraud,” an online report revealed.