 President Muhammadu Buhari scored a total of 2,931,235 votes in the just concluded All Progressives Congress (APC), Presidential Primary Election conducted at 484 wards across the 44 local Government Areas of Kano State. Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje of Kano State, who is also the Chief Returning Officer for the election, announced the result that Buhari scored a total of 2,931,235 votes from party members, who participated in the exercise and all signified their interest for Buhari to return. Ganduje who was Impressed by the mass turn out of members of the All Progressives Congress (APC), reiterated its commitment to give President Muhammadu Buhari over 5 million votes in the forthcoming 2019 general election. He said, “With these figures of over five thousand votes from my ward, Ganduje ward of Dawakin Tofa local government, which only come from APC card carrying members, it is indicative to the fact that our promised over 5 million votes to our dear President in 2019 election is tenable and realizable.” “People should understand that, when the general election comes around apart from our APC members that would vote for the continuation of President Buhari regime, many more others who belong to other parties would join the queue. Not only that, even those that do not belong to any political parties, but have their permanent voters card will opt for him also,” he maintains. Ganduje added that, the conduct of direct primaries was intended to provide enabling environment for maximum political participation, insisting that, “This also shows how we are solidly behind President Muhammadu Buhari in strengthening democracy at all levels.” “The turnout is encouraging. With this therefore I am calling on our people to come en mass and vote for Buhari come 2019 general election. Kano state is always ready to continue to support him,” Ganduje stated. He expressed his satisfaction over the peaceful conduct of the presidential primary election, as witnessed in all the 44 local government councils of the state. “Party leadership should be commended for the peaceful conduct of this direct primary election in our state, all in an effort to further deepen democratic process. This will go a long way in ensuring all Nigerians that our party is all out for strong internal democracy,” he explained. He also called on the party leadership to maintain the good tempo witnessed from the presidential primary election that took place across all the 36 states of the federation including the federal capital territory, Abuja. “I need to acknowledge and appreciate the good conduct of our party members during this election,” he said