A Lagos High Court has restrained the police from arresting or infringing on the rights of some officials of 1004 Apartments in Victoria Island. Justice Idowu Alakija made the order of interim injunction following an application by five executive officers of 1004 Home Owners and Residents Association (HORA). Abiola Ogunniyi, Edet Essien, Joy Okara, Peace Itaribo and Olanrewaju Olaniyi, brought the application through their counsel, Mr Promise Asikpo and Joel Nyot. The defendants are Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Akinlosi Oyelokun, Inspector Yusuf Danladi and the Police Service Commission. Justice Alakija held: “Upon hearing the applicants in this case, I am convinced that all the respondents have been served with the originating processes and the motion for Interlocutory injunction. “It is hereby ordered that the parties maintain the status quo and the respondents are not to carry out any act that shall infringe on the fundamental rights of the applicants, pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice.” The vacation judge, however, directed that the file be returned to the registry forwarded to Justice Owolabi Dabiri for hearing of the interlocutory injunction. Earlier, Asikpo told the court that there was an imminent threat by the police to violate the fundamental rights of the applicants. He said the applicants were first arrested in November 2017 and in August this year, adding that it took a lot of efforts before they were released. The residents of 1004 Estate, he said, petitioned the I-G over unlawful arrest and detention of some occupants by policemen claiming to be from I-GP Special Tactical Squad. In the petition, HORA alleged that five officials were unlawfully assaulted and detained for two days. Those initially arrested and detained overnight at the Adeniji Adele Police facility on Lagos Island were Mrs Joy Okara (HORA Finance Manager), Mr Peace Itaribo (Accounts Officer) and Mr Olanrewaju Olaniyi (Vending Officer). The association’s executive, who attempted to secure their bail, were also arrested and for two days along with the staff, the petition said.