One issue of discourse last week was whether it was right for the rule of law to be subject to the nation’s security and national interest. That issue which engaged the attention of many Nigerians was set rolling by President Muhammadu Buhari last week Sunday. Buhari, at the opening ceremony of the 2018 Nigerian Bar Association Annual General Conference in Abuja, appeared to have stirred a hornet’s nest. The President had urged the lawyers to work for judicial reforms and subject the rule of law to national security. Buhari had stated, ”In the context of opinions and narratives about our past and present political and socio-economic experience, you cannot afford to jettison rational and proper analysis of issues in a manner which builds, rather than destroys the nation. “I also urge you to work to uphold and improve the sanctity and integrity of our judicial and electoral institutions which play a fundamental role in the sustenance and growth of our democracy. “However, let me remind you all, my dear compatriots, that the law can only be optimally practiced in a Nigeria that is safe, secure and prosperous. “As you go into this Annual Conference, let me assure you of the resolve of this administration to promote measures that will achieve a vibrant economy under which the practice of law will thrive. “It is equally significant to emphasize that our willingness to hold persons accountable for offences against society, through the judicial process, will equally transform the future of public service in Nigeria in a positive manner. “I believe that lawyers can contribute to another core objective of enhancing our business environment and promoting social justice by promoting respect for the Rule of Law; contributing to the law reform process and putting national interest and professional ethics above self in the conduct of their business. “Rule of Law must be subject to the supremacy of the nation’s security and national interest. Our apex court has had cause to adopt a position on this issue in this regard and it is now a matter of judicial recognition that; where national security and public interest are threatened or there is a likelihood of their being threatened, the individual rights of those allegedly responsible must take second place, in favour of the greater good of society,” he stated. While some Nigerians have criticised the position of the President on the issue, others believed that it is a good development for the country. Some Nigerians also called on the Federal Government to endeavour to strike a balance between human rights of Nigerians and national security. Those supporting the President’s position believed that it took its foundation from the fact that the rule of law can only exist when the national interest and security is secured in a state of peace and tranquility. They argued that the fundamental rights of citizens are not absolute as they could be limited. The power to determine what constitutes a threat to national security and national interest, according to them, is for now solely vested in the executive arm of government. But criticising the President’s remark, the NBA, in a statement said it “completely rejects the presidential statement subordinating the Rule of Law to National Security”. “The NBA restates that the Rule of Law is central to a democracy and any National Security concerns by the government must be managed within the perimeters and parameters of the Rule of Law.” it stated Among the eminent Nigerians who also criticized the President’s position included the Nobel laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka. To him, the rule of law should not be suspended for the sake of national security or interest. Soyinka, in a statement, said: “Here we go again! At his first coming, it was ‘I intend to tamper with Freedom of the Press’ and Buhari did proceed to suit action to the words, sending two journalists Irabor and Thompson to prison as a reward for their professional integrity. “Now, a vague, vaporous, but commodious concept dubbed ‘national interest’ is being trotted out as alibi for flouting the decisions of the Nigerian judiciary. “The timing is perfect, and we have cause to be thankful for the advance warning, since not all rulers actually make a declaration of intent, but simply proceed to degrade the authority of the law as part of the routine business of governance. We have been there before. “It should be of mere interest, not despondency, that this latest proclamation of dictatorial recidivism has also been made before an assembly of officers of the law, the Nigerian Bar Association. We expect a robust response from the NBA as part of its conclusions. “There is no short cut to democracy. The history of law, even where uncodified, is as old as humanity. “Numerous rulers have tried again and again to annul that institution. Sometimes, they appear to succeed, but in the end, they pay heavy forfeit. So does society. “The Rule of Law, however, outlasts all subverters, however seemingly powerful. If the consequences for society in defence of the Rule of Law were not so costly, any new attempt would be merely banal and boring, hardly deserving of attention. We know, historically, where it will all end.” he added But Human Rights lawyer, Femi Falana believed that the Government should respect the human rights of Nigerians while ensuring protection of national security and interests at the same time. Falana advocated for both national security and human rights to co-exist together as one should not give way completely to the other. He said, ”In democratic societies, human rights are at the core of national security itself. I posit that the purpose of national security should be to protect democracy and enhance democratic principles. “It is problematic to place the security of the state entirely above the interests of individual citizens. Placing security concerns in direct opposition to human rights creates a false dichotomy. Each is essential for ensuring that a society is free and secure. Privileging one over the other can have unintended negative consequences.” “National security must be reduced to its absolute minimum, what I call a democratic conception of national security. The use of extraordinary measures in the name of national security for any other purpose should be discouraged. Nigeria’s national security institutions must be effectively regulated and made accountable,” he said. “The extent that the protection of these rights are guaranteed signifies the democratic strength of a country, as human rights and the rule of law are crucial to the well-being of any truly democratic society. “Good governance requires the rule of law. Having good laws on the statue books is not enough. Laws must be implemented and enforced fairly and consistently in a transparent way or they risk becoming dead letters or, worse, instruments of oppression. There must therefore be some separation of powers and an independent judiciary. “The government must adopt broad-ranging measures geared to develop an effective institution with an appropriate organisational culture for a democratic society as well as the direct and mandatory involvement of the National Assembly in after-the-fact review. In the final analysis, it is essential to place further legal limitations on government’s use of special national security measures. “Since the security of the government in power is always equated with national security the police and security agencies have concentrated their attention on monitoring the activities of human rights activists and opposition figures in the country,” he said. Efforts should really be made by those concerned to ensure that national security and interest is not threatened while respecting the human rights of Nigerians.