President Muhammadu Buhari recently signed an international cocoa agreement. In this interview with GBENGA ADERANTI, Oba Dokun Thompson, a stakeholder in international chocolate production and the traditional ruler of Eti-Oni, whose domain produces cocoa, talks about how the agreement is going to affect Nigeria. Excerpts: How is the International Cocoa Agreement going to affect cocoa business and cocoa farmers in Nigeria? The recently signed International Cocoa Agreement by President Buhari was agreed at the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, UNCTAD, that was held in Geneva in 2010. It was the United Nations conference on cocoa and the main objectives of the agreement were to actually develop the world cocoa business or economy with particular focus on small holder cocoa farmers and to alleviate poverty which is very important not only for Nigeria but every cocoa producing country in the world. This is the 7th of such agreements and the first one was in 1972 when the International Cocoa Organization, ICCO, was established and the previous one in 2001 before this current one. What I am not sure of is when another agreement will be considered because this 2010 Agreement was drawn up in line with the UN 2015 Millennium Development Goals, MDGs. Now we have the UN 2030 SDGs. Though this agreement lays some emphasis on sustainability, I believe the scope may need to be expanded further to address some other areas that were not fully catered for in the UN 2015 MDGs and are now in the UN 2030 SDGs. On the part of the federal government, I cannot say why it took this long before the signature and why it was eventually signed but I have been advocating for the renaissance of the Nigerian cocoa industry for about three years now and perhaps that is what informed the signature and just like every agreement with all parties involved having certain obligations. I hope this will not just be one of a signature but also one that would be executed with every sense of duty and responsibility that comes with agreeing to be bound by the terms of any agreement. Would it not pose threat to firms in Nigeria using cocoa in their production? Not at all, it should in actual fact enhance their businesses but it all depends on their models and how the government works out the terms of the agreements for our benefit. There are two categories of membership or parties to the agreement, the exporters and importers. At the moment, Nigeria is an exporting country and the greatest challenge we have as a country where cocoa is concerned is really not with the International Cocoa Agreement (ICA) but with ourselves. For us at Eti-Oni Development Group, we are only just really understudying the industry in a manner to not only add but also create value and until we achieve this as a country, we would continue to lag behind. Beyond categorising us as exporters, we are also classified as bulk purchase cocoa producers while only Sao Tome & Principe and Madagascar are the only countries in Africa labelled with producing exclusively or partially fine or flavour cocoa and I don’t completely agree with that which leaves us with a lot of work to do. As part of our cocoa reconnaissance advocacy, we are working on redefining the industry to give it the true label or identity and not just accepting it as currently designated without working towards a complete audit or analysis of what we actually produce and I am sure we will get there soon. How possible is it for Nigeria to abide ‘faithfully’ as promised by the president? It is very possible for Nigeria to abide by the terms of the agreement and to also play our part diligently and when the President used the word ‘faithfully’, I want to believe that puts our interests first and ahead of any other. Our number one responsibility to the country is first for our well-being while developing both economically and socially. Our obligations to the agreement is to build our local and national capacity in terms of the standard, quality and output of beans produced with consideration for the environment and employment of good ethical practices that are transparent and will also improve the living standards and conditions of the farmers to create sustainability. That is the duty to ourselves and that is how we can positively contribute our own quota to aggregate those attributes with others to achieve the global objectives. Government also promised to support cocoa farmers, but with an ailing economy, how possible is this? The main solution to an ailing economy like ours is diversification and moving up the value chain and like I have always said, our economy had always been diversified. Apart from oil, we had always been involved in agriculture and others in the past but we have not moved along the value chain. We have crude but don’t have capacity to refine, we have cocoa but don’t have capacity to process, the refineries and processing plants in place are crying because of several problems inflicted by bad business judgments in some cases but most cases are as a result of bad government policies that actually kill these industries. The issue of multiple taxation by different government agencies going in and out of industries demanding payments for same permits called by different names which more or less fleeces them does nothing but destroys businesses. It is not even always when you provide loans that businesses thrive. When these measures that strangulate manufacturing and businesses are removed, it is another way of giving businesses money or a lifeline to survive and thrive. The environment is too regulated and constrained and the government needs to make a bold move to break the noose put around the necks of businesses and promote free trade in a well-structured deregulated environment that will make these businesses thrive. Even if these loans are given and the environment and conditions are not conducive, they will choke in no time and this is the situation not just with cocoa but all the other agriculture products and those in the manufacturing sector. With the current development, will your partners come to Nigeria to site a chocolate factory in Nigeria? Very interesting question because most see what we are doing as simply just to site a chocolate factory or produce cocoa but that is not the case for us. At Eti-Oni, cocoa and chocolate are part of our heritage and we will not separate them. Our model is such that we are working on creating a cocoa culture and part of it is through the annual cocoa festival celebration and the 2018 edition comes up between 2nd and 9th December 2018 at Eti-Oni in Atakumosa East LGA of Osun State where we will be celebrating 122 years of continued production of cocoa with the theme: Royal Origins and Traditions of Cocoa for Sustainable Transformation. We are also organizing some events in the UK in conjunction with ‘Friends of Eti-Oni’ as part of the strategy to create the global awareness and identity. On the 21st of October, 2018 we are having an afternoon of Tasting and Pairings of our Eti-Oni Signature dishes which are a set of recipes that were created to balance a complexity of flavours to tantalize the palate with African, Caribbean and European influence and infused with cocoa or interlaced with chocolate and this is being hosted by Jon Ganna, a prince of Koton Karfe, Kogi State and a Fellow of the Guild of Master Chefs at Huntingdon, UK and the annual Royal Cocoa Festival Dinner comes up on the 24th of October, 2018 in London. The intention is to create a fully integrated structure that will see production, processing and consumption increase and with it transform the rural community of Eti-Oni into a sustainable model smart town in line with the UN 2030 SDGs which is actually what the ICA is all about because that is what will achieve the main objectives of the agreement. So it is not just about a partner or a chocolate factory but several partners in a multifaceted arrangement that would also employ technology for ease of deployment as well as replicating and multiplying our solutions for provision of physical infrastructure and social services rapidly for the benefit of the people. 