September 23 is a historical day as it is the first ever International Day of Sign Languages celebration under the cross-cutting theme of “with sign language, everybody is included”. The celebration which is part of the International Week of the Deaf was declared by the United Nations General Assembly on December 19,2017. The UN General Assembly decided to commemorate this day as the International Day of Sign Languages in order to raise awareness of the importance of sign language in the full realisation of the human rights of people who are deaf. In commemorating this day, Jewel Ibeabuchi joined Wesley Schools for the hearing impaired children with special needs in celebrating. Wesley school is a state owned institution located in Surulere, Lagos which aims at providing education to hearing impaired children, creating awareness about their special needs, creating an enabling environment for their total development and also to empower them for the full realisation of their potentials. Inside the buildings of 30 Ajao road Surulere Lagos, were kids looking as bright and beautiful as ever.   It was discovered that the teachers and pupils of the school were not aware of the significance of the day. One of the instructors in the school, Mrs Nzeh Mabel said “Although this International day is not known to us, we however set aside December 3 which is the World disability day to celebrate these beautiful kids here. “We gather the disabled people and give them the opportunities to showcase their talents and gifts.” According to her, allowing them showcase their talents is done in order to let the society know that there is ability in every disability and also to make the disabled feel special, needed and involved in the society. Pointing out some challenges experienced by the deaf, Mabel stated that the community at large find it difficult understanding them. According to her, sign language is very important and every Nigerian should know it. “sign language is an international language that every Nigerians should know in order to break the barrier of isolation and misunderstanding which leads to aggressive acts.” “As the international day of sign language has been introduced, the government should train people even in banks and include it as a subject in school curriculum. “ Inclusion and equal participation in society require sign languages to be accessible, respected and supported, all of which are subsequently required to achieve any of the sustainable development goals and objectives established by United Nations.” Mabel stated