Aspirants in Oyo state who plan to contest elections on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) have unanimously adopted indirect primaries as the mode of selecting the candidates ahead of 2019 general elections. The aspirants reached the decision  during a meeting with the governor and party leaders at the Government House in Ibadan on Sunday. The News Agency of Nigeria(NAN) reports that Gov. Abiola Ajimobi and some party leaders had on Saturday met with governorship aspirants of the party.  The meeting  also adopted indirect primaries. NAN reports that the motion for adoption of indirect primaries was moved by Mr Olaide Olalere, an aspirant vying for Ibadan North East State Constituency II seat  in the House of Assembly. The motion was seconded by Mrs Olanrewaju Otiti, an aspirant contesting Ibadan North Federal Constituency seat. Ajimobi  urged the aspirants  to reach some understanding among themselves to avert wasting resources. “I am urging you all to negotiate and come up with a candidate in your various constituencies,  if such is possible and if not, you all can be prepared for the indirect primaries as you have adopted,” he said. The governor advised  the aspirants to remain committed to the party irrespective of the outcome of the primaries, saying every member of the party would share in the success. He warned them not to take undue advantage of the ongoing experiment within the party which he said has offered all aspirants a level playing ground. Dr (Mrs) Adepeju Esan, an aspirant to the House of Representatives via the  Ibadan North Federal Constituency, stated that the indirect primaries adopted by all aspirants was the best. “If we adopted consensus, it will be imposition and the direct primaries will be very cumbersome. This is why we have adopted the indirect primaries,” she said. A 35 year-old Senatorial aspirant, Alhaji Faosey Nurudeen, lauded the governor for initiating the process which facilitated a rancour free adoption of indirect primaries. Nurudeen stated that the indirect primaries was supported by all aspirants, saying such would allow level playing ground to all. “I feel happy and very comfortable with the adoption of indirect primaries. Based on the resolutions made here today, I support the indirect primaries irrespective of the number of aspirants,” he said. Mr. Asimiyu Alarape, a former Speaker of Oyo State House of Assembly and an aspirant, said the party leadership has sown the seed of unity with the adoption of indirect primaries.