There is no doubt that Africa is a continent of diversities and this International Table Tennis Federation (ITTF) has recognized and this was also affirmed by ITTF helmsman, Thomas Weikert at the opening ceremony of the 2018 ITTF African Championships in Mauritius. Weikert, who is attending the senior tournament for the first time as ITTF boss assured the continent that the world body would continue to increase its support to Africa. Weikert, who has been part of the two-day ITTF/ATTF Forum was accompanied to the ceremony by ITTF Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Steve Dainton as well as some management staff told the gathering at the Beau Bassin Sports Complex that ITTF is committed to development, adding that the continent must also uphold good governance which is one of the tenet of ITTF. In the presence of the Mauritius Minister of Youth and Sports, Jean Christophe Stephan, Weikert lauded the Government of Mauritius for accepting to stage the tournament while assuring that ITTF would not relent in its support to the continent. “We are ready to support Africa and this is part of our strategic plan to empower each continent and Africa is part of it and we will increase our backing to the continent in terms of equipment and coaching, which we believe we help raise the profile of the sport. But we must not forget the ethics of good governance and transparency which must also be uphold for those in charge of our sport in every continent,” Thomas Weikert said. In a show of appreciation to ITTF, the Mauritius Table Tennis Federation (MTTA) used the event to honour Weikert and Dainton for their vision in lifting the fortune of the sport in Africa. In his opening remarks, MTTA President, Vimal Basanta Lala believes the support the association got from the world body has motivated them to nurture the dream of setting up a Table Tennis Training Centre – being the first in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Mauritius Olympic Committee (MOC) President, Philippe Hao Thyn Voon HA SHUN re-echoed ITTF’s vision of transparency and good governance which he believes Africa must imbibe in its administration. For African Table Tennis Federation (ATTF) President, Khaled El-Salhy, the crucial role played by ITTF cannot be underestimated, while hoping the at the end of the forum, a concrete decision that move the sport forward in Africa will be made.