SOME stakeholders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State have threatened to vote for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in next year’s election. The stakeholders who spoke through a group, the Cross River North Solidarity Forum (CRNSF), said they would vote against their party if the governorship ticket of the party which was zoned to the area in 2014 is not retained. In a statement issued in Calabar by the group’s spokesman, Joseph Ogah, they said that the President Muhammadu Buhari led government has not been fair to members of the party from the zone in terms of appointment and will resist any move by “corrupt people who just defected to the party to hijack the ticket from the north.” The group said that if the APC does not want people from the northern senatorial district of the state in the party, they would not hesitate to seek their political fortune elsewhere where every zone will be treated equally. They questioned why zoning was observed in the recently held congresses from ward to national but some “greedy and self-seeking intruders are going about planning to take what was zoned to the north in 2014.” The statement read, “The message we have to pass in this press statement is simple. We will vote the PDP massively if the governorship ticket is given to another senatorial district. “In 2014, party positions were zoned and the governorship ticket was zoned to the north. Odey Ochicha from the north was APC governorship candidate and he came second in that election. It was because of Ochicha’s effort that President Buhari had up to 28,000 votes, the highest votes an opposition party ever had in the state. He went to every corner of the state with his personal resources campaigning for himself and Buhari. “Many of us used our money to work for APC but when the party won, the zone was completely neglected. No reasonable appointment was given to the north despite the numerous juicy appointments that came to the state. “The central alone got Minister of Niger Delta, NDDC chairman, career ambassador, SA on Prosecution to the President, Auditor General etc. The South has the Head of Service, Ambassador, NDDC Commissioner, DG, National Centre for Women Development and many others. The north was left with nothing. Even the governorship candidate who sacrificed so much for the party in 2015 was not given anything reasonable.