Worried by the security situation in the country, security experts have called on the government to as a matter of urgency come up with a strategic security plan to enhance national development. The expert who also reasoned that the country is long overdue for a decentralized policing structure express worry at what they described as the lack of foresight of lawmakers and antagonists of the call for a decentralized police structure for the country. The experts spoke during a roundtable to commemorate the 10th year anniversary public lecture of PG Security Services Limited, a licensed private security outfit in the country, on the topic, “Strategic Security Management Panacea for National Development.” In their various remarks, the security experts who called for more support of the private security practitioners noted that government need to do more in the areas of providing the needed infrastructure and support to private operators as they provide complementary roles to the security agencies in ensuring a safe environment. They urged the government to consider approving the license for big private security guards and also monitor their practice, as stakeholders in the security business in the country. Leading the talk, a security consultant who doubles as the Public Relations Officer of the Association of Licensed Private Security Practitioners of Nigeria, Mr. Richard Amuwa pointed out that even if some people are against the creation of state policing as a result of dearth of money by the state government as well as fear of abuse by those in power, the idea of community policing must be embraced. He stressed a country without good security for national development will never attract investors or visitors. Amuwa said “When there is good security on the ground, there would be national development, strategic security is the situation where we have the policies and procedures of security, that is, by having the early warnings and understanding the fact that a mechanism needs to be put in place when there are issues. When those things are put in place, there is going to be national development, a situation whereby people are involved in national security, for example, we have been advocating the fact that if Nigeria cannot have state police why can’t we have community policing, so all those things matters because any country that exists and does not have a proper security system, naturally, nobody will come and invest in that economy and that is why it is important for government to develop a security strategic plan. “Nigeria is overripe for state police. The essence of having state police is because there is so much insecurity everywhere. There have been so many efforts at combating security challenges but no result. When President Yaradua was in power, he fought against militant, when he left President Jonathan came and there was Boko Haram, and the present government came and there are herdsmen, so there has been so many issues and challenges here and there but unfortunately, the immaturity of our lawmakers will not allow state police to be in place. Again most states are not variable financially to take care of the police.” The Managing Director, PG Security Services limited, Mr Seyi Alaba said the idea of the roundtable was to call the attention of the government to the need to have a medium or long-term security plan to replace the frequent policy inconsistencies that characterize change of government in the country. He said, “If we look at Nigeria, apart from security, we like fire brigade approaches to issues, there are no adequate planning, but looking at security problem, different governments come and offer different solutions that might not be the best or adequate. But if we have a strategic plan of perhaps in 5 or 10 years put in place, there can now be adequate plans and enough time to work towards it. This is what brought about the topic today. We are looking at creating a strategic plan towards national development as stakeholders in the security of the country. “Private security plays a complementary role organization to the other security agencies and we are very close to the grassroots and everybody now are trying to embrace community policing. If community policing is to function very well in this country, then private guards will play a vital role and that is where we come in to fill the vacuum. Also if they approve arms for private companies, it will go a long way to improve the standard of private security in Nigerian as is obtainable in other western world.”