There is this innate quality in most men which propels us to assist women whenever they are in distress. It could be seeing a lady with a flat tyre standing helplessly beside her car on the road, a mother with her child wailing or a group of men molesting a lady. The natural instinct is for a real man to rise to the occasion and lend a helping hand. There are many cases where this applies. I came across one recently which necessitates this write up. I had just packed my car at a shopping mall and was about to walk in when I saw four young ladies comforting another. Initially, I wanted to ‘mind my business’ and just walk on when my conscience pricked me and I approached them cautiously wanting to know what the issue was. I asked politely: “Is anything the matter?” They exchanged quick glances while trying to size me up. One of them nodded and her colleague handed me a Samsung smartphone. Seeing the perplexed look on my face, she said “look at it sir.” I looked at the phone and saw the picture of a nude lady. Again, my perplexed look gave me away. The lady that handed me the phone pointed to the lady crying and said “that’s our friend and that is why she’s crying, we are just trying to console her. There is also a video about her.” It turned out that this 19 years old undergraduate of a private university is currently faced with one of the toughest challenges of her very young life. Her nude pictures and video have been uploaded online and has gone viral. By the time they showed me the clip it had recorded over 2,000 hits which was why she was wailing uncontrollably. She kept muttering: “What will I tell my parents when they get to see this?” She got to know about it when her friends started calling and berating her for selling herself cheap. Confused, she asked what the matter was. That was when her attention was directed at the pictures and video. I choose to write this because I have heard about several cases similar to that of this young lady, and having the ‘opportunity’ of seeing one personally necessitates beaming the searchlight on the issue. It was quite pathetic seeing this lady, who in between sobs, kept wailing “Jide, how can you do this to me, it’s so unfair; where will I hide my head?” For what it was worth, I tried my best to encourage her falling short of asking why she could be this stupid. Jide, I was told, was her ex-boyfriend who decided to “punish” her for walking out of their relationship. I was also made to understand that he had promised to “tarnish” her reputation for life. She said she thought he was bluffing and wondered what he could do to tarnish her reputation. With this sinister and wicked move, Jide appeared to have gotten his pound of flesh. While holding the phone, calls kept coming in and her friends tried lamely to answer the calls the best way they could. In some instances, the altercations would lead to verbal abuse, both in English and Yoruba. I did the best I could in that circumstance to comfort and counsel them. When I got home my mind flashed back to Paris Hilton who had a sex tape leaked by her ex-boyfriend. I remembered Piers Morgan, then of CNN, asking Paris – in the presence of her mother – how she would feel when she eventually becomes a mother and her child sees her sex tapes on the internet. Both could not convincingly answer the question, they only riled at her ex-boyfriend who uploaded it on the internet. The same may apply to the lady I’m writing about today, no doubt. I also recollected that of Anita Hogan, but thankfully she has married and moved on with her life. But some may not be that lucky. For those who may not know, there is now a new vogue in town among our youths called revenge pornography or e-venge pornography. Revenge porn is sexually explicit material that is publicly shared online without the consent of the individual in question. In almost all the instances, it is typically uploaded by former lovers or hackers (In rare instances). The majority of images are mostly “selfies,” which are taken by the subject themselves. The images are often accompanied by personal information, including the victims’ full name, links to Facebook and social media profiles or addresses, which is how bad it is. This scenario is fast trending as one of the quickest ways of getting a ‘good pound of the flesh’ from a wronged lover. Unlike other anonymous pornographic materials online, revenge pornography makes the face of the act clear and ensures the name is also known. In some extremely harsh instances, the mobile contact, work details and home address of the pictured person are made available. Revenge pornography began garnering international media attention when Hunter Moore launched IsAnyoneUp.com in 2010. The site featured user-submitted pornography, and was one of the first sites that included identifying information, such as the subjects’ names, employers, addresses and links to social networking profiles. Since revenge pornography always has women as victims most times, it can also be right to describe it as sexual violence – of a rather crude type – against women with the sole aim to embarrass, humiliate and degrade them sexually, if she is career driven, she may be disgraced professionally. I cannot imagine that professional Nigerian lady that will hold her head high and go to work daily if her sexually explicit materials are circulating widely on the internet. The international legal firmament is already witnessing various fireworks to address the weak presence or outright absence of legislation around this. Some of the anti-revenge porn legislations are hoping – in addition to criminalising revenge porn – to also target service providers whenever the actions of their users are misguided. Beyond legal frameworks, it raises serious moral issue about how our youths are raised by their parents these days. Why would a young lady – if she really is a lady – occupy her time with taking nude pictures either in front of a guy that is not her husband, or sending it to him online? Why would a young man, on the other hand, decide to ‘punish’ a lady this way without thinking of the long term implications? What I take out of this is that mobile – and any technology really – sometimes exposes the dark side of people. To this end, the best defence is caution and deep introspection. A lady from a disciplined and proper home will definitely think twice before exposing her naked pictures to a “friend” because she wants to foster “friendship” with a man. The first lesson a mother worth her salt teaches her daughter is how to be a lady, and a lady is a woman of refined background and upbringing, a woman who behaves politely with dignity and integrity, such a lady will be more interested in the weighty issues of life rather than posting nude pictures or “sexting” with acquaintances. The same goes for the fathers as well; they are expected to train their boys to be gentlemen who respect women and give them their expected dues in society and not to treat them as sex toys. Because of the break down in our value system some young men have grown up seeing the denigration of women as the norm, it shouldn’t be. In the West, laws are enacted that protect the rights of women and children simply because some men refuse to grow up and be responsible, this is the singular reason men move out of the home in cases of divorce. Beyond the home front, there is the need to criminalise revenge pornography as a means of seeking “revenge” because of the far reaching impact it normally have on the victims. Some of the harm it can cause include psychological harm and mental health problems, anxiety, dent on family name or image,. depression and suicidal thoughts amongst others.