President Muhammadu Buhari,  garnered 697,532 votes in the All Progressives Congress (APC) Presidential primary in Imo State. Buhari was returned unopposed by the APC card carrying members who turnout in large number for the exercise. The State Returning Officer, Chief Charles Amadi, announced the result after collation at the Nick Banquet Hall, Owerri. The Governor, who addressed APC faithful shortly after announcing the result, said that President Buhari “remains the best option for the Southeast and her people in the 2019 election compared to others jostling for the same position in other political parties”. He assured that the President will “win in the entire Southeast in 2019″. According to him, “in the 2011 election, the PDP people were able to rig and write fictitious figures to misrepresent the facts on ground. But in the 2015 election, the PDP also manipulated the results of the South – East states to portend dislike and resentment for Muhammadu Buhari. But we fought them to standstill to ensure that they did not perpetuate their heinous act of writing unrealistic results. Hence, the Southeast votes ensured an even spread for the emergence of Mr. President”. He continued that, “what we are doing today is the APC Presidential Primary for President Muhammadu Buhari. It is also very clear that the President is Contesting the 2019 Presidential election on the platform of APC as the sole candidate of the party. But like the Constitution approves, whether it’s one person or more than one candidate, the electorate must exercise their franchise. “So we have come to show our love towards him by queuing to vote for him massively. We’re doing this to know the number of the Party members from each ward that are approving his candidature for 2019 presidential election. So, I’m here with my people to assure President Muhammadu Buhari that Imolites are with him come 2019”. The governor added further that, “I am very happy for the large turnout as people had trooped out in their large numbers to ensure victory for our Party, APC and our presidential flag-bearer, President Muhammadu Buhari and also to assure him that APC is the Party on ground in Imo State.” Announcing the result, Amadi said President Buhari garnered six hundred and ninety seven thousand, five hundred and thirty-two votes out of the nine hundred and forty-four, eight hundred and forty-three registered members.