Nigeria’s D’Tigress will have to be at their best as they take on reigning champions the USA in today’s quarterfinal game at the FIBA Basketball Women World Cup in Tenerife, Spain. While the US team finished top in group D to book a quarter-final place, Nigeria had to beat Greece 57-56 in a quarterfinal qualifier to a ticket. D’Tigress are definitely the underdogs in this game but with their performance so far at the championship, Nigerians are hopeful their darling team can upset the Americans. The game, which will come up 11.30am Nigerian time, the Nigerian ladies will hope to make history in this mouth-watering encounter. Team captain, Adaora Elonu, who is a Euro League Women regular and has WNBA minutes to her name, told FIBA Basketball that the D’Tigress have the capacity to do well against the Americans. “Playing USA does sound really nice,” Elonu said. “I don’t know what to expect, but we’re just going to keep pushing. We go with the same mentality. As a player, as a competitor, you have to go with the same mentality. We’re not here, you know, just being happy to still be here. This is a new experience, but we want to put on the best show and performances that we can.” AFA Sports, kit manufacturers of the team, are happy to identify with the team, expressing belief that the team would get better. The Chief Executive Officer of AFA Sports, Ugo Udezue says he can beat his chest now because he believed in them early enough. “We saw a world-class team even when some others believed otherwise and decided to invest on them. They hadn’t played a game but we believed in the organisational structure from which the team emerged. “Perhaps a monumental part of this journey to the world is how much their performance is powered by the support from AFA Sports. The CTG technology in the AFA shoes provides extra grip, speed and precision so that you are always one step ahead of the competition. The soft micro mesh material allows athletes to stay hydrated in the most humid of climates. “The truth is that no one can understand the needs of an African athlete more than a fellow African, and these products were tailor-made to fit the needs of the African athlete like a glove. Now we can all gladly say go D’Tigress and the joy is for every fan of the team,” Udezue added.