The Board and Management of Resort Savings & Loans Plc, has explained delay in the capitalization of the company, assuring its stakeholders of a strong comeback. The board in a statement said ‘the Bank had executed binding agreement and first draw down agreement of $10.0 million with a provision for immediate release of $1.0 million.  The release of the fund is being delayed by the valuation of the Bank’s shares through market forces.  The shares are presently on technical suspension and we believe that this will be lifted on provision of constant and required information to the Market’. The company, through its Chairman, Senator Sunday O. Fajinmi, who said he is not leaving any stone un-turned to restore the glory of the company, added that the Bank has a major investor in Messers Milost Global Incorporation, expressing optimistic that the ‘suspension’ will be lifted very soon. He added that the Management had equally engaged various regulators towards capital injection and in view of that, and towards achieving quick results to resolving issues raised by various regulators,  a lot has been done. According to him, the following has been settled. ‘Audit of the Bank’s Financial statements for the year 2015, 2016 and 2017 by Messers BBC   Professionals; appointments of parties to the issue in view; execution of Escrow Agent Agreement with the Milost Global Inc. and the Escrow Agent in Nigeria Mr. Kunle Adegbite; forwarding of the Audited Accounts to Central Bank of Nigeria for approval before being transmitted to the regulators, stakeholders, general public in line with  operating guidelines of the  Central Bank of Nigeria and other regulators; securing approval for the 2015 Financial Statements from Central Bank of Nigeria and transmitting of same to Nigeria Stock Exchange and transmission of quarterly financial statements on the basis of approved 2015 Financial statements’. He indicated the readiness of the management at transmitting other financial statements as soon as they are approved. He said: ‘Further to this, the Board and Management had been assured by both the local and foreign investors of their readiness to turn the Bank around positively.  In this regard, we have assurances that the funds which are already escrowed shall be released as per our agreed Term Sheet.  It is not in the interest of anybody that the funds are kept idle any further’. The Managing Director of the bank, Mr. Olayemi Rabiu, also assured the stakeholders that all assets of the Bank will be put into good use while recovery will be made of recalcitrant ones. “This will be achieved through the employment of professionals in debt recovery at a very competitive and reasonable costs.  The Management has imbibed value for resources concept in asset management.  The stakeholders are assured to a very bright future of the Bank” he said.