Elders of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara state on Monday said that Senate President Bukola Saraki is not a dictator. The PDP elders, who said they were old members of the party added that they became political orphans 2014 when Saraki and others in the state defected to All Progressives Congress (APC) They added that since his comeback to the PDP, his sterling political leadership style has impacted on them. An elder of the old PDP and current Financial Secretary of the party in the state Moses Ibiyemi said they “have no regret at all for pitching our tents with this leader of leaders, who despite using his personal resources to run the party since his return to its fold, has refused to exhibit any dictatorial tendencies.” Accompanied by the new PDP deputy chair and youth leader in the state, Abubakar Sanni, Haliru Mahmud and others, Ibiyemi said “contrary to insinuations by our former chairman and his cohorts, the relationship between us the old members of the PDP and the new entrants from the great Saraki dynasty has been very cordial. “It has been a case of mutual respect and trust all the way.
“We have found in Bukola Saraki an honest, straight forward and fair leader. Instead of hijacking the party as others prophesied, the Senate President has indeed left the control of the party in the hands of all stakeholders.
“Saraki’s demonstration of fairness and team player can be seen clearly in the composition of the new state executives of the PDP in Kwara state. The available offices were fairly distributed among the old and new members. Something goes down to local government and ward levels. “Indeed, we have no regret whatsoever for accepting the Senate President and his teeming supporters back into the PDP. He has come to add value to the party and we are very sure of emerging victorious in the 2019 general elections in the state. “Let me at this juncture commend the Senate President for his sense of fairness and great act of magnanimity in accepting the fair sharing of offices in the PDP executive among us the old members and those that followed him back to the party.
“He has by this singular act proved his critics wrong and has shown the whole world that he’s a fair leader whose only passion is the overall development of our dear Kwara state. “We are therefore using this forum to urge a few of our members who were deceived to defect to other lesser parties to come back home as there is equal opportunities for all in the PDP under the leadership of Bukola Saraki.
“Our doors are wide open to both our former members and every progressive minded Kwaran. Let’s join hands with this God- sent leader, our own son, Bukola Saraki in taking our dear Kwara state to a more greater heights.”