Two Nigerian education campaigners Omotoke Olowo and Gideon Olanrewaju have canvassed for actions on global education, asking world leaders on their plans to get the world’s 260 million out of school children in to education. Olowo, CEO of Autism Awareness, and Olanrewaju, founder of Aid for Rural Education Access, made the call at the UN General Assembly (UNGA) in New York City, where they attended the UNGA as part of education charity Theirworld’s #WritetheWrongCampaign. The duo attended high-level meetings alongside business executives and dignitaries such as Amina Mohammed, Gordon Brown and Graca Machel. At a meeting hosted by the Global Business Coalition for Education, Olanrewaju warned world leaders that: “young people would hold them accountable for concrete actions to move education forward.” Olowo on her part praised Gordon and Sarah Brown for being passionate about helping children and young people get the education they need to live independent lives. “What impressed me most was their commitment to marginalised children and those with learning disabilities who have previously been forgotten in the global education debate,” she said. She went further to say that the higher costs involved in supporting children with special educational needs is a barrier for many governments. “I hope the increased funding for global education that charities such as Theirworldand Save the Childrenare calling for will be used to support every child to get an education,” Olowo submitted. According to UNESCO, increased financing is essential to close the annual funding gap needed to support global education that low and middle-income countries face. The proposed International Finance Facility for Education (IFFED) aims to generate $10 billion dollars for education by using donor guarantees to leverage lending from multilateral banks. Despite significant advances in education across the globe, experts argue that over a quarter of a billion of children are out of school – 1 in 5 children don’t have a basic education. Sarah Brown, Theirworld President, said: “Many people are simply not aware of the scale of this crisis. Children out of school face a dire future of exploitation, child labour and early marriage. If leaders fail to act now an entire generation will miss out on an education.” The #WritetheWrong campaign aims to tackle the growing global education crisis, The Nation learnt.