The 2016 junior champion of the Cowbellpedia Mathematics Television Quiz Show, Juliet Ekoko, has cruised into the semi-finals of the senior category of the competition, which is sponsored by Cowbell Milk, the flagship brand of Promasidor Nigeria Limited. Last year, Munachi Ernest-Eze, then a student of Loyola Jesuit College, Abuja, made history as the first to win both categories of the competition having emerged the junior champion two years earlier. This time, Juliet of The Ambassadors College, Ota, Ogun State, progressed to the semi-finals along with Luke Nyamali of Federal Science and Technical College, Uromi, Edo State. Juliet and Luke contested in the preliminary round Group E of the senior category along with four other candidates who were eliminated from the competition. They were:  Ahmad Haruna of Jigawa State Academy for the Gifted, Dutse, Jigawa State; Alameen Abubakar of Islamic Orientation Secondary School, Lokoja, Kogi State; Orisakwe David Chiebuka of Excelgrace Academy, Akaajime-Gboko, Benue State; and Adeola Aaron of Union Baptist Grammar School, Ilorin, Kwara State. Fourteen-year-old Juliet, who aspires to go to John Hopkins Medical University, United States, to study Medicine and Surgery, disclosed that her experience on the Cowbellpedia Secondary School Mathematics TV Quiz Show was quite exciting and interesting. “I have been a champion and will feel very great to be crowned a champion again,” she said. On his part, Luke expressed gratitude to God for crossing the hurdle, describing his experience in the competition as fantastic. He promised to maintain the current momentum as the competition progressed. In the junior category, Iyunade Ogundana of Greater Tomorrow, Ado-Ekiti, Ekiti State; and Andrea Eboagwu of Graceland International School, Port Harcourt, Rivers State, secured the semi-final tickets. This duo beat Chiamaka Ibeanusi of Loyola Jesuit College, Abuja; Umar Suleiman of Caliphate International School, Gusau, Zamfara State; Mubarak Keyede of Scholars Universal Secondary School, Ota, Ogun State; and Harold Odelia Kingsley of Deeper Life High School, Calabar, Cross River State. Iyunade, who expressed great relief to have landed in the semi-finals, vowed to channel all her energy and capacity to ace the remaining battle ahead. “I feel excited scaling this hurdle. I really thank God. But my ultimate ambition is to win and become the 2018 Cowbellpedia champion,” she disclosed. On her part, Andrea expressed confidence about her ability to win the ultimate prize and promised not to disappoint herself, her parents and her school. To commemorate the 20th anniversary of the competition, the prize money has been doubled as winners in both categories will receive N2 million each with an all-expenses paid educational excursion outside the country, while the first and second runners-up will receive N1.5 million and N1 million respectively. The teachers of the top prize winners will be awarded N500,000 each, while those of the first and second runners-up will each receive N400,000 and N300,000 respectively. Also, each of the winning schools will be presented with Mathematics textbooks, desktop computers and printers.  The 2018 Cowbellpedia Secondary Schools Mathematic TV Quiz continues this weekend. It will be aired to millions of viewers on DSTv Africa Magic Family Channel, the national network of Africa Independent Television (AIT), Television Continental (TVC) and other five television stations across the country.