Residents of Millennium Citi Centre Estate in Gbagada, Lagos, have sued Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris and men of the IGP Monitoring Unit, claiming N250million for alleged invasion, unlawful arrest and detention. Before the suit, they sent a petition to the IGP over what they called continued forceful invasion, indiscriminate arrest and harassment of staff and residents of the estate by the IGP X-Squad. In the September 18 petition signed by their lawyer Olatokunbo Phillips, they appealed to the IGP to expedite action on the release of a security man employed by the estate, Mr. William Iyeke, and a barber, Mr. Julius Babasola. They were said to have been arrested by the X-Squad, which allegedly invaded the estate on September 13 at the instance of some land grabbers. “We, therefore, implore you sir, to restrain your men from being engaged in acts of self-help or aiding any of the feuding families in forcefully taking over people’s land in the estate without a court order or judgment,” the petitioners wrote. In a fundamental suit filed at the Lagos Federal High Court, the residents are praying the court to declare the invasion of their estate illegal and unconstitutional. The applicants are the estate’s chairman, Mr Soji Adeniji, Iyeke, Babasola and the Registered Trustees of Millennium Citi Centre Estate. The administrator of the estate of the late Emmanuel Ashamu Family, Mrs Titi Ashamu, Mr Tunde Ashamu, Emmanuel Ashamu and family lawyer, Mr Amodu Fatai, the IGP and members of the IGP Monitoring Unit – Aliyu Abubakar, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), Aminu Sokoto and Sunday Daramola, both Assistant Superintendents of Police (ASPs), are the defendants. In the suit filed by their lawyer, Kola Olapoju, the applicants are seeking a declaration that the arrest and continued detention of Iyeke and Babasola at the IGP’s office at Louis Edet House, Abuja is illegal, oppressive, unconstitutional, null and void. They are praying for an order of perpetual injunction restraining the respondents jointly and severally from proceeding against them in any manner “on the basis of the facts and circumstances culminating in the criminal complaint lodged by the first to third respondents”. The applicants said their estate was invaded over the ownership of the land on which their properties are located. The applicants said they and 500 other landlords bought their properties from either of the three or more feuding families, including the defendants. They said three of the families, including the defendants, are embroiled in civil litigations at different stages in courts. The applicants said they have not committed any criminal offence and are not caught up in any of the constitutionally prescribed situations that would allow for the derogation or deprivation of their personal liberties or dignity of their persons. No date has been fixed for hearing.