NationsSport can report that plans have been concluded to begin a nine-week season long 5-Aside football league for amateurs in Nigeria. West Ham United’s kit sponsor Betway is the brain behind the amateur league which will kick off in September. Mr Lere Awokoya, Country Manager of Betway Nigeria made this known in a statement on Wednesday stating that mobile sports betting operator is starting the league to boost community relations, grassroots football, and fitness in Nigeria. He explained that Betway 5s League is organised primarily to further encourage the growing culture of 5-a-side football in Nigeria by creating a competitive annual league.” The first ever 5-a-side football league for amateur, he said, has been planned to kick off in Lagos State in a competitive nine weeks of football and it is has been designed to showcase new talents in the round leather game. The statement reads; “The league, which will be made up of 24 registered teams, will be played in four locations across Lagos. These locations include two venues on Lagos Island (Lekki), and two venues on the Lagos Mainland (Ikeja and Surulere). Matches will be held on Saturdays at each location over a 5-week regular season. “After the season has been completed, a playoff involving the league’s four top teams from across the two zones will decide the league’s champions. The winning team will claim One Million Naira in prize money, while the second and third placed teams will also receive cash prizes. It is hoped that the Betway 5s league will foster comradeship and inter-community relationships, as players and fans from all over Lagos get the opportunity to interact with one another, sharing moments and memories. “Additionally, the league will also offer an avenue for recreation and physical exercise, which will in turn improve the fitness and general wellbeing of all who participate. Fans of the league will be able to watch game highlights, view team standings and see player stats on the official website at betway5sleague.com which will be updated weekly.” About the Betway Group Betway is also the official principal sponsor of Premier League football club West Ham United, the UK Premier League Darts and the UK Snooker Championships.