National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has said that the party may use the direct primary option for the conduct of its governorship primary in Imo state in other to avoid litigation that may affect the chances of the candidates of the party in the general election. Oshiomhole who spoke at a peace meeting between for leaders of the party in the state told all aspirants in the state to go and test their popularity with the people since they all  believe in their popularity. Speaker of the Imo State House of Assembly, Hon. Acho Ihim led the governor’s group while Senator Uzodinma led the other group. The APC chairman appealed to the state Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha to cede part of the leadership of the party in the state to the Senator Hope Nzodinma led faction of rye party in the interest of lasting peace in the state. Oshiomhole told the Okorocha faction to take 55 percent of the party structure in the state while the other group led by Senator Hope Uzodinma takes 45 per cent so as to achieve lasting peace in the Imo APC. While acknowledging the leadership of the governor in the state, the APC Chairman said “I will not allow any body to take him for granted or rubbish his personality”. The APC Chairman, who described the first congresses held in Imo State as a fraud, stressed the need for the warring members to sheath their sword in the interest of the party. He said “the essence of this meeting is to seek equity and justice. I respect Governor Rochas because he is one governor that fought to ensure we have APC in Imo State. But now more people are joining the party, the House has gotten bigger, we need peace in Imo state and I am urging you people to reconcile and harmonize. “I suggested a formula to the Governor. It is not right that under my watch a faction of our members are wiped out. If we don’t work together it will weaken our party and that is why I am suggesting 55 per cent to the Governor’s group and 45 per cent to Senator Uzodinma’s group. Some people are speaking law but I want to win election in Imo State not court cases. “That is why we have chosen not to talk about the law but coexistence. Court don’t give peace they give judgment. We should talk less about power and talk more of peace. Everybody matters in this business. It can be dangerous to take one for granted. “Don’t ever take one another for granted on the day of election and any one of us who have not learnt on former President Jonathan’s mistake is not a politician. So we must all swallow our pride and embrace peace for the sake of the party”