All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Opeyemi Bamidele has begins a tour of the Ekiti Central Senatorial District to thank constituents for their  solidarity during his trying period. The former House of Representatives recently returned from overseas where he was recuperating after sustaining wounds from gun shots at a rally in Ado-Ekiti, capital of Ekiti State. Opefemi, former Lagos State Information and Strategy Commissioner, visited Efon, Ekiti West, Ijero, and Ado-Ekiti. He was also at the Isan country home of Governor-elect Dr Kayode Fayemi, from where he  returned to Iyin, his home town for a reception. The district was enveloped in anxiety, following the accident which occurred when Bamidele was preparing for the funeral of his father, whose body is still in the morgue. Despite his absence, Bamidele was named as the Chairman of Fayemi Campaign Team, which worked hard for the victory of the APC flag bearer at the July 14 poll. A leader of the party in Ekiti West Federal Constituency, Chief Joseph Alake, said the thank-you visitt  kicked off in Efon-Alaaye, the headquarters of Efon Council today. Bamidele will address party faithful. He said: “We are happy that Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele is back; hale and hearty. The anxiety is over. He is organising the thank-you tour to show appreciation to party members who prayed and stood by him.” Party sources said the five local governments are rooting for the senatorial candidature of the survivor in next year’s election. In 2011, the former commissioner had contested for the Senate. Other contenders included Senator Babafemi Ojudu and Mr. Dele Alake, his predecessor at the Lagos State Ministry of Information and Strategy. The shadow poll conflict was resolved in favour of Ojudu, who is now presidential adviser on political matters. Bamidele was elected into the House of Representatives. In 2014, the former legislator defected from the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) to the Labour Party (LP), where he contested the governorship against Fayemi. The two of them lost to outgoing Governor Ayo Fayose. However, during the preparations for the recent governorship poll, Fayemi and Bamidele were working together for the APC, until the tragedy that nearly claimed his life. Bamidele has not unfolded any ambition for the Senate. He has also not denied media reports linking him and Prince Dayo Adeyeye with senatorial aspirations. Adeyeye, who recently defected from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the APC is from Ekiti South. In the past, both nursed governorship ambitions. Analysts believe that, if the duo are elected as senators next year, they are likely to throw their hats in the governorship ring when Fayemi completes his second term. 