The battle for the top job in the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) will reach a climax today as the incumbent – Amaju Pinnick battles to retain his post against his predecessor, Aminu Maigari; ex-international, Taiwo Ogunjobi and Chinedu Okoye, proprietor of amateur league club, Bimo FC. The battle for the seat will be observed by Messrs Luca Piazza and Solomon Mudege from FIFA and Mr Sita Sangare from CAF. However, the possibility of Maigari contesting is doubtful as the electoral committee may have disqualified him over the verification of the certificates he presented. Already, the 44-member strong NFF Congress are expected to cast their votes in what promises to be a battle for the soul of Nigerian football. The poll will seek to elect the NFF Executive Committee for 2018 to 2022. Also for the first Vice President’s position, there are two candidates. The incumbent, Seyi Akinwunmi will slug it out with Sunday Dele-Ajayi. Another incumbent – Ibrahim Musa Gusau will battle Ifeanyi Ubah for the post of Chairman of Chairmen on the board. For other positions on the Executive Committee, Sharif Rabiu Inuwa, a member of the present Board, remains the only candidate from the North West. The battle in the North Central has been narrowed with the withdrawal of FCT FA chairman Musa Talle. However, Ahmed Yusuf ‘Fresh’ and Suleiman Yahaya-Kwande, both ranking Members of the board, will slug it out with Busari Ishola, chairman of Kwara State FA. Similarly, incumbents Babagana Kalli and Musa Duhu from the North East have to contend with Farouk Yarma Adamu. In the South East, Chidi Ofor Okenwa (presently Chairman of the Nigeria National League), will contend with Enyimba FC chairman, Chief Felix Anyansi-Agwu (ranking Member of Board); Barrister Jude Obikwelu (Vice Chairman, Anambra State FA); Sir Emmanuel Ochiagha (Vice Chairman, Imo State FA) and; High Chief Emeka Inyama (former Chairman of the NNL and former Chairman of NFF Marketing and Sponsorship, and also Chairman of NPFL side Abia Warriors). From the South West, only Alhaji Ganiyu Majekodunmi, chairman of Ogun State FA, is seeking an Executive Committee member position.