President, Women in Mining, Nigeria, Janet Adeyemi, has called for the amendment of the mining sector’s regulation to make it investor friendly. Adeyemi, who spoke to The Nation in Abuja, said the sector if well managed, through a transparent system, could be a major contributor to the gross domestic product (GDP) and create more employment. She said the conflict between surface and mineral rights and the Land Use Act 1978 (28) should be well defined. According to her, the mining cadastre office should be open to public scrutiny and be information and communication  technology (ICT) compliant. She identified challenges facing women  to include non-acceptability, low perception, lack of funds and skills, poor labour wages, adding that processing of titles is burdensome. Adeyemi emphasised communities’ engagement, how to create a strategic working plan for community involvement and growth, integrate artisanal mining into the mining system, and achieve safe mining practices. She said corporate investors must be committed to building the capacities of their host communities and encourage them to invest proceeds from them, only then can such corporation thrive in peaceful domain, she added. According to her, prospective investors in the sector must be committed to utilising the best international mining procedures to prevent crisis and advance their business. They must be committed to ensuring that mining adds value to the lives of the host community not induce poverty and disease, she added. She said mining was no longer an alternative; rather, it should take the main stage in national discourse, knowing that the green technology revolution is pushing hydrocarbon to the background, adding that cashew will soon displace oil. She said women in mining were involved in advocacy, sensitisation and promotion of the relevance of women in the industry, which according to her had taken them round all the mining destinations in the country. Sensitisation of young graduates to the sector through mentoring, the official mainstreaming of gender into the mining sector, co-hosting of the mine to money as well as crowd funding to run lead and zinc extraction in Taraba State, which according to her, is still ongoing, among others.