President Muhammadu Buhari will on Tuesday receive his Presidential nomination form for the 2019 election under the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). It was gathered on Monday that the nomination form will be delivered to the President by 11:30am at the New Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Last week, it was reported  that a group under the auspices of National Consolidation Ambassadors Network (NCAN), had bought the APC Expression of Interest and Nomination Form for President Buhari for the 2019 presidential election at the cost of N45 million. National Coordinator of the group, Sanusi Musa in company of his members, had last week said, “We are members of NCAN. Our resolve, since our formation over a year ago, is primarily to ensure that president Buhari seeks another term as well ensure that the president emerges victorious in the 2019 poll. “Our reason for embarking on this project is based on the recognition of the fact that the president has started laying a foundation for a better Nigeria and there is need to consolidate on the gains so far made. “It is for this reason; we pride ourselves as Network of Consolidation Ambassadors. From September 2017 up till April 2018, NCAN was in the forefront of calling on president Buhari to seek re-election; in order to consolidate on the good work he has been doing, by building on the foundation he has laid for a prosperous Nigeria. “As God will have it, Mr. President acceded to the voice of reasoning and declared his intention to seek re-election in 2019. We believe in the leadership of president Buhari; we can count on him to consolidate the good work he has started for another four more years. “It is for this reason that we have decided to pull our meagre resources together and purchased the Expression of Interest and Nomination Form for president Buhari as he presents himself to our party members; to be chosen as its candidate for the 2019 presidential election. “Our members, from various villages, local governments and states, have contributed to making this happen. “It is my singular honour and rare privilege to present to you a cheque of N45 million, as payment for the Expression of Interest and Nomination Forms for president Buhari.” Speaking in an interview, weekend, Musa said they could not handover the documents to the President immediately after purchase as the president was then outside the country. “The president is just back, so we have not yet presented the form to the president. We are in the process of sending it. We will send it to him,” he stated.