Brighton and Hove Albion have appointed the English Football Association’s technical director Dan Ashworth in a similar role, the Premier League club announced on Wednesday. Ashworth, 47, is set to take charge early next year and will oversee the club’s soccer development as well as their academy and medical departments. He will also be involved in player recruitment at all levels. “We met some outstanding candidates along the way, both in the UK and overseas, but we’ve ended up with our preferred choice. “It’s testament to our existing technical staff in all areas that their highly professional and consistent approach has given us the necessary time and space to recruit the very best man for the job. “We are thrilled that Dan will be joining us,” Brighton’s chief executive Paul Barber said. During Ashworth’s tenure with the FA, which began in 2013, England won the Under-20 World Cup, the Under-17 World Cup and the Under-19 European Championship last year. The senior team reached the World Cup semi-finals in Russia this year. The women’s team has enjoyed success as well, finishing third at the 2015 World Cup in Canada and have qualified for next year’s finals in France. “The success we’ve had with our national teams is down to careful planning and high performance from the players. “But also the hard work and professionalism over a sustained period of time, and of course the relationship we have had with the clubs, the leagues and the national game. “It’s been an honour and great pleasure to serve my country in the past half-decade,” Ashworth said. England men’s manager Gareth Southgate said Ashworth could be proud of what he has achieved in his role. “In terms of the work of a technical director, I don’t think he could have had a bigger impact with the plans he put in place at the FA and the way that the national teams have progressed in the time Dan has been in charge. “That’s coupled with the transition into St. George’s Park and the outstanding staff structure he’s put in place. I think he can be really proud,” Southgate said.