A political ally of former President Goodluck Jonathan and former Speaker in the old Rivers State House of Assembly, Chief Claudius Enegesi, is pushing to win the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) ticket for Ogbia Federal Constitueency. Enegesi, believed to be the favourite for the ticket, was on Saturday screened and cleared by the party in Yenagoa, the state capital. Enegesi, a former member of the National Executive Committee of the PDP and pioneer Chairman of the party in Bayelsa, vowed to attract federal presence to Jonathan’s constituency. He said his top agenda would be the remediation of the Niger Delta environment if elected to represent the constituency. The former commissioner in three different ministries in the state said he was the most experienced aspirants for the position following his three-decade service in some of the highest levels of politics in the country. He said: “I have seen the devastation that oil has caused our land and up until now, this country has not given our people their dues even after bearing the brunt of environmental devastation due to oil exploration and exploitation. “I have a background in science. My focus when presenting bills would be how to leverage and ameliorate the plight of my people. There is kpo fire (illegal oil refineries) in my place and there is a high level of theft even by the security people. “If I am given the chance, I have the voice and I will cry out over the level of devastation currently going on in this area.” The politician who spoke at the PDP secretariat in Yenagoa, after undergoing screening, expressed optimism that the best and most qualified candidate would emerge eventually. “The chances are very bright. I am a former legislator who represented Ogbia constituency 1 under the National Republican Convention (NRC) where my colleagues found me worthy to become the Speaker. “After the creation of Bayelsa, I became the pioneer chairman of the PDP here and I saw to it that PDP was entrenched and it has been ruling the state. “I have garnered a lot of experience in the legislature, in business and even as a renowned administrator”, Aside the environment, he vowed to push for the establishment of an efficient transportation system in the region. “The transport system here is not developed. I am going to ensure that I present bills that will enhance the free movement of goods and services in this region” he added. 