To effectively fight corruption, prominent lawyer, Femi Falana has advised the government to improve welfare. Speaking while delivering the 19th Mike Okonkwo annual lecture titled ‘Nigeria’s Unity: Matters Arising’, at the MUSON Centre, Onikan, Wednesday, the human rights lawyer said: “If the government genuinely wants to fight corruption it has to review the wages of workers, ensure prompt payment of salaries and pension. Furthermore, the government should implement other welfare laws and institutionalize the rule of law and respect the human rights if citizens.” Falana attributed the disunity in the country to the inequitable distribution of wealth.  He said peace would only reign when the wealth of the nation is enjoyed by all.  He added that redistribution of wealth would make restructuring meaningful. “Nigeria is not a united country and we can’t have a unity of the oppressor and the oppressed.  Elites do not fight for the people and professional bodies are now run on the basis of ethnicity.  While we must fight corruption, we need to know what has happened, to our wealth. Unless we revisit the redistribution of the nation’s wealth there cannot unity. “Instead of handing over the country to market forces, government should control and regulate the economy in a way that our abundant resources are channeled towards addressing the crisis of underdevelopment,” he said. Regarding killings in various parts of the country, Falana faulted religious leaders for identifying with only those belonging to their fold as victims of attacks.  On the contrary, he said deaths of all Nigerians should be condemned and the perpetrators brought to book. “Nigerians should henceforth condemn the killing of any citizen or any alien living in our midst and demand that justice be done”, he said. Falana urged state governors to fight for their freedom.  He said he was in support of state policing, adding that if a new Nigeria must emerge, then there must be community policing. The lawyer also faulted President Muhammadu Buhari’s stance on the supremacy of national security over the rule of law in relation to, saying only the courts could define national interest. In his speech, Chairman of the event and former Minister of Commerce and Industry in the then Eastern Region, Chief John Nwodo, blamed the youth for not actively participating in politics. He said many of Nigeria’s prominent leaders started politics in their 20s/30s and called on parents to properly mentor their wards so they can play positive roles in governance. Also speaking the Lagos State Governor Akinwumi Ambode, represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule said only as a detribalized group could Nigerians develop the country. Bishop Mike Okonkwo, in whose honour the lecture holds annually, said Nigerians must drop tribalism in favour of national interested. He added that the President must be President for all regardless of his political leanings, tribe or religion. The programme climaxed with the presentation of prizes to winners of the 15th Mike Okonkwo National Essay competition for Senior Secondary School pupils.  