The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) will be convening a security meeting next week for the Osun state governorship election slated for the 22nd of this month. The Chairman of the commission, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu said the essence of the meeting is to review the security arrangement for the election. Besides, he said the commission is working on a multi-faceted approach to the menace of vote-buying and other sundry electoral malpractices. He assured the general public that INEC will introduce changes to the election-day administration at the polling units. 48 political parties have indicated interest to participate in the poll. Yakubu spoke on Thursday at the opening of the meeting of the management of the commission and Resident Electoral Commissioners (REC) in Abuja. He said, “The Commission is convening a meeting of the national Inter-agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) next week to review the security arrangement for the election.” On the preparation for the election, Yakubu said that the omission is on course; adding that all processes and activities are going according to schedule of activities. He said: “Furthermore, the Commission is convening a meeting of the national Inter-agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES) next week to review the security arrangement for the election. “We are working on a multi-faceted approach to the menace of vote-buying and other sundry electoral malpractices. We will introduce changes to the election-day administration of our polling units, in addition to the electronic tracking of our sensitive materials. We are discussing with the security agencies on a more vigorous enforcement of the law against voter-inducement.” On the preparation for the Osun State Governorship election, he said “all processes and activities are going according to our timetable and schedule of activities released almost a year ago. The last major activity was the presentation of the Voters’ Register to each of the 48 political parties fielding candidates in the election, giving detailed information of the distribution of the 1.6 million registered voters by Local Government Areas, Wards and Polling Units. The Resident Electoral Commissioner for Osun State will brief this meeting on the state of readiness so far. “Furthermore, we are working with the Inter-Party Advisory Council (IPAC) and other stakeholders on voter education and sensitization. This is the third election we are conducting in Osun State since the 2015 general elections. The first was the Ife Central State Constituency and the Osun West Senatorial District. We wish to reassure the people of Osun State that their votes will continue to count.”