Christian Association Nigeria (CAN) President Samson Ayokunle yesterday called on the Federal Government and all security agencies to ensure freedom for Leah Sharibu and others held in captive by Boko Haram terrorists before it is too late. Rev. Ayokunle also urged religious and political leaders to join hands with civil society organisations and international agencies to stop untimely deaths, which, according to him, has given Nigeria a bad name worldwide. Many nations, the cleric said, have seen NIgeria as a barbaric nation where no value is attached to human life. Speaking at the flag off of ‘Ecumenism for Development and Peace Initiative’(EDAPI), a non-governmental organisation with the slogan “#…TOO YOUNG TO DIE’ at the Nigerian Baptist Theological Seminary, Ogbomoso, Oyo State, Rev. Ayokunle regretted that many Nigerians die untimely due to unchecked, murderous activities of gunmen and herdsmen. He said the development has caused sorrow in many communities, especially in the north. Said the CAN chief: “It is regrettable that many Nigerians are living in poverty and are not able to fulfil their dreams because of low income or lack of employment at all. Substantial welfare policy as well is not forthcoming from the government. “A very sad case is that of Leah Sharibu and the Chibok girls that are still in captivity for months and years now either because of their faith or religious malady of some crazy Islamic fundamentalists. I call on the Federal Government and the security agencies to put their acts together and release all the captives before it is too late. These people are too young to die. It is the  constitutional responsibility of government to protect lives and property of the governed.” Rev. Ayokunle went on:  ”EDAPI (a non-governmental organisation) observes the happenings in our society and it is out to speak for all those in captivity and communities that are under constant attacks, especially in the North, where lives are being lost daily, for decades with impunity.       