The use of asbestos in roofing is not ideal because it causes cancer, Lagos State Commissioner for Housing Prince Gbolahan Lawal has said. “Few years ago, Lagos State Government stopped the use of asbestos for ceiling because of its carcinogenic effect; we now use PVCs (plastic) in our estates and buildings. Asbestos ceilings are carcinogenic, it causes cancer and if you have it in your house you should try and change it,” Lawal told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday. Lawal called for mass enlightenment on the use of asbestos in public and private buildings. The International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), an intergovernmental agency and a part of the World Health Organisation (WHO) with its headquarters in Lyon, France, classifies asbestos as “carcinogenic to humans,” based on its ability to cause mesothelioma and cancers of the lung, larynx (voice box) and ovaries. Lawal said the state was exploring other alternatives and innovations on the use of cheaper available local raw materials to bring down the cost of houses. On the Green Building Initiative, the commissioner disclosed that the state was partnering with Echostone, an international eco-friendly construction firm, to develop its affordable homes initiative. He explained that the method ensured that 40 per cent of carbon footprints were reduced in line with global climatic change initiatives. To address its housing deficit of over two million, the state, Lawal said, introduced a technology which ensures construction of a bungalow within 48 hours. The technology, he said, was already being used in its housing estates at Idale in Badagry and Imota in Ikorodu to achieve the government’s target of delivering 2,000 houses. “We want to see how to go into the manufacturing of homes, we make it seamless and produce about 100 units in a month. We have three companies, one is already at site; it is going to take 48 hours to put up a bungalow.” Lawal said a new housing policy aimed at tackling the state’s housing deficit had been drafted. “It is taking us more than 14 months to design the housing policy. That policy will be like a framework, like what we are going to be following and it is not going to be like a knee jack response,” he said, describing the policy as a template or roadmap that will regulate the operations of the ministry. 