•‘Why the President deserves support’ A group of Nigerians under the auspices of the Nigeria Consolidation Ambassadors Network (NCAN) yesterday paid for the Presidential nomination form for President Muhammadu Buhari. They issued a N45 million dummy cheque in favour of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to offset the cost of the Nomination and Expressision of Interest forms. Also at the APC national secretariat yesterday, an Enugu-based businessman who identified himself as Chief David Ibe, presented a cheque of N5 million to APC national Chairman Adams Oshiomhole being the cost of the Expression of Interest form for the President. Speaking while presenting the dummy cheque to the APC Chairman, National Coordinator of the Group Sanusi Musa said the group which was formed in 2017 to propagate the second term bid of the President, decided to pool resources together to purchase the nomination form for the President. He said they were aware that the President was not a millionaire, but has millions of supporters across the country, angling for him to continue in office. He said: “We believe in the leadership of President Buhari; we can count on him to consolidate the good work he has started for another four more years. It is for this reason we have decided to “pool our meagre resources together and purchase the expression of interest and nomination form for the President. “Our members from the various villages, local governments and states hawe contributed to making this happen. We know President Buhari is not a multi-millionaire in cash, but he has millions of supporters who are always ready to come together to pay for his nomination form.” He added: “Members of our great party across the country are in unison on the applause you deserve for the work you have started towards redemption of the party. Your leadership has brought the stability. the revolution of ideas and the tme spirit of change that is needed in this journey of making Nigeria great.” Reeling out the “good work” that the President has done to warrant their administration for his regime, Musa said under his administration, Nigeria had become a country sought after for investments in the world having assumed its leadership role in not justAfrica but the world. “Nigeria‘s moribund infrastructure is being revived. There is no state In Nigena that does not have several major Fedelal Government infrastructure project either completed or being, executed. Under President Buhari. “We have a stable and steadily growing economy that is departing from the monotonic oii dependence: Agriculture is now an attractive venture as farmers are becoming multi-millionaires Nigeria is now an exporter of Agricultural products as Oppose to what it was three years ago. “For the first time since the return of democracy, Nigerians have a President who can beat his chest and state that he has never stolen from the purse of government. “We have a President who is not having meetings at night to strike shady personal deals but rather is ensuring that every agreement entered into by Nigeria is in the interest of the country and for its generations unborn. “This has indeed bosted the confidence of investors hence the increase in flow of Direct Foreign Investment into the country. Looted funds are being recovered and ploughed back to developing our country’s deficit infrastructure. “Almost a million farmers under the Anchor Borrowers Programme are benefiting from low interest loans that they accessed without “chua chua”. 500 000 previouslv unemployed graduates me now employed under the NPower Scheme; 400,000 extremely poor families are receiviiig_5,000 Naira monthly and that is changing, their lives. Over 8 million children are being fed daily in our public schools across the country. “Today, and for the lirst time in our history, we have a government that is honest and sincere in investing in the lives of the poor, the masses and the underprivileged.”