John Upan Odey is one of the governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River. In this interview with Tony Akowe in Abuja, Odey speaks on his agenda for Cross River State and the direct primary option being canvassed for the party YOU are one of the aspirants seeking the governorship ticket of APC. May we know those things that you intend to bring to the table if given the opportunity? First, Cross River is a state that is known for novel ideas. We have had a history of electing younger governors. I know that younger does not necessarily mean better, but sometimes, youth brings vibrancy and freshness. Cross River is a state that progressively, from 1999, things have become worse. If you check all the human development indices, you will find out that from 1999, we have been going down the slope. The first administration rebranded and put together our Polytechnic and renamed it Cross River State University of Science and Technology, but the idea of putting in the real investment that will make it function well has not been done. If you look at the primary and secondary school education, even though they started modeling some of the schools, they stopped half way. In the health sector, there was little of progress in terms of vaccination, maternal health care. But at some time, it seems that we abandoned everything. We have an advantage with our land which is very fertile and we have the most wonderful topography in Nigeria and that is why we will focus on agritourism. Investment in this area started during the Duke administration with the development of Obudu Cattle Ranch and a few others which have been abandoned. We had investments that were done in Tinapa and our own free trade zone, trying to create a mini Dubai. But because the PDP administration always put the cart before the horse, they went about investing in physical structures without getting the right environment by either taking steps to dredge the Calabar Port or expand the Calabar Airport to take cargo planes to develop that project. So, it looked like we were building castles in the air. So right now, Cross River State needs a governor that will bring us back to reality. We need to look at those advantages that we truly have and look at the reality of building them sustainably. The idea of building castle and doing window dressing is not what we need in the state right now. The state needs a governor right now who will tell them the truth, who knows what the problems are and how to make investments that will benefit the next generation. For me, the most important thing is that we need to develop our human development side. The present administration keeps talking about business, pretending as if government is all about driving business. The truth is that we have come to learn that government has no business in business, but needs to create the enabling environment for businesses to thrive. They need to create opportunity for businesses to thrive. So, for us to have an entrepreneurial state, government needs to get out of the way for business to grow, provide the infrastructure and all the enablers for investors. Do you think that the system will favour you? It is unfortunate that in Nigeria today, the system does not promote succession planning. Succession planning does not mean you have to bring somebody who will think like you or somebody who is going to differ to you. Succession planning is actually about picking people who have the right talent and the right mentality to carry on from where you stopped. We have seen places where this has been well implemented; especially places like Lagos State; you see that the place has continued to grow. But because we did not get it right with succession planning in Cross River State, we have found ourselves in a mess. Election in Nigeria today is about how much money you have to spend. Do you think you have the deep pocket to prosecute this campaign? There is no single person in the APC that will say he has the resources to remove an incumbent. I don’t think that is even practical with the kind of environment and the type of politics that we practice. We have a situation where the state sponsors almost everybody. But we need to build a federation of political leaders to uproot the APC. Can we do it? Yes we can. If you look through the rank of the APC in Cross River, you will discover that we have more quality politicians than the PDP and we have the spread of membership that can make it happen. All that we need to do now is for us to get the right candidate. We need to get it right with the candidate. The state has had the culture of power rotation. I am not a big fan of zoning, but it can be used against anybody who undermines it. We are contesting from different parts of the stage and need to balance the local sentiments. We also need to unite the party and ensure that there are no camps. The moment I get nominated as the candidate of the party, it will be my duty to take up leadership and bring all the warring factions together. I believe that in this election, it will not be about the party, but about the candidate that we present. The people of Bakassi have been complaining of being abandoned by successive governments since their ordeal. Do you have any plan for them when you become governor? The case of Bakassi is very heart breaking because when that conversation was going on, I told a few people in government that there is no international law that has more credence than the laws of the land. Nigeria got into an agreement and ceded our territory to Cameroon, I was one of the most unhappy people in this country because it needed the approval of the National Assembly. It is clearly stated in our constitution, the number of local government we have in this country and our total land mass. So, to cede a part of our country to a weaker country without war is something I could not fathom. The things that happen thereafter were only expected. Even with all the interventions that have been carried out for the people of Bakassi and the fact that they still receive allocation; we have not really done well for them. Till now, we have refugee camps and it may surprise you to know that relief materials sent to those camps are even stolen by the same officials that are supposed to deliver the materials. We may not be able to control what the country has entered into by ceding the territory, but we can try to ameliorate the pain of the people down there. We need to go in there and support the displaced people, resettle them and use our enterprise development programmes to create jobs for the young people. The Cross River State Government made a budget of 1 trillion this year and this has attracted lots of criticism from across the state. What is your take on this? The idea of budgeting over N1 trillion is irresponsible because budgeting should be realistic. The concept of budgeting is that you are working towards building from what you have. The budget helps you to define your deficit and to find out how you intend to fund that deficit. So, when you do a budget that is completely unrealistic and not making sense, it is irresponsible and I don’t support that kind of budgeting style. If you make a budget and you cannot implement about 50 percent of that budget, it is not good enough. We are having a budget of N1.3 trillion which does not define what the reality is. One of the projects initiated by the PDP government in the state is the Super High way project which critics say is an over ambitious project. What would you do with such a project? Any kind of infrastructural project is a good thing because it should improve the lives of the people. What you now need to look at is the opportunity cost. You will have to look at what you are losing to get that project done. You also need to look at the feasibility of the project and the studies carried out by professionals, the source of the money for the project and the repayment plan. However, a stakeholder approach also needs to be adopted for such a project and I think that not putting that before the people was most irresponsible. I have read reports of environmentalists not being happy with the project because they feel that the natural ecosystem will be affected by that project which will cut across the reserved forest area in the state. I am concerned about that because we are a state that is focused on tourism, which is a natural resource we cannot play with. But I am told that the environment has already been distorted. The project does not make sense and when I become the governor, I will bring all the stakeholders together and take a decision on that. Like I said, any project that will impact the lives of the people is a good thing, but you have to look at the cost. So far, it’s been all talk about that project because the governor is more interested in the fanfare. He is more interested in going around talking about the project than actually carrying it out. So, the Super High way project has not started at all, but if there have not been attempts to go and log woods there, I would have said that the project does not make sense because the cost is too high and we have an alternative. We should be thinking of how to open up the new roads in and out of the state to connect the existing federal High ways. I think building the super highway is a misplaced priority. Rather, we should be thinking of reconstructing the existing roads. A road is supposed to be an asset to the people because the government has put money into building it and when it is built, it is supposed to open up businesses for the economy to grow and as the economy grows the government benefits from it. One of the contentious issues in the APC today across the country is the option adopted for the primary election. In your state, what option have you agreed on? We held a stakeholders meeting where we agreed almost unanimously to adopt the direct primary. I have my concern about direct primaries, even though it is a wonderful idea for any political party. My concern is, how prepared are we? Once you have something like this being implemented, the worst of us will always be looking for loopholes and how to take advantage of the system to advance their personal interest. I am aware that using direct primary means taking voting back to our people. The party now has a responsibility to put in place a mechanism where this voting system is well protected and where the only people who should vote on that day are eligible party members. They should ensure that there is a system in place to make sure that the people who are returning officers, collating these results from all voting centers get those results to the centre for collation. So, if I had my chance, I would be advocating that we contract our direct primary to INEC. The party gives the register to INEC, you come there with your membership card; you identify yourself on the register and vote. We would have asked INEC to give us the cost of conducting the direct primaries across the country and we use the platform of INEC. By so doing, it will be fool proof. However, the party should be able to deliver this system in the way it ought to be. Cross River state has no doubt benefited tremendously from federal appointment since the inception of the Buhari government. How would you say this will impact on the 2019 General Election? In fact, President Muhammadu Buhari has been so kind to Cross River; we have never had it so good in the history of the country regarding the quality of appointments we are having in the state. These appointees from the state need to step up and take leadership. A situation where the big names in the party in the state are fighting each other does not help us grow as a party in the state. I believe that this election gives us an opportunity to come together and unite the APC because the people want to see a united APC because our people are tired of the mis-governance of the PDP. The people want to see the back of PDP, but they need us to unite because if we unite and stand with the principle of equity, justice and fairness, and are talking to each other and nobody is being undermined, there will be no stopping us in Cross River State. We must encourage robust dialogue based on equity and justice.