Mr. Dare Oluwatuyi is the Managing Director of CSS Bookshop Group, a publishing company that has since diversified into real estate management, research and marketing, amongst other business interests. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, Oluwatuyi who has been leading the conglomerate speaks on the prospects and challenges of publishing in Nigeria vis-à-vis the chequered existence of the oldest printing press and book publishing company in West Africa. Excerpts: Your company prides itself as a publishing form that supports publication of books on advocacy, peace and conflict resolution. Could you expatiate further? What I was trying to say is that the Nigerian project is a very big one and we our writers have not done justice to this project. We are in the education industry so we know what is available in terms of written materials in different areas. In the area of culture, peace and conflict resolution, history, we find out that non Nigerians are writing about Nigerians, especially about our culture, history more than Nigerians themselves. So what we are saying is that government should create the enabling environment for people to write. In other spheres, government encourages people to write. Government creates opportunities where people can just come together three-four months with free housing, feeding and allowance to enable them write. So you feel encouraged because they pay you for what you have done. But here, government is not contributing to that area. Government is not footing research as it is supposed to be and you see corporate organisations sponsoring music, drama, road shows whereas the educational sector which would take the country far, that area is not been looked into. If you look at the programmes going on these days you find Guilder Ultimate, Maltina Dance. The only company that is sponsoring education I think is Cowbell and a few others. And look at the prizes they’re giving to the people at the end, maybe N250,000 with a laptop. Whereas if you win Guilder Ultimate, you get N5million with a jeep and you sign a contract for a year. That’s where it’s happening whereas those one are just in the immediate, it can’t take us far. But the education sector is what corporate organisations should focus on. Let us even make it 50-50. So in essence people, especially Nigerians can write about us and not outsiders. I don’t think any Nigerian has written about Boko Haram. But a UK-based author has written about Boko Haram. What’s your assessment of the publishing business generally, would you consider it still lucrative compared to the past? Publishing in the education sector is still thriving in the country today but if you look at how it’s been done in other countries, we are not exactly there yet. In India for instance, their government would give money to publishers to organise authors to write. And when the publishers are exporting their books to other countries, the government pays the publishers commission on whatever he sells abroad. But here in Nigeria publishers struggle. One, not many authors are able to finance their writings and because they cannot finance their writings they depend on publishers to help them finance it. On the other hand, publishers don’t have access to money or funding. If they go to the banks, they can’t finance such projects with banks’ money, it will be total loss. Since they have no finance at their disposal therefore they can’t do much. That’s why most publishers are compelled to publish materials where they can guarantee quick returns on investment and all that. They won’t want to publish a book on culture or history that not many people would want to buy.  So that is shrinking the business of publishing in this part of the world. We have many publishers in Nigeria and they are doing relatively well. But they are only doing well publishing and selling books for primary and secondary schools materials. The areas we are talking about now they cannot go there because of the poor financing capability and the authors who can do it are few if at all. Unlike Omooba Olumuyiwa Sosanya who just published on the history of accountancy profession in Nigeria, not many authors have the wherewithal to that single-handedly. So we say kudos to him. The lecturers in the universities who can write, they don’t have the wherewithal to do so too. Apart from that, the modest efforts by the publishers is been rubbished by the nefarious activities of piracy. Somebody who did not sow would reap the fruits of another’s labour and bountifully for that matter. It’s that bad. According to our laws, if a pirate is caught today in Nigeria the fine is not up to N1,000. So even if a pirate is caught you cannot jail him. The law did not say the pirate can be jailed. So what kind of law is that? And if you want to sponsor a bill at the National Assembly you know what you would go through so let’s not go there. So our laws in the area of piracy therefore have to be reviewed to suit the current realities on ground. Let there be severe penalty to whoever commits such an offence because piracy is not just affecting the publishing business but the creative industry as a whole. CSS Bookshop is one of the oldest publishing houses around today, dating back to almost a century. What has kept you thus far? The CSS Bookshop was established in 1869, so we’re 150 years old now. It came about as a result of when the colonial masters came and they wanted to propagate the gospel and they brought a long with them education. It was formally CMS, Church Missionary Society. The CMS established the Anglican churches. When they decided to make it a business, it now became CMS Nigeria. So as they were establishing churches, they were establishing schools. So there was need to bring building materials to build the schools and the churches. So they needed a committee that would be saddled with the responsibility and that was how CSS Bookshop came about. Initially, it was not a profit-oriented organisation but as they extended and expanded their mission, they said, okay since people are now getting to know about books, especially the value of education, so let’s see if they can also afford buying the literatures, especially the bibles and that time it was highly subsidised. After independence, the colonial masters had to leave so the administration, the lot fell on the Nigerians. And the gap between the colonial masters and the Nigerians working there then was wide. The administration of the place just fell from a Managing Director to a junior supervisor and they had to struggle to see how they can ensure that the business blossomed. So it took some time before they could find their footing. But with time the church reorganised it and it became a proper business. At a point, CMS Bookshop had about 46 branches across the country and later we learnt that they expanded to 90. But today, it is just five because of a combination of factors. But the church woke up and said this is a legacy we have and they will not allow it to die. And so the business began a gradual comeback. Today the business has many subsidiaries. We have the Bookshop House in Marina, Lagos, where we have the headquarters. We established the printing press in 1913, and that was incidentally the first printing press in West Africa, and it is still operating till date. The business proper is still up and running. I’m not so sure there is any Nigerian-indigenous company established that time and still existing to date. So you give it to the church. And now the business has taken a new dimension, we have diversified and refocused. But our baby is book publishing, printing press. We’re strengthening them and we are hoping that within the next 10 years, our branches should expand to some major cities across the country, may be about 10 more branches so that we can reach out to our customers and serve them better. Are you also looking at going into the stock market and become a fully quoted company in the near future? You know going into the Stock Market has its own conditions. Already we have seen one of two publishers that went to the Stock Market and the experience wasn’t pleasant. You know CSS Bookshop is owned by the church but within the church, we have dioceses. And some of the dioceses are the shareholders in the business. And from time to time they too also contribute to the business as it were when the need arises. So you can say that in-house, we already have a semblance of shareholding of some sorts. So we are also involved in stock brokering somehow. (laughs). But of course, we would look into that as soon as we have the necessary requirements. So it’s something we might consider doing. So how long have led this over 150 year’s old company? I have been the MD for about three years now. What is the job turnover like at CSS? It may interest you and you will now form your own opinion to know that even though I said I’m serving as the MD just for few years, I had worked with CSS Bookshop for about 10 years in the past and left. So if I can come back, and we have several other people like that even among the management team that left and came back, so you know CSS Bookshop is better than where we even went to. Could you share with us your management style? My style really is working as a team. I have good professionals that work with me. And these professionals are managing each of the departments so to say. For example, we have the Bookshop House, which is a business under the umbrella. That is being managed by a seasoned estate surveyor. The printing and the publishing aspect of the business is being managed by a seasoned editor who has worked in many organisations both within and outside the shores of this country and who has a specialty in education publishing amongst others. Our Account Department is being empowered by a chartered accountant. Our Admin Department is being managed by a professional human resource manager. So we have a tag team. We have weekly, monthly, and quarterly meetings or as the events unfold. So I only supervise and administer assignments. So my style is team work. We have seamless processes that are working. So whether I’m there or not, things happen, work is going on. What is the staff strength of the company as we speak? We have about a 100 permanent staff.  We have CSS Bookshop which are about 100, we have Bookshop House staff, about 60 or thereabouts. But as a group we have over 200 people on our staff list. What has been your most toughest decision thus far? We are not perfect but one of the things difficult to manage is human beings. When we took over we had to reshuffle the place; we looked at the staff strength and moved people round during the staff auditing and we had to send a few away and got a few more on board to ensure that the vision that we had is sustained. As a manager how do you motivate your staff? Like I said there is a system in place. At CSS Bookshop, when you merit a thing, you don’t ask for it. As soon as you merit it, you just get it. That’s one thing with us. So we have policies that guide every action we implement.  So we appreciate staff that performs well. For example, we have Best Staff of the Year as a Group and the same applies for each of the departments too. And if you’re not doing well also we warn you and if you don’t change then we ask you to leave.