Nigerians do have a great sense of humour… It lies in doing exactly those things that go against nature, reason and universal good judgment, defy any human understanding, or belong in the animal kingdom. They are the things that give us toothache, which laughter can obviously not cure. Laughter, the sages write, is really the best medicine. They go further to say that a merry heart does the body good; they go even further to claim that life, love and laughter are intricately tied together. Even more preposterously, they claim that those who know how to laugh at life’s situations live longer. This means of course that those who don’t know how to laugh soon wither off. Well, all I can say is that whoever says this has obviously never had a toothache. Anyone who has ever had a bout of toothache can testify to a number of things. One, it begins quietly, often when you’re cracking a bone. The ‘crack’ sound you hear from the cavernous yonder often catches you by surprise. Two, it is no respecter of persons. It would have a king writhing in pain, on the bare floor, underneath his expensive throne, crown flung aside most disrespectfully, the same way it would seize a market maid. Thirdly, it never strikes in the morning when you can quickly redirect your route towards the dentistry. No sir, the blasted thing always strikes deep in the night when help is anywhere but right where you are; or else it strikes at the beginning of the weekend, ruining your every chance of enjoying that cow-leg pepper-soup you skimped, saved or accepted bribery to buy. I tell you, when the toothache comes on one, there are no age restrictions on the shouts of pain as you writhe and respond with irritated malice to any question from the rest of the healthy world. ‘Where are the car keys?’ ‘Un hoe, un mo mont’, which, at other normal times, would probably have come out as ‘In here, in my mouth’. I have been a faithful student of laughter; I have even done researches on the sort of humour that produces it. And they are many. The quirky twist of understanding or words is one source. Take the instance of a well-known thief caught in the act of stealing someone’s purse only to turn around to claim that he actually thought it was the one he had lost earlier. Or, take the case of a man addressed by his wife as ‘Hon’. Asked what it meant, his wife replied it was a term of endearment to which the man replied, ‘After forty years, it is a term of endurement’. The readiest source of humour of course is when animals are given human characteristics and they are depicted slaving away at the stove, playing cards or tennis or even driving. The act of animals taking on human frailties brings out the ridiculousness of those humans some more, and makes the animals look like saints. It is obvious that all the while the poor animals are thinking, ‘Are you sure human beings do these things?’ Has it struck you that no matter how much you prod and joke, Nigerians do not seem to appreciate humour? I am willing to be corrected on this but most Nigerians I see appear to have given their sense of humour a permanent holiday. Indeed, they all go around as if toothache has taken hold of their heads and they cannot generate or even respond to laughter. Everyone is going around with dead-pan seriousness as they grapple with the reality of life in Nigeria – a life of no water, no electricity, no food, no health, no this, no that – it is all they can do to stay alive, let alone smile. The market woman has no joke for the buyer, only a frown of ‘I beg commot for my front if you no fit buy’. Ditto for the petrol attendant, the taxi driver, and all the people you meet every day. Don’t get me wrong. I occasionally come across genuine humour merchants, no, not professional ones – those are simply plying their trade – I mean, people who generate spontaneous laughter from any given situation they find themselves in but they are too abominably few. Just the other day, I cut into someone’s lane in traffic with my car and, quite offended, he shouted, ‘Stupid woman. Go get a driver!’ Now, how is that for a response? I mean, how was that supposed to help my driving? I have found that Nigerians do not respond with mirth to the many contradictions that surround them. Indeed, I sometimes I think the little humour in the country can only be found at Lagos bus stops where the country prefers to let its citizens screech their ways around the land like crazed mice drunk, skin and teeth, on punch. So, instead of turning into the refined, well-nurtured citizens who board vehicles gently like the rest of the civilized world, we are turning into the kind of people who scratch their living out of the eyes of others. Then you hear ‘Shod, Shod, Shod’ hollered all day long at passers-by in Oshodi and you are wondering if a lost gentleman is wanted to shod the earth, not knowing they are only calling out a destination. Sometimes, too, you can find some humour in the Niger Delta where so much oil is flowing out and so much money is flowing, paradoxically, into the ground. The other day, a report was given that the highest unemployment level is in the Niger Delta region. How come, with so much wealth flowing into the place? The report went on to say that the problem is that people there do not work. Money is ‘just shared’; factories are not set up; tomorrow is not thought of, it does not exist. And, when an indigene is employed, I hear, he simply contracts the work out to a non-indigene who ‘reports’ back to the indigene with an agreed per centage of the wage earned. Hilarious. Can no one there appreciate where all this is going to lead? That we will eventually have a region of contractors? May be, too, we are too sad to find the humour in the rather tragic and illogical situation unfolding in the northern part of Nigeria, where the millions of unschooled children are even now taking advantage of the decades of neglect from their leaders. Now, guess who is crying. No, it’s not the children who were the victims; ’tis the leaders who were the neglectors. Believe me, it’s not funny when one’s teeth are set on edge because one’s father has eaten sour grapes. You can not only not taste of any brew, let alone one’s own, you can also be forgiven for not showing any sense of humour. Me, I continue to find humour all around me. Take the national honours list for instance. Over many years, the nation has now become disenchanted with that list. If it is not filled with the names of crooks, it is filled with the names of serving politicians and you wonder where the difference is. Every year, the list contains the names of the nation’s primary ruiners, on whom we gleefully confer great honours. Come on! Perhaps, I should correct myself. Nigerians do have a great sense of humour. It does not lie in the universally acknowledged quirks of character, actions or even words. It does not lie in attempting to make light of different situations that accost us daily. It lies in our doing exactly those things that go against nature, reason, good judgment; that defy any human understanding, or belong in the animal kingdom. They are the things that give us toothache, which laughter can obviously not cure. Happy smile week!