Mr Aboluwoye Akinwande, the State Commandant, Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Osun State Command, on Saturday says the ongoing election in the state is so far peaceful. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the Osun gubernatorial election got underway in the early hours of Saturday morning with a large turnout of voters who came out for the accreditation exercise. Akinwande told NAN in an interview that the election was so far peaceful, adding that NSCDC officers were also on ground in all the polling units across the state to maintain peace. “All the officers have been deployed to their various polling units, divisions and the state in general. “They are already on ground and the election has started. While I was on patrol this morning, I saw a lot of people going to their various polling units and the polling units I passed through were very peaceful. “There is no disturbance,’’ he said.   He, however, noted that there were certain pockets of challenges that had to do with the political status of most of the contestants. “Let me start with APC; the APC candidate, who happens to be the former Chief of Staff of the state. “The PDP candidate also happens to be a federal senator. The SDP contestant happens to be a former senator and a former deputy governor and he is still very active in politics. “Also the ADP candidate happens to be a former Secretary to State Government of Osun State before he decamped to ADP. “He has also been a grassroots politician from ACN to AD to even APC and now to ADP. So he is a grassroots man. “So we have all these people contesting and when they are contesting, you will find out that there might be some pockets of challenges, ‘’he said. Akinwande also noted that due to some of these challenges, some thugs had been arrested, while some have been charged to court. According to him, these are some of the challenges we are having but thank God the challenges have been solved. Akinwande, however, said that a huge number of NSCDC officers had been deployed to Osun to ensure peaceful conduct of the election. “Aside from Osun, we have officers and men from Ogun, Lagos, Ondo, Kwara and Kogi, who are actively involved in this gubernatorial election; so you could imagine the type of deployment. “There are also deployments from the National headquarters. We have from the Directorate of Rescue Management, Peace and Conflict and Kennel. “We have officers from Special Weapons and Tactics (SWAT) Squad, Chemical Biological Radioactive and Nuclear Explosives, among others. “All these are just to tell you about the deployment and how active the NSCDC has been in ensuring a peaceful election in the state,’’ he said. (NAN)