…arrest killers of Imo Catholic priest Imo State Police Command on Thursday paraded two suspected criminals who stole a female corpse and demanded N5 million ransom from the owner of the morgue. The suspects, Chukwudi Chukwu and Bethel Ibe both from Ikeduru Local Government Area of Imo State, were reported to have burgle into the Jesus Hospital Mortuary also in Ikeduru and carted away the corpse whose identity was concealed from journalists. They thereafter contacted the owner of the morgue, Prince Bright Njoku and demanded for ransom. But the Police busted their hideout, arrested them and rescued the corpse before the ransom could be paid. The State Commissioner of Police, Dasuki Galadanchi, paraded the suspects and the corpse at the Police Headquarters in Owerri. Meanwhile operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad of the Imo police command have arrested the suspected killers of Rev Fr. Jude Egbom of St Patrick’s Catholic Parish, Amucha in Njaba Council Area of the state. The Reverend Father was shot dead on Monday night along Nkwerre- Anara road and his vehicle stolen . Parading the suspects, Chigozie Uzoukwu,33 and Peter Ochokwu, 21, the Commissioner of Police, said the suspects were arrested in hideout in Nkwerre. Galadanchi who decried the killing of the cleric, said that “no murderer goes unpunished”. He disclosed that he activated the Tactical Units of the Command to nab the fleeing criminals immediately after they committed the heinous crime. According to him, “the efforts of the Command paid off with the arrest of the two suspects,recovery of the Priest’s vehicle and traveling bag”. He revealed further that one of the suspects, Ochokwu, was an ex convict who had spent one year in Owerri prison for alleged involvement in an armed robbery case. The CP said “on September 11 at Owerri Nkwoji in Nkwerre LGA, Imo state ,F-SARS operatives led by CSP Godfrey Victor on a tip off arrested two suspects in connection with the murder of Rev Fr Jude Egbom. ” “The suspects are one Peter Ochokwu, 21, of Umuibu in Owerre Nkworji Nkwerre LGA and Chigozie Uzoukwu ,33,of same address. “A black Toyota Corolla with registration No FKJ 984 EV suspected to belong to the hoodlums who robbed and murdered the Cleric was recovered. “Interestingly, one leg shoe was found in the abandoned car of the Rev. Fr.the second leg of the shoe was found in the Toyota corolla of the suspects. Some of the property belonging to the victim was found in the house of one of the suspects”.