Chemistry graduate of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) and Executive Director of Brain Builders International, Abideen Olasupo, was last Tuesday listed among 100 most influential young Africans for 2018 by Africa Youth Awards. The list, which was compiled in partnership with Avance Media, mynaijanaira.com and Made Marketing Group, was published on www.africayouthawards.com. Olasupo, an ex-CAMPUSLIFE reporter, was picked in Personal Development and Academia category. The award, which was launched in 2016, features young politicians, activists, entrepreneurs, entertainers, digital influencers, philanthropists and athletes across 10 distinct categories, who are making waves in their respective fields and promoting the positive image of Africa across the globe. Speaking about the publication, Prince Akpah, founding president of Africa Youth Awards, said the 2018 list featured 90 new entrants, among who were 43 young women in Nigeria, South Africa, Ghana and Tanzania. According to Akpah, this year’s honorees were listed for their individual and collective contributions towards creating good image of Africa in their respective fields. He also urged young people to emulate the awardees and join them to make Africa a better and safer place. Notable among the 2018 honorees are Uganda’s Robert Kyagulanyi Ssentamu (Bobi Wine), Farida Bemba Nabourema of Togo, Egypt’s Mohamed Sallah, and Davido. Others are Super Eagles winger Ahmed Musa, ABD Traore of Guinea, Christian Dela of Kenya, Cassper Nyovest of South Africa and Tanzania’s Alikiba. Reacting, Abideen thanked the organisers of the awards for finding him worthy to make the list, reiterating his commitment to working hard to impact more young people. Abideen, a native of Osun State, is a former Google Student Ambassador at UNILORIN. His non-governmental organisation (NGO), Brain Builders International, is making impacts in the areas of education and literacy, youth inclusion and the Sustainable Development Goals. Brain Builders partners with local and international organisations to organise events, advocacy projects, competitions, mentoring programmes and conferences to change the orientation of the youth. Abideen is also the Kwara State coordinator for Not-Too-Young-To-Run Movement. Through his NGO, which was established four years ago, Abideen has impacted the lives of thousands of young Nigerians. In 2017, he reached out to over 40,000 youths through the free Google Digital Skills project empowering them with entrepreneurial skills.