Whatever its flaws, it was the regime of Gen Ibrahim Babangida (retd) whose decree opened up space for accounting bodies to function side by side. It was alleged that a group of people under the aegis of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN) tried, in 1979, to scuttle the birth of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), a rival organisation. This was revealed by Segun Ayobolu while reviewing a book, Revolution of Accountancy Profession in Nigeria written by Omooba Olumuyiwa Sosanya. Former governor of Lagos State, and national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu chaired the launch of the over 400-page book, though he was represented by Yinka Ajayi, a member of the House of Representatives. He challenged Nigerians not to take their freedom for granted. “You have to believe, you need to struggle and acquire freedom,” he was quoted as saying. Other personalities at the event held at the prestigious Musa Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja include members of the National Assembly, Senators Anthony Adefuye, Rufai Anga, Gbenga Ashafa, Alhaji Nasir Muhammed, who represented the Minister of Women Affairs, Republic of Benin Senior Minister Dr. Abddoulaye Bio Tchane (Guest Speaker),  Chief Adolo Okotie-Eboh, Usman Naganga and Dele Oshinowo. Others include the representative of Lagos State governor, Muritala Aliyu, former Transport Minister, who represented General Ibrahim Babangida, Dr. Abisoye Alabi, Umaru Dembo, who was the Minister of Petroleum during the regime of Gen Sani Abacha, among several others. According to the reviewer, ANAN was formed in 1979 by Omooba Olumuyiwa Sosanya and two of his colleagues to counter alleged regressive grip of ICAN on the profession. To make it a reality, Sosanya sponsored a private bill before the National Assembly, where it passed the public hearing, despite stiff opposition against it. The battle was fiercer in the Senate, where it took 20 months after the House had passed the bill before it could be read for the second time. This eventually led to the abortion of its journey as it could not reach the public hearing stage before the expiration of the Assembly the next day. One of the few surviving members of the Second Republic in the House of Representatives gave a vivid account of the journey of the ANAN bill. Malam Sidi Ali said the battle was fierce. “There were cabals that did not want the bill to see the light of the day, they were bent on maintaining the status quo. We kept on wondering why, only to find [there was a] kind of racket in that profession. We found out that the top brass of ICAN was coming from one state. We couldn’t believe when we discovered that Professor of Accountancy from University of Calabar sat and failed the ICAN exam, this was a professor that was producing accountants, how could he have failed the ICAN examination? “As Chairman of the Committee treating the bill, there was a day some lawmakers told me that MKO Abiola and Akintola Williams wanted to come and visit me but I declined. I refused because there is no way anyone seeing them coming into my office or house would not insinuate that something had changed hands, and you know we were in the era of Ghana Must go. Many of us in the House believed that the fight to create ANAN was not only moral but it became a religious obligation to us. The first challenge was in the Senate but there are many who felt justice must be done”. The book reviewer, Ayobolu who took the audience through the formation and survival of the body, said what spurred Sosanya was the provision of the ICAN Act, 1965 that discriminated against other accountant qualifications and gave the institute the monopoly of practice. He said, “The ICAN Act, 1965  conferred absolute monopoly of regulating accountancy profession on ICAN, a monopoly that understandably but regrettably and inevitably created professional complacency and arrogant elitism, shortchanged by artificially created restriction of entry into the profession through examinations deliberately made difficult to pass so as to nurture and protect what amounted to sacred privileged cult  within the accountancy profession. Sosanya believed that this unhealthy scenario has serious negative implications for a dynamic economy like Nigeria with immense natural resources and abundant redundant manpower, whose potentials must not be allowed to be caged through any sort of restrictive practice. “For instance, between 1965 and December 1978 (13 years), ICAN succeeded in producing 55 professional accountants through its examinations. Conservatively, the Nigerian Law School produced 2,405 lawyers between 1966 and 1978 (12 years). However, with the emergence of ANAN, it produced 300 professional accountants between 1978 and 1981 (4 years), which showed the benefits of competition. The failure of ICAN to address acute shortage of professionals accountants meant that over 30,000 limited liability companies, government departments, corporations and other incorporated companies in Nigeria lack the necessary expertise in that area. The implication was the importation of accountants from India, Pakistan, Philippines and other developed countries into Nigeria, which of course meant a drain on the nation’s foreign reserves and forced redundancy of otherwise qualified professional accountants in Nigeria. “The opposition persisted, which led ICAN to employ all sorts of means to sabotage ANAN.  One of the attempts was to lure ANAN members by giving direct admission to those with a foreign qualification, AIA, which most ANAN members had then. The AIA was before then considered inferior to other foreign qualifications which could not qualify for ICAN membership. ANAN saw through the decoy and members declined the offers. Also, when ANAN failed to get its bill passed at the National Assembly, ICAN got furious when the new body got itself registered as a professional body as the Minister of Internal Affairs, on 20th September, 1983, signed the certificate of incorporation of ANAN as a professional accountancy body. Ironically, that was the same day the Senate killed the ANAN bill.  From then on, ICAN bigwigs continued to lobby military governments to get it revoked. “General Ibrahim Babangida [who came to power in 1985]  signed the ANAN Decree 76 into law. This marked the ushering in of a new more vibrant and qualitative era into the evolution of accountancy in Nigeria. ICAN did not relent in its pursuit of getting ANAN proscribed.” When asked what readily came to his mind when attempts were made to erode his contributions to the body he founded and nurtured, Sosanya told Abuja Review: “Nothing came to my mind”. There was no need for any bitterness because he is a fulfilled man, he said.  “Whoever reads that book will know how ANAN came to be. For instance, in 1994, during an encounter with the then ICAN president, I think its Alhaji Ismail, he was then the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria, he said ANAN is Sosanya; Sosanya is ANAN, that was documented in the book. So whatever anyone could say, with all modesty,  I made ANAN  what it is and there’s nobody who can change that history and that is what that book is all about. The title could have been history of Accountancy in Nigeria but the way it came, the struggles, it was like a war and that is why it came out as Revolution of Accountancy profession in Nigeria. Mrs Ajonu, the drafter of the ANAN law, who was then an officer with the Ministry of Justice, said apart from being meticulous and dogged about the ANAN cause, Sosanya would not give room for avoidable mistakes. “Whatever information I asked for about ANAN, Papa will have it in his briefcase; he will never have to go back to Lagos for anything. He did a yeoman’s job very boldly, with undiluted passion for ANAN,” she said.