Lorna Nigeria, maker and marketer of Darling hair extensions has embarked on significant rebranding and has introduced three new hair extension types to improve is value proposition to its 150 million strong market across Nigeria and Africa. The SuperSoft braids, which are softer in texture and longer than any other braids in the market, the Natural Twist which can be braided or styled and Afro Kinky, which is a tribute to the natural hair movement that has picked up across the world are the new synthetic and human hair extension types have been introduced into the Nigerian market. “Darling understands that today’s multi-dimensional woman wants more out of life and liberation from conventional hairstyles. We are passionate about hair and the transformative power it can have on a woman’s sense of being. Darling equips African women with an indispensable freedom to effortlessly channel any style, anytime with ease” Chitwan Singh, business head West Africa, said at a press conference. Darling hair is perceived in the market as offering products that promote beauty and transforms the African woman through quality hair extensions. The brand is coming back with innovative new hair styles, superior product benefits and richer colors. Lorna Nigeria is one of the pioneers of the hair extension business in Nigeria, in partnership with Kaneka, Makers of Kanekalon quality fibers. In September 2011, Godrej Consumer Products Ltd. entered into a partnership with the Darling Group, using the best capabilities within both groups through brand building and distribution to expand its reach. Darling is present in 21 countries across Africa.  Over 30 years of experience and expertise in the field of hair has offered Darling some degree of market leadership in most of the countries that it operates in. With a vast catalogue of hair extension styles at a range of attractive prices, including braids, weaves and crochets, the brand caters to over 150 million women across the continent. To reflect their desire to always help women transition easily between a number of trendy looks. Darling is currently running the #FindYourBeautiful campaign. Ayodele Otujinrin, marketing manager, Godrej Nigeria said “#FindYourBeautiful is all about empowering the African woman to find what makes her feel her most beautiful, most confident, most herself; to match her aspiration as she transitions in her role, her change in mood, or even change of preference.” “Darling believes that every African woman should be the best that she can be. Looking like a fashionable trendsetter, while switching between so many roles should be made easy and great for an everyday woman” Otujinrin added. Darling has far-reaching affinity with salons across its market and with the factory located here in Lagos Nigeria, Darling is keen on receiving regular feedback from and delivering the best styles for their consumers. Darling was re-introduced at a press in Intercontinental Hotel on Saturday, August 25th, 2017 after which a launch party was held at the same venue.