An alumnus of the Department of Microbiology of the Abia State University, Uturu (ABSU), Chimezie Nwakire, has organised a career development training to empower final year students with skills and techniques that can aid their efforts to excel in their chosen career. The training with the theme: The science of microbiology, was aimed at helping the participants to activate their career path and imbibe core values that would help them transform into professionals. The participants were taken through modern techniques in the field of microbiology, such as gram staining, media preparation, good laboratory practice, quality assurance, critical scientific writing, experimental design, method development and validation. There was also practical training on employability skills, including speech presentation, curriculum vitae designing and cover letter writing, utilising the LinkedIn social media network and job hunting skills. In his remarks, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof Uche Ikonne, represented by Director of Research and Publications, Prof Victor Nwaugo, described Chimezie as one of the alumni in whom the school took pride. He said Chimezie’s return to his alma mater attested to the quality training he received as a student, urging other alumni of the school emulate the gesture. According to Chimezie, the programme was inspired by the need to mentor students and guide them on opportunities available in microbiology profession. He said: “I spent four years here and I believe there is no better place to start this career training other than where my career was defined. We were made to believe that there is no future in microbiology, but that is a big lie. There are loads and loads of opportunities out there for people willing to practise in that field. While I was in the United Kingdom, I thought of how and where I could give back. I think initiating this career programme and equipping the department with relevant equipment will inspire students and help them realise their potentials.” Chimezie donated four modern textbooks and a Celestron Microscope Kit – a device that can magnify microscopic elements on a computer screen – to the department. Receiving the materials on behalf of the department, Dr Hope Okereke, an Associate Professor of Food Microbiology, said: “We are glad to welcome our supportive alumni who got his training here. He has conquered the world and returned to invest in the next generation. The device donated would bring more clarity to research works, and we are highly elated. The entire department is happy about this and we expect other alumni to emulate his kind gesture.” Ositadinma Ugbogu, a professor of Applied Microbiology and Director of Institute for Computer Studies, who was part of the training facilitators, said participants were exposed to practical parts of microbiology and how they can pursue careers in the discipline. A participant, Constance Enwereji, said: “The workshop was enlightening and helped me in breaking down the opportunities I could get after my first degree. Now, I can say my career path has become clearer. I am ready more than ever before to practise as a microbiologist. I appreciate the department for creating this opportunity for students to learn. I also appreciate Mr Chimezie for consider it necessary to leave to mentor us and donate equipment that can aid our learning in the field.”