Luxury lifestyle connotes a life that’s beautiful and enchanting. It is sometimes the reward for your hard work, depicting that you have conquered your world and living your dreams. Here, exclusive items like cars, jewelleries, designer bags and classic homes come to mind. It is indeed a sector that can be classifies as a goldmine, untapped by many. Some professionals, however, have put in a lot and, consistently, they continue to show us that there is a lot of potential here within and outside the shores of the country. The Luxury Lifestyle Summit coming up shortly in Lagos has been endorsed by the Lagos State government. Speakers for this year’s edition of the summit scheduled to hold on the 26th October include Foluso Phillips, Executive Chairman of Phillips Consulting and erstwhile Chairman of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group, as the lead speaker. He will deliver on: Growing the Lagos luxury sector; opportunities and challenges. Interestingly, Foluso Phillips has got a phenomenal experience in the luxury sector coupled with his organisation’s extensive research report on the luxury industry in Lagos State. His speech, therefore, promises to be an eye-opener to the numerous opportunities that abound in Lagos State and beyond. For Funke Osae-Brown, partner of The Lagos Luxury Lifestyle Summit and publisher ofThe Luxury Reporter, this is a sector that she is very passionate about. She said that the 2018 edition of the summit is unique in many ways because it is expanded beyond Nigeria with a specific look at the Kenya and South African luxury markets. “This year, we would have Michael Mwai, the CEO, Luxuria Lifestyle East Africa, and he will be speaking on The Africa luxury experience: The Kenya experience.” Mwai’s passion for the luxury industry in Africa is rare with a distinctive specialty in connecting luxury brands to consumers on the continent and to opportunities in the sector. Other speakers include Modupe Ogunlesi, the CEO of Adam and Eve Homeware, who has been in the luxury retail space for 20 years and counting. She will speak on Luxury retail in Lagos: The making of homegrown luxury brand, while Bola Allison, who has been a jeweller for 15 years will speak on The next phase of luxury in Lagos: expectations and challenges. The Lagos Luxury Summit will also feature a panel discussion to further engage professionals and experts in the luxury sector On his part, Tope Ogbeni-Awe, another partner of The Lagos Luxury Lifestyle Summit and Chief Service Officer, Topcomm PR, has called on brands to take advantage of the summit to showcase their products as spaces are limited. A golf tournament coordinated by Deji Ajomale Mcword brings a dynamic twist to the package this year. This will engage professionals and corporate brands on the second day of the summit in style. Last year, the theme of the two-day conference and exhibition was Digital Inside – Get Wired to Deliver the Ultimate Luxury Experience. It also had about 20 emerging indigenous brands in the arts, fashion, perfumery and other sectors exhibit their products in line with the idea of the summit to expose hidden gems in the Nigerian luxury market to the world. Some of them included E’sorae Luxury, Abela, Scentify, Regalo African Luxury, Nsaata, TPS Luxury bags, Oud Majestic, Adire Lounge, Pere Lei, Muji Lagos, foremost designer Lanre Da Silva Ajayi (LDA), among others. In the financial sector, United Bank for Africa, Access Bank and First Bank provided timeless information on their convenient private banking bouquet at the summit.