Two persons were feared dead in a cults’ clash in Alapere, Lagos on Wednesday. One of them, Sylvester Chikwendu, 32, was stabbed to death. The other was killed in an exchange with the police. Details about the feuding cult groups and what led to the skirmish were sketchy. The late Chikwendu belonged to a rival cult. Residents ran for their lives as the fighting raged. It was gathered that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) for Owode Onirin, Chief Superintendent (CSP) Bernard Ediagbonya, on learning about the incident, mobilised his men to the area. The officers blocked the road, forcing the cultists to open fire on police vehicle. One of them fell in the ensuing exchange. Others fled with injuries, abandoning their Toyota Camry saloon car. A pump action rifle, one locally-made revolver pistol, a locally-made single barrel pistol, five live 9mm calibre ammunition, three live cartridges, two expended cartridges, two cutlasses, charms and clothes were found in the car which carried no number-plate. Police spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP), in a statement yesterday said the hoodlums were intercepted by officers around 8:30pm. Oti said: “Following a tip-off, the Divisional Police Officer in charge of Owode Onirin, Ikorodu, changed the game for the terror gang, who about 6:40pm, at Demuren Street, Alapere, stabbed Sylvester Chikwendu, 32, suspected to be a rival cult member, to death. “Following the information, the DPO mobilised a crack team to Thomas bus stop, Owode. He told his men to narrow the road and gave them a description of the gang’s operational car. “When the gang approached the police zone, they became desperate and opened fire on the operatives in their effort to evade arrest, attracting response from the team. “However, in the ensuing battle, one of them died from the bullet injuries he sustained. Others escaped with gunshot wounds. They abandoned items, which have been recovered. They include operational vehicle, a Toyota Camry saloon car without a number-plate, one pump action rifle, one locally made revolver pistol, one locally made single barrel pistol, five live 9mm calibre ammunition, three live cartridges, two expended cartridges, two cutlasses, charms (juju) and assorted clothes. “We appeal to health care professionals, including native doctors and other caregivers to be on the lookout for patients with gunshot wounds and inform the police within two hours of commencement of treatment, in line with the Compulsory Treatment of Victims of Gunshot Act.” 