Will the planned new minimum wage’s implementation take off this month? The Federal Government promised September as the take-off date, but workers are worried by the slow pace of things. Their concern was fuelled by Labour & Productivity Minister Chris Ngige that implementation may have to wait. TOBA AGBOOLA writes on the workers’ expectations SEPTEMBER is here. Workers, agitated, are waiting for the Federal Government to announce a minimum wage. But, they have to wait a little longer. The 30-member tripartite committee set up by President Muhammadu Buhari to review the minimum wage has not wrapped up work on its report. So, the possibility of having a new minimum wage as expected remains dicey. The inability of employers to reach an agreeable wage is dealing the submission of the report. The workers, under the auspices of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) are seeking the review of the minimum wage from 18, 000 to 65,500. Countdown to deadline for the submission of the committee’s report, there is strain in the relationship between the organised labour and the Federal Government. The workers’ unions suspect the latter might breach the minimum wage agreement. At its inauguration on November 27, last year, President Muhammadu Buhari plegded to implement whatever is recommended in the wage review panel’s report, due for submission this month. But, weeks into the submission deadline, Labour & Employment Minister Chris Ngige spoke of the possibility of pushing the implementation of a new minimum wage till next year. According to him the September dateline was no longer feasible given the hurdles the committee was facing in arriving at an agreeable new minimum wage. The labour leadership warned the government of the implications of shifting the goal post in the middle of the match. Taking on the labour minister, NLC President Ayuba Wabba said: “Nigerian workers are shocked by statements credited to the minister of Labour & Employment and reported by many national media houses that Nigerian workers should wait beyond September 2018 for the new national minimum wage. “We used the word ‘shocked’ because it was the same minister that in February, 2018, without prompting or pressure, announced to the whole world that by September 2018, the Federal Government would start paying the new national minimum wage. “It will be a great disservice to his boss, Mr. President, if he keeps taking for granted this very important issue of a new national minimum wage. “The current volte-face by the minister is not only provocative; it is also insensitive especially in the face of the excruciating suffering being endured by Nigerian workers particularly as occasioned by the increase in the cost of living. “Do we need to remind the minister that he was once a civil servant who always looked forward to his monthly salary?” According to the labour leader, the workers have been anxious to enjoy the minimum wage as agreed by the government. He said: “Nigerian workers who are not privileged to earn fat salaries, allowances, estacodes and other perks of political appointment are looking forward to enjoy minimal relief in the form of the new national minimum wage. “The leadership of the NLC regards the gaffe as inconsistent with the fervour so far demonstrated by the tripartite committee set up by Mr. President to review the national minimum wage. The minister’s stance is also at variance with the declaration made by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo when he represented Mr. President at this year’s May Day celebrations. “He, Yemi Osinbajo, promised Nigerian workers that government is committed to ensuring that the issue of the new National Minimum Wage is concluded and delivered.” “NLC’s “concern is who is the minister speaking for? Nigerian workers want to know who has sent Dr. Ngige on this nebulous errand. On whose side is the minister on the upward review of the national minimum eage?” “Our position was that we would expedite actions at the level of the tripartite committee on the minimum wage and ensure that discussions and negotiations are concluded by August 2018 so that Nigerian workers can start benefitting as quickly as possible from the new national minimum wage. “Finally, may we remind the minister that the review of the national minimum wage is long overdue. The 2011 Belgore Tripartite Committee set up by government agreed that the review of the minimum wage should happen every five years. “It is now close to eight years that the last review of the national minimum wage took place. Nigerian workers demand a change in the humiliating culture of forcing workers to bargain too hard and wait too long for meagre increases in their salaries. “For many Nigerian families, this is the difference between survival and extinction. The NLC, therefore, categorically rejects the continued delay in approving our demand of N66, 500 as the new national minimum wage.” To the workers’ unions, the minister’s hint was a kite to test the waters and their reaction through Wabba was a signal to government to brace for a showdown for being insensitive to workers’ welfare. The unions warned of the consequences of the government’s failure to take Nigerians out of the prevailing economic crunch, which they attributed to “deliberate and inhuman policies”. Indications suggest Labour was jolted two weeks ago when Ngige told reporters in Anambra that the implementation of the new minimum wage would no longer be possible in September as earlier promised. The minister said the state governors, who he as critical partners in wage determination, were yet to come up with an agreed figure. Ngige said that as an insider and a realist, he would not want to give any date or month when the minimum wage would be implemented. He said: “We have a tripartite committee on that. I am a member of the committee. I’m its deputy chairman, so to say. We have a timetable and we would have finished everything about it by the end of this August, but it is no longer tenable because the committee is not yet done with certain things. “We couldn’t agree on a figure because of two reasons, partly the state governors have not come up with a figure and the state governors are a critical constituent of this discussion. “We have six governors in the committee, one from each geopolitical zone. So, the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) has not come up with their figure; they said they were still working on it; that was the last submission they made to us and the Federal Government team. “We are working through the Economic Management Team (EMT) and this team dictates the economy of the country and they will now take whatever the governors say and fine-tune it with that of the Federal Government. So, that is where we are. “The national minimum wage tripartite committee is at work and it is until that body brings out its figures, brings out its recommendations pertaining to national minimum wage, it’s only after that, that a bill can be sent to the National Assembly for them to process and send to Mr. President for assent before it can become a National Minimum Wage Act. If it happens in 2018, it becomes Act 2018.” With the minister’s new position, labour appears set to head for the trenches. Wabba said his members will not accept the continued delay in approving workers’ demand for a new national minimum wage. Wabba, said it was now close to eight years since the last review of the national minimum wage took place, adding that Nigerian workers are demanding a change in the humiliating culture of forcing workers to bargain too hard and wait too long for meagre increases in their salaries. Wabba’s TUC counterpart Bobboi Kaigama said labour took the statement credited to the minister as a rumour, adding that workers would rather wait to hear from the horse’s mouth. “We don’t want to say anything to that statement. We want the date to come first. If they (government) fail us, then we shall see what will happen,” Kaigama said. He, however, affirmed that labour stands by the September deadline, saying there would not be any room for extension. On the fears that the National Assembly recess will affect the implementation process, Bobboi said it was possible that the National Assembly will reconvene if it becomes necessary. “You know the recess is political. I don’t think it will affect the process. Ours is to get the job done and send to the executive arm of government,” he said. Why governors must back workers’ request In Bayelsa, the state chapter of the TUC appealed to governors and stakeholders to support efforts by the Federal Government to implement a new minimum wage. Congress Chairman Tari Dounana told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Yenagoa that the appeal became imperative considering the current standard of living of workers across the states of the federation. He said: “It is necessary that the government begin the new minimum wage because cost of living is no longer the same. We paid N150, 000 for one bedroom flat as house rent as far back as 2011, but now it is over N250, 000. “So, if you look at the variable and inflation that the workers are passing through, no employer of labour with right thinking will say that there is no need for the new minimum wage.” According to him, the new minimum wage is about adding value to the society and the lives of people, especially the Nigerian workers. Dounana said: “So, we are urging the governors to support the move and ensure that it is approved. “The governors should be able to touch the lives of workers and avoid anything that causes delay over the implementation of the new minimum wage. “They (governors) should know that the workers have been pertinently working with them. There is nothing one can gain than touching the lives of people that are close to you.” Dounana pleaded with the governors not to oppose the new minimum wage, and advised workers to be focused and believe that their new package will come to pass.  Civil servants rise against extension  Those on the payroll of the three tiers of governments have rejected any extension of the take-off date for the new minimum wage implementation. Their umbrella union Nigerian Civil Service Union (NCSU) urged the Federal Government to live up to its promise, warning that it will not brook any laxity on the issue. NCSU’s President Lawrence Amechi said: “The Federal Government must match its words with actions so that the high expectations of workers on the implementation of the new minimum wage would be realised on or before September 2018.  Failing to do this, the entire members of the union will not take it with levity.” Also at the end of its National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting, the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), expressed concern at the remarks credited to Dr. Ngige. It said in a communique: “NAAT is aware that NLC and TUC have jointly made a submission of N66, 500.00 as a new minimum wage, and that tripartite meetings in this regard are ongoing. As an affiliate of NLC, NAAT is in agreement with NLC and TUC on the submission made. “However, the union urges parties in the new minimum wage negotiations to fast-track the process to ensure implementation this year, 2018. Undue delay would be unacceptable.” NLC General Secretary Peter Esson said the wage negotiation committee had been meeting every day in the last one week to meet the deadline. Dr. Esson said: “On our part, we are doing everything possible to ensure that we meet the deadline and ensure the report is submitted this month. Ours is to ensure that the work is completed this month and transmitted to the president.” The next hurdle After receiving the committee’s report, the Federal Government will pass it on to the National Council of State and the Federal Executive Council (FEC) for approval. It will thereafter be sent in form of bill to the National Assembly legislative action. Once passed, it will return to the President’s table for assent. The National Assembly, which shut down in July for vacation is expected to resume on September 25. But, Esson expressed the workers confidence that both chambers of the National Assembly would reconvene and accord the bill accelerated consideration once the bill gets to their desk. 