The die is cast again between the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). On Thursday, the governorship election will be repeated in seven wards in Ife North, Ife South and Orolu councils. Who wins the supplementary poll? EMMANUEL OLADESU writes on the inconclusive poll. For the Osun State All Progressives Congress and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the struggle continues. The battle for the Bola Ige House is not over. May be, it will be over on Thursday after the rerun in two units at Orolu, and one each at Ife South and Ife North. There is an additional outstanding unit in Osogbo council. According to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the PDP had 254, 698 votes. The APC had 254, 345. Thus, the PDP is leading by 353 votes. This is a far cry from the 3,498 total cancelled votes. In Orolu, 947 votes were cancelled. Other cancelations included Ife South; 502 votes; Ife North, 353 and Osogbo, 884. The preparation for Thursday will be similar to the preparation for the inconclusive poll. This time, the battle will be won and lost. Both parties are anxious. Yet, there is the pervading feeling that leaders of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), the African Democratic Party (ADP) and the African Democratic Congress (ADC), may play a significant role in tilting the pendulum of victory to their preferred direction. The rerun may provide an opportunity for the review of strategies. There may be a compelling need for horse trading. All the contestants belong to one big political family. Governor Rauf Aregbesola, Senator Iyiola Omisore and Alhaji Moshood Adeoti belonged to the Alliance for Democracy (AD). The governor, Senator Ademola Adeleke, and Adeoti were in the APC. Also, Adeleke’s brother, Fatai Akinbade and Omisore were in the PDP. At one point or the other, the dramatis personage have politically interacted in their bid to accomplish common goals. In the eye of the storm are the two leading candidates-APC’s Gboyega Oyetola and Senator Ademola Adeleke of the PDP. Both have fought with bravery and confidence, employing the same strategies of vigorous mobilisation and campaigns, except that the latter shunned the public debates. WIll Governor Rauf Aregbesola be able to hand over to a successor from his party? After eight years, will he be succeeded by the PDP flag bearer? APC and PDP ran neck and neck. A gale of defections had hit the two platforms, ahead of the poll. It was a fallout of the primaries. Senator Iyiola Omisore, who lost the PDP ticket to the Ede-born politician, left for the SDP. The former Secretary to the State Government, Moshood Adeoti, defected from the APC to the ADP. Whatever obvious weakness associated with Adeleke was compensated for by his formidable platform. Thus, despite Omisore’s defection, PDP won votes in many local governments. Ede remained its largest stronghold. Not even the challenge by the former House of Assembly Speaker Adejare Bello could threaten Ede’s bloc vote. Many believe that if Omisore had not left the PDP, the party could have also done well in Ife axis. Adeoti’s ADP may have played a spoiler’s role. The perception was that the APC chieftain went outside to borrow a platform to confront his original party. The implication was that Iwo, which was one of the APC’s strongholds, voted for the strange party, to the consternation of loyal APC chieftains who refused to defect along with him. Many chieftains were of the opinion that APC may have lost Orolu to the PDP due to the lack of amity between the state leadership of the party and House of Representatives Deputy Speaker Lasun Yussuff. Although the federal legislator reiterated his support for the APC, it was doubtful, if he deployed his weight. Can the calculus change now that a rerun will hold in Orolu? The two Osogbo councils voted massively for the APC. According to observers, it may not be possible for the PDP to quickly penetrate the outstanding units in the state capital. But, APC cannot go to sleep. The outcome of the poll meant that Osun is a two-party state. The two dominant parties seem to be of equal strength. The factors that may assist the parties to maintain their hold on the state are peculiar to them. These include the performance of incumbent governors, zoning, and management of crises arising from the shadow polls. While both parties went into the poll as divided houses, the effects were different. Will Adeleke dance his way to the State House? He was the underdog, underrated by  many politicians. Fun-seeking Adeleke came into political limelight, following the demise of his brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, former governor of the state. He rode to the Senate on the popular sentiment that another Adeleke should succeed the deceased during the poll conducted to fill the vacancy. When he failed to obtain the APC’s ticket, Adeleke went to the PDP. At the by-election, he defeated Senator Hassan Hussein. In parliament, he is not an excellent legislator. But, he has sustained a large following, especially in his West District. At the PDP governorship primary, he defeated Akin Ogunbiyi with just seven votes. There was reconciliation between the candidate and his rival after the primary. During the campaigns, Adeleke employed the door-to-door approach. He did not pose as an elite, but a populist with links with the grassroots. Despite the alleged certificate scandal, he forged ahead with optimism. Apparently due to lack of skill and other limitations, he shunned debates. His manifesto remains unknown. Yet, a huge crown followed him to savour his dancing steps. Oyetola, arguably a better candidate, engaged the people with captivating programmes of action. A gentlemen, he has learned the ropes in the last eight years under Aregbesola. He has experience and exposure. His life has been devoid of scandals. The September 22 election was his baptism of fire. Ahead of Thursday, Adeleke and Oyetola have returned to the drawing board. The APC candidate needs, first of all, 353 votes to neutralise Adeleke’s narrow win, and more to gain an advantage of another narrow win. Adeleke needs to protect his meagre victory and get more votes to affirm it. The electorate have to be re-mobilised. There must be another subtle campaign. The wheeling and dealing must be renewed. There is no permanent friend or foe in politics, but permanent interest. There can still be a realignment of forces. Twenty four hours, it is said, is a long time in politics.