President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said the Federal Government, under his leadership, is pursuing an aggressive plan to attract investment into the country to boost the economy. He said the implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) required significant investment by the government and the private sector to build infrastructure and diversify the economy. But, former Tanzanian President, Dr.Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete agreed no less with President Buhari that investments grow economies and create jobs. He however added that a conducive investment environment is a very critical factor and prerequisite for any nation that desires foreign investment. The two leaders spoke at the kick-off of Kaduna Investments Summit, KADINVEST 3.0 in Kaduna, Kaduna State. Buhari in his goodwill message he sent to the summit urged governments at state and local government levels to emulate Kaduna State government in the area of driving investment to create jobs and prosperity for Nigerians. He said:  “It has been a great pleasure to witness the concrete and productive outcomes arising from KAdinvest since the first edition in 2016. The foresight of the Kaduna State government to initiate this platform and ensure that it is more than a talkshop is commendable. “It was a proud moment for me to commission the Olam Hatchery and Feedmill project in September 2017, the ground breaking ceremony of which was performed a day after the first KAdinvest in 2016. The successful take-off and delivery of that project in record time demonstrated the potential of our state governments to attract significant foreign direct investment. “The Federal Government is encouraging similar initiatives across the sub-national level to create jobs and prosperity for our people. The implementation of the economic recovery and growth plan requires significant investment by the government and the private sector to build infrastructure and diversify the economy. “Consistent with this goal, the Federal Government is pushing forward an aggressive plan to make it easier to do business in Nigeria. Key agencies are committed to milestones and measures to reduce waiting times for government approval and remove as many impediments to business as we can  safely and prudently do.” Dr Kikwete who was the keynote speaker at the opening ceremony, said investments opportunities not withstanding, a conducive investment environment is a very critical factor. He said: “If you have a lot to offer, but if the investments climate is not conducive people will not come. “Perhaps this is the most important factor that business people give closest attention to and very serious consideration when choosing where to direct their investment to. It is almost a make or break factor, it is the ultimate.