Pre-approach This is the planning and information gathering stage. At this stage the salesperson will have to learn relevant facts about the prospects and their needs and such information to plan their sales presentation. The two major activities involved in the pre-approach: . Customer Research: It is important that the salesperson learn everything possible about the business of the prospective customer – its size, location, names of key staff that will make the buying decision and those who will influence the purchase. The Approach The salesperson will have to make an appointment to see the buyer at this stage. A good approach will make a favourable impression on the buyer and establishes some degree of rapport between the salesperson and the buyer.  Need Assessment This is the stage in which the salesperson must discover, clarify and understand the buyer’s needs. The best way to uncover and understand needs is by asking questions. It has been established over time that the more questions salespersons ask, the more likely it is that they will be successful.  The Presentation This is mainly a discussion of the product or service features, advantages and benefits which the customer has indicated as being important to him. The presentation may include written proposals and supporting materials as well as visual aids. The aim of the presentation is for salespeople to convince their customers that their company’s products or service will satisfy their needs better than those of a competitor.  Handling Objection The salesperson should anticipate objection at every presentation. Objection indicates the prospect has some interest in the proposition. The following important techniques should be used in responding to a prospect objection: . Listen to the buyer . Clarify the objection . Respect the buyer’s concern . Respond to the objection  Closing The Sale After handling the buyer’s objections, the salesperson must close the sale. This is getting commitment from the buyer to purchase the product or service. The salesperson in doing this can ask for the order or offer to help write up the order. Follow-Up The salesperson must learn that the sale is not over when they get the order. Follow-up is necessary to build customer loyalty and ensure repeat purchase. Satisfied customers voluntarily provide more business.