The Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) is at the forefront of recovering bad debts. Its Managing Director/CEO, Ahmed Kuru, in this interview with Assistant Editor Nduka Chiejina, speaks on the corporation’s activities and other issues. How have you been dealing with obligors who are willing to pay back their loans but lack the capacity to pay? When the loans and facilities were purchased from the commercial banks, the underlining assumption was that there were collaterals covering those facilities; that is, security covering responsibilities. So, the underlined assumption is either you pay cash or we take over the assets and sell the business; it is as simple as that. We are not a bank; we are a recovery, intervention agency; so, the original assumption is that if you do not have the ability to pay, then you relinquish the assets, because when you took the money from the commercial banks, you gave them collateral as security. If you are willing to pay and you do not have cash, the honourable thing for you to do is to relinquish the assets, it is as simple as that. AMCON has been facing the challenge of reconciling procured collaterals. How do you reconcile with poorly-procured collaterals? Quite a lot of collaterals had issues because at the point when the facilities were transferred from the commercial banks, there was this understanding that if you go through the collateral documents and you find gaps, we are allowed to do what we call “Clawback,” that is, you can, send back the loan. If you remember, AMCON was asa result of the crisis of 2005 and by 2011, within a very short period, there was a need to make the exchange. Now what we do is, some of those cases where a lawyer can fine-tune and correct the deficiencies, we engage one to go to some of the registries to get to the root of some of those documents. But when you are challenged with the issue of non-availability of critical documents, to give you title, ownership and right over that property, and neither the bank nor the obligor is able to provide, we send back the documents. We work with our lawyers to find a way to correct some of those deficiencies that legally speaking, cannot be corrected. How do you manage politically-influential and well-connected individuals owing their banks? This administration has proven that there is no big man. I can tell you with every sense of responsibility. Despite the fact that 350 of our obligors come from 80 percent of our outstanding N5 trillion to N8 trillion from the big men, but it has not stopped us from doing what we should do. The only thing they (big men) do is sometimes personalise the issues, try to threaten you, make a lot of noise, go to court, get all manners of injunctions. But with this administration, anywhere they go to, the question they always ask them is:  “Do you have an obligation to pay?” “Have you borrowed ? Go and talk to AMCON.’’ This has given us a lot of courage to do what we are doing, and this “big man” theory has not worked as far as we are concerned. Any big man in debt, mention his name, I will show you the records to prove he is talking with us, if they can’t pay, we take their assets, and that is it. There is no big man that anybody has stopped us from doing what we should do. In reference to the politically-exposed people, could you be a specific about their percentage from the 80 percent you gave initially? In Nigeria, every big man is politically-inclined. Once you have a lot of money, that means you have the political goodwill. That also means, if you are not in office, you must have sponsored somebody to office. So, if you can’t use your position as a political office holder, you will have someone who is a political office holder you can talk to, isn’t it? However, with this setup, when it comes to what we do, what is important for us is to prove to you that you actually took the money from these banks and then you need to pay. It is not that people have not tried to influence AMCON, the thing is, with this government, you can’t risk anybody to intervene because everybody has seen the body language of the President. Institutions are getting stronger, because people are being allowed to do their job, thus you can go anywhere and you will still be referred to us. I have not heard nor has anybody called me to say be soft on this person or do not ask for your money, for the past three years. In conflict resolution, there is always a provision for resolution without going to court. How many out-of-court settlements has AMCON engaged in? I can tell you that any case going to court is always the last resort,  most of those cases that were in court have been there for a long time. We have been here for the past seven years. AMCON will try all manner of processes to find a resolution; the court is always the last process, because the court process takes you a minimum of five to 10 years. You would not want to go to court as a first default; it is always the last because we know that the court process is very long and painful. However, if all our efforts to resolve an obligation remain futile, since we cannot carry guns, then the only option is to go to court. Now we are looking for alternate deep resolution and mechanisms, even while we are in court, because sometimes, we could be in court of appeal, but we will still leave that window open. In quite a lot of cases we have consent judgment and I can tell you that the majority of our resolutions are based on interactions, discussions and not the court. The court-resolved process are not up to 20 percent of our resolutions; eighty percent of our resolutions are through discussions with the obligor, because that is the first and best thing to do. We go to court when all manners of resolution have failed. Given the sensitive nature of what AMCON does, people have suggested that there should be a special court for AMCON to handle their cases. What progress have you made in terms of this idea? I strongly believe that for AMCON-related cases, this initiative will help our resolution and make our winding down process very swift. My intention is to recover that money; and while I am not afraid to go through the court process, which is the last resort, but the process should be fair and prompt. The advantage of some of these special courts is that the turnaround time is very short and it doesn’t change the facts. If you have a situation where all the objective and main issue will be put together based on a process of practice, then it will shorten the process. The time you go to the Supreme Court and it says, go back to court of appeal and discuss, may make a case last up to 12 years and this organisation has just 10 years as its sunset period. So, the concept of special court is good because it doesn’t change the fact, it doesn’t change the law, it only accelerates the process and makes sure that there is a resolution. This is an intervention agency. It has a period, like General Sani Abacha of blessed memory did with the failed banks tribunal within a very short period, things are settled and closed. You once described AMCON as a child of circumstance. When is the sunset date for AMCON? The law says we should exist for 10 years, thus by 2024, we are supposed to have finished our assignment, but the law also leaves an open window which says that, if by that due date we have not been able to execute our assignment, the National Assembly reserves the right to give an extension. My view is, if by 2024 and I haven’t resolved this issues, I don’t see how they will be resolved after 2024, thus the target should be, whatever needs to be done within this time frame should be done, because the debt that has been with AMCON  for the past seven years has been with the commercial banks for five years or more before they were transferred. So, if the seven years are added, the average age of debt that is with AMCON is 12-13 years old. Now if you tell me in 15 years I cannot resolve a debt, how can an extension make a difference? So, as we are approaching that date, we should change our strategies to see how to use the instrumentality of the National Assembly to find a way to work on the process and close it. It is a child of time and necessity, it is not supposed to die habitually. Would there be any suggestions towards this end? Yes, the National Assembly, in fairness to them, is concerned about AMCON, the debt profile and every other thing associated with AMCON. Everyday, we discuss with the National Assembly on how to help us in this process, because we all understand that after 2024, it becomes a hopeless situation. We have to make sure we achieve a very heavy traction and  that by the end and time we are closing in 2024, we would have resolved all issues that need to be resolved. What is the total value of recoveries that AMCON has made so far? The recovery we have made so far is in the estimate of N300 billion; but you should understand that there is recovery and there is also resolution. These are recoveries, but some of them, we are still recovering, because, there is a resolution. For example you come to me saying, “I have a debt of N6 million; I will pay you in five years.” Now you have paid N6 million and the balance of N4 million is supposed to be paid in the next four years. In this instance, in my book, your name is still there but I have made a substantial recovery from you, so, a lot of them are on-going, they are also performing based on the agreement and the re-structured figure. What becomes of AMCON after 2024? Part of the things we are looking at is to find a way of ensuring that at the end of the sunset period for AMCON, the staff of AMCON are incorporated to get into the system, because AMCON staff are very young. They are less than 40 years old, they are well-trained and are sourced from all over the world, including financial institutions. So, they are assets which cannot be thrown away. Part of our strategy is to ensure that at the end of our sunset period, we should have a collation that will ensure they are moved to other agencies to make their contributions because they are well trained and they are national assets. As it is done in some other countries, debts recoveries are parcelled out and sold to private contractors in a well-modulated and organised way. Are you considering this? Yes, it is part of the strategy and we have been talking to a number of fund providers that specialise in buying distress assets. If this is achieved, we will go very far. It is part of the resolution. That is why I said, before 2024, you have to look at so many programmes. Have you ever recovered the entire debts owed by an individual or a company? If not, what happens to the difference? It is very obvious you cannot recover 100 per cent You have already made up your mind on that? Not that I have made up my mind, it has nothing to do with the mind; it is not a mind issue. If it is a mind issue, I want to recover 200 per cent, but it is not a mind issue, it is a reality. Some of the assets have been bad, some of the factories are closed, some of the machines are obsolete, some of the machines have been vandalised, so the evaluation is the point that they were given a collateral, but it is not the same thing today. The rate of interest that is on the liability is not proportionate to the depreciation if the assets, the rates of interest go up, depreciation goes down, so, there is the gap why this happens. You can wake up one day and say the book value is N20 billion, the security collateral is N10 billion, so I must be able to recover N20 billion, it is not possible, although what you could do sometimes, is after packaging to sell it, you can now look at an obligor if he has another line he is making money from, you discuss the gap and liability, you make him understand by having a sensible talk which can often lead to resolution. If anybody tells you it is possible to recover 100 per cent, it is not possible, because it is a distressed situation. The penalty for insider abuse is about N150, 000. Are there plans to change this law because it is said to be grossly inadequate to serve as deterrent? About six to seven weeks ago, there was a public hearing by the committee on banking and CBN made a presentation as to how they intend to amend the profit and improve the consequence of management law binding on the credit officers, not even on the debtors. This is because to borrow is not a criminal offence, not being able to pay the money borrowed is not a criminal offence, to borrow money from the bank is not a criminal offense, you can’t punish somebody for that. Not being able to pay the debt is also not a criminal offence, it is a commercial transaction. However, the process may be a criminal act, because if you study most loans that have gone bad. In getting the approval, you will find out that they did not comply with the policy of the financial institution. A lot of instances abound. There are some banks that are very good with credits, you can see all documents intact, but there are some banks you go to and you wonder how somebody can take a loan of N5-N10 billion with certain documents. So, to borrow money or not been able to pay money borrowed from the bank is not a criminal offence. Even if taken to the court, the court can’t take you to jail because you could not pay your debts. The court can only send you to jail when there are some abuses to certain things that will amount to criminality. With this, CBN is looking at the buffet to see how to make amends. If you remember the first tribunal, the focus then was on the banks, not on the debtors. If you focus on your debtors, they will make sure they do all they can. It will not eliminate it because we have bank credits all over the world, it minimises it to a reasonable rate. When banks say your ratio of non-performing loans should not be more than five percent, they are using the standard law because they know it is that five or 10 per cent that must go back, but when you have non-performing loans of 60 or 80 percent, then there is a problem somewhere. Who manages assets taken over by AMCON? Do you engage professionals to manage them? What AMCON does is that we look for professionals. AMCON is not wired to manage any business. What we do depends on the objective of taking over the business. If the objective is opportunity, we go for the professionals to manage that business just like we did for Arik and Delta State. We look for people that are professionals, you can never find an AMCON staff members going there to be CEO of those organisation because we are not wired to lead any business. We are financial people, but we insist that there must be proper corporate governance in place, and there are very few businesses that we have taken through these processes and they are doing very well. We do our work, people abuse us. They sayAMCON has taken over; AMCON will take over. But if you have a loan, and you are not paying, you do not have the ability to pay cash, and there is an underlining collateral, I will take it and sell it. This is the law, it is nothing personal. The law assumes that if you cannot pay, there is an underlining asset for me to take over, sell and recover my money. It is nothing personal. But you have an option to come with a programme to pay and if you fail, then I will sell it, it is the law, it is as simple as that, not that I will go take over a life business, but if there is a need to take over a life business, we will take it over if the obligor is not responding. Go to Ajaokuta and Delta, you will cry. If you go to Ajaokuta and see the investments at the time that Ajaokuta was set up, it was the best technology in the world because it was the first technology, that was set up and it is almost 80-90 percent completed.The sister to Ajaokuta is Delta Steel Company, Aladja now sold to a company called Premium Steel. It was commissioned last week by the Delta State governor. For me, it is a major achievement for this government. 