The All Progressives Congress (APC) has granted waivers to its leaders to re-contest if they so wished during the party’s congresses and national convention. LEKE SALAUDEEN examines how the decision will affect the party’s cohesion and performance in next year’s elections. It is more or less of an half bread, which is better than none. The national leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) did not get tenure elongation, but it got a waiver. The waiver entitles the National Working Committee (NWC) chaired by Chief John Odigie-Oyegun to recontest without resigning. The waiver also extends to party officers at the ward, local government and state levels. President Muhammadu Buhari proposed the waivers in his reaction to the report of the Simon Lalong Technical Committee, which looked into the tenure elongation controversy. The President’s position was informed by the need for unity in the party. He said: “With the present state of the party and based on the report submitted by the Technical Committee, it is important to focus on how to move the party forward by avoiding actions detrimental to the interest of the party. Considering that politics is a game of numbers, we must not be a house divided against itself and must try to note, appreciate and accommodate our differences as far as law permits. Upon my review of the report, my position is to ensure that the party tows the path of unity, legality and cohesion and not that of division. President Buhari believes such steps would automatically end the cases filed by members seeking orders of the court compelling the party to hold its congresses, adding that the current executives should be free to vie for elective positions in the party if they so wish as permitted by the party’s constitution. Granting waivers NWC members and others, NEC said it relies on Article 31 (iii) of the APC constitution which states that: “Any party office holder interested in contesting for an elective office (whether party office or office in a general election) shall resign and leave office 30 days prior to the date of nomination or party primary for the office he or she is seeking to contest. Article 31 (2) provides that: Subject to the approval of the National Executive Committee, the National Working Committee may in special circumstances grant a waiver to a person not otherwise qualified under Article 31 (1) of this Constitution if, in its  opinion, such a waiver is in the best interest of the party.” Lawyer and civil rights activist Monday Ubani described the waiver as a soft landing for Oyegun and others who are willing to re-contest. He said: “The APC constitution allows it. What the party did was to invoke the relevant portions of its constitution to put an end to the controversy over tenure elongation that had polarised the party. The crisis, according to him, was a threat to the unity of the APC members and could have led to its disintegration. He lauded the party leaders for the peaceful resolution of the crisis by invoking the relevant provisions in the APC constitution. The decision has ensured nobody was disenfranchised. The fear by the NWC members that they would be swept away if the congresses were to hold had been taken care of. The resolution of the crisis has also strengthened the party’s internal democracy, he said. Ubani said the APC has to amend its constitution as regards the requirement of the law that you must resign 30 days before you can contest. Otherwise, the fifth columnist could use that to set the table against the party. The APC spokesman Malam Bolaji Abdulahi said “the challenge before us has been clear all along and that what we want is a win-win situation for all. The committee had found a mid-course that had taken care of the interest of every one. The waiver that you don’t have to resign before you can contest, that way the matter has been resolved. The storm that everyone is expecting to happen did not happen and the collapse that people were expecting to happen did not happen”. He said the Technical Committee’s report has taken care of both sides: those clamouring that we must have congresses and those who were afraid of their position. The report states that we must organise congresses and that the requirement of the law that you must resign 30 days before you can contest. “We came out of the meeting a reunited and a strong family of progressive politics in Nigeria. We will continue to strive to remain united and confront the 2019 general elections as an indivisible group. We are happy, you can see our countenance has changed and we are happy that Mr President has accepted and has announced his wish to re-contest in 2019”. But, a lawyer, Tunji Adepegba  picked a hole in the waivers. He said the waiver asking them to contest without resigning from office contradicts the APC constitution. He argued that, allowing Oyegun and his colleagues to supervise the convention will be injurious to the interest of those that were opposed to tenure elongation. He said asking Oyegun to remain in office to conduct congresses would confer undue privilege on him, especially in a contest that he would be part of. He urged the APC’s NEC to create a level playing ground for all contestants by asking Oyegun and his colleagues to step aside. Adepegba however noted that the waiver to allow members of the NWC to re-contest if they wished was in order because the APC constitution allows it. 