The yearly continuous professional development course for Complementary Alternative Medicine (CAM) and Natural Medicine Practitioners has held at the Nigerian Educational Research and Development Council (NERDC) Hall, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. The event, whose theme was: “Steps to recognition and Integration of CAM into healthcare system in Nigeria”, was organised by the Nigerian Council of Physicians of Natural Medicine/National Association of Physicians of Alternative Medicine. Prof Magnus Atilade, who is the arrowhead of the body, used the occasion to admonish members- fellows both new and old to continue to be of good character. The enjoined all to adhere to the core standards of proficiency for practitioners and reminded them of the tenets of the practice. “A person shall be qualified to register as a natural medicine practitioner in Nigeria if all these requirements are met. She/he must have graduated from professional training in an institution approved by the Council., must have attended the pre-induction seminar and passed the Board’s examinations; must have undergone internship of 12 months in an approved clinical setting, as applicable to the profession. He/she must have shown evidence of attendance of continuing professional development (CPD) programmes, at least 30 credit points in a year, for renewals only. He or she must pay any application fees as may be prescribed from time to time by the Council, satisfy the condition as may be made by the Board for an annual renewal of license,” he said. He continued: “Any applicant, who complies fully with the above requirements shall be issued a Certificate of Registration and is therefore, qualified to use the protected titles- ACPNM, MCPNM, FCPNM, DNM, BNM and MNM. No practitioner, who is not registered as a full member should use the prefix- ‘Doctor’. No practitioner, who is not also trained and licensed to practice orthodox medicine should engage in the practice. No practitioner should practice out of his/her competences and trainings. Any practitioner found guilty of this offence shall be expelled from the Council. All practitioners must abide by all existing government’s medical/health regulation and non health regulation of the country.” It is on record that NCPNM and NAPAM are recognised by the Ministry of Health and Medical Dental Council of Nigeria at the council meeting in June, 2005 in Akure and have been noted as umbrella bodies of practitioners of alternative medicine in Nigeria in a letter dated  September 7, 2005- Ref MDCN 1529/Vol 11). A renown Naturopath, Sir Debo Omotoso; foremost Iridologist, Dr Titilayo Oduye and Acupuncturist, Dr Bade Adewale got full professorial titles; while Naturopaths- Dr Idowu Ogunkoya and Dr Emmanso  Umobong; Magneto-therapist, Dr Cyril Omisande; Iridologist/Naturopath, Dr Gilbert Ezengige and a Homeopath, Dike Celestine, became Associate professors. The Registrar, Dr Adedamola Bank-Kadejo, confirmed that some fresh trainees were equally inducted into the Council to climb the ladder based on stringent standard of professional ethics/practice.