When Muisi Ajao arrived in South Africa from Cercle Brugge 21 years ago, little did he know he was navigating a path that would reshape his football career and endear him to greater things. He later became a colossus in South African football, winning numerous titles with top dogs Mamelodi Sundowns after just one season at cross town rivals Kaizer Chiefs. He epitomised the strong qualities of a modern day defender – passionate, calm, calculated, bullish, and disciplined. But Ajao, who lives in South Africa’s Mpumalanga Province with his wife Andile and daughters Grace (15) and Abigail (13), also represents so much more in normal life – philanthropic, down to earth, God-fearing and a committed family man. On a personal scale, his sojourn to South Africa paid huge, handsome dividends, and on a wider perspective, he contributed immensely to adding multiple values to a soccer league that has become the home of ambitious Nigerian players over the years. Nicknamed ‘The Beast’ during an illustrious playing career that saw the Abeokuta-born sweeper plying his trade in Europe before settling in South Africa, the strong, hard tackling central defender says he drew inspiration from legendary former Super Eagles captain and head coach, the late Stephen Keshi. “Keshi was very special because I was highly inspired by his style of play. I really adored him,” the 6’4 tall giant recalls. Interestingly, Ajao went on to play a number of matches for Nigeria under Stephen Keshi and Shaibu Amodu ahead of the 2002 World Cup, and ended his career on a platter, starring for clubs in Singapore, Qatar, China and Bahrain. Ajao, who currently holds the fort as head coach of Castle League side TS Galaxy in the South African third tier, goes down memory lane in this revealing interview that touches on his personal life, his football career, journey into coaching and so much more. Muisi Ajao spoke to Mark Ogagan in Johannesburg, South Africa  Starting out as a soccer player I was never encouraged to play the game. My family kicked against the idea, and I remember having problems with my parents who never wanted me to play soccer. Those days I used to sneak into the house, sometimes very late at night, after playing with my mates, and I get punished. But today the story is different. Back home, the journey was never a smooth one, but I must mention that God used the late Alabi Aissien to spot some of us during my days at Julius Berger Feeders. From there he took four of us to Bendel Insurance where I signed the dotted lines to kick off my professional career. Unfortunately, the other three players were not signed. After two seasons at Insurance, I tried to move to Shooting Stars, but it did not materialise, so I went back to Insurance. Some players kicked against me, so I had to move to DSC Aladja, but they ended up owing me so much money so I left. It was after that season that I was invited by Shooting Stars again. I remember that season they brought in a lot of big names like Friday Ekpo and the rest, but God favoured me and I signed. From Shooting Stars, I came back to Insurance, then to Sharks. I was still with Sharks when Churchill Oliseh took me to Cercle Brugge in Belgium. After two years, I came to South Africa to sign for Kaizer Chiefs. From Belgian voyage to  South African expedition My coming to South Africa was purely circumstantial but I was able to integrate as quickly as possible. From Cercle Brugge, I was supposed to sign for Malaga in the Spanish La Liga, but unfortunately the club got relegated. In those days, visas were issued only to players going to the first league, so that’s how I missed the opportunity to play in Spain. I was given red carpet treatment when I arrived here in SA. Chiefs sent their driver to pick me up at the airport and he drove me straight to a five-star hotel. I remember at that time they just signed Paul Dolezar as coach. At Chiefs, I have some good and not so good memories to look back on. However, I still give God all the glory because my first few months in SA were rocky, but I thank God for seeing me through. Before coming here, I never knew what to expect particularly coming all the way from Europe, but I prayed to God for guidance. My SA journey so far is a big lesson in itself as it opened my eyes to many things. The following season (1998-99), Mamelodi Sundowns came with a good offer that I couldn’t resist and I did not hesitate to pack my bags and leave. The rest, as they say, is history. I was proud to be part of the team that won every domestic title in sight and two years we could have added the CAF Champions League title but lost to Al-Ahly in the final. Reliving your glory days with Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns I started out at Kaizer Chiefs and made an impact in my first and only season with the Glamour Boys. At that time, the late Shaibu Amodu was coaching city rivals Orlando Pirates. I remember playing in one of the Soweto derbies against them, which we won. Amodu later went on air to say his team could have won the game but for the resilience of Muisi Ajao in the Chiefs defence. Later when he was appointed head coach of Super Eagles, I was first on his list of invited players. At Sundowns, I played alongside another great Nigerian, Raphael Chukwu, and other great guys like Isaac Shai, Daniel Mudau, Themba Mnguni, and Lovers Mohlala. We won every domestic title on sight and at a time we were considered the best team in SA after winning the Premier League title thrice in succession. I had a great time with the Brazilians, and I was a favourite with the supporters. One day, I got a letter from one of the fans who felt the need to interact with me personally. I remember vividly one of the paragraphs in the letter which read: “Ajao, you know what, you have always mentioned God since your arrival in South Africa, and one thing that I notice about you is that you don’t stop mentioning your God. In every of your interviews, God must come first.” So I give God all the glory for everything in my life. My  journey into coaching Laughs…Sometimes I am amazed that people refer to me as a coach. You see, I am not really into coaching. On part time basis, yes, but not fully engaged as a coach at the moment. As a player, when you finish your playing career and you are really passionate about the game, what you want do is to try and see if you can give back to the community and at the same time to keep yourself busy. In terms of coaching here, I use it as a platform for me to impart my knowledge of the game to younger ones, and at the same time, keeping myself busy. In actual fact, I don’t want to be a coach. My passion at this time, primarily, is scouting. I scout for my former teams and other interested sides as well. Adapting to life in South Africa Let me say I was privileged to adapt to my new environment in double quick time because my main objective was to succeed. Even while developing in the game back in Lagos at Julius Berger Feeders, I learned to grow in the most unusual of circumstances. I learned that as a player you need to focus. Getting used to the South Africa situation was a lot easier for me because I was coming from Europe, so my mentality was different, or shall I say on a higher level. Greatest influences on my career To be honest, there’s only one man that takes the credit; the one man that really inspired me, a man whose playing style I always emulated, I wished to be like him and to have the charisma that he had. And that’s our former captain, Stephen Okechukwu Keshi…may his soul rest in peace. I liken him to former Bafana Bafana captains Neil Tovey and Lucas Radede…people with high personality, humble, leaders inside and outside the pitch… that sums up the Keshi I knew. Prior to his passing, I was privileged to bring him to South Africa to negotiate a deal with one of the big clubs here. Keshi was very special because I was highly inspired by his style of play. Every Nigerian could testify to his charismatic presence and outstanding leadership qualities. I really adored him. Comparison between South Africa and Nigeria Clearly, there are huge differences in economic terms, development, culture, infrastructure, and in other areas. South Africa is more advanced and compares equally with most countries in Europe. Sometimes people tell me about going back home. Why would I leave a place that gives me comfort in preference for a place that gives me so much pain? I’m now a citizen of South Africa because I have been married to a South African lady for the past 15 years. Her name is Andile, and we have two beautiful daughters (Grace and Abigail). Corrupt practices in Nigerian football I want to talk specifically about national team invitations. Sometimes if you don’t have the connection, they cannot invite you; if you don’t give people money, they cannot invite you. But not when you believe in God, not when you put your trust in Him. Because He said in His word that those that put their trust in Him shall not be put to shame. So when it comes to the life we are living, as long as you trust God in whatever you are doing, you are bound to succeed. So that sums up my journey going into the national team. So at the end of the day people came to know who Muisi Ajao is. God has been faithful.  VERBATIM WITH MUISI AJAO How did you meet your spouse? We met during one of my random visits to Johannesburg while playing for Sundowns. Are you able to speak any of the local dialects? A little bit of Zulu. What’s your best South African meal? Pap (maize meal) and wors. What’s your best Nigerian meal? Beans and gari. Who cooks your meals? My wife, and she’s very good with Nigerian cuisines as well. How often do you visit home? Hardly; it’s been a while since I went home to see my parents. That was like 11 years ago. Your experiences of muti in South African football. It’s an African thing, and the use of traditional herbs and concoctions in South African football is an open secret. We may have our individual beliefs but when it comes to the team, we move with the flow. Giving back to the community after football career. How do  spend your spare time? After each day’s training session, I fiddle with my phone, spend time with my family, and read my bible. Biggest regret in football career Not taking up an offer in Israel (in 2002), when I had the opportunity. Historic places you have visited in South Africa I’m not the outgoing type, but everywhere.  SHORT AND SHARP WITH MUISI AJAO How long do you sleep? 6 to 7 hours. Hip-hop or R&B I prefer gospel, thank you. Favourite perfume I don’t use perfumes. Car brand I drive a Toyota Yaris. Languages you speak Yoruba, English, a bit of French, Zulu (my wife is Zulu, Tswana). Greatest wish To win more souls for God. Weirdest wish Use you to save many perishing souls. What you don’t wish to be To die as a sinner. Worst food you ever ate Eba. Lowest salary ever N2,500 sign on fee at Bendel Insurance in 1990. Biggest pay cheque 30,000 US dollars sign on fee in Europe and 1500 US dollars monthly salary at Mamelodi Sundowns. Worst habit None. Longest walk ever Lagos Island to Ajegunle boundary in the 90s. Favourite pet Parrot, maybe. Favourite sport wear Any. First pair of boots A worn-out pair of boots a friend gave to me back in the 1980s. Messi or C. Ronaldo? Ronaldo. Best stadium played in Seoul, in 2001. Role model Stephen Keshi. Favourite actor Diary of a black, Madiya, Perry. Favourite musicians Sinachi of Christ Embassy, Don Moen. Fashion taste Casual.  FACT BOX Date of birth: 02 December, 1978 Height: 1. 87m Weight: 85kg Place of birth/State of origin: Abeokuta, Ogun State Spouse: Andile Last club: In Bahrain Hobbies: Chilling with my family, reading the bible. International caps: 10. International debut: Malawi v Nigeria. FOOTBALL PROFILE 1994 Bendel Insurance 1995 Shooting Stars SC 1996 Sharks 1996–1997 Cercle Brugge KSV (Belgium) 1997–1998 Kaizer Chiefs (S/Africa) 1998–2002 Mamelodi Sundowns (S/Africa) 2003–2004 Da Nang FC (Singapore) 2005 Hanover FC (Germany) 2006 Kingfisher East Bengal FC (Qatar) 2007 Manning Rangers (S/Africa) 2000–2001 Nigeria Super Eagles  