The Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Nsima Ekere, has explained how his leadership has repositioned the agency for better service delivery. He speaks on several issues, including his gubernatorial ambition. WALE AJETUNMOBI reports. Reforming modus operandi The greatest challenge that NDDC faced under my tenure is the over training the commission had been involved with before we came on board. The balance sheet of the commission is over-bloated. In fact, the auditor’s report for last year stated a contingent liability of N1.7 trillion. In the course of previous year, we had to determine sustainability of some projects; we had to terminate non-performing projects in two tranches. In the first tranche, 624 projects were terminated. The projects we terminated in the first tranche were worth over N200 billion; while the second also ran into multi billion naira. We have been able to reduce the deficit in our balance sheet by about N300 billion since we came in. This is one of the reforms agenda we articulated when we came on board. We called the reform 4Rs, which is geared towards turning around the balance sheet of the commission and reduce new commitment and liabilities we create. We dedicated 70 per cent of our budget to complete ongoing projects, while we reserve 30 per cent to cater for overhead cost and new projects. This is deliberate, because there is no point to recreating new liabilities when there is no money we can use to take care of them. We want to use most of the money that comes in to service ongoing projects. The second “R” in our reform agenda is to restructure the governance system of NDDC. We want the commission to known as an organisation that respects laws and governance policies. We want to put a culture of due process in place. Before now, anything could happen in NDDC. We had a retreat when came on board. One of the facilitators, Dr. Joe Abah of the Bureau of Public Service Reforms said when they did a review of NDDC, it was discovered that everything that could possibly be wrong with an organisation was wrong with NDDC. That is why we said we must improve the governance system, develop and bring in technology to fix it. The third reform we did was to restore the commission back to its core mandate. We planned to get NDDC to concentrate on doing big ticket projects that will promote regional integration and boost the regional economy. In collaboration with stakeholders in the region, particularly the state governments, we have come up with projects that would lead to regional integration. We were in Ondo State recently where we flagged off the construction of 51 kilometre road linking the Ilaje part of the state to Lagos. We also have collaboration with the governments of Edo and Cross River states to do projects. The fourth reform we carried out is to generally rededicate ourselves to doing things in right way for the benefit of the Niger Delta region. We have been getting positive feedbacks from the reforms we initiated. But, are we where we want to be? No. But, the reforms are taking the commission steadily to the destination. I hope people that would take over from us would see the need to sustain the reform.  Challenges against the commission’s plan The greatest challenge to our plan is the attitude of some people in the Niger Delta region, particularly the youth. These people have a sense of entitlement, because they have been entertained for so long. They are used to getting things done in a particular way and getting certain kind of gratification. Since they are not getting what they used to get, they are not happy with us. Weeks ago, I got threats from some group. They went to online media and posted that our administration is the worst in the history of NDDC. They urged the President Muhammadu Buhari to dissolve the NDDC Board and reconstitute a new one. We decided to call them and asked why they posted the threat. They said they were expecting money from NDDC and they had not got it. So, how do you take out government money and just handover to a group of people just because you don’t want them to malign you? If you pay them, another group would do the same thing. They would write unbelievable allegations against us. One of those funny allegations recently made against our management is that, we had wasted N500 billion in one year. That is laughable, we have not received 20 per cent of that money. How do you waste something you have never received? But these people don’t even care, so far their aim is to box you into submission to their wishes.  Determining projects to carry out When we came on board, we decided to adopt bottom-up approach in project conceptualisation. We get representation from all the communities in the region on continuous basis. Because we made up our mind on working collaboratively with the state governments; before now, we had a situation where there were conflicts with the state governments in terms of project duplication. We set up state project committees for each state, which also serve as budget committees. Each state’s representative on the board of NDDC chairs that committee. We ask them to go to their respective states and engage with the government on project requests coming from communities to know which project NDDC should take on. So, that is how we generate the project that we put into our budget and send to the National Assembly. I can’t say there would not be political interference in project allocation. Some inputs from the political class usually come in, particularly from members of the National Assembly. Once we send in our budget, it becomes the property of the National Assembly. Whatever they return to you is your actual budget. At times, some of the projects we get in the final draft of the budget are not the ones we suggested. That is where political interference comes in. We end up embarking on projects that are not necessarily within our vision.  Funding the NDDC This is a very great challenge for the NDDC. I had a friend who was also a former Managing Director of the commission years ago. When he took over, he met a balance of N140 billion and used that to start work. When we came, we met about N2 billion. Meanwhile, the salary bill for NDDC in a month is about N800 million. By the time we paid the first salary, almost half of the money was gone. To improve our financial base, we have been working aggressively with the oil companies to get their contribution to the NDDC funds along with contribution from the Federal Government. There is a huge deficit in terms of what we get and what we are supposed to get from the Federal Government. Cumulatively over the years, we have a deficit of N1.8 trillion debt which the Federal Government is owing the NDDC from inception till date. We have written to the Federal Government and fortunately we got the sympathy of the President concerning this. He directed the Ministries of Finance and Budget and Planning to engage the NDDC and do a reconciliation on the exact amount the Federal Government is owing the commission, with the aim to agree on acceptable payment plan. Unfortunately, we are not getting the kind of support we expected from the Ministry of Finance till date. That is where we are. We are putting pressure on them. Definitely, we have challenges with funding. The oil companies have been contributing their dues to the commission. We had a major issue with Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) recently. With the amendment of the NLNG Act, we are able to get some contribution from NLNG into NDDC. So, there is a progress in terms of looking beyond the government’s contribution. We appreciate the support of the National Assembly in retrieving funds.  ‘What has changed under our leadership’ Last year alone, we were able to complete over 370 projects. It is a record success. It has never happened before in the history of the commission. These projects included roads, bridges, solar energy production and other areas. The perception that NDDC is a cash cow is not true. If it was true, I personally would have been a beneficiary. When we came, we instituted reforms based on our 4Rs strategy. We sought to change the way the commission is run. We want to make the NDDC transparent and efficient. On a monthly basis, NDDC get N5 billion from the federation account. By the time workers’ salaries, imprest to the various directorates and other overheads are paid, we may be left with N3 billion. And the commission has contingent liability of over N1 trillion; so, how can NDDC be a cash cow? So, it is a wrong perception. Managing an agency like NDDC is a tough job. Because we have institutionalised due process and transparency in the system, to get one kobo from the agency, you will go through over 50 stages. This is done to improve transparency and accountability.  Allocation of projects in states The way we allocate projects in our area of activities is based on two principles. One is quality of state and the percentage of oil production of any particular state. That is what we use to determine how projects are shared among oil-producing states. For a very long time, Akwa Ibom has been the number one oil producer in the country. This information could be verified from NNPC’s chart. That automatically means that Akwa Ibom is supposed to have highest number of projects from NDDC. Before we came on board, that was not the situation. In doing what is right, we said we would give Akwa Ibom its fair share because of its sheer size of contribution to the national economy. It is unfortunate that people are now looking at it from a political angle, which is making some people feel threatened because of the projects we are bringing to Akwa Ibom State.  Gubernatorial ambition It is too early to say whether I want to contest for governor in Akwa Ibom State or not. I am working in NDDC for now.