From prohibitive charges and levies to poor deployment of technology, managing airports in Africa is becoming a difficult undertaking. Experts say managers of airports in Africa, must take a critical look at facility modernisation; diversification beyond aeronautical sources of revenue; enforcement of global safety and security standards and other interventionist measures to make airports attractive to passengers and other users, KELVIN OSA OKUNBOR reports. A global alliance led by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) and Airports Council International (ACI)   is building on how to ensure African airports are not only safe and secure, but are also fitted with modern facilities to  make them user-friendly. Besides modernisation of facilities, experts sayAfrican countries need to restrategise on how to make the airports attract revenue beyond primary sources – flights. Experts say better management of airports  in Africa could assume new dimensions, if their managers think out of the box by designing models that position them as mere   public service providers. They argue that African airports should be commercial enterprises that are efficiently managed to generate more revenue and subsequently declare profits. These issues were on the burner last week, when over 300 delegates from across the globe met at the 59th Airports Council International (ACI) Regional Conference and Exhibition in Lagos to fashion strategies for efficient management of airports. With member-states numbering over 176 countries having 1,940 airports, ACI as the voice of the world’s airports, has served as a  veritable platform for developing best practices in airports management. It has remained the key driver of policies in the industry since 1991. Presidential remark ACI President Saleh Dunoma said the global body would continue to focus on how to improve on airport security through its  Airport Excellence in  Safety  Programme (APEX). Dunoma, who is also Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) Managing Director, said many African countries, including Nigeria, has benefited from ACI’s interventions with programmes tailored to achieve better management of airports. Dunoma said: “FAAN’s relationship with ACI Africa spans over a decade and it has been a worthwhile and mutually benefitting relationship. “AC1 Africa works with its members and also liaises with other International bodies like ACI World, ICAO  to ensure improved human capacity development by providing various standard and customised training in different skill areas to ensure safe, secure and efficiently managed airports. “Last year, Nigeria signed the agreement to become one of the ‘AC1 global training centers, to further advance the goal of human capacity development in FAAN and in Africa. The first training after the agreement was conducted in December 2017 where Nigeria received participants from other African countries. “ Over the years, ACI Africa had focused on safety as a priority leading to the initiation of the world wide acknowledged Airport Excellence (APEX) in safety programme. This has recorded great achievements as major airports continue to requests for this programme. “Nigeria has been in the forefront in striving to attain the highest levels of safety standards, hence with the assistance of the APEX in safety programme, we were able to achieve the certification of our  two  busiest airports. “Our goal is to certify all our international airports and we are working tirelessly to achieve that, them we have taken the bold step to carry out the APEX in safety programmes in our international airports. “ The APEX review for Kano and Port Harcourt were carried out in March while reviews for Enugu and Kaduna airports are scheduled for June. “The evolving nature of airport management demands a transformation of airports who mostly serve as public service providers and not commercial enterprises that are efficiently managed to generate more revenue and subsequently declare profits. Fed. Govt’s position Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Gidado Mustapha said the government was not oblivious of the fact that there is an urgent need to intensify efforts to improve aviation infrastructure. Describing airports as a catalyst for Africa’s economic development, he said the government should consider as urgent facilities upgrade, improve operations, service delivery as ell as security and airspace safety. He said: “To transform aviation business in Africa, countries would be expected to continue to attain and maintain global safety standards, strive to achieve competitiveness and user friendliness,  install infrastructure and navigational aids to maximise aircraft utilisation for passenger and cargo movement   in addition to achieving  costs competitiveness.” Other steps to be taken, according to Mustapha, were that African countries should develop integrated multi-modal transport system around the airports as well as diversify revenue lines. Said he: “For sustainable development of African airports, new strategies must also evolve. These strategies include holistic planning for defined development targets; effective and efficient financing plan and successful implementation. The role of partnership with the private sector cannot be over-emphasised. ‘’All these would be complemented by a reliable legal, institutional and regulatory framework to institutionalise policy.” ICAO’s Intervention In his presentation, President , International Civil Aviation Organisation ( ICAO) Council, Dr Bernard Olumuyiwa Aliu said the global aviation regulator continues to work with African countries  on how to plug gaps militating against effective airports management in Africa. With aviation becoming  a catalyst for sustainable social, economic and human development,  supporting 6.8 million jobs and generating $72.5 billion in Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in Africa, Aliu said the global body would continue to support the sector. He said: “ The efforts being undertaken to reposition air transport in Africa, and ensure its sustainability, are in clear acknowledgment of the fact that regional air traffic is still forecast to grow at roughly 3.8 per cent annually through 2032. “ I will like to reiterate that this rapidly-expanding air traffic can only be sustained and optimised through the continued development at modernisation of local aviation infrastructure, particularly at airports. “This is a key reason ICAO’s Global Plans are helping to establish globally-harmonised objectives and requirements in support of the worldwide modernisation of our sector which is now underway. “Our related goal is to ensure there are “no constraints of infastructure capacity, technology and financial resources for aviation development. “It has become increasingly difficult however, for many states and airport operators to mobilise the significant and dependable funding and investments required for high quality aviation infrastructure. “ The very limited volume of official development assistance (ODA) and Southsouth cooperation funding available for our sector’s infrastructure projects is a big part of this challenge, as are the constraints being faced with respect to public financing more generally. “Another key concern is the risk associated with a lack of sufficient institutional, legal and regulatory enabling frameworks in many African states, something which makes it very difficult for financial institutions to invest in airport projects. He charged African countries see airports as being more than mere terminal buildings, requiring that attention be paid to air side safety Aliu said: “More attention must continue to be paid to the airside safety priorities at Africa’s airports, including international airport perimeter fencing, taxiway and runway safety and effective fire services and wildlife management. “ICAO remains particularly concerned that many African airports  are accepting international flights without requisite certifications. To address this significant deficiency, the AFI Plan includes a specific project championed by the ICAO Dakar and Nairobi-Regional Offices to assist African states in Aerodrome Certification in compliance with the Standards and Recommended Practices (SARPs) contained in Annex 14 to the Convention on International Civil Aviation. “It is also important to remember that airports are very much at the ‘front lines’ where aviation security and passenger facilitation are concerned, and that they are the source of many travellers’ first impressions of the country they will visit. Airports also play a very important role in our efforts to check the spread of communicable diseases through air transport. “ Conscious of these challenges, ICAO has been working with ACI and other stakeholders to assist states in securing resources and capacities to develop and modernise their aviation infrastructure.“ Angela Gitten’s  position In her presentation, ACI World President, Angela Gittens, said ICAO and ACI had formed a synergy to improve airport facilities in Africa. She said the two global bodies were working to modernise and expand airport infrastructure. Gittens noted that this had become imperative because of the projected growth of passenger traffic on the continent, as some countries in the region were witnessing or would soon witness rapid economic growth that would make more demand on air transport. She  highlighted some of the challenges confronting African airports growth. They include protectionism and competition, saying Africa often described as a sleeping giant has enough potential to develop and become a leading part of the global economy. Gittens said  African airports managers should ensure that they meet the need for passenger growth by  contributing significantly to the development of aviation globally.