Diamond Bank Plc, has lent its support to make women succeed in Micro Small and Medium Enterprises, (MSMEs). Head Regional Business, Northern Directorate, Sufiyanu Garba who disclosed this in Abuja, said the bank is in full support of women in Micro Small and Medium Enterprises, (MSMEs) and has introduced a lot of iniative for women in that area. Sufiyanu Garba disclosed this during the Diamond Bank first customer workshop in Abuja, where he stated that “the bank is in full partnership with women to ensure they succeed in their businesses.” According to him, “Diamond bank is a retail bank that has strong support for MSMEs. our customers are very important to us and we always want to support them. In Diamond we have different programmes each month and at different locations, this is among our programmes for the year.” He also revealed that “Diamond bank gives out loans for starters, what we do is prepare people to receive this loans, we teach them business principles and how to use their money for business, at the end of the day, they make the business bankable and we position and educate them on how to use this loans.” Garba urged women MSME operators with bankable businesses to “can come to us, the bank has been giving a lot of loans to MSMEs, and we are willing to do more. If a new customer under Diamond Bank wants loans, all you need to do is maintain an account with the bank for three months, as long as the customer knows its not a grant but a loan and payable at the due time.” He lamented that, challenges facing loan collection in Nigeria “is enormous, among them is unregistered businesses that want loans at all cost, in that case we take the pains of registering the company for the client.” Also speaking at the event, a business woman, Ijeoma Ndukwe who has grown her business into million naira worth advised other businesswomen to work on their success, remain with the strategy for your success. always know that there are business challenges to deal with, if this does not happen your business is dead. There is no business without challenges. Diamond Bank can only support your works in business not give you ideas on how to create a business.”