Kelechi  Oliver Anuna, the America-born Nigerian basketball player who star for Eko Kings and the Nigerian national team (D’Tigers), has yet spoken glowingly about his Shoe Drive Initiative, adding that sport is a good vehicle to drive away poverty. The 28-year-old currently starring for Potros de Nuevo Casa Grande in Mexico alluded to the oft saying that’givers never lack’, consequently his philanthropic gesture. “Sports can help a lot in life and to excel , you need good equipment but  what better way to start encouraging  youngsters in playing football than providing them with shoes,” said Anuna whose first name, Kelechi, means ‘Thank God’  in his native  Igbo language.“I buy shoes as well as accept donations from people and have them shipped to Nigeria to be distributed to young players.” KC, as he’s fondly called, loved nothing as much football as a youngster but growing up in Tennessee – an area known as college basketball country – would influence his love for basketball. He reveals: “Well, I was born and grew up in Raleigh, North Carolina, before moving to Tennessee and that is the area known as ‘college basketball country’ and my father and older sister were big fans so that was how I grew to it. “Football was my number one but my earliest influences in taking on basketball was University of North Carolina Tarheels team, Hakeem Olajuwon, Penny Hardaway, Allen Iverson, Baron Davis, Joe Forte and so many others. “I played NCAA1 at Middle Tennessee State University under Kermit Davis. As a late bloomer in the basketball world, I was mostly an athlete. I had a great body, and athletic ability and people would ask why I didnt play. It wasn’t until my ACL injury that my basketball skills really kicked in because I wasn’t as athletic. “I can say my parents  were supportive after a while. My dad was real big on education, so he didn’t let me play basketball until I was like 14 on an actual team. I would go to parks and gyms to play sets.” Since turning professional, KC has played in several countries and reckons that experience has stood him in good stead over the years. “My first call up to the national team was back in 2013 under Coach Ayodele Bakare. I had just finished my rookie season in Tunisia. We camped in LA, and went on to the Stankovich Cup in China where we placed third. “Being part of the  D’Tigers 2017 AfroBasket  team that took silver was a unique expereience for me. As a player who wants to play his best at all times, I could’ve done better personally but as a team we did ok with what we had. “Where do I see myself in the next five years?Thats a tough one. Not because I dont know but knowing me,  I have my hands in everything,” he reasoned.  Q &A with ANUNA Who is Kelechi Anuna? Kelechi Anuna is entrepreneurial energetic, high spirited, culture loving person, who always tries to be the best he can be. Do you have a girlfriend and who is she? When the wind blows, you will know see the rump of the chicken. We know you’ve tattoos. Any significant meanings attached to several tattoos on your body? Yea,  I have tattoos. Each one has its own particular meaning to it. Oddly, I have alot, so you’d need a whole different article for my tattoos alone. Why are you strongly connected with  Nigeria despite being born and bred abroad? That’s just how I’ve always been. That’s just how I was raised. My family were one of the early immigrants to the US. That late 1970s – early 1980s wave of Nigerians, but they still ruled with the Nigerian family laws and traditions. Also going back home a lot helps, and still staying close knit with a lot of family and kindred people who as of late migrated over. Puma, Nike or Adidas? Nike.