At a grand rally held in Aiyetoro, Yewa North Local Government Area of Ogun state last Thursday, which was well attended by prominent sons and daughters of Yewaland, the people of Ogun West senatorial district spoke in unison concerning the 2019 governorship race in the state as stakeholders and some political parties endorsed the Speaker of the State’s House of Assembly, Suraj Ishola Adekunbi as their preferred candidate for the governorship race in the State. According to Chief Ishola Olateju, frontline Yewa elderstateman and Chairman of Aiyetoro Solidarity Forum (ASF), host of the event, the occasion was a show of determination by the people of Yewaland in general and Aiyetoro in particular, to have a voice in the Ogun 2019 governorship race. “With this, we have spoken in clear terms that our son, Suraj Adekunbi, is capable to lead the state after Senator Ibikunle Amosun,” he said. Political party chairmen in Yewa North L.G.A, including Adekunle Dara of APC, Abel Olaleye of Accord Party,  Olaleye Kamilu of the Action Democratic Party (ADP)  and Adelakun Abdullateef of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), all announced the decision of their parties to jointly adopt Adekunbi for the race and work very hard for his emergence as the next governor of the state while saying it is time for Ogun West senatorial district to produce the governor of the state. Other parties represented at the event are Labour Party (LP), People Democratic Party (PDP) and All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA). In their separate speeches at the event, traditional rulers namely the Alaye of Ayetoro ,Oba Abdulazeez Adelakun, Adokun of Igan Okoto, Oba Mukaila Salako, Alademeso of Igan Alade, Oba Gabriel Olalowo, Olu of Sawonjo,  Oba Michael Ayinde Oderinde, Chairman, Yewa North Local Government Council, Rasaq Adeagbo, Chairman of Iju LCDA, Rahman Alebiosu and his Ketu LCDA counterpart, Hon. Moses Adegbite, all gave their blessing to the endorsement of Adekunbi by his people. Oba Adelakun said: “I am ready, alongside other traditional rulers in Yewaland, to support Adekunbi. The whole of Ayetoro is ready to support him in the governorship race alongside other traditional rulers here in Yewaland. This time, we are ready to support our own, and everyone is going to support him including the Obas, Imams and the pastors. Nobody from here is going to support any other person henceforth.” In his response, Speaker Adekunbi who attended the rally in company of Honourables Olayiwola Ojodu, Victor Fasanya and Oludare Kadiri, thanked the people of Yewaland for their continued support and the confidence reposed in him during previous elections which gave him the opportunity to become the Speaker of the State House of Assembly. He thanked them for endorsing him and promised to live up to their expectation. Adekunbi reiterated the readiness of the Assembly under his leadership to sustain the peaceful coexistence among all arms of government for the socio-economic advancement of the State, adding that the present administration would continue to evolve more people-oriented programmes through all-inclusive government. He reassured of his plans to consolidate on the gains of the present administration, if elected as the Governor next year. Also in attendance at the event were political functionaries from Ogun Central and East Senatorial districts, traditional rulers, artisans, religious bodies, professional associations, market men and women, as well as Igbo and Hausa communities amongst others. Many of those who spoke with The Nation at the rally expressed satisfaction with the new found unity among the people of Aiyetoro. “Now that the people have spoken with one voice, we are making a passionate appeal to the governor and other party leaders to hearken to our voices and give us the man we want.,” Bolaji Aretola, former Yewa North council boss, said.