Special Adviser to the President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu has said the All Progressives Congress (APC) will not rely on the federal might to win the July 14 governorship poll in Ekiti State. Ojudu, who is seeking the APC ticket to stand as a candidate, absolved President Muhammadu Buhari of alleged involvement in a plot to rig the election. Addressing reporters in Ado-Ekiti to mark the end of his tour of the 177 wards to sell his agenda to party delegates ahead of the May 5 primary, Ojudu said the APC will win the election because of the bad governance of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Ojudu, who represented Ekiti Central in the Senate between 2011 and 2015, described himself as the best among politicians seeking the nomination of the APC. Describing himself as the right candidate to confront the PDP at the poll, Ojudu urged delegates to vote him as the flag bearer. Dispelling allegations of Buhari’s interference, Ojudu described the president as a thoroughbred democrat who will not subvert the people’s wish. “President Buhari didn’t rig election in Kogi, Anambra, Edo and Ondo States and we must not expect such in Ekiti. We are going to win through people’s might. “All we need to do is to tell Ekiti people what we are going to do better than this profligate PDP government in Ekiti. I have a manifesto that I have sold to the delegates. “We have a huge debt in Ekiti today because there are misplaced priorities and we saw people taking bonds and loans and misappropriated it. “I am not against borrowing, but it must be spent on human capital development and those projects that can generate money for our state. “Today, our people are oppressed, experiencing corruption and hunger. So, there is nothing left for Fayose’s government to support continuity”. He criticised Governor Ayo Fayose for allegedly spending N16 billion to construct a flyover which he said “has no benefit when workers have not been paid for eight months.” The aspirant has good news for workers and pensioners. He said: “I want to assure our workers that I will pay all outstanding salaries and pension. These I can easily do by way of stopping white elephant project and concentrate on human capital development.” Ojudu promised to invest in agriculture to generate employment and additional revenue into the state coffers, noting that Ekiti has comparative advantage in the sector. Ojudu pledged to establish farm settlements in the 16 local government areas to take the unemployed youths from the streets. He said: “When an economy is like this, Ekiti must go back to land. We must go into commercial agriculture and encourage our youth, so that we can feed ourselves, sell to neighbouring states and even earn exports to shore up our IGR.”