Jogging and other aerobics like walking have more benefits for the heart than most people realise. It is for this that Power Oil healthy cooking oil has extended one of its yearly consumer health awareness  tagged ‘Power Oil pay with calories’, to Rivers and Anambra states to encourage more Nigerians to embrace body fitness and healthy living. The ‘Power Oil pay with calories’ idea began five years ago to help consumers who are willing to  trade off some calories in exchange for gifts. This year’s events, which held at the Onitsha Mall and Port Harcourt Mall,  created a platform for the brand to interact with its consumers. Various gift items were offered to the consumers burnt some calories. Its Brand Manager, Miss Amisha Chawla explained that the campaign was borne out of the necessity to encourage Nigerians to further become mindful of their heart health by maintaining good body fitness and eliminate unhealthy consumption habits, as these factors are important to lowering the risk of blood pressure and heart-related ailments. “The activation is simply to promote healthy living by encouraging Nigerians to pay more attention to their body and be cautious about the quality of what they consume to maintain a healthy heart. We also make it a point of duty to advise Nigerians against the consumption of low-quality or sub-standard cooking oil, which on the long run puts consumers at risk of heart related diseases and other health issues. “The idea is to engage consumers in a series of exercise on the treadmills and cyclers to burn some calories, of which will eventually be rewarded with amazing gift items depending on the amount of calories being able to burn within a specific time,” she said. According to Mrs. Omotayo Abiodun, the firm’s Public Relations Manager, the campaign had been held in Lagos, Ibadan and Abuja. However, to have more people, especially from the east, benefit from the campaign, it has being extended to two more states – Rivers and Anambra. It was also extended to more states with the belief that it would motivate consumers to understand the importance of leading a healthy life. Mrs. Ngozi Ibekwe, from Onitsha, who lost up to 30 calories and got rewarded with a tummy trimmer, commended the brand for its efforts in encouraging Nigerians to live a healthier and better life through their various health friendly activities. Mr. Tony Chris, a participant in Port Harcourt, who also burnt 53 calories said: “We had so much fun while getting rewarded for that made it more interesting. I applaud the Power Oil brand for bringing the event to Port Harcourt, and we shall be looking forward to another edition.