Motorists plying Third Mainland Bridge on Sunday morning raised alarm following the sight of a vehicle with people inside the lagoon.
The vehicle was seen at about 6:30am by the University of Lagos (UNILAG) waterfront with its passengers screaming for help.
Initial reports had it that the vehicle plunged into the lagoon as a result of a multiple accident involving a coaster bus and five other cars.
But the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) said both the accident scenes and the vehicle in the lagoon were staged managed for training purposes.
According to LASEMA’s General Manager, Adesina Tiamiyu, there was an ongoing simulation intended to foster collaboration among emergency responders, improve the level of preparedness and increase response capability in the management of multiple casualty incidents along the Third Mainland Bridge.
Tiamiyu said: “LASEMA with its stakeholders is presently conducting a live simulation exercise code named “Operation Oko Jasosa”  on the Third Mainland Bridge, opposite the UNILAG Waterfront, inward Lagos Island.
“We are simulating multiple road accidents involving a coaster bus and five other vehicles, one of which plunged into the Lagos Lagoon.
“The exercise is intended to sharpen synergy, foster collaboration, improve the level of preparedness and increase the response capability of stakeholders in the management of multiple casualty incidents along the Third Mainland Bridge, which often witnesses this kind of event.
“Motorists and residents are advised to not panic as this exercise is only a live simulation to ascertain the capability, response time and coordination among emergency responders, which requires coordinated multi-agency response.
“Agencies participating in the exercise include LASEMA Response Unit (LRU), Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) State Environmental Health and Monitoring Unit (SEHMU ), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Lagos State Neighborhood Safety Corps, Lagos State Waterway Authority (LASWA), Rapid Response Squard (RRS), Marine Police, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) Nigerian Security & Civil Defence Corp and Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC).”