It was festival of colours and excitement as the women of the Efik Kingdom (Mbono Iban Isong Efik) got together to drive the renaissance of the cultural heritage of the people through the exhibition of traditional displays (Mbre) and cuisine. Tagged the Abang Cultural Festival, the event, which held at the African Club in Calabar, Cross River State capital, was aimed at reviving and promoting Efik traditional displays and cuisine that seem to be fading away. Led by Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, Eka Iban ke Essien Efik Duopeba(Mother of the 12 Efik Kingdoms), the women said it was pertinent for their cultural heritage to be maintained. On the significance of the cultural event, Ita-Giwa said: “We have an amazing cultural heritage that may be forgotten if care is not taken. There are so many things that the world does not know about our cultural heritage that have been on since the times of our ancestors. We are putting them on display. We are going to start reviving all our lost cultural heritage. “There are so many deep-seated cultural values in the Efik land, so many cultural plays, what is called Mbre in Efik. I am not talking about masquerades, because women don’t carry masquerades. There are traditional cultural displays which we call our cultural heritage that were there in the days of our ancestors. But unfortunately, these are gradually disappearing. What is very popular is Ekpe, and it is actually a man’s thing, with due respect. Gradually, the women’s culture is disappearing. So, I just thought that we should bring out that aspect of women’s cultural heritage and showcase them to the world. “We are here to put on display our cultural heritage by means of cultural dances, costumes and cuisine. We are bringing what is in our kingdom to showcase to the world. Part of our culture is our food. The Efik women are well known for their ability in cooking. “Starting with the traditional displays (Mbre) take for instance the Abang. I used to see Abang when I was a kid, and Abang is a very elegant cultural display dance, which is very ancient and traditional. Then we also have the Ntimi. When we were kids in school, we used to see it. But now I am grown I don’t see it again. There are so many others like that. “In the area of food, we are going to showcase the foods that the people have forgotten about not just the Afang or Edikang Ikong that everyone knows about. I am talking about Efik food such as Ekpang Nkukwo Ikon, where you would see the amazing things the people do with melon. We are going to showcase our own unique Banga soup. We also have Anyan Ekpan, which is cassava, yam and cocoyam wrapped in leaves which is our traditional food. We are going to show our Iwuk Abia, a popular dish, yam porridge cooked traditionally; and our own jollof rice, Iwuk Eresi. The Iwuk Eresi is the Calabar jollof rice, which is very traditional and different from every other jollof rice. These and others would be on display. “And we decided to make it competitive, because they have not been out in a long time. Some of them are from villages. So, they can compete and take some prizes home. At the end of the day, everyone goes home with something. “We are going to make this a yearly affair. We are worried about the disappearing cultural heritage and that is why we are doing this, because we want to bring them back. What is a nation without culture, without tradition? Nothing. We must bring our culture back. The culture of a nation is what makes a nation. “We are also using it as a platform to promote peaceful co-existence and also to advise youths to stop killing themselves. Tourism is very important. A country like Brazil lives on tourism, so we should try to promote all our cultural values. Things like this should attract people from all over the world to witness. So, we are using this platform to also promote tourism. It is the dependence on oil that is making us not to promote tourism as we should. So, this is a good platform.” Wife of the Obong of Calabar, Queen Ansa Ekpo Okon Abasi Otu, who was the special guest of honour expressed delight with the event, saying it would promote unity. ”The women of the Efik Kingdom have come together to revive and promote our lost cultural activities. This would promote our culture and ensure togetherness among us, and our children would learn the culture of our ancestors so that when we are no more, they would continue from where we stopped. We pray to continue to do it every year,” she said. Chairman of the Etuboms’ Traditional Council of the Palace of the Obong of Calabar, His Royal Highness (HRH) Etubom Bassey Okor Bassey Duke, said he was  delighted about the development. “This is something we are excited about, because we have almost lost some of the cultures we are seeing today. Women do not dance Abang any longer. In the past, during Christmas and other festivities, we used to celebrate it and there used to be competitions among different Abang groups then. We are happy to see it revived. It is impressive. We are very particular about cuisine in Efik land. The Efik people have very impressive cuisines and we are happy they are being revived,” Duke said.