Change, they say, is constant. There is no human being or human process that can remain the same forever. In fact, several things are undergoing changes as I penned this article. Some other things have metamorphosed from how they were just a moment ago. So, everything changes. The fact is that, most of the changes – negative and positive – happen spontaneously. The contradictions that bring about changes in societies are different and have their peculiar origins. Some changes happened elsewhere and they are shipped down to other climes where the conditions are different. Most have also taken place here due to circumstances, good and bad. Like everywhere in the world, there have been changes in Nigeria and we have our peculiar contradiction propelling these changes. In our own case, the up is down and the down is up. The first time I heard of this phrase was in a movie series I watched while waiting for admission into higher institution in 2007. The movie was titled: Boston Legal. I am always fascinated by lengthy on-screen stories popularly referred to ‘series’ or ‘season films.’ Boston Legal was about the shenanigans of lawyers in a law firm and the strategies they applied to win court cases. I have been thinking about that expression since, because it has taught me how things have turned on their heads. How logic has lost its lustre, leading to lack of capacity for critical thinking among the populace. Critical thinking, Francis Bacon says, is a desire to seek, patience to doubt, fondness to meditate, slowness to assert, readiness to consider, carefulness to dispose and set in order; and hatred for every kind of imposture. True as this quote is, I sometimes shake my head in disbelief over the number of ignorant people the world has created. The rationality of the world is what is at risk. Too many people are taking advantage of processes because of their lack of critical thinking, logic and deductive reasoning. These same people are raising another generation without skills in critical thinking, which, in turn, would create a new generation of clueless people. However, good as technologies are, they have also brought with them vices that have made it easy to manipulate the society – mentally and otherwise. Faking a life and object is now about the will, not knowhow. One can almost learn anything today if the will is there. Thanks to the avalanche of audiovisual instructional materials. Thanks also to the Internet. In fact, even intelligences are being faked in the world of today and it has swiftly affected the pyramidal spin. It is now about capacity to churn out fake news and everyone buys them hook, line and sinker. The society has become so used to cutting corners and making celebrities out of nonentities. It is a phenomenon that has made it easy for public manipulation because the people have been preoccupied with what is ‘trending’ than the substance. Information is now being digested, using emotive appeal than rationalisation. It is now about the physical aesthetics of the purveyors of the information, his creed and wording rather than informational fidelity. Fraud pervades the earth. Everyone wants to cut corners for meaningless purposes. People are feeding on the fake news with so much gusto. It is like several of us have become lost in the prevailing confusion and unmitigated flood of the unreal that have helped turn the tide, causing it to flow upward rather than down. I doubt if there was any time the level of decadence and value substitution and aberration was ever this high anywhere in the world, much less in Nigeria. One can steal and become famous; celebrated by all, including religious leaders, as long as they get to share of the spoils. In fact, they would even organise ‘prayers’ and ‘wealth cleansing’ for such questionable persons, who they know came about their wealth through dubious and dodgy means. When they are not supposed to have condoned such persons, they turn blind eyes and partake in the ‘sharing’. Sadly too, many mothers of today hardly ever ask their jobless daughters how they come about the gadgets they use and the new dresses they wear. In fact, some of the mothers even descend as low as borrowing monies from their daughters. The same thing applies to parents whose children engage in advance fee fraud; some of them rather praise their wards for being ‘smart’ despite being engaged in the illicit activities. The list of how lack of logical thinking and value replacement with ineptitude and total subjugation of right for wrong abound every moment of every day. When will this society undergo a value rebirth?