With a budget as low as N3500, a family can enjoy a yearly health insurance cover courtesy of Reliance HMO (Health Maintenance Organisation). According to the firm’s Chief Executive Officer Mrs. Funlola Jide-Aribaloye, the HMO has insurance plans that ensure that individuals, families and organisations are healthy. Mrs Jide-Aribaloye spoke during the launch of the product. She explained that Reliance HMO has an edge over other firms because it is technology-driven. It started two years ago with a vision to enhance insurance accessibility through technology, the first of its kind in the country. “Reliance HMO is an insurance company that has fused technology into its operations to make health insurance more affordable, easier to access and all-round pleasant experience. To make health insurance more accessible and available to a wider variety of people, Reliance HMO has a repertoire of affordable healthcare plans for individuals, families and companies. “We understand that there is a yearning from the public for health insurance plans that really work, payment structures that don’t burn a hole in peoples’ pockets, and customer service that addresses their most pressing concerns. And that is why at Reliance HMO, we’ve built tailor-made insurance plans that ensure that individuals, families and organisations can stay healthy,” she said. Mrs Jide-Aribaloye added: “Furthermore, we are the first and only health insurer in Nigeria that gives enrolees the benefit and convenience of monthly payments. With a good number of partner hospitals and more being signed up every day, we are committed to preserving the wellbeing and health of individuals and the society as a whole. “Reliance HMO has an enviable mantra tagged “You can rely on us,” and is focused on doing everything to ensure that the customers’ health insurance experience is delightful and seamless. Customers can also look forward to the 24-hour Reliance Help Centre, where friendly and highly-trained agents, are always available to provide support and deal with urgent inquiries.” Reliance HMO co-founder/chief product officer, Mr. Femi Kuti, said health insurance is the answer to addressing challenges in the sector. “That is why we have tailored this HMO to address peculiar needs to Nigerians. This HMO has a dedicated medical support team that includes doctors on call and a 24/7 access to doctors’ consultation online.” “It is atrocious that only three per cent of Nigerians are covered in the health insurance and the country even has more disease situations than in more developed countries. Research shows that 50 per cent of families are at the risk of catastrophic financial situation, which means almost going bankrupt if they get a big health bill. “Our focus at Reliance HMO is to help more Nigerians regardless of who they are, get enrolled, access to health insurance and access healthcare at an affordable, decent price that won’t be outrageous, and in a case whereby you do not access your healthcare plan, probably because you didn’t fall ill, you can always be given back your cash or roll it over for another plan,”Kuti added. 