MFM FC supporters were visibly angry on Monday as their team failed to spark after the visiting Rivers United FC claimed a 1-1 draw at the Soccer Temple, Agege Stadium. It was reported that the supporters were not happy with the referee’s decision not to award what they claimed was clear cut penalties to MFM after infringements on their players in the first half. A cross section of the fans expressed disappointment with the officiating of the important match which they claimed that the referee contributed to MFM’s unfavourable result. Speaking to our reporter, a fan who gave his name as Sheriff claimed that MFM was clearly robbed during the match. “’This is a clear robbery in Lagos, the officiating was so poor, we don’t expect this type of officiating at all,’’ he said. Another, Tunbosun Agbaje, said that the fans were not happy when games were won or lost by the teams with the aid of the referees. “It is unfortunate when teams lose matches with the aid of referees, we are often discouraged when we see this type of match. “How do they want us to be coming to watch a pre-determined game. It’s not worth it and our league may not grow if these poor officiating continues,’’ he said. Reports confirmed that the Olukoya Boys seeking s redemption after the CAF Confederation Cup ouster needed to win the NPFL Match Day 18 fixture but eventually dropped the valuable points. A goal from last year’s BBC Goal of the Month recipient, Sikiru Olatunbosun in the 17th minute should have been added to in the first half but MFM were denied by Rivers United goalkeeper, Rotimi Sunday. Rotimi was able to rise to the call to save three goal bound efforts from Nojeem Akinyemi, in the 12th, Olatunbosun’s flick header, 15th and Udeh Zintel 35th minutes. The “Pride’’ of Rivers, Coach, Stanley Eguma, however, made a tactical change in the second half with the introduction of Malachi Ohawume to switch from 4:3:2 to 4:4:2 formation in the 63rd minute. The introduction of Malachi yielded positive result as Emeka Atuloma fired an outside box shot to the top corner of the net leaving MFM goalkeeper Folarin Abayomi helpless. Speaking after the match, Olatunbosun said that he was disappointed. “I am disappointed with the outcome of the match which I also share the sentiment that we are clearly robbed. “We tried our best to win the match, but in football, you win some and lose some. We will try harder next time,’’ he said. NAN 