It was a carnival atmosphere at the vast playground of Ubueni Primary School, Oshimili North L.G.A. with the large crowd thronging the school. Many drummed, sang and danced. Huge colourful billboards placed at strategic location around the community proclaimed the event. Residents of this mainly agrarian community took the day off. Socio-economic activities were suspended and the famous Ebu yam market was closed. Before the event proper, the crowd which hitherto was a trickle had transformed into a deluge as the young and old from the five quarters of Ebu community besieged the venue of the ceremony. Music blared from loudspeakers around the playground. The mood was jubilant as visitors from neighbouring community joined in the celebration. The famous Ebu masquerade captivated the audience. Guests marveled at its magical powers. The cylindrically shape masquerade clothed in light brown spotted  canvass material rose to dizzying heights only to  contract  into a tidy neatly  folded heap fitting into a 3ft by2ft box. The occasion was the coronation and presentation of staff of office by the Delta State Governor, Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa to His Royal Majesty Paul Odilile Opili, Onu Umukojordu,  Onu of Ebu. The Ebu people were expectant having been without a king for many years following the untimely demise of the last king, HRM Aninta Ojorjadu 11. But soon the wait was over as the convoy of the Deputy Governor; Mr. Kingsley Utuaro who represented Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa drove into venue. The President General of Ebu Development Union, (EDU) Akpeli Tom Nwakalor kicked off the event with his address. He said that Ebu community is the only Igala speaking community in the State surrounded by Igbo speaking communities, adding that their uniqueness has impelled them into developing the community and much of the relevance it enjoys in the scheme of things in the present Delta State. His words, “Ebu is the only Igala speaking community in Delta State and regarded as a minority in Anioma group in the State. In the light of this apparent disadvantage, one would expect the Ebu community to have sunk in her endeavor to develop. No, this was not to be. Rather our sons and daughters have remained undaunted and held to their faith and belief that God had his purpose for locating Ebu in its present abode and for giving it, its peculiar character.” He appealed to government for intervention in infrastructure, stressing that the community has not had light in over ten years. He appealed for a new public secondary school, stressing that   said as a result of government policy, Ebu Grammar school  was handed over to the missionary  and a a consequence  students who could not  afford the new fees charged by the missions have relocated to the primary school compound. Chairman, Oshimili North L.G.A, Mr. Louis Ndukwe praised the Ebu people for resolving the kingship issue without bloodshed or litigation, while describing the maturity shown as “legendary and commendable”. He said the installation of the monarch of Ebu brings to six the number of gazzetted kings in the local government area, adding that it was a welcome development given the “enormous roles they play in ensuring peace in their respective domains.” According to him, Ebu is important to the local council due to the fact that it is a frontier community and an entry point into the State for people from the North, while stressing also its value as a “strong internally generated revenue base of the local government area.” He urged the monarch to uphold the sanctity of the culture and traditions of Ebu land, maintain peace and harmonious relationship between the various quarters. Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa commended the Ebu people for rallying round their king, adding that the large number of Ebu people witnessing the coronation of their monarch was reflective of their “extreme regard they have for the traditional stool. It expresses their love and respect for the royal father” He assured that his administration will support traditional institutions in the State through the provision of conducive environment for their leadership to thrive, adding that this support would galvanise the paramount rulers to mobilise their subjects to support government policies. Okowa listed the achievements of his administration and assured the Ebu people that the request by the community will be addressed by the appropriate authorities. The high point of the ceremony was the presentation of the staff of office by Gov. Ifeanyi Okowa to the new monarch. Present at the occasion were the Delta North Senatorial Chair, Moses Iduh, Delta Commissioner for Information, Mr. Patrick Ukah, Obuzor of Ibusa, HRM Prof Louis Nwaboshi, Obi of Akwukwu-Igbo, Obi Azuka, Ugoani of Okpanam, HRM Michael Mbanefo Ogbolu,Attah of Igala HRM, Dr. Michael Idakwo Ameh Oboni 11,Chief Moses A Braimoh, Amana Attah of Igala, Chief Ibrahim Adama Atadoga,Inalogun, Attah Igala and HRM  Ibrahim Gambo Amodu ,Onu Ido Okoliko amongst other dignitaries.