A governorship aspirant, Chief Emmanuel Bello, recently defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Adamawa State. In this interview with TONY AKOWE, he speaks on his vision and why he wants to succeed Governor Jubrila Bindow in next year’s election. WHy do you want to be govrnor of adamawa state? I was born and bred in Adamawa State and I feel that I have a duty to give back to my community what the community has given me. My community in Adamawa State has given me life, even though we know all lives come from God. Only God can decide what happens tomorrow. No human being can say I will be this. But with God, everything is possible. So, why do I want to become governor? Or why am I even in politics? Look at Adamawa State, for instance, I’m a student of contemporary politics. And I like to refer my political upbringing to the philosophy of Malam Aminu Kano of blessed memory and Sa’adu Zungur, who was the ideologue for the Northern Element Progressive Union (NEPU). I read so much about him. He came from Bauchi. He was Malam Aminu Kano’s teacher. He was a very serious ideologue. He came from the Marxist study group point of view. I link my ideology of life, politics and being to the socialist ideology and the fact that all human beings are equal. Justice is not something that should be negotiated. All people must be treated with dignity. And life is precious. I have an idea of how a government should be formed and run and how a government should implement its policies. Adamawa State as you know is a very rich state. We have all sorts of natural endowments that God has deposited in our State. But they are all untapped. Our population is not helping matter. We are growing and lacking correct leadership in these contemporary days, where you need people with innovations and ideas in order to improve the lot of the people. The government of the day in Adamawa has no idea of how to run a government. If you are driving from Yola to Gumbi, where I come from, or you are going to Mubi, Numam, Shelleng, Ganye, and Magadali, you will see the linear settlements. A lot of houses are built along the road. Nobody is leaving in the interior. We have vast land. Almost 72 per cent of our land is unoccupied. People build their houses on linear settlements and the young people are all sitting under the tree. Let’s take an example, you are driving to Mubi, which is about five hours drive from Yola, when you pass at 7am, you will see some young men. Just take note of their clothes and description, when you are coming back around 3 o’ clock, they are still seating under the shade. It means that we are losing manpower contribution to the economy. Every day, our per capital income is not going up. It is coming down. Go to National Bureau of Statistics, you will see what is happening in Adamawa. The growth rate is almost getting to five per cent from 2.6 it was 10 years ago and 4.6 two years ago. So, what is happening? Who is planning our life? One of the major problems in Nigeria is lack of proper planning. What are your plans for the state? When you go to the United States of America or the United Kingdom, what do they do? People who find themselves in local councils are talking about what will happen in the next five to 10 years. Tell the government in Nigeria that is planning. I challenge anybody. Tell me who is planning in Nigeria, apart from Lagos State, no government in Nigeria has sat down to plan about the future of its people. What is going to happen tomorrow. Like I always tell people, some of the plans which I have, I don’t want to make them public now. The copy cats are waiting for me to bring out that idea so that they can copy me and so, I will not give out any idea now. I will give it at the appropriate time and everybody will know that it is my ideas so that they can vote for me when I finally come out to run because they know I will implement these ideas. But what is important is that if I become governor, which, by the grace of God, I will be, I will ask all Adamawa indigenes that are unemployed to come back home. Those hardworking young men who are doing okada business in Lagos, I will give them jobs. I will create jobs and I will take them. Our total population is 3.7 million of which 35.2 per cent are already above the age of 35 to 70. The rest are the younger people. The eligible age of employment is just about 23 per cent. We can mop them up. So, I know what is on ground and I am preparing and have been preparing for years and I know exactly what to do. But my calling to become governor is not about me, but about the people of Adamawa and it is about giving back to the society. I’m a businessman. I’m a retailer and I  have done very well for myself. I feel that if I can apply some of my ideas and business innovations to governance, I will be able to salvage the situation. I can create wealth for the state which will take care of many issues. It will take care of infrastructure, education, health system and unemployment. If you can take care of these major problems in any state in Nigeria, you have solved 80 per cent of the problems of that state and  it will be a place every Nigerian will like to go, settle and live his or her life.  That is exactly what government should do And this is the reason why I want to become governor for the time being. How would you create jobs for Adamawa youths? I can create up to 80,000 jobs in four years. But the unemployed population is about 870,000. I have a plan to actualize that and I will release it at the appropriate time. Creating 80,000 jobs in four years for a state government is remarkable. It means 80,000 jobs will create another 80,000 jobs. Job creation is a chain. When you create job for Mr A, he creates a job for Mr B. Mr B creates a job for Mr C. So, the mop-up process has started. That means about one million people who have no jobs will be mopped up into the jobs circle, except those who are lazy and do not want to work. If they are ready to work, they will definitely get jobs. People come with all sorts of ideas that they want to create jobs. But they never give the plans. I have a plan. And at the appropriate time, I will release my plan. Do you think you have the support base to aspire for this kind of office? I am not the type of politician that people talk about. I am not a typical politician. I am a business man and I do not look at myself as contesting any position for the elites. I am contesting for the talakawas who constitute the majority of the population. Those kind of people who actually need some changes in their lives. I think that I am for the poor people and I will like them to be for me. I am an elitist type of guy. Even though I am hard working and businessman, I feel that I come from the under privileged segment of the society which should be my target if I become governor and I should make things turn around for them. As time goes on, you will see my sincerity in place because people come and talk and immediately they become governor, they will fail to act. God forbid that I should be that kind of person. I will like to be a governor  that will bring about the change that you will be so proud of. I have a name to protect and a commitment to fulfill. Boni Haruna may not have become the governor, if Atiku Abubakar was not Vice President. The powers did not want  Bala Ngilari to replace Murtala Nyako when he was to be impeached. Bala Takaya, Boss Mustapha, and Markus Gundiri have also crossed this same road. What gives you courage to pursue this ambition? You are here with me. I’m not Bala Takaya, I’m not Boss Mustapha. Neither am I Markus Gundiri and I am not Boni Haruna. I am Emma Bello. So, that is the difference between me and them. The names are not the same and the personalities are not the same. The majority is under the rulership of the minority. Can you change the trend? I am not a candidate for minority groups. I’m not a candidate for the oppressed groups. I’m a candidate for the Talaka. I am the candidate for the poor people of Adamawa either minorities or majorities. In every segment of the society, we find people who are under-privileged by circumstances of birth, creed or religion. I am their candidate. My liberation for the people of Adamawa is not about their tribe or creed. But it is about their humanity. All human beings are equal and we all have a duty to ourselves. For the sake of humanity and God who created us, we must do justice to all humanity. So, I am a candidate for justice and for the people who feel that they have not been given opportunity in their own land. I will make sure that those people are not segregated against because of their creed or religion or because of the privileges they lack. Those are the people who are my target and the people I will like to represent irrespective of their religion, creed or tribe. I will ensure that every body in Adamawa has an opportunity to go to school, have a job and have a job and be a bonafide citizen where he is residing. How do you intend to convince people to stop taking money from candidates before voting for them? Times have changed. I believe very much in the common man. The common man is beginning to know his rights, even though he is hungry. I have told them to take the money and vote for their conscience, vote for the person who will work for you. You need the money to survive.  I don’t have money to give them. So, they should take the money.  Most of this money is stolen money. So, it is their own money. They are giving them back what belongs to them. We will try to do our campaign based on issues. We will try to work hard to convince the common man to understand that he need to defend his votes. I think they will be voting character and individual not party this time around. If they vote character and individual, they won’t vote wrongly. They will vote rightly because the choice will be: who is this person? What has he done in his life?   You don’t consider somebody who just gives out token and  sells out your conscience, life and future of your children. So, we will talk. That is why there will be period for campaigns and talking to people. I will try as much as possible when the time comes to reach as many voters as possible in order to get their votes and convince them on the right thing to do. We live in a society where belong to the party of the President tends to swing votes for you. We saw this happen during the last elections. Don’t you think that will also affect the forthcoming election especially if the President is running again. How do you intend to popularize yourself. The coming of baba Buhari in 2015 was a blessing in disguise to appropriating the votes correctly in 2019. People have realised that voting everybody on one platform was a big mistake. That is why the new campaign is: you character should save you. They are no longer calling the political parties. If your character is to save you, then it means people will appropriate their votes to individuals. They are no longer going for sak. They were doing sak in the last one, there will be no sak in this particular one. It is going to be individuals. I was in the All Progressives Congress (APC). I left the APC two weeks ago. So, it is no longer going to be sak. It will be a question of who you are. If this person is performing, let’s vote him back. If this person is a liar, let’s vote him out. Do you sincerely think that the votes of the people will count? If you want the country one and not to disintegrate, the votes must count. Already, we have issues that threaten to tear us apart, but God has kept us together. We cannot afford to aggravate our situation further. We don’t have a choice than to allow the votes to count. If we don’t allow the votes to count, it is going to be a bid problem. What will be the thrust of your campaign? Giving Adamawa back to the people of Adamawa because it has been stolen from them for too long. So, somebody need to give it back to them so that they will,own it. Once they own their state, they will be employed, have infrastructure,,education and pension everything. We are many and the resources allocated to the state and those generated locally is enough to take care of the needs of the people so the state. But because the state was stolen from the people, they don’t have a say in their government. I want a government where the Adamawa people will have a say. I want to have a government where the people will,own the government. So, I want to give them back their state. How confident are you that you will even secure the SDP ticket? I’m very confident that I will secure the ticket. Secondly, I am very confident that I will win because I’m working with the owner of the seat.