Students of the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) in Ondo State have been asked to pay N168 million as damages for the properties destroyed in the school during a violent protest that greeted the management’s “No school fee, No examination” policy. ENIOLA OLURANKINSE (Mass Communication) reports. Two months after, a four-man Committee of Inquiry set up by the Ondo State Government to look into the causes of the violent protest that rocked the  Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) has submitted its report and recommended that students should pay N168 million damages as a condition for the school to be re-opened. Students’ Union Government (SUG) has given the government a seven-day ultimatum to re-open the school, saying students were tired of staying at home. A statement by the union president on Tuesday reads: “We are tired of sitting at home without doing nothing. We have no information on when our school would be re-opened. We agree strongly that we must pay for the damages, but we want to return to our studies. “The union calls for resumption and immediate announcement of reparation fee for each student within the next seven days starting from April 10. Properties worth millions were destroyed when students went on rampage on January 22, in response to the school’s “No school fee, No examination” policy. Chairman of the committee Pastor Oyekan Arije, while submitting the report, said the committee had several meetings with the management staff, members of the academic board, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP), Non–Academic Staff Union (NASU), Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Polytechnics (SSANIP) and Students’ Union Government (SUG) before arriving at its recommendations. Arije, who described the destruction and vandalism by the students as unacceptable, noted that members of the committee were startled by the level of destruction carried out by the students during the violent protest. According to him, the destruction is “massive and wanton”, saying the school’s Information Communication Technology (ICT) Centre was worst hit. “We’ve made our recommendations and we have submitted the report to Governor Rotimi Akeredolu for his consideration,” Arije said. Receiving the report, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu thanked the committee chairman and members for completing the task within the stipulated time. Akeredolu insisted that the students would pay for the damages, saying: “Whatever it will take, students will definitely pay the damages. It is either they pay or they don’t want to go back to school.” The governor wondered why students destroyed facilities put in place by the government to aid their learning. He said students arrested in connection with the violence would not have their trial truncated, adding that anyone found culpable would face the wrath of the law. Akeredolu said: “We will look at the report; we will then meet with the Governing Council and the inquiry committee to know the amount of reparation to apportion to each students. Meanwhile, reactions have been trailing the committee’s recommendation. Students disagreed with the committee, saying the destruction was exaggerated. Although students agreed to pay reparation fee, they pleaded with the government to make it affordable. Each student could pay up to N15,000, according to the estimated population. But, the SUG was canvassing N10,000. Students begged the government, the committee and school management to be lenient in fixing the reparation fee. Also, some students, who claimed to have paid their school fee before the rampage, asked the management to exonerate them from the penalty as they were not part of the protest. A student, who paid his school fee before the violent protest, said: “We are already writing our examination before some students started throwing stones and sticks to disrupt the exercise. We were not part of the protest and we didn’t destroy any property.” Another student, Yinka Olalere of the Department of Accountancy, urged the management to consider those who were not part of the rampage. He said: “I was at home when the protest started. I had no examination that morning and I know many of my friends who did not partake in the protest. So, it will be so unfair for us to pay the same amount with those who destroyed and even stole some properties.” Some parents reacted to the committee’s report, condemning the students’ action and begged the government to fix a “reasonable” reparation fee. A parent, Mr Abiodun Oyewole, urged the government to consider the economic condition of the country before fixing the reparation fee. Meanwhile, the SUG, through its President, Temitayo Ayejuyo, has urged the students to remain calm and be law-abiding, stressing that the union was doing its best to ensure the management fixed an affordable fee. Temitayo said:  “The union is aware of the panel’s recommendations and are working relentlessly to see to the welfare and benefits of students. This is the oath we swore to. We want our students to refrain from any online speculations regarding the amount we are to pay for reparation. We don’t want 0social media speculations that will distort our work in progress.”