Halogen Security Company Limited, one of the indigenous security risk solutions providers in the country has impressed on the organised private sector the need to partner agencies of government in order to address the lingering national security crisis assailing the country. This call was reiterated at the just concluded Securex West Africa 2018 Conference which took place at Landmark Centre Victoria Island, Lagos. Securex West Africa conference is an annual event that provides a platform for security professionals at the regional and international space to network, exhibit latest technology and services in their field; display state of the art product solutions and discuss security issues. Adebayo Abegunde, Director Virtual Security, Halogen Security Company during his keynote address at this year’s conference stated that, “All over the world, technology has visible impact in government and on citizens especially in developed economies. Security is not just the government’s business but should be a collective business with the private sector in Nigeria.” He said “the role of technology in the transformation of the security industry in Nigeria should not be underestimated. The advent of Internet-of-Things (IoT) has simplified the approach and made technology a critical factor in combating the risk in our society and sustaining security management frame work. There is the need for all sectors of the economy to contribute their quota to the development of national infrastructure. Resources put together will provide the frame work to address our future position in terms of state security in Nigeria.” George Pearson, Event Director, Afrocet Montgomery, organisers of the event expressed his delight on the overall increase of participation at the exhibition which is a testament to how Securex West Africa has continued to be an influential and effective platform for companies looking to establish themselves and increase business in the region. As part of the activities for the conference, the first Outstanding Security Performance Awards (OSPAs) in Nigeria was inaugurated on Tuesday 20th March. The OSPAs is an international award which had its maiden ceremony in Norway in 2015.