A grandmother, Hauwa Dauda, is locked in a battle with her son-in-law, Abdulhameed Abdullahi, for the custody of her three-year-old grandchild, whose mother remarried. The woman had gone to Sharia Court II, Magajin Gari, Kaduna, asking it to grant her custody of the child. Her lawyer, Kabir Alhassan, told the court: “My client wants the court to grant her custody of her grandchild as stipulated in the Shari’a law and compel the father to take responsibility of the child.” The complainant also asked the court to order Abdullahi to pay N5, 000 monthly as feeding allowance for the child. However, Abdullahi told the court that the case had been decided by another court, which granted him custody of the child. He said the Shari’a Court at Bashama in Tudun Wada, Kaduna, granted him custody of his son after his ex-wife remarried. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Abdullahi presented documents from the earlier court, to substantiate his claim. Abdullahi said the child was under the care of his ex-wife after they divorced, but was returned to him after she remarried. “My mother-in-law dropped my son at my mother’s home, saying she could no longer take care of him, as her husband doesn’t support her,” he told the court. Counsel to the complainant, however, denied Abdullahi’s claim, describing it as “mere hearsay’’, as he was not around when the child was returned. He said the grandmother returned the child due to illness, adding that she only sought medication for her grandchild. “My client did not dump the child as the defendant alleged. Rather, she returned him to his maternal grandmother to receive treatment, as he was ill,” the lawyer stressed. He urged the court to disregard the documents presented, saying it was based on a different case. “The document he presented was a resolution of a case between him and his ex-wife, while this case is between him and his child’s grandmother,” he said. The son-in-law prayed the court to investigate the matter. The judge, Malam Musa Sa’ad, adjourned the case till April 9.