Hundreds of waterside dwellers in Isolo Local Council Development Area (LCDA), Lagos Mainland, yesterday benefitted from a campaign against malaria organised by Ikeja Electric Plc. The residents also received free treated mosquito nets provided by the company, whose representatives admonished them on the need to keep their environment clean at all times. According to Oshodi Business Manager, Enobong Ezekiel, the campaign was part of the firm’s corporate social responsibility (CSR). Ezekiel, who was represented by Mrs. Yewande Ogunsuji, said the company decided to focus on malaria this year because it was a silent killer. She said: “On Wednesday, the World’s Day against Malaria was celebrated. This is because it has gotten to the consciousness of health practitioners and policy makers that malaria kills faster than cancer. “Malaria is a deadly sickness but it is preventable. We have gone round waterside communities to enlighten them on the need to keep their environments clean. The mosquitoes that infect people with malaria breed in dirty and swampy environment. “We have also educated them on the need to visit health centres, hospitals whenever they feel sick and not resort to self-medication. “They should make it a habit to ensure drainages within their localities are not blocked. Through communal efforts, they should clear the drainages and any standing water, dispose waste properly. “Aside the health talks, we also distributed hundreds of treated mosquito nets, which can be used for two years, to the residents. All they have to do is ensure it doesn’t get torn and they should wash it whenever it is dirty. We have told them to expose the nets to the sun for about 12 hours before first use.” Aside the malaria prevention and treatment lectures, the residents were also enlightened on how to prevent electrocution. The company’s Safety Specialist, Olusegun Oguntana, said they should avoid fallen poles or snapped cables, adding that they should not touch wet street lights, poles. He said: “Sustained rainfall increases the likelihood of fallen poles, snapped cables and electrical accidents. Therefore, we advise that you do not climb trees near electric wires. Do not carry ladders or long poles, tools near electric wires. “Do not install antennas near electric poles; do not touch a fence or exit a car on which a wire has fallen unless you are sure that power has been cut off. Do not touch anyone already electrocuted because you may suffer the same fate. Never attempt to remove a fallen pole or cable by yourself and avoid installation of antennas, poled and electrical conducting materials during rainy season.” Among the areas visited were Ogundairo Estate, Waterside and Jubilee Close, both on Ago Palace Way.