 The Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo, has decried killings of clerics and bombings of Mosques and Churches, saying it was the highest level of wickedness. He spoke on Tuesday at the inauguration of the new auditorium of the Deeper Life Bible Church Headquarters in Gbagada, Lagos state. The Church also unveiled its new logo. The event was witnessed by dignitaries across all walks of life; clerics from Nigeria, Africa, Europe and the United States also stood to be counted. The ultra-modern auditorium, with about 30,000-seat capacity, has a big main bowl consisting of a four-story amphitheater with central air conditioning units, chiller farm and air handling units, among other things. According to Osinbajo,, the right to freedom of worship is also a right to build the church. He said it is devilish for anyone to kill in a place of worship, noting that all the killings going on in the name of herdsmen or Boko Haram were a ploy by the devil to cause religious war in Nigeria. He urged the Christians must not lose focus, but do more in propagating the gospel of Jesus Christ. “Nobody can stop the preaching of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The Lord is building His church and the gate of hell cannot prevail against the church. He urged the church to pray for the nation and the government, saying that running a government is like a spiritual warfare. “It is the duty of the Church, as we are to pray for those in government because governance is a spiritual warfare. If anyone does not know that, I know. I ask the Church to pray for every one of us in the position of authority in this land. “We are called to bring men and women to salvation, even those who kill. The enemy wants us to stand on our pulpits and preach hate but we will obey the Lord Jesus Christ, who said we must love our enemy and pray even for those who persecute us. There is no person born or yet to be born that can stop the gospel of Jesus Christ. “I see this great place being dedicated for the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ and worship of the saints. There will be peace in this place. The time for the return of Jesus Christ is near and we must propagate the gospel.” Osinbajo commended the Deeper Life Bible Church, for the new auditorium, describing it as a building with modern technology and well equipped facilities. He noted that the surroundings were investments in the community with the connecting bridge, street lights and greatly improved access roads. He also commended the General Superintendent of the Church, Pastor William Kumuyi, for his humility and commitment to spread the undiluted gospel of Jesus Christ. Lagos state governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, represented by the Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation, Lola Akande, described the project as an achievement, a labour of sacrifice over the years, adding that it is one to be proud of. He commended the Church for the multi-level car park and bridge constructed in the community, adding that the church has  impacted positively on the state as a mega city. “Let me reassure every one of our commitment to ensure  harmonious relationship among all residents in the state. We will continue to uphold and respect the rights of every citizen to freedom of worship and ensure that other people’s rights are not infringed upon.” Kumuyi, who said the edifice was due to many sacrifices of the Church members within and outside the country, prayed God to continue to reward and bless His people. He commended the Lagos State Government and residents of Gbagada for their support, adding that the Church was mindful of its social responsibilities to the community. He urged the gathering that as Christ lives in them, they should also express the Christ in them. “The ways of God are not our ways and His thoughts are not our thoughts. He will build his Church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it.” 