Cassava is a key tuber crop that can help Africa overcome its reliance on food imports for Africa. But experts are concerned that average yield per hectare is still between 10 and 20 tonnes. The Global Cassava Partnership for the 21st Century (GCP21), a non-profit international alliance of 45 organisations, is meeting in June in Benin Republic to seek ways to help Nigerian farmers use cassava create wealth and food security, DANIELESSIET reports. In Nigeria, and other West African countries, cassava is the main source of carbohydrates, replacing some traditional staples, such as millet and yam. With its adaptability to a dry climate, and  application  to many products, including foods, confectionery, sweeteners, chips and pellets, experts say cassava has shown strong capacity in helping Nigeria to become less dependent on food imports. Indeed, West Africa produces 50 per cent of world cassava. Nigeria alone accounts for 20.2 per cent  of this output, making it the world’s largest producer of the tuber. Despite Nigeria being the largest producer of cassava in the West African sub-region, experts said the nation’s  average yield per hectare is 10 to 15 tonnes. Speaking in Lagos, the  Director Global Cassava Partnership for the 21st Century (GCP 21), Dr Claude Fauquet said due to the archaic methods of cultivating it, Nigeria’s cassava yield per hectare remains one of the lowest in the world, having never been greater than 12 tonnes per hectare. Brazil, for example, has the highest cassava yields at 50 tonnes per hectare. The scientist said he had achieved 80 tonnes per hectare. Fauquet said low plant yield and poor agronomy practice were responsible for the poor status of most cassava farmers in the sub-region. He said Africa’s population would double by 2050 and food was important, in view of the need to feed the population. He said: “We need to mechanise the production of cassava to produce it in large quantity and make its price affordable to the large number of people, who consume it daily.” He explained that  cassava has enormous potential as a food security crop. To achieve this, crop yields would have to be improved. Also, farmers must have access to better-quality stems, fertiliser, mechanisation, and maintain  frequent weeding, right planting and harvesting times. According to him, cassava could become the raw material base for an array of processed products that would increase demand for the tuber and contribute to agricultural transformation and economic growth in many sub-Saharan countries. He  added that the  market for cassava in Nigeria and the rest of the sub region  is enormous and could still be explored further. Taking into account the multiple uses for fresh cassava, he projected a demand  for cassava  to hit over 2.6 million tonnes of fresh cassava. According to him,  Nigeria and the rest of West Africa  have a lot of work to do  to stimulate cassava production. He added that average yield per hectare must increase to 30 tonnes nationwide to cope with the population expected to double in a few years. According to him, mechanisation of the cassava production is a pre-requisite for industrialisation. He noted: “The major difference is the yield, which was 28 tonnes per hectare( t/ha) in 2014 in Parana, instead of about 10 t/Ha in Africa. This will have to be changed in Africa for allowing industrialisation of the gari production. We do know that mechanisation of the production with the best agronomic practices and available improved CVs would boost the production to 25-30 t/Ha, making it compatible with an industrialisation similar to the production in Brazil.” Fauquet said there must be a  move by the Federal Government, other international institutions and the private  sector  to stimulate the improvement and transformation of fresh cassava through various agricultural-industrial projects. To help the sub-region achieve high cassava production to tackle increasing population, Fauquet said GCP21 is holding its fourth International Cassava Conference in Cotonou, Benin, between  June 11 and 15. Top on the agenda of the conference is the need to enable farmers on the continent access technologies developed by international institutions for cassava production and processing. According to him, prominent agricultural scientists and development specialists from around the world will assemble in Cotonou for five  days to develop a plan and develop  intervention programmes to  address production constraints. Also, Prof. Malachy Akoroda, Director Designate of GCP21, said the group was set to partner with stakeholders globally to improve cassava production. Akoroda said that partnerships and reviewing successes of other countries would ensure cassava sustainability and development. Akoroda, said technological changes had influenced cassava production, allowing the possibility of offering better products, with increased value. He noted that one of the major limitations for cassava producers is technology application to fresh cassava. He said the use of appropriate technologies in farming reduces time, increases productivity and addresses the constraints of small scale farmers. He urged stakeholders to work together to transform the industry. 