The Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC) has trained key players in the chemical industry on health and safety. The LSSC held the one-day training in Lagos on Monday, in collaboration with its safety consultant Didomi Company Ltd. The theme was ‘A focus on health and safety in the chemical industry: an education and sensitisation workshop on health and safety in the me mega city.’ Permanent Secretary,  Ministry of Special Duties and Inter-governmental Relations,  Dr Jemilade Longe, said the workshop is an advocacy programme for handlers of chemicals, to educate them on how to handle chemicals safely. Longe,  represented by his Director of Admininistartion,  Human Resources,  Basirat Akinsanya, said with the workshop,  all those handling chemicals will be more safety cautious. She said this would enable the state achieve its vision and mission. “When individuals are safety councious,  organisations will be safe, the community will be safe and their will be less cases of emergency.” She urged participants to take the workshop seriously, noting that life was all about safety and continuous training is essential. The Commision’s Director-General, Hakeem Dickson, was represented by Director of Safety, Training and Education,  Adebiyi Adeyinka. Dickson said: “The Comision was established to ensure the safety of Lagosians and ensure that all sectors in the state’s economy are carried out in such a way that workers are safe. We are responsible to ensure that everybody in the state is safe irrespective of where they come from. “The workshop is about handling chemicals safely and all stakeholders are here to be sensitised on how best to carry out their jobs so that the dangers arising from the handling of chemicals can be reduced. “One of our functions at the commission is to conduct safety risk assessment of their storage facility, to know if the chemicals are safely stored.” He said the workshop would ensure safe chemical handling in the state, noting that it would prevent spillage of chemicals that could ignite fire. Didomi Company Limited,   Chief Executive Officer, Adekola Joseph, said the workshop seeks to sensitise key players in the chemical industry, including the manufacturers,  importers,  dealers and users on the use of chemicals.   