All around the world, the consciousness of people is evermore increased with respect to the sundry life-threatening disease, of which malaria is not an exception. Malaria is a life-threatening disease. It’s typically transmitted through the bite of an infected Anopheles mosquito. Infected mosquitoes carry the Plasmodium parasite. When this mosquito bites you, the parasite is released into your bloodstream. This day is an occasion to highlight the need for continued investment and sustained political commitment for malaria prevention and control. There are four ways by which malaria can infect humans: Plasmodium Vivax, Plasmodium ovale, Plasmodium malariae, and Plasmodium falciparum. They cause a lot of severe form of the disease and those who contract this type of malaria have a higher risk of death. An infected person ( mother ) can also pass the disease to her baby at birth. This is known as congenital malaria. It is transmitted by blood. A push for prevention on the occasion of malaria The Prevention of the disease involves protecting yourself against mosquito bites and taking antimalarial medicines. However, pregnant women should avoid staying in areas where malaria is common; not only them but young children should also avoid playing in dangerous areas. In the lead-up to 25 April, WHO is shining a spotlight on prevention, a critical strategy for reducing the toll of a disease that continues to kill more than 400,000 people annually. Since 2000, malaria prevention has played an important role in reducing cases and deaths, primarily through the scale up of insecticide-treated nets and indoor spraying with insecticides. Across sub-Saharan Africa where the disease is heavily concentrated, a greater share of the population is sleeping under insecticide-treated nets. In 2015, an estimated 53% of the population at risk slept under a treated net compared to 30% in 2010. In 20 African countries, preventive treatment for pregnant women increased five-fold between 2010 and 2015. As we commemorate this day, it is pertinent that we embrace healthy attitudes towards our sundry environment. Cleanliness they say is next to godliness, therefore, the need to collectively work towards a clean and safe neighbourhood cannot be overemphasized. Also, government needs to increase its intervention programmes to curb this menace, especially in the rural areas where education and finance might be a major concern.