Since 2000, the world has made historic progress against malaria, saving millions of lives. However, half the world still lives at risk from this preventable and treatable disease, which costs a child’s life every two minutes. As the world commemorates this year’s World Malaria Day, the African Media and Malaria Research Network (AMMREN), made up of a group of African journalists and scientists leading a malaria advocacy agenda, wants to congratulate African countries such as Egypt and Morocco which have been malaria free since 2000 including Algeria, which achieved this feat in 2016. AMMREN acknowledges the five African countries, namely, Botswana, Cape Verde, Comoros, South Africa and Swaziland, which have been identified as most likely to eliminate malaria by 2020. It is also gratifying that Algeria, Comoros, Madagascar, the Gambia, Senegal, and Zimbabwe have also been honoured this year by the African Leaders Malaria Alliance for leadership in scaling down malaria cases. Its Executive Secretary, Dr. Charity Binka noted that as we all look up to these shining examples of countries that are making progress in the fight against malaria, AMMREN is urging countries such as Ghana, Nigeria and Kenya to double the malaria control efforts  to ensure they join or at least get close to the ranks of countries at the elimination stages by 2020. Global efforts directed at eliminating malaria has increased with statistics showing that malaria deaths have plunged by more than 60 percent since 2000, however in Africa malaria cases went up in a number of countries in 2016. “Fortunately, in Ghana, the National Malaria Control Programme of the Ghana Health Service and other stakeholders have set the scene by creating alternative medicine units in selected hospitals across the country. Today, we need not only ensure that malaria remains high on the political agenda. We must also rediscover the efficacious remedies used by our forebears to repel insects like mosquitoes and treat diseases including malaria,” she observed. Dr Binka equally stated that there are many insect-repellent plants being researched in Cameroon to know more about them. Even in Ghana there are plants whose smell and smoke do the same job. As we seek more pertinent, practical and indigenous ways to beat malaria, we must also seize the amazing job creation opportunities available by tasking and funding young chemistry and biology graduates to work in this area. “Helping to beat malaria demands that we not only admit alternative medicine into the fight to wipe out malaria, but also allow it to play its merited role in the campaign. The global plan to contain the threat of mosquito-resistance to remedies has generated a frantic effort to develop new antimalarials to overcome resistance issues. It is crucial to expand the mix of efficacious therapies to be able to respond when it is necessary. AMMREN supports the opinion of researchers that we can contribute to this global plan against malaria by developing our local herbs and keep searching until we find another potent remedy for malaria. “Artemisinin is a Chinese herb on which the whole world is depending to fight malaria. This is an indication that an African herb can also be developed to save our lives. 