The police in Lagos on Wednesday uncovered an alleged fake brewery where malt drinks, stout and spirits were produced. The state Police Commissioner, Imohimi Edgal, led detectives and journalists to the place located at Igba Afa, Igbogbo Bayeku in Ikorodu on Wednesday evening. Five suspects were apprehended at the place. He said the police unearthed the place following tipoff from residents, describing it as another success story of community partnership. Edgal said samples of the drinks would be sent to the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) and DNA laboratory for analysis. He said: “Right here we have an illegal distillery where stout, malt and ethanol are produced. These drinks are produced in very unhygienic conditions. “The important lesson here is that we must be vigilant. You will recall that we recently paraded an elderly man who was selling all sorts of adulterated drinks in Mushin. I had called on Lagosians to be vigilant and pass information to their local police promptly, to ensure we identify places like these and destroy them. “The truth is that Lagosians can only be productive if they are healthy. Most people who drink these things that are produced in unhygienic conditions, without NAFDAC certification get ill. “Those producing it are not qualified to do so and so, they are generally giving residents poison to drink. More worrisome is that they package them as if they were produced by reputable brands in beverages. There is need for additional vigilance. “We are going to take samples of each of the drinks being concocted here and send to NAFDAC and DNA laboratory at Lagos Island for analysis. The place has been sealed and no further activities would be carried out here. “Furthermore, the five suspects arrested would be investigated. Our preliminary findings revealed that the drinks are not being bottled here. Trucks usually come here, load and take them to another location where they are packaged. “So, we want to extend our investigation and discover those areas so that we round up all those behind it. For that reason, the suspects would not be available for interview and their identities would not be disclosed.”