THE youths of Okeigbo community in Ondo State, under the auspices of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Vanguard, Patriotic Front and Grassroots Mobilisers, have protested against the purported endorsement of Hon. Mayowa Akinfolarin, the member representing Ileoluji/Okeigbo/Odigbo  Constituency in the House of representatives for another tenure, by some traditional rulers. They said it is the turn of Okeigbo to produce a candidate for the seat in next year’s general elections. In a statement made available to The Nation, a representative of the youths, Prince Rufus Adekanye, said there are three principal towns in the constituency and that two of them, Odigbo and Ileoluji, have represented the area four times each since the return to civil rule in 1999, while Okeigbo is yet to get the opportunity to do so. “In the interest of justice, equity and fair-play, it is now the time for Okeigbo to present a mutually acceptable candidate that will make the party proud,” he added. Adekanye said the seat was zoned to Okeigbo in the last general elections within the APC, but unfortunately for the community the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate from Odigbo, Hon. Akinfolarin, won the election and later dumped the opposition party for the APC. He said: “It was reported in The Nation newspaper on of March 20, 2018. The way the people reacted was so unusual. There were lots of protests, following the report and the monarchs who purportedly endorsed the incumbent have denied it. The monarchs were merely invited to attend a training programme by Hon. Akinfolarin and it was during the training that one of the monarchs made the announcement, endorsing the incumbent lawmaker. The issue was not discussed prior to the announcement. “With the endorsement now being rocked by protests, the monarch that made the announcement has confessed that he did it based on the fact that the lawmaker is his personal friend. We see every aspirant in all the political parties as equal subjects and our children; we shall refrain from being partisan, no matter the amount of pressure from any quarter.” Adekanye who visited The Nation with Mr. Tope Ojo, another concerned member of Okeigbo community, with a copy of the press release, said the development is capable of causing a breakdown of law and order, because traditional rulers were expected to stick to their constitutional role of being the custodian of customs and tradition, without dabbling into partisan politics. Ojo said Okeigbo is probably being marginalised because it is considered a minority in Ondo State, as majority of the kiths and kin of the indigenes are domiciled in Osun State. He said: “I am talking to you historically now. So, Okeigbo is a town where virtually everybody born there is connected to Osun State historically. In politics, we are usually marginalised in appointments and elective positions. “With regards to the purported endorsement of Hon. Akinfolarin for a second term, we are here to affirm that nothing like that took place; that no Kabiyesi endorsed him, and even if they did, they don’t have the moral right to decide for the entire community.”