It was a beauty to behold at Establishment Lounge, Gowon Estate, Egbeda, Lagos, the venue of My Hood Live Concert convened by for rising artistes Neo Phlames and Labosky’s penultimate Sunday. From the stage lights, to the smoke machine, visibly big backdrop, the serene environment, and composure of the artistes who performed to the delight of fans, it is difficult to believe that the gig was done as a non-profitable concert. The artistes in a statement revealed that they had to go the extra mile by performing live with their 7-man band; Skye band.
The concert which is a brain child of both independent artistes started about 7 pm when the anchor, Koye mounted the stage and dished out series of rib cracking jokes to lighten up the night. Other attractions of the night were the number of grassroots stars given opportunity to show their skills.
Dressed in one of talented designers ‘OG Collections’, Neo Phlames mounted the stage in a stylish way. His first offering for the night was a mid tempo love song, ‘Be Mine’ which he sang absolutely well with perfect composure. The Oyo State indigene followed it up immediately with ‘Good Lover’ which was also properly delivered to the audience.
Following Neo Phlames’ performance, the band rolled in Labosky’s hits ‘Carrot’ and ‘Ekuro’ where the artiste gave an electrifying performance.
“Wow! What’s a good performance, this must have taken series of rehearsals,” a fan commented. Two hours into the show and the fans still couldn’t get enough of the concert as they were audibly heard screaming for more. “we no dey go house today” said a group of people at a section of gig. During a short backstage interview, the artistes said; “we are excited about today, excited about the turn out, you know it’s quite difficult to come up with such concert as budding artistes but we give glory to God for seeing us through this. “We just had to do what we had to do, we had plans and we worked towards it and yea we achieved our goal.”
On why they made it a free show, they said; “we thought to ourselves that not much people would pay for a show hosted by ‘up and coming artistes’ but we wanted to sell ourselves to them so we came up with the idea of making it free so at least more people can get to know us and more of what we do and can do so for us, the concert wasn’t about money.” The artistes further revealed that the event will be an annual concert. The event which lasted for about three hours closed with the most electrifying performance by both artistes as Neo Phlames performed his latest hits, ‘Arambada’ and ‘Logba’ while Labosky Performed ‘Soldier’ and ‘Jabole’.