When a woman has access to Family Planning methods, she can plan her life better and provide for her family. As the world observes this year’s Universal Health Coverage, with the theme: “everyone, everywhere”, OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA looks at women’s fear over the inavailability of family planning because of President Donald Trump’s re-imposition of the Mexico City Policy, also called the Global Gag Rule. Nigeria is a priority country for USAID family planning and the United States has invested in a number of integrated health programs—not only to improve women’s health, but also to support local stakeholders in advocating for increased family planning funding from the Nigerian government. These U.S.-supported health initiatives and their implementing partner organisations have been essential to improvements in health outcomes and efforts to strengthen Nigeria’s overall health system. However, these advances are at risk because of the magnitude of U.S. support and potential impacts of the expanded Global Gag Rule. Nigeria is the single largest recipient of U.S. international development aid and relies heavily on global health assistance to meet the needs of its large and growing population. The Trump-Pence administration policy, “Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance,” according to a non governmental organisation, Population Action International (PAI), risks overburdening the underfunded public health sector and undermining the reproductive and overall health goals in Nigeria. The policy—commonly referred to as the Global Gag Rule by opponents—effectively prohibits organisations from using their private, non-U.S. funds to provide comprehensive, safe abortion services; offer information or referrals for abortion; or to advocate for the legalisation or liberalisation of safe abortion services.  Provider experience Underpinning this, an Health Assistant on family planning with 15 years experience, working in a public health facility who does not want her name in print, said the impact of the Mexico City Policy is not making her happy and efficient because it is counterproductive. Citing an instance, she said: “I have handled a woman right from my employment day which is now fifteen years. Now, due to menopausal reasons, she has opted out of the treatment which is quite understandable. Assuming there was no free access to the particular FP commodity of her choice, fifteen years ago the experience of fifteen years would have been affected.  She would have had unplanned for pregnancy, as some women do, and when we advise them to go to antenatal, for enrolment, that is the last time we would see them here. They end up getting rid of such elsewhere. That has fuelled an increase in abortions and maternal deaths because abortion is illegal in Nigeria. “With uninterrupted supply of commodities from the Federal government, uptake has been picking up, leading to reduction in maternal deaths. But, with the GGR, we are already experiencing shortages in commodities. As of today, in this facility there are no condoms. I am not happy with this development. This is because couples who settled for condoms along with other methods are being affected. And if they cannot get free ones here, and cannot also sustain purchase due to economical reasons, unplanned for pregnancies will come up, with a resort to termination, which our country is not in support of, that will fuel maternal deaths. Clients come here to access family planning services because it is basically free. If these are not readily available, homes will be broken.” As a Family Planning provider, she said Family planning commodities in Nigeria- either in a public or private sector- especially non governmental organisations (NGOs) are from foreign aids. As she explained: “This global gag rule forces health care providers to chose between U.S. family planning assistance and the ability to counsel and provide clients with an accurate and full range of safe and legal reproductive health options. The global gag rule seriously impedes countries’ efforts to improve women’s health, and undermines free participation. We all know as providers that the best method is the method chosen by an individual only after due consultation with a trained and certified family planning service provider. With non availability of commodities, more unplanned for pregnancies will occur with its attendant problems.”  Users experience One of her clients, a 32-year-old trader, Mrs Kehinde Solomon said she decided to come for family planning so as to be ‘free’ with her husband, “with three children ages eight, four, and six-months, as a couple we decided to stop further children. We have settled for oral pills method. We cannot afford to buy it even if it is being sold. So, the News on possible non availability is really disturbing me.” Another of her client, a 39-year-old Mrs Sola Kudaisi who settled for the use of implant five years ago said  she made a choice for the implant method so as to space her children and equally have time to build her career, thereby, getting money, and supporting her husband to train the children. Mrs Kudaisi who married in 2002, with three kids- the first child is 16 years, second 12 years and third one six years, recalled that after the first child she settled for injection method, “and because my menses was affected I changed to the implant. This implant has never failed me. I and my husband came here, we are counseled and we both agreed on the implant. On the consequences of the expanded Mexico City Policy, Mrs Kudaisi said, “Poor family planning impacts all of us, putting our future at risk, and hurting our kids who deserve more from us parents.  Family Planning helps us as couple to have the number of children we desire, and train our children. But now, if the commodities are not available or they are interrupted, the home front will be affected. Family planning is a vital way to avoid unwanted pregnancies and to prevent exponential population growth.” A source,  a non governmental organisation, EngenderHealth affirmed that though the Global Gag Rule was meant to target abortion providers, it had terrible consequences for the health and lives of poor women and their families in ways that had nothing to do with abortion. “From 2001 to 2009, 20 developing countries in Africa, Asia, and the Middle East lost U.S.-donated contraceptives, and many organisations and clinics were forced to reduce services, lay off staff, or shut down entirely.” Nigeria maybe part of the emerging statistics as another NGO, Population Action International (PAI) has documented that Nigeria provides a clear example of how the interaction of U.S. policies and funding decisions can have outsized ramifications for sexual and reproductive health and rights in a country. It stated that the Global Gag Rule does not apply to multilaterals like the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). However, as foreign NGOs lose access to U.S. funding and U.S.-donated contraceptive supplies due to the policy, they have scaled back services, pushing more clients to public sector facilities and increasing demand for commodities procured by UNFPA. “Unfortunately, the agency is already experiencing a significant funding shortfall. U.S. government funding has historically supported UNFPA’s core and humanitarian work. The defunding of UNFPA places a strain on the agency and UNFPA Supplies, and has raised alarms among advocates and providers in Nigeria given the agency’s central role in contraceptive security. Any further reductions in UNFPA’s capacity will cascade down, hitting hardest the organisations working with the most vulnerable populations and severely disrupting health supplies. Additionally, despite the fact that the Global Gag Rule does not impact humanitarian funding, there are questions about how organisations who serve displaced populations will continue their work if they no longer receive U.S. funding,” PAI stated. Giving a broader view the vice-president of Marie Stopes International, Marjorie Newman-Williams said in a statement, “Evidence shows that by blocking funding to the world’s largest NGO providers of modern contraception, unintended pregnancies and abortions go up.  As a result, women and girls are less likely to complete their education, have a career, or pursue their dreams for the future.” According to the National Population Commission and ICF International’s Nigeria Demographic and Health Survey (2013) family planning and counselling are accessed through private and public health facilities; however, commodities are mainly sourced from public government facilities, where they are free. The private sector is the main source for male condoms and pills, which are the most popular methods after injectable contraceptives. Subsidised condoms are the most popular public-sector method, implying that price may be a major factor impacting uptake, lending support to the fear of these women.