 Liverpool may be having the upper hand in today’s second leg quarterfinal Champions league tie billed for the Ethihad Stadium, but most of the Reds supporters will stay behind bars while the game is on unless they comply with club’s pre-match instructions dished out by the club. Liverpool won the first leg 3-0 but the victory was overshadowed by unacceptable behavior by the fans including destruction of Manchester City bus. But ahead of today’s clash billed for 7.45pm Liverpool warned their supporters not to bring to the stadium as those who do so will be picked up by the police. The Reds were charged by UEFA for crowd disturbances during the first leg at Anfield and are keen to avoid a repeat of the incidents, which included the setting off of fireworks inside the stadium. “Liverpool FC would like to remind supporters that flaring smoke bombs and pyrotechnics are illegal and prohibited,” said the club in a statement posted on its official website. “Any individual who is found taking these items into the stadium are liable to arrest. “The use of such devices breaches ground safety regulation and poses serious risk of injury to fellow fans and serious health risks. “Amnesty bins will be located outside the visiting section of the Etihad on Tuesday,” the club informed Meanwhile Man City’s David Sylva remains optimistic that they can turn things around despite the 3-0 defeat. The Spain international has promised that Pep Guardiola’s men will be giving their all to rescue their European campaign in the Etihad Stadium return match, still believing they can progress. “We’ve had a great season and we always create a lot of opportunities and chances,” Silva told City’s official website. “Above all, we are playing at home. One thing I can assure our fans of is that we will be giving 100 per cent on Tuesday evening and we are confident we can turn this game around and progress to the semi-finals.” On what went wrong on Merseyside, Silva added: “It was a very difficult game but, in fairness, I thought we started really well. “Then they hit us with two quick goals and, at a ground like Anfield, you are always going to be up against it after that. We had a lot of the ball after the break but couldn’t convert any of the chances we had.”        