Senator Ayo Arise, another All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant, in this interview with TONY AKOWE speaks on his party’s chances in the July 14 election. You are one of the numerous aspirants jostling for the APC ticket. What distinquishes you from other contestants? I have been in this race to be governor of Ekiti State since 2005. I ran in 2007 alongside Kayode Fayemi, the former governor who is now a Minister and also an aspirant in this race. So, I am not one of those who just woke up overnight and say he wants to be governor. I have the passion for my people. It is my intention to ensure that we develop the manpower in Ekiti, develop our state and cities and the rural farming communities. We will bring innovation to governance and I believe that I am probably one of the most qualified to deliver on such promise. I have been resident in America since 1988. I went to school and had my masters’ degree from there. I schooled in Alabama which is more of an agrarian state. I know what the people are doing through their farms like the production of wheat and many more. It is the industries that are attached to those farming products that actually made the state one of the southern states that is able to actually stand on their own. Of course, you know that most states in America are viable because of the industries and because they are focused. Whatever accrues to the state is spent to develop it. I believe that whatever little resources we have in Ekiti can be well managed for the benefit of the people. I believe that I will do better than most of the aspirants on the field today. What exactly you are bringing on the table to turn the tide in Ekiti? I will focus immediately on agriculture by encouraging the youth to go into farming. When they go into farming, I intend to put them on a salary until their farms begin to produce enough to support their families. I intend to put them on a minimum wage which of course will not be the current minimum wage. I am looking at an amount of about N30,000 to N35, 000 per month. I will also provide them with land and tools to encourage mechanized farming and ensure that they grow edible crops like cassava, rice and many others. We use to have what we called the egbima rice, which is what they now call ofada rice. There is nothing wrong in capitalizing on that heritage and building some processing plants. I will talk to the Minister of Agriculture. There are a quite a number of projects that the Ministry of Agriculture and the Central Bank are backing which need to be tapped and used for the benefit of the people of our state. It depends on your ability to be involved and gather those that are able to assist you. I will cry to them that my state is poor and need a turn around. Several examples abound right now, even under this APC government. You see what the governor of Kebbi has done with the Lake rice. So, we don’t have to reinvent the will that much because we have seen people doing this thing successfully. We will practice it and ensure that our people benefit from it. From agriculture, we can look at those agro allied industries. Apart from the processing of rice, we can begin to convert cassava to the production of ethanol, we can also use corn for the production of ethanol and the bye products can be used to generate power which will serve the state and beyond. These are thing that you must understand. They are things that I have worked on and I know that they will work especially through public private partnership. We will not say that government should set up these factories. But the government will provide the enabling environment and call the corporate people to do it, especially those who are interested in investing in agriculture. The government will put in some support base, probably in terms of land and provision of some utilities. Even if we say we want to grow our IGR and move away from being described as a very poor state to a middle level state in terms of revenue generation, we must empower the people. We must have what we called the buy power. If you don’t have the buying power, business will not thrive in that state. So, when we develop the agro allied industries, coupled with the people who will be going to the farm. If our youths produced more than what the factories can consume, the government will stay back and be the buyer of the last resort. Government will buy what they produce to ensure that they make profit, and in doing that, we can also move into producing some little farm implements. Some of these things are already there and we will begin to practicalise them. I don’t believe in over promising. But I am looking at that sector and I know that we can do very well there. Governor Fayose has endorsed his deputy for the jpb. Do you think Ekiti deserve another Four years of the Fayose legacy? The truth is that unless the APC imposes a candidate on Ekiti people, there is no way the Fayose administration can remain in power. That is not possible. I know the young man that he has put up. He is a fine gentleman, but if he gets into that seat, he will continue to be subservient to Fayose. If Fayose asks him to go and bring all the money in the treasury, he would not say no. So, we cannot allow that to happen. I have repeatedly told Fayose that he will not succeed himself in Ekiti. He has been very fortunate to serve two terms in Ekiti. No one else has enjoyed this privilege. Ekiti people are wired differently, and if we have a free and fair election, there would be no problem. But if there is a manipulation of that process, people will go and vote for that guy. That is what we are reading from the minds of the people on the street, including APC supporters. It is a dangerous game and I have been shouting about it. But I am sure that there will be a free and fair election in Ekiti, even if there is none in other places.