The Nigeria Football Federations have lately attracted a lot of corporate and brands goodwill on the back of the Super Eagles’ qualification for the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup, with the likes of TomTom, Star, Amstel Malta, Coca-Cola, Payporte and WAPIC signing long-term sponsorship agreements with the governing body to connect more deeply with their various consumers, hence grow brands equities. TomTom and the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) recently signed a three-year contract that confers TomTom as the Official Candy of the Super Eagles. TomTom, a product from the stables of Cadbury Nigeria Plc has supported the Super Eagles for a decade. At a joint media parley to announce the partnership and official signing of the contract, the Managing Director of Cadbury Nigeria Plc. Mr. Amir Shamsi said, “we are delighted to announce TomTom as the official candy of the Super Eagles. This year makes it the tenth year since we first announced this valued partnership in 2008. We are proud to say our partnership with the Nigeria Football Federation and by extension; the Super Eagles of Nigeria is not a coincidence. It remains a deliberate effort by Cadbury and TomTom to connect with Nigerians and their passion for the beautiful game.” According to the Category Marketing Lead, West Africa, Mrs Uwadiae Chidinma, “TomTom is a candy with a purpose. It delivers soothing relief and mental invigoration. It has remained relevant over the decades despite other competitive offerings in the market. TomTom is undisputedly one of the most ubiquitous brands in the country.” The President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Mr. Amaju Pinnick, lauded Cadbury Nigeria and revealed that the NFF will work in tandem with TomTom and leverage on the partnership to bring glory to the national teams at every tournament. Pinnick said, “We are grateful to TomTom for being a backbone of all our national teams. TomTom is a premium brand from Cadbury Nigeria Plc.” Clamouring for support, the Brand Manager, Candy West Africa, Mr Aruleba Olumide said “Cadbury Nigeria Plc, are happy to support the Super Eagles. We urge all Nigerians to go all out and support the Eagles cheering them to victory. TomTom loves the Super Eagles.” Also NFF and Nigerian Breweries also signed a five-year contract worth N2.2 billion aimed to support Nigerian football. Both parties happily called ‘a minimum five-year contract.’ At the premises of the brewing giant in Lagos, laced with laudable innovation and flowing remarks by Amaju Pinnick, NFF President and Jordi Borrut Bel, NB Plc’s Managing Director/CEO pledged the total commitment of their establishments to every letter of the contract. This is just as the NFF President restated his position that NB Plc is ”an organisation that has been a torchbearer of excellence and corporate social responsibility for the several decades it has operated in Nigeria.” The agreement makes Star Lager the ‘Official Alcoholic Drink of the Super Eagles’ while Amstel Malta is now the ‘Official Malt Drink of the NFF and the National Teams,’ including Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup-bound Super Eagles. For Coca-Cola and its bottling partners, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited NBC, delight to have unique opportunity to connect with the consumers through partnering with FIFA on World Cup Trophy Tour that would see the trophy touch 91 cities and 51 countries, spreading happiness and psyching up the people to get ready for what is unarguably the greatest sporting fiesta coming up this year in Russia. The Managing Director, Nigerian Bottling Company Limited, Mr. George Polymenakos said at a media parley that heralded the arrival of the FIFA World Cup Trophy in Nigeria for the third time that NBC and Coca-Cola would always be committed to bringing happiness and refreshment to Nigerians. The Super Eagles will face Croatia, Iceland and familiar foes Argentina in Group D of the World Cup in Russia. 