The just-concluded ICC World Twenty20 Qualifiers at the Tafawa Balewa Square Cricket Oval in Lagos, without any iota of a doubt rekindled the bitter rivalry between Nigeria and Ghana. The event which ran for a week in Nigeria’s commercial capital, paraded The Gambia, Sierra Leone, Ghana and Nigeria; saw the teams jostling for the two available slots that would take them to the main qualifiers. After the keenly contested matches, Ghana and Nigeria eventually qualified for the next stage of the qualifiers which will hold in 2019, while Sierra Leone and The Gambia returned home empty handed. The rivalry between Ghana and Nigeria dates back to circa 1904, when the Lagos Colony and Gold Coast Colony first played at the TBS Cricket Oval which ended in favour of Ghana. Ever since then, both countries have literally been at “war’’ to affirm their supremacy in the sport. In their first encounter at the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifiers, fans came out in large numbers to watch both sides slug it out; in a tension-soaked match which ended in favour of Ghana. The Ghanaian side fielded first and ensured that Nigeria was reduced in the first innings to 119runs for 8 wickets in 20 overs. The second match which would have served as an avenue for Nigeria to avenge the defeat in the first match, turned out to be a bitter pill for fans. Just like it was in 1904, Ghana once again affirmed her supremacy over Nigeria at the same venue where the rivalry started 114years ago, with 4 wickets to complete a double and emerged champions of the qualifying tournament. At the end, Ghana finished with 11 points, Nigeria settled for 8 points, while Sierra Leone and Gambia had five points and two points respectively. Eugene King, the Team Manager of Ghana, said it was a perfect victory for his team due to the war of supremacy between both countries in cricket. King said his team was able to capitalise on the mistakes of their rivals to record their second win against Nigeria and topped the ICC qualifying event. “This is a perfect victory for us, winning our first and second match against Nigeria in this qualifiers is a good boost for the team. “Nigeria has always had the upper hand against the Ghanaian team in the past, but I think the tide has turned in our favour,’’ he said. Meanwhile, Chimezie Onwuzulike, the Captain of Team Nigeria, said he was not happy with the outcome of the matches played against Ghana. Onwuzulike said the two defeats will not diminish the team’s morale, adding that qualifying for the main Africa qualifiers slated for 2019 was a consolation for the players. “In every game there must be a winner and losers, we will go back to the drawing board and re-strategise. “But the good thing is that we have qualified from the North-Western Sub-Regional Zone, we are grateful to the Nigeria Cricket Federation ( NCF ) for its support,’’ he said. Prior to the event, the NCF board set up committees piloted by Uyi Akpata, the Vice-president of NCF to ensure a hitch-free event and they performed creditably. The event which was the first of its kind for the country, was a leverage for the Prof. Adam Yahaya-Ukwenya-led board in its bid to popularise the sport. As part of the buildup to the event, the TBS cricket oval was given a much needed facelift that was befitting for an event of the magnitude of the ICC World Twenty20 Qualifiers. Also, the NCF sealed a sponsorship deal with one of Nigeria’s leading, indigenous oil companies — Eroton Exploration and Production Company Ltd. The NCF president said that the hosting of the event was a plus for the game in the country. “It is unprecedented in our cricket history for Nigeria to be given hosting rights for the qualifying ICC T20 tournament. “It’s a measure of confidence on the new board of NCF and Nigeria. “We are building a team for the future and we have this same level of freshness running through all our national teams,’’ he said. Kuben Pillay, an ICC Africa Representative, said the body was pleased with what the NCF had achieved within a short period to stage the event. Pillay said that the country was in the best position to host the sub-regional qualifiers owing to the commitment and determination of the NCF in improving the standard of the game. “I am proud of what has happened in the last few months, I remember what I saw when I visited in March for facility inspection and what is on ground now. “This only shows that the federation is ready to take cricket to the next level in the region, and the ICC is ready to work with the body with the aim of developing the sport in Africa,’’ he said. In the same vein, Michael Aboagye, Captain of the Ghanaian side, said the organisation of the event was a huge success and commended the NCF for the effort. “The qualifiers was well organised by the host and I believe they have put in a lot to achieve this,’’ he said. Mohamed Monsaray, Captain of the Sierra Leone team, said that the logistics put in place was good for the ICC event. “The reception, atmosphere and movement of participants from the venue to hotel and security was well executed without any hitch,’’ he said. Also, Tayo Atoloye, who played in the national team for 12 years, said there had been a positive change in the sport since the inception of the new board last year. Atoloye, who is the Vice-Chairman of the Oyo State Cricket Association, said that it was long overdue for the country to host an ICC event, adding that the effort of the NCF had paid off. “There is a lot of development in the administration of cricket in the past few months, which is a positive sign for the sport and I hope they won’t relent. “The board has gone the extra mile to ensure the country hosts this event for the first time in our history, because it is long overdue to host an ICC competition,’’ he said. With all the accolades heaped on the NCF, one would expect that the same effort will be adopted to prepare the national team players tactically as they continue their bid to qualify for the Twenty20 Cup in Australia. NAN