Corruption and infrastructural challenge have been identified as the bane of the shipping and clearing arm of the maritime sector. Speaking with The Nation in Lagos, Chief Executive Officer, Olas Motors Mr  Samuel Anderson,  said addressing the challenges would see shipping and clearing make huge contributions to the economy. The importer also alleged that the government has failed to provide basic infrastructure that would make the ports attractive for business. Comparing shipping in Nigeria to other countries like Dubai, China, and United States, he said there was no basis for comparison. “In Nigeria, there is no scanner and other necessary  equipment at the ports. There is no stability or continuity of policies, whereas in other developed counties, the economy, the currency and every other thing, are planned and this is what investors want to plan their businesses. It is not easy to set up anything in Nigeria because there is no reliable system in place. “Nigerians in the Diaspora have the expertise, resources and connection that can help develop this country, but the country is being strangulated by corruption, policy inconsistency, poor infrastructure and other evils. These discourage them,” he said. For instance, he said, in China, the government builds houses and makes other provisions for its citizens in the Diaspora, who are willing to relocate and invest in China, while in Nigeria there is no form of encouragement, no matter what you want to do. According to Anderson, staying in the United States (US) for many years, has helped him to gain enough expertise that would enable him bring about a positive change in shipping and cargo importation in the country. However, he said he was afraid because of too much corruption and infrastructural decay at the ports, adding that there was no port in Nigeria that compares to what obtained in other developed countries and urged the Federal Government to fix the ports and reduce the number of its agencies. “In China or Hong Kong, you can have your container released to you in two hours once it arrives the port and this is at a cost equivalent of between N5,000 and N10,000 whereas in our ports, for your container to be released, it takes several days to weeks and costs several hundreds of thousands of naira or more than a million naira in some cases, despite the government’s effort at reformation. “In Asia, everything works systematically and you can plan successfully. But here, there are lots of policy somersaults; things are not organised for sustainable growth and most importers in Nigeria find it difficult to cope with this kind of system after experiencing the best way things are done in other countries,” he said.