The tuition fee increment by some management of Universities in the country has been generating controversy, as students are gearing for a showdown with management over the increment. The Nation gathered that students of some varsities have shown their displeasure towards the wave of fee increment in the country. Public Relations Officer of the Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba Shola Imoru in an interview with The Nation said the fee increment was to the advantage of the students ” Its not as if we just want to fee to be increased outrageously, we also have plans for our students.  For pure indigenes who are in the school, the management would provide some programmes for them which they can have access to and also gain stipends from them, also we would give scholarships to the excellent students while the handicapped will be given 50% discount on the fee” he said. “Even before the fee was increased the school has a policy of “work and pay” where students can work when in school and also get some stipends from it” “As regards the National Protest embarked upon by the students, we had a meeting with the student leaders which we pleaded with them and we told them that if they go on a protest they might not be able to finish it because it would be snatched from them by hoodlums and they would even pay more than what they don’t expect because they would have to pay for any property destroyed”. Also the Chairman of the Security Acting Committee of the Obafemi Awolowo University Ile ife, Gbenga Oloniran, accused management of OAU of mismanagement funds meant for the development of the school. “Looking at the Act of the Universities students and workers must be carried along and they should be recognised in their senate meeting, there should be democratic rule as lecturers should be involved in the school affairs so that a Vice Chancellor won’t just wake up and say he wants to increase the tutition fee” “The sole aim of the government is to privatize the institutions. Government are trying by releasing funds to the federal university but the fund is been siphoned by some vice chancellors. The federal government should put a check on the management anytime they are been allocated funds. Government are also the same because they have what they are looking for” “The Vice chancellor are even on the verge of increasing the tuition fee because if not they won’t go on the policy of chasing students out of the hostels in the disguise of renovating the hostel, telling students to rent an apartment outside the school because of the new accommodation policy. World bank released funds for them to build hostels on campus but instead the management of OAU went ahead in building a ship like senate building and turning the hostels they built outside the school to a private one which could only be open to rich people and yahoo guys” A student leader at the College of Health Sciences University of Ibadan who pleaded anonymity said the levy is illegal and in contradiction with the federal government policy. “management of university of Ibadan has no justification or acceptable explanation for the outrageous fee hike.  The levy is illegal and in contradiction with the federal government policy which is set a N45,000 for all federal universities. The school management should be able to consult the students of anything even looking at the current economic downturn in the country” he said “Many student cannot afford the levy as 1 out of 3 students had plans of dropping out of school as unveiled by the opinion poll conducted independently.  Federal Medical schools in Nigeria pay less as the levy. If we pay the levy then it means Ibadan medical school is the most expensive federal medical school in the country” he added It should be recalled that tuition fee of different varsities have been increased outrageously schools like Adekunle Ajasin University Akungba, University of Ibadan amongst others