Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong yesterday asked for prayers from Nigerians and members of the All Progressives Congress (APC) for God’s intervention in the tenure elongation controversy. According to him, this will enable the party to take a decision that will be in its best interest. Speaking at the inauguration of the Technical Committee to study the President’s remarks during the last NEC meeting of the party, Lalong promised that the committee, which he chairs, would do a good job of what he described as a difficult assignment. The 10-member committee inaugurated by National Chairman John Odigie Oyegun was given four days to submit its report. Other members of the committee are Governors Nasir El-Rufai (Kaduna), Rotimi Akeredolu (Ondo) and Abiola Ajimobi (Oyo). Others are Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha, Senator Ben Uwajumogu, Hon. Kabiru Alana, Mr.Elisha Kira, Mr. CJN Dakar and the National Legal Adviser of the party, Muiz Banire (Secretary). Lalong told reporters that the committee was part of the decisions taken at the last meeting of the party NEC with the mandate to advice the party on the way forward. He said the President, as a concerned member of the party, raised issues and wanted them to find solution and is therefore eager to see the party find solution to the issue, expressing confidence that the President will be at peace with whatever is resolved by the party. Governor Aleredolu said “the issue at hand has nothing to do with tenure elongation. You as Journalists, are in a position to advice. By law, nobody can extend anybody’s tenure. So, it has nothing to do with tenure elongation and so, the use of that word is totally wrong. “There was no time at our NEC that we took a decision to have tenure to be elongated. There was a clear resolution of NEC to allow the existing committee act or work in acting capacity or as caretaker for something not over 12 months. So, it is not tenure elongation as their tenure will end as expected by law. What happen after their tenure ends that we are discussing now. It has never been the intention of APC to elongate anybody’s tenure”. Oyegun said”the issues that have been referred to you for resolution are strongly legal and at the same time impacted dramatically on the political consideration. “The terms of reference include to examine the President’s position as contained in his statement delivered at the NEC meeting of March 27, 2018 vis-a-vis the resolution of the NEC meeting of February 27, 2018 as well as assess all the information available and recommend a course of action consistent with the provision of the party’s constitution, the constitution of the federal republic of Nigeria and all relevant laws.”