The Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP) is a platform for youths to realise their ambitions, its Lagos State Chairman, Abiodun Dabiri, has said. The party, he said, had begun the process of redefining politics, ahead of the 2019 elections. Dabiri, who spoke at the party’s  congress in Lagos where 24 officers were elected, said the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) were parties for the old brigade. He said the youths would gain political relevance in ANRP, adding that the party would win seats in the Lagos State House of Assembly and the National Assembly in next year’s general elections. Dabiri said the ANRP started as movement, but later transformed into a political party, in view of the failed promises by the old politicians. He called on the youths to register and collect their Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) to vote out politicians who have made life unbearable for the ordinary people. He said: “I want to say the ANRP is a party of hope and a work in progress. We have watched helplessly how some parties have continued to mismanage our commonwealth. To worsen things, they do not have programme for the youths. “The ANRP is a child of necessity; it came about because of the failure of the old brigade in all facets of our national life. Nigerians have lost hope in the future of the country; people are getting aloof because they believe only those who have stupendous wealth can win elections. “Our party is a law-abiding one and we follow due process in the actualisation of our goals. It is where you can attain your dream without the help of a god-father. It is party for the masses.” Dabiri maintained that members must move to the street to convince the electorate that the future lies in their hands. He said that it was not enough to have a large followership on the social media. Dabiri added: “I know we have lots of youths on the social media who have expressed their support for our party through the platform. But, that is not enough, because it does not translate into electoral victory. “Those who vote are on the streets; we must move to the streets to let the people know why they must vote for the ANRP. It is a party for the future; it will provide abundant wealth, good life and security for Nigerians. “It is the last chance that we have to salvage the country. If we don’t do that our children will be homeless. It is time to stop the colossal destruction of the country by the other parties, where you are only relevant when you have god-fathers.” 