A vendor, Mrs. Regina Ibe, who sells food at the National Housing Programme (NHP) project site at Idomwen-Ehigie in Uhumwode Local Government of Edo State, yesterday said she made N35,000 daily. She said since the beginning of the project in March 2017, her business had attracted patronage from workers. Ibe said as a result, she was able to buy a plot. Speaking during an inspection of the NHP in Southsouth and Southeast states, she hailed the Federal Government for creating jobs and empowering people through the programme. Ibe said she bought the plot at N250, 000 and supported her family. She said: “Since the Federal Government opened this place, I have been selling well. I make a profit of N38,000 and sometimes N35,000, depending on the market. I am really grateful to God. God will bless you people.” Mrs. Pat Omorodion, a supplier of sharp sand, granites and other building materials, recalled how she supplied materials for the three-storey condominium as well as three-bedroom and two-bedroom flats at the site. She attributed her increased earnings to the project, stressing that such project should be replicated in the state. “This project has put food on our table. So, we appreciate it. You know we are handling the condominium, so they bought many granites. I say kudos to them.” NHP’s National Team leader Mrs. Ebemeata Ani-Otoibhi said the project would be completed in June. It includes eight three-bedrooms, 14 two-bedrooms and a condominium. She said about 3,000 people were engaged, while there was full compliance with local content such that iron, windows, doors, burglary, among others, used for the construction were locally sourced and provided by Edo residents. “In this state, the quality of materials and specifications is good. The bottom line is, everything we are using is made in Nigeria, from the cement to the door, they are all locally made,” Ani-Otoibhi said. Local contractors, Messrs. Osahon Osazee and Gabriel Adesida, hailed the Federal Government and urged it to commence the second phase. They appealed for timely release of funds to prevent it from being abandoned.