About $20 million has been spent on palliatives and feasibility studies to check occurrence of flood  in Ibadan since 2012, the Ibadan Urban Flood Management Project (IUFMP) has said. The amount represents 18 per cent of $200 million granted by the World Bank to Oyo State government, which is expected to contribute 10 per cent of the amount as counterpart fund. IUFMP was established by the government as an intervention strategy after the August 26, 2011 disaster, which claimed over 100 lives and destroyed properties worth BOUT $20 million has been spent on palliatives and feasibility studies to check occurrence of flood in Ibadan since 2012, the Ibadan Urban Flood Management Project (IUFMP) has said.
The amount represents 18 per cent of $200 million granted by the World Bank to Oyo State government, which is expected to contribute 10 per cent of the amount as counterpart fund.
IUFMP was established by the government as an intervention strategy after the August 26, 2011 disaster, which claimed over 100 lives and destroyed properties worth millions of naira.
IUFMP Infrastructural Engineer, Tajudeen Oluwatoyin Akanbi, who spoke with The Nation at a three-day workshop, which began on Monday at Oyo town, said the organisation had rehabilitated damaged bridges and culverts in Ibadan.
He cited the dilapidated Eleyele Water Dam, which contributed to the August 26, 2011 flood as of one the major structural work done by IUFMP to mitigate flood in Ibadan.
On the funding of the project, Akanbi said of the $200 million World Bank loan, 18 per cent had been expended on palliatives and studies, to prevent another flood, “especially at this rainy season.”
He said IUFMP had completed structural designs on bridges and culverts, and submitted same to the World Bank, expecting its nod to execute the projects.
According to him, of the over 40 bridges and culverts damaged during the flood disaster, four had been reconstructed and delivered.
The three-day workshop on the role of the media in mitigating flood risks in Ibadan continued yesterday with a presentation titled: “ Dynamics and Effective Strategies of Online and Offline Reportage of Flood Prevention and Flooding Incidents in Ibadan”, by the Online Editor of The Nation, Mr. Lekan Otufodunrin.
millions of naira. IUFMP Infrastructural Engineer, Tajudeen Oluwatoyin Akanbi, who spoke with The Nation at a three-day workshop, which began on Monday at Oyo town, said the organisation had rehabilitated damaged bridges and culverts in Ibadan. He cited the dilapidated Eleyele Water Dam, which contributed to the August 26, 2011 flood  as of one the major structural work done by IUFMP to mitigate flood  in Ibadan. On the funding of the project, Akanbi said of the $200 million World Bank loan, 18 per cent had been expended on palliatives and studies, to prevent another flood, “especially at this rainy season.” He said IUFMP had completed structural designs on bridges and culverts, and submitted same to the World Bank, expecting its nod to execute the projects. According to him, of the over 40 bridges and culverts damaged during the flood disaster, four had been reconstructed and delivered. The three-day workshop on the role of the media in mitigating flood risks in Ibadan continued yesterday with a presentation titled: “ Dynamics and Effective Strategies of Online and Offline Reportage of Flood Prevention and Flooding Incidents in Ibadan”, by  the Online Editor of The Nation, Mr. Lekan Otufodunrin.