The parents of a four-year-old allegedly raped by a 30-year-old neighbour have been trying to get the molester punished for his crime. The crime was said to have been committed in Kado village in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). The ‘rapist’ reportedly pulled down the little girl’s trousers and started touching her. He later threatened to cut her with a knife and kill her if she told anyone what happened. The girl’s mother discovered when she was bathing her daughter and getting her ready for bed. The woman said her daughter was complaining of pains in her private part as she bathed her at night. The child’s father, who pleaded anonymity for him and his daughter, said, “On the 1st of this month, my wife was bathing her for bed and when she tried to wash her private part, she told her not to wash it because it was paining her. After a lot of persuasion she said their neighbor whom she called Uncle, pulled her trouser and touched her. “On a closer look, the mother realised her daughter had been raped by the neighbour and her private part had been opened. I reported the case to the police and he was immediately arrested. Then the case was transferred to Life Camp Division. “The lawyer to the accused after a few days went to court and appeared with a release order and the man was released without even contacting us, saying that he will be invited when the medical report is ready. “When the police asked my daughter, she pointed him out and insisted that he was the one that pulled down her trousers, they took her back to my compound and she showed them the room where the incident took place but when they left her alone with him, he told her to keep quiet and that he will beat and kill her if she tells anyone about what he did to her. She became scared and told her mother not to take her back home because Uncle had threatened to beat and kill her if she tells anyone of what he did. When asked by our reporter, the girl repeated in a small voice that Uncle had pulled down her trousers, touched her and threatened to beat and cut her with a knife if she told anyone. Founder/CEO the Twin and I Child Care Foundation, Hajiya Aisha Tokura explained that it was too much trauma for a little girl to not only be raped but threatened to be killed by her molester. She said, ”I have talked to the father of the girl and heard the story of what the man did to the girl and how he threatened her life that he was going to kill her afterwards, which is wrong for a four-year-old to have to experience after what he has done; now he is threatening her. “We have taken up the case and gotten Federation of International Women Lawyer (FIDA) involved in the case; also we are hoping that this case will be an eye-opener for a lot of parents that do not want to fight such cases or turn around in the middle.  I am happy with the girl’s father because he is determined to get justice for his daughter. “We went to the police station today, I don’t know why they released the accused or why the case has not veen transferred yet to the CID as it should. “The DPO told us that as soon as the result is out, the case will be transferred to CID or taken to court, her molester has been released; they say he comes in every morning to sign at the station. All I want is to see that justice is served.”