The #BringBackOurGirls (#BBOG) advocacy group on Tuesday accused the Presidency of trampling on their rights by attacking them with police and preventing them from their regular sit outs. The group, which was attacked with tear gas by police at the Unity fountain on Monday, also accused the police of confiscating their chairs. Leaders of the group, a former Minister of Education Oby Ezekwesili, Aisha Yesufu and Florence Ozor, said in a statement in Abuja that the group has witnessed repressive attacks from the police since April 19. The group said: “Condemnable and vicious attack on the #BringBackOurGirls movement by the President Muhammadu Buhari administration using the Nigeria Police Force. “Our #BringBackOurGirls movement is widely acknowledged for the civil and decorous advocacy. We have used our Daily Sit-Outs since April 30, 2014 to sustain our demand for justice and rescue for our 219 #ChibokGirls who were abducted from their school in Borno State on April 14, 2014. “Inexplicably, on April 13, 2018 being the eve of the tragic commemoration of the 4th year since the abduction of our remaining 112 ChibokGirls, the gun-wielding Nigeria Police men in their hundreds attacked and prevented our members from holding our daily sit outs at our usual advocacy space on the grounds of Unity Fountain in Abuja. The police confiscated and took away our chairs, manhandled members of our movement, and shot canisters of tear gas at our peaceful assembly without any cause. “The next day, April 14 2018, we marked the 4th year of the tragedy of our #ChibokGirls abduction with our 2nd Annual #ChibokGirls Distinguished Lecture at the Yar’adua Center following which we decided to suspend our Daily Sit-Outs for 72 hours. Our decision was intended to give the Presidency, the Federal Government, and the Nigeria Police reasonable time to reflect on and redress the provocative violation of our constitutionally-guaranteed rights to freedoms of association, peaceful assembly, movement, thought and conscience, as well as that of expression. We had therefore hoped that following the three-day suspension of our activities, we would resume our Sit-Outs on April 19, without any further attacks from the Nigeria Police and that our chairs would be returned to location. “Sadly, since resuming our daily meetings at the Unity Fountain three days later, on April 19, 2018, the Nigeria Police continued to prevent us from holding our sit-outs and kept up with attacks on our members. Suffice it to say that in the last five days (from Thursday April 19) the repressive strikes of the Nigeria Police against our movement and our members have become more brazen and aggravated. “Only yesterday, Monday, April 23, 2018, the police not only prevented us once again from holding our sit-out, but deliberately shot tear gas canisters directly at our members at very close range with intent to harm. With the use of online streaming capabilities, we have placed still and video images of this tragic and heinous acts of the police against our peaceful gathering in the public domain for all to see. (To view these, please check our Twitter account @BBOG_Nigeria.) “As a mark of our commitment to our missing 112 #ChibokGirls in captivity, Leah Sharibu of the abducted #DapchiGirls, and five other #DapchiGirls unaccounted for, as well as other abducted citizens, we have refused to allow these unwarranted attacks, threat to life, and such other inconveniences to deter us. And so, we marked Day 1,470 of our #ChibokGirls abduction and Day 1,455 of our daily advocacy with a sit-out on the edge of the Unity Fountain. “There is no justification for the attacks being launched against our movement which appears intended to shut us down from demanding accountability for our abducted fellow citizens from the Presidency and the Federal Government. It is inconceivable that for simply and peacefully asking the Federal Government to fulfill its duties and obligations to our #ChibokGirls, Leah Sharibu, and others, our democratic freedoms are being trampled upon by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari. “We have vowed and recommitted ourselves to our cause and shall not cease advocating until all our girls are back and/or accounted for and closure given to their parents. We shall not stop until our girls are given the justice due them by our President and his administration.”