In this interview with Gbenga Aderanti, Mr. Kole Ajayi, a former gubernatorial candidate of Accord Party in Ekiti State and currently a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), talks about the chances of APC in the forthcoming elections in Ekiti State. Excerpts Can you give a general assessment of governance in Ekiti State? The present state of governance in Ekiti is highly devastating in view of the visionless approach of the present PDP government where the people are being economically decimated without any programme on economic development coupled with nonpayment of workers’ salaries for almost eight months now. Yet, the present government keeps inflicting further pains on them by bulldozing all the residential houses in the state capital without paying adequate compensation to the poor people affected. In short, to me, it has been a period of horror in the last three and half years. What are the chances of your party, APC, in the next election? The coast is very clear for APC to take over government in Ekiti come next election because our people have been able to compare the two and have realised they have been greatly short- changed and cajoled with tins of rice, peppermint and biscuits while the resources of the state are being drifted into private pockets. Hence, the situation is so worrisome that an average Ekiti citizen has taken to begging to survive. By this, the PDP government has shut itself out of political relevance in view of its deceptive approach and our electorates already know the truth.  I am confident that Ekiti people I know will use their vote to flush out this present draconian and insensitive government at the next polls. Recently, the APC chairman was said to have asked former Governor Fayemi to clear himself from Fayose Panel of Enquiry before coming to context. What is your take on this? I am yet to come to terms with the statement credited to Chief Jide Awe on the eligibility of former Governor Fayemi because the Jide Awe I know as a classmate in our university days and the President of our Students’ Union then cannot be so mischievous or so naïve to pull the roof over himself as a state chairman. But if it is actually true, then I don’t think it is right for him to still continue to superintend over the party because his credibility is being put into questioning here. How can he make such a statement without seeking the unbiased legal opinion of lawyers within the party because the law is very clear on all these kangaroo panels being set up by incumbents to deliberately nail their opponents. Obasanjo did it for Atiku then and Supreme Court stated clearly that only competent court of jurisdiction can disqualify any aspirant or candidate from contesting; so it’s already a non-issue that should not be raised again by any reasonable person. There is an alleged gang-up against Fayemi by other aspirants and some party members. What is your take on this? Orchestrated gang up against Fayemi at this stage is not going to help the party. He is the former governor and a serving minister who has put in place enduring economic projects and programmes that were very obvious for people to see and perceive even though the present state government has discontinued all these and gave them periodic tins of rice and N200 every month in return. Let me, at this  juncture, advice Ekiti APC aspirants to be very matured in their approach of campaign because whatsoever it is, anybody that gets the ticket needs the total support of all to win the general election. Also other party members de-marketing Fayemi should look back and realise that the last APC administration was still better in many areas than the present PDP government that operates on mere noise making and diversionary tactics of taking roasted corn on the street and siphoning millions of salary bailout funds through the back door. The last APC administration was paying 25,000 aged people N5,000 every month, paying 10,000 youths through the Dagrin programme. Why did you decide to opt out of the race and what is your next line of action? I decided to opt out basically for two reasons, including that I don’t need to deceive myself running with almost 30 people in a governorship race where every aspirant has 1/30 probability of winning, which is very infinitesimal. I have also critically analysed and interacted with virtually all the aspirants and realised that majority are just playing to the gallery because I have contested the governorship election in 2014 and also I have been a major player in Ekiti politics since 1999 and I understand our people and their body language more than anybody else contesting. What is your advice to Ekiti people? My advice to Ekiti people is that they should be wary of political mischief makers who are busy calling Kettle black in pursuance of their selfish agenda.