•Siblings invent electricity notification app Two brothers, Taslim and Abdulrahman Salaudeen, studying at the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) in Ondo State, have designed a mobile application that notifies users of the school’s electricity supply status. Their innovation is helping off-campus students to reduce the stress of trekking to the school in search of electricity, reports. DANIEL OLADELE (300-Level Forestry and Wood Technology). Erratic power supply remains the country challenge. All sectors experience the problem. The universities are not left out. But there is  charity news for students of the Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA). Two of their colleagues have designed a mobile application to help the school out of its power challenge. Taslim and Abdulrahman Salaudeen’s innovation notifies users of the electricity supply status in the school at any given time. For off-campus students, this is a big relief. They no longer have to trek to school, only to find out that there is no light. The Salaudeens UpNepa  mobile is helping off-campus students to reduce the stress of  trekking to the school to check whether there is electricityor not. The app, which was released last month, has been accepted by students and it is on “full operation”. But its innovators  said they would not relent in making it better. When it was first released, the device was built to notify users about electricity status only. But, the inventors introduced updates, which make the app to show history of electricity in the school and notifies users of their colleagues using their devices in any location on the campus. The mobile application has also been equipped with an instant messaging service allowing users to communicate with ease. Students using the app described it as “special intervention”, hailing the siblings for easing their burden. To off-campus students, the device is a succour from the challenge of trekking to the school to charge their electronic devices. On how they conceived the innovation, Abdulrahman, who is staying in an off-campus hostel with his elder brother, said he heard about how students subjected themselves to stress of trekking to the school to charge their laptops and other mobile gadgets only to discover that there was no electricity on the campus. He said many would wait for hours in the hope that the light would be restored, but got their hope dashed after wasting time without being able to use electricity. Abdulrahman, a 200-Level Computer Engineering student, said: “I considered that a waste of time and energy for students. As a software developer, I pondered over new ideas to reduce the stress. That was the root of how this idea popped up in my head.” UpNepa has been gaining widespread acceptance among FUTA students. Abdulrahman noted that the success of the mobile application could be linked to its acceptability by the users. “Our users love it and they are happy to have a tool useful to them in their devices. We are glad it is helping them in some way,” he said. For those wondering how the application works, Abdulrahman said UpNepa is run through the aid of sensors planted on each of the school facility covered by the service. “The application automatically detects the status of electricity with the aid of sensors. The sensors detect electricity status at the location where they are planted and immediately send signals to the software through an online database.” Highlighting the roles he and his co-inventor played in the development of the software, Abdulrahman said he is in charge of the operations of the software. He said: “My role is the technical aspect of the project, which includes development of the mobile app and regular release of updated versions of the app. My partner, who happens to be my brother, handles legal issues and the business aspect of the software, but we do the general planning together.” Taslim, a 400-Level student of Department of Remote Sensing and Geology, said it had not been easy for them to maintain the users’ satisfaction and meeting their expectation. Timilehin Ayeni, a 300-Level student and user, was full of praises for the siblings, saying the application ahad helped him to plan his time. He said: “Most times after lectures, I always wait extra hours to charge my laptop and phones. By the time I feel like going back to my hostel in the town, I won’t be sure whether electricity has been restored or not. “But, with this application, I can check if there is light in my hostel or not. I can also find out how long the light has been restored. With this information, I can decide to go home if the condition is favourable for me. I don’t have to wait for hours in school when there is electricity in my hostel.” Also, Paul Eweola, who lives off-campus, said the intervention was timely, noting that the mobile application had saved him of energy. “Before now, whenever I felt like charging my gadgets, I would need to go to school to do this, but I usually didn’t have any idea whether there was electricity in the school or not. With the software, all I need to do is to log on UpNepa application. This gives me clear idea on whether there is electricity on campus or not, so as not to waste my time.” Outgoing speaker of the Students’ Representative Council (SRC), Chukwuma Kingsley, praised the brothers and urged the university to promote the mobile application, with the aim to improve academic rating of the school. He said: “This particular set of students has proven to be problem solvers with their innovative minds. I can only urge the management to take advantage of this innovation to promote the school and invest resources in the project to encourage more students.” The speaker highlighted challenges that could be solved by students’ innovation, saying the long queue usually experienced in banks whenever students are to pay their fees could be solved by encouraging student-innovators. He said: “Whenever the school resumes, we experience hours of long queues in banks to pay our school fees. I believe these students can bring innovative solution to solve this issue if the school encourages and invests in the mobile applications they have designed to make our life easy on campus.” Apart from UpNepa, CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the siblings are also developing applications to ease processes on the campus.