See results and goal updates below, while Real Madrid defeated Juventus Sevilla lost to Bayern Munich See results and goal updates below  GOAL! JUVENTUS 0-3 REAL MADRID (Marcelo 72) This tie might be over. Juventus fans are heading for the exits. It’s a brilliant goal from Real which is started by Marcelo on the left side. Isco and Ronaldo are both involved and the ball is slipped through the middle for Marcelo, who chips over Buffon and then finishes from a few yards out.  GOAL! JUVENTUS 0-2 REAL MADRID (Ronaldo 64) WOW! Even the Juventus fans are applauding. This is absolutely superb from Ronaldo. Juventus make a mess of a long ball, Vazquez has a shot blocked and then the ball is clipped back into the box and Ronaldo scores with a stunning overhead kick. You will not see many better goals.  Half Time; Juventus 0-1 Real Madrid And that is half-time. Juventus had the better of the first half in terms of chances, but Ronaldo’s third-minute goal is the difference. Cristiano Ronaldo (3 mins) Ridiculous… You may have heard of this guy, as Cristiano Ronaldo scores for a ninth straight game for Real! He’s scored in every game in the competition and that’s another clinical strike. Juve are a mess at the back though as Isco has the freedom of the left wing, looks up and picks out the great man, who slams a toe-poke into the top corner! Real Madrid starting eleven is out for tonight’s tie against Juventus at Turis.  Sevilla 1-2Bayern Munich  GOAL! SEVILLA 1-2 BAYERN (Thiago, 68) Ribery stands the ball up to the back post where Thiago’s unmarked. The Spaniard heads the ball goalwards and it deflects off Escudero and into the back of the net to give Bayern the advantage.  GOAL! SEVILLA 1-1 BAYERN (Navas OG, 37) Bayern are back on level terms in fortunate circumstances. Ribery’s cross deflects off Navas, wrong-footing the goalkeeper Soria, who cannot claw the ball back at his near post. Not only are Bayern level they have a crucial away goal.  GOAL! SEVILLA 1-0 BAYERN (Sorabia, 32) Sorabia makes no mistake this time. He beats Bernat to the ball at the far post. He takes a touch before finding the back of the net to give the hosts the lead.  Pre Match Report Below Zinedine Zidane has had to make one of the toughest team selections of his coaching career and he has ultimately opted to start Isco against Juventus and play the same lineup as he did in Cardiff. With 10 players essentially considered automatic starters for the big matches, there was just one spot up for grabs in midfield and Isco, Gareth Bale, Marco Asensio and Lucas Vazquez all jostling for it. The full Real Madrid XI for tonight’s match in Turin is, therefore, as follows: Keylor Navas; Dani Carvajal, Sergio Ramos, Raphael Varane, Marcelo; Casemiro, Toni Kroos, Luka Modric; Isco; Cristiano Ronaldo, Karim Benzema. Real Madrid travel to Turin with one place in the starting line-up unclear, and former Juventus midfielder Mauro Camoranesi has given his take on who he thinks who should get the nod. Having twice knocked Los Blancos out of the Champions League as a player, he knows what it takes to succeed over two legs. “If I was Juventus coach, I’d prefer Isco not to play, but any of them are great players, it’s a problem,” he explained. “You can’t only focus on Cristiano Ronaldo, obviously he is the emblematic figure for what he represents, but you can’t relax at set pieces with Sergio Ramos in the middle and many other players who can score from distance.” That is in comparison to Juventus, who lack the stand out superstar that is so clear in Zinedine Zidane’s team. “Maybe Juventus haven’t had an emblematic player like Neymar, [Lionel] Messi or Cristiano in recent years, Zidane was the last player of that type that Juventus had,” he said. “However, what sums up Juventus is that they make teams, not ten players and one star. “Juventus always have a style which maybe isn’t great to watch, but in the last few years they’ve been one of the best teams in Europe. “Many people don’t know why, but it’s no coincidence.” Camoranesi also reflected on the past battles between the teams, which he relished in his successful trips to Madrid as a player. “Juventus vs Real Madrid is always a very attractive game, with two opposing styles and a lot of quality on the pitch,” the 41-year-old analysed. “They are clashed which I found stimulating, looking at the time when they start. “There’s nothing new to discover between the teams. Individual players will be key to deciding the tie.” Camoranesi retired in 2014, four years after ending an eight year spell at Juventus, and has recently coached in Mexico, taking charge of Coras de Tepic, Tigre and Tapachula.