South West arm of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday urged members to channel  their energy towards wresting power from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and not dissipate it on needless in – fighting. The party also warned the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to desist from  meddling in the internal affairs of political parties in the country. The party’s National Vice Chairman (South West), Dr. Eddy Olafeso, made this known  in his remarks at the zonal meeting of the Extended Working Committee of South West PDP in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. He said the task to reclaim the region for PDP in future elections is a task that must be accomplished, also warning the chieftains to expect a big fight from the ruling APC. “What is important here is not fighting ourselves but fighting the APC government so that we can free our people from the clutches of this bad governance. Within the last few months and years that they have been there, Nigeria has turned to a mystery land; it’s a killing field for everybody. “The economy has gone down. No family in Nigeria can say they are better off today than they were three years ago that the PDP was in power. And if that is the situation, what should confront us is the unity that we must share to deal with the APC government and the common enemy among all of us is the APC and not ourselves. “And winning the South West is a task that we all must do; it’s no longer a Disneyland story of happy ever after. APC government will fight us but we are ready to rewrite this ugly chapter in the Nigerian history and we’ll do everything possible to mobilize and ensure that our people are properly positioned to vote out, in the coming general elections, this government that took our country and shredded it. “When you talk about a renewed and rebranded PDP, this is just the beginning. Internal democracy has been strengthened and we ensure that everybody is allowed to participate. The era of impunity and self-righteousness is over in our party,'” Olafeso said. He expressed satisfaction with the health of PDP in Ekiti and Osun states respectively, saying the party is solidly on ground. He advised those aggrieved in the party to work for harmony, and refrain from inimical activities. Also, the PDP Deputy National Chairman (South), Elder Yemi Akinwonmi, said PDP members should have confidence in themselves and refused to be intimidated. He noted that the party, through the National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus, had taken a very strong and irrevocable position on the situation in Ogun State chapter. However, in a communiqué issued at the end of the meeting, the South West PDP resolved to hold a mega rally in Osogbo, the Osun State capital, on May 5 “to engender brotherhood and comradeship within the party in the zone.” It said the PDP National Chairman and leadership of the party from across the nation will be in attendance. The communiqué reads in part: “That we abhor INEC’s interference in the affairs of political parties and thus declare this attitude as interloping and overbearing. This we do in view of the Supreme Court declaration on the powers of Party Convention and authority conferred on them. “Therefore, we reject INEC’s letter to the Ogun State Executive of the Party and also solidly confirm it to be the leadership of the Party in the State, having emerged from a convention conducted and supervised by the National Executive of the Party, it is worthy of note that INEC itself attended the convention and appended signatures to the results emanating from it. “We also seize this opportunity to call on members of the Party to place the interest of the Party above ambitions; it is our position that we all must eschew bitterness, rancor and strife in our relationship within the Party. We emphasize that there is no enemy within, but enemy without, therefore we must concentrate every energy we can muster to vanquish our rivals.” In attendance at the meeting, are state chairmen of the party in Ekiti, Lagos, Oyo, Osun and Ondo, who affirmed the leadership of Ogun State executive committee led by Hon. Sikirulai Ogundele.