 Strong indications abound that the current NPFL transfer window which opened on Monday, will be full of activities. Less than 24 hours after the window opened league defending champions Plateau United apparently bent on fortifying the squad for the challenges ahead, have grabbed the services of former U-20 ace Jesse Akila.  Akila crossed over from MFM FC. But the Jos side are not only in business of getting new players but have equally sent four packing. Leading the pack of those shown the door is Nigeria international and former Victoria Setubal and Stal Rzeszów of Poland right back Terna Suswam. Suswam made about 56 appearances for the Polish club between 2014 and 2016 scoring two goals,  He was called up for the Nigeria camp prior to the 2010 FIFA World Cup in South Africa by coach Lars Lagerbäck, after helping the national B-team win the 2010 WAFU Nations Cup. The other players sent packing alongside Suswam are Fortune Omoniwari, Abdulwahab Afolabi and Sadiq Yusuf. Kano Pillars on the other hand have grabbed the duo of Kalu Orji and Ikenna Hilary while former FC Ifeanyiuba star Jimoh oni is now in the payroll of Abia Warriors. Reacting to the new transfer window, Chairman of club owners Isaac Danladi told SCORENigeria said clubs are now expected to fortify their ranks ahead of the second stanza of the league. “It is good that registration of new players has begun. It is a way for teams to compliment what they have on ground ahead of this interesting NPFL season,” he said. “If you have followed the league closely, you cannot predict who will win it and who will drop to the second-tier league because the gap between clubs is so close that a victory can push you to the top, while two consecutive defeats can bring you to the relegation zone, that makes the league to be interesting. Meanwhile Plateau United will attempt to turn the table in the CAF Confederation cup tie 2nd leg play-off against USM Alger today in Algiers.  The Jos based side who chose to play the first leg at the ground of MFM dubbed the Temple, emerged 2-1 victors but will need to hold their own against USM Alger who are likely to fire from all angles today  with intent to turn the table.  Today’s tie will be decided at the Stade du 5 Juillet 1962 at 18.00 hours.  