Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara has faulted the reaction of security agencies in the stealing of the mace at the Senate. He said the silence of the security agencies on the issue speaks volume, while adding that the incidence would have led to mass resignation in some other climes. He also warned the judiciary against restricting the police from performing its duty on the arrest of culprits. The House has consequently resolved to set-up a committee that will collaborate with a similar committee in the Senate to investigate the immediate and remote causes of the attack. Saying that the invasion of the National Assembly by the hoodlums has exposed failure of security agencies, he added, “If it had happened in other climes, heads would have rolled. Security chief would have resigned on their own, without any prompting. “An attack on the National Assembly is an attack on Buhari’s government. It is the failure of security agencies and it is the failure of their commanders. “That we have not received any communication from the security agencies speaks a volume”. Dogara did not spare some of his colleagues in the Upper Chamber for the roles they played in the incidence while condemning the formation of support group for President Muhammadu Buhari. According to him, the parliament is bounded by rules, and there is no group of parliamentarians that should protect anyone in the executive. He said: “Lawamakers who want to protect the President are going against the constitutional design of the parliament. “There is need for us to add our voice to this matter so that the public will know where we stand. There is no amount of anger that should lead a member to procure touts to come and carry out a treasonous offence on the”. To the judiciary, Dogara cautioned it over restricting the police from arresting the alleged culprits, saying such action may strengthen a bad presence in the polity. “If this precedence is sustained, the thugs may one day attack the courts premises. We don’t have to wait for the courts or the Villa to be attack. The National Assembly is better secured than the courts,” he stated. Nonetheless, the National Assembly would not allow touts to disrupts its activities or terrorise its members, he noted, saying, “The National Assembly is no a place for anarchy, monsters, terrorists. “We cannot allow terrorists to terrorize the us. Anyone who call himself a democrats can never be defended by touts, a democrat is defended by the truth”.