The House of Representatives Committee on privatisation has assured that it will make adequate budgetary provision to complete all on-going Transmission Company of Nigeria ( TCN ) power projects in the country. The Chairman of the committee, Hon. Ahmed Yerima, gave the assurance when he led members to an over-sight function and interaction with management of Enugu Electricity Distribution Company ( EEDC ) on Monday in Enugu. Yerima noted that the on-going TCN power projects were critical to the social and economic growth of the country. “We are looking for a way to meet all the TCN budgetary needs for the completion of their numerous on-going projects at various degrees of completion to ensure stable power supply in the country. “These projects are critical to the economic and social growth of the country. “When completed and put to use, it will translate to more jobs, employments, profits, more money, security and general well-being of our people in the country,” he said. The chairman also said the committee would consider an all-encompassing legislature that would checkmate energy theft in the country. “It is basically a moral issue for people not to do the right thing like paying for electricity they had consumed. “We have decided to look at the issue of energy theft from a broader view. We will see what we can do on it,” he said. Yerima said the committee had fruitful deliberations with the management of EEDC, especially on issues hindering the progress of the company and service delivery to the people. “It was a fruitful session with the EEDC management, as we came purposefully to see, hear, interact and find a common ground to improve power supply for the good of Nigerians. “It is a known fact that the power sector is the key driver of the economy as well as other socio-political necessities meant to better the lives of Nigerians,’’ he added. Earlier, the Acting Managing Director of EEDC, Mr Paul Okeke said the company had improved its operations, using smart meters, customer service, ease of payment and reduced time of repairs of faulty installations. Okeke said in spite of the achievements, there were so many challenges facing the company, adding that energy theft was one of its major problems. “I will implore the lawmakers to enact a law that will put stringent penalty on people that engage in energy theft. “In the same vein, I would like the committee to come up with legislation to establish a special court for prosecution of those who engage in energy theft,’’ he appealed. The committee also inspected EEDC’s smart meter assembling section and smart meter monitoring network room. NAN