An adage says that having had the privilege of a noble birth is not  as important as giving oneself a nobler rebirth. This proverb aptly captures the lifetime efforts and determination of Alhaji Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo, the Executive Governor of Gombe state. He has strived to convince every nay sayer that pressure could  actually squeeze whining out of losers and winning out of achievers. He has likewise demonstrated that anyone that optimises God given talents very well, could pick money from people’s pockets and nobody will ever get the guts to label the person a thief. Faithfulness of Almighty Allah is another key factor in the life of Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo. He is unusually gifted and this can only be attributed to the faithfulness of Allah. The miracle worker of Gombe in his 56 years of existence has not found himself in a wrong place at a wrong time. This for sure,  could have only been guaranteed by Allah’s faithfulness. Dankwambo has thus far enjoyed steady career and political progression. He has also never been left at the mercy of his enemies. These and many more are manifold evidence of faithfulness in the life of Ibrahim Dankwambo. Ibrahim Dankwambo is now serving his second term as the Governor of Gombe state having won his first mandate in 2011 and survived the political tsunami of 2015 to get reelected. He is undoubtedly the best thing to have happened to Gombe state in terms of good governance.  The fact of Dr. Ibrahim Dankwambo noble birth and aristocrat background are indisputable. He has proven himself as a special gift to Gombe state and Nigeria when he breathed the first air of this earth planet on the 4th day April, 1962 at Gombe Local Government Area in Gombe state. Dankwambo had his primary and secondary schools education in his native Gombe state before he proceeded to Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria where he studied and obtained bachelor’s degree in Accounting.  He has also bagged M.Sc in Economics from University of Lagos. He has also displayed his academic genius by obtaining Ph.D in Accounting from Igbinedion University,  Okada, Edo State. Dankwambo has likewise armed himself with a Post Graduate Diploma in Computer science from Delta State University, Abraka, Delta State. In addition to these intimidating academic qualifications, he is a fellow of front line professional bodies in Nigeria that includes Fellow Chartered Institute of Accountant, Fellow Chartered Institute of Bankers, Fellow Chartered Institute of Taxation, Fellow Chartered institute of Management, Fellow Chartered institute of Marketing and Fellow Nigerian Economic Society. Alhaji Dankwambo began his glowing career at the Coopers and Lybrand International, now PriceWaterHouseCoopers as a Chartered Accountant from 1985 to 1988. It is on record that he became a Chartered accountant at a record time of one year after his graduation from the university.  He later joined the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1988 and worked with the apex bank till 1999. He was subsequently appointed the Accountant-General of Gombe state in view of his evidently unique qualities. The unprecedented achievements of Dankwambo as the Accountant General of Gombe state was noticed by the then Nigerian president, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo who appointed him as the Accountant General of the Federation on 20th April, 2005 to succeed Mr J.K Naiyeju. Meanwhile, before this appointment, Dankwambo had served at various committees of the Federation Account where his brilliance, innovativeness and resourcefulness became too evident to go unnoticed by all and sundry. Dankwambo has had numerous global exposure to cutting edge trainings that have ultimately distinguished him as a well grounded and seasoned Accountant, Economist and Administrator. He nonetheless achieved monumental successes that have outlived him and already etched his name in the sands of time while he served as the Accountant General of the federation. He resigned this appointment in 2011 to contest the governorship of his home state, Gombe in which he recorded landslide victory.  