The Benue State University (BSU) Students’ Union Government (SUG) has been torn apart by an allegation of N2.29 million fraud against key leaders of the union. The development has led to the suspension of the Speaker, Fanen Anjie, who is at the centre of the allegation of embezzlement of funds. JOSHUA OBELLE (Mass Communication) reports.. The Benue State University (BSU) Students’ Union Government (SUG) has been thrown into disarray, following an allegation of N2.29 million fraud. The union Speaker, Fanen Anjie, is at the centre of the storm, bordering on embezzlement. At their last sitting, the union members suspended two key officials – the speaker and clerk – after the alleged fraud was uncovered. The suspension followed an investigation privately launched by five members of the parliament, who questioned funds released by the school management to the union for development projects. Trouble started three weeks ago when Anjie disclosed to parliament members at a plenary that the management released N1.5 million for development projects in each department. The money, according to the speaker, was to be shared N50,000 each. But five members were suspicious about the total money released and approached the Dean of Students’ Affairs (DSA) to find out the exact money approved by the management. The dean, it was gathered, told the curious members that N2.29 million was released for the projects, with each member expected to get N80,000. Angered by the revelation, the members of the parliament called for an emergency sitting, where they confronted the speaker with their findings. The speaker, it was learnt, could not defend himself when confronted with the revelation. Anjie was unanimously suspended. Also suspended indefinitely is the clerk, Shimasaan Gbanger. Although no allegation was leveled against Gbanger, his suspension, CAMPUSLIFE learnt, may not be unconnected with his closeness to Anjie. The parliament members appointed Joseph Agbo as acting speaker and Mfeseer Terver, acting clerk. One of the five members who raised suspicion, Msonter Anzaa, representing the Clinical Sciences, expressed disappointment in Anjie, saying the embattled speaker did not show remorse when he was confronted with facts. He said Anjie was trying to bribe members to discontinue the voting for his suspension. Msonter said: “Our suspicion was fuelled by information we received from a source in the management. Then, we took the matter up and found out that more than N2.2 million was released. The suspended speaker couldn’t deny he was given N80,000 for every member rather than the N50,000 he disclosed. Before he was suspended, Anjie called some members behind and promised to give them N80,000 in order not to make them sign document for his suspension. “We have documents to show everyone the exact amount Anjie collected from the management. Yet he is refusing to return the money. I am thoroughly disappointed in him. If these are the kind of people preparing to take over leadership of this country, then we are in trouble. A young man who is entrusted with public funds found the courage to divert the money and turned round to threaten those demanding accountability. Should we have put our hands between our thighs and watched Anjie embezzling funds belonging to all students?” After the suspension, it was gathered that the dean summoned the union members in a bid to resolve the crisis. It was learnt that the dean asked Anjie to explain why he lied to his colleagues in the union parliament about the money. The peace meeting ended abruptly when Anjie could not give convincing explanation. The dean, it was gathered, left the meeting in annoyance. A member representing Psychology Department, Ago Mcago, said majority of members raised suspicion immediately the embattled speaker announced N1.5 million. He said: “We suspected Anjie immediately he announced that N1.5 million was released to him. We did not believe the speaker because we had already got the information from a reliable source in the management that each member is to get N80,000 and not the sum the speaker announced. “The next day, five members, including me, went to the Bursary Department to find out the correct figure. We could not get it; we were told to meet with the dean. The response from Bursary Department indicated something didn’t add up. When we met with the dean, he gave us documents indicating the approved sum. “Each member is to get N80,000 only, while the speaker and his deputy are to get N120,000 and N90,000. We then told every member the truth after writing officially to complain to the dean. The dean later called us for a peace meeting to resolve the matter, but Anjie bungled that opportunity when he said the dean had no right to meddle in the union affairs.” After suspending the speaker, members wrote to the school security unit to investigate the alleged fraud. At press time, Anjie was being investigated by the security officers of the school. The Acting Speaker, Joseph, described the controversy as an “embarrassment” to the union, saying members owed the school community a duty to promote accountability and transparency. He promised to recover the “money embezzled”, saying his aim was to restore students’ confidence in the union. Joseph said: “In Nigeria today, we cry against corruption and bad leadership, and also we look up to the youths to bring us the change that we desire. I am ashamed and disappointed that a young promising man would involve himself in this despicable act of corruption. I am disappointed, not because he embezzled funds meant for the welfare of all students, but because the young man in question is not remorseful about his action. We cannot have a better country if people act like this.” The Acting Clerk, Terver Mfeseer, told CAMPUSLIFE that the suspended speaker was yet to return the money to the union coffer. He said Anjie told some members that part of the money was used for “logistic purposes”. “In fact, we have been asking Anjie about what he did with the money. The suspended speaker goes about telling some people that part of the money was used for logistic purposes when they recently went on excursion to the National Assembly in Abuja. But, all members of the union on the excursion sponsored themselves to and fro. So, we urge the school security department to help recover the money from Anjie,” Terver said. Anjie, in reaction, told CAMPUSLIFE that his suspension did not follow due process, claiming he remained the speaker of the union. He said his travail was plotted by members he described as “disgruntled elements”, who, he said, did not like his style of leadership. He said the DSA was used against him, because of his disagreement with the dean. Defending his action, he said he had already distributed the money to majority of members for the purpose it was meant for, noting that he withheld some money because the affected members owed him. Anjie said: “I urge students to disregard all the allegations leveled against me. I am still the speaker of the union and there is nothing showing I am suspended in line with due process. My clerk and I cannot be suspended indefinitely. If there should be suspension, it should be the decision of majority of the House and not two members moving motion and expecting it to work. “It is true the management gave me N2.29 million, out of which I gave N1.5 million to members. I took the remaining money for a reason, which is that the House is owing me some money. It is mischievous to say I embezzled any money; I only took what rightfully belongs to me. I think the problem is coming from the Dean of Students’ Affairs, who is fighting me simply because I did not come from the same community with him.”