EMINENT Nigerians, including the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal, former Justice Minister Bola Ajibola (SAN) and ex-National Commissioner for Insurance Oladipo Bailey, have argued that it was difficult for the nation to attain its full potential in the face of growing insecurity and widening division among the ethnic nationalities. To them, the nation’s quest for growth and economic prosperity was only realisable in a secure, peaceful and united environment, devoid of unnecessary rancour. The Sultan of Sokoto, Tambuwal, Ajibola Bailey, a scholar, Dr. Mahmud Saidu and Assistant Inspector General of Police, Mauzu Hadeija (retd) spoke in Abuja on Saturday at a one-day lecture and award of patron/matron and honorary fellows. It was put together by the Chartered Institute of Loan and Risk Management of Nigeria (CILRMN) and The Defender online media. Those conferred with the institute’s awards are the Sultan of Sokoto, President Muhammadu Buhari’s wife Aisha; Inspector General (IG) Ibrahim Idris; former Communication Minister Maj.-Gen. Tajudeen Olanrewaju and a cleric, Primate Elijah Babatunde Ayodele. The lecture held under the theme: “Towards national integration and economic development of Nigeria: The online media and risk management approach”. The Sultan of Sokoto, who was represented by the Emir of Keffi, Shehu Chindo Yamusa (III), urged the media to always be guided by the tenets of the professions and endeavour to present “the untwisted truth” all the time. He added: “I agree that the factors militating against our integration and economic development in this country can best be addressed if we can all agree and show it in our actions and utterances, whether we are president, traditional rulers, governors, journalists, lawyers, civil society activists and so on and so forth, that we are first and foremost, Nigerians before we are who we are. “This is the reason why I have usually told those, who talk about restructuring, to focus on economic restructuring rather that geographical restructuring and that the way they usually agitate about it means the splitting of Nigeria into pieces.” Tambuwal, who was represented by a member representing Kebbe/Tambuwal (Sokoto State) Federal Constituency in House of Representatives, Abdulsamad Dasuki, urged Nigerians to keep working for the unity and progress of the country. He particularly advised the political leaders to work to promote national peace and cohesion, and desist from acts capable of encouraging hatred and division. Ajibola attributed the growing insecurity in the country to rising unemployment and illiteracy. Relying on a United Nation’s report, Ajibola, who was represented by the Vice-Chancellor, Crescent University, Prof. Ibrahim Gbajabiamila, noted that Nigerian presently ranks among countries with high number of out-of- school children. 