A non-government organisation, the Ganiyu Abiodun Johnson Foundation, yesterday donated cash gifts and food items to indigent widows and youths in Osodi/Isolo Federal Constituency, Lagos State. The foundation, which is sponsored by the former Lagos State Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Ganiyu Johnson, also gave scholarship to indigent tertiary students in the area. Johnson, a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), clarified that the activities of the foundation were not motivated by partisan politics, explaining that he was trying to plough back to a society that has assisted him to achieve his dream in life. Accompanied by his wife, Funke, Johnson, who also donated cash gifts and consumables to some orphanages, promised to sustain the empowerment programme. The event, which was held at Bouyard Event Centre, Isolo, and chaired by Chief Afolabi Salami, was witnessed by the Lagos APC outgoing chairman, Otunba Oladele Ajomale, the Osolo of Isolo, Oba Kabiru Agbabiaka Ilufemiloye, Commissioner for Home Affairs Dr. Abdulakeem Abdulateef, Chairman of Isolo Council Shamishideen Olaleye, Chief M.A. Taiwo, former member of House of Representatives Akinderu Fatai, Olamide Kasali, Wale Adelana, community and religious leaders, women and youth groups, and members of the Community Development Associations (CDAs). Beneficiaries of the empowerment programmes showered praises on Johnson, describing him as a compassionate leader, kind and loving neighbour. Johnson, an engineer, spoke on the gospel of philanthropy, saying that it is a patriotic assignment to extend a duty of care to the needy. He disclosed that the foundation has touched may lives through the programme, urging other well-meaning materials to take similar steps. Johnson said: “I was a beneficiary of the Federal Government scholarship. To gain admission into the university in the seventies was very difficult, if you were not from a rich family and you were not working. That’s what motivated me to give back to the society. The scholarship has placed me in the position where I can render assistance to the less-privileged.” Noting that widows and indigent students are going through hard times, the former commissioner urged public-spirited individuals to come to the aid of the poor. Ajomale applauded Johnson for the initiative, saying that the foundation has made progress. He said: “We are moving forward. Good things are coming and it is our turn. I was also a beneficiary of scholarships which made me to study in Russia. This is a good gesture.”