Premium Lager beer, Heineken, has continued to share love for football with fans across the country with its exclusive UEFA Champions League viewing experiences. The Official Sponsor of the League transformed the Tak Klub House, Abuja and Ember Creek, V.I., Lagos, into enviable premium viewing centres for fans to enjoy the Liverpool vs Manchester City and Barcelona vs Roma matches. The Wednesday matches were broadcast live and the centres were filled with football fans. The stunning night began with fun games, great conversations and laughter. They were treated to exhilarating quizzes to loosen them up in anticipation of the adrenaline packed matches. Chilled glasses of Heineken were circulated among the excited crowd. Recall that Liverpool started the game with so much confidence, coming off their last two wins which included a match against Watford that ended with a 5-0 score. And that confidence was a boost as Mohamed Salah, with an assist from R. Firmino scored the first goal in the 12th minute. The goal was Salah’s 38th goal for Liverpool this season. Oxlade-Chamberlain scored the 2nd goal for Liverpool barely eight minutes after. And Liverpool rounded up the 1st half with a staggering 3 – 0 lead, courtesy of Sadio Mane. Barcelona on the other hand continued their fine campaign for the trophy by rounding up the first half with a 1-0 lead against the Italian giants, thanks to a goal by Daniele De Rossi. The fans who were up from the first half, relaxed with fun games and quizzes at half time. As some fun-seeking fans went forward to participate in the thrilling quizzes, delicious small chops and cold glasses of Heineken were served to the guests who watched on. Branded prizes were handed to the excited winners of the quizzes and games. By the time the 2nd half rolled by, guests were ready for the concluding part of the drama. To the surprise of many, Liverpool held their own and did not concede a single goal, leaving the score at 3 – 0 by the end of the match. Barcelona proved that the mauling of Roma at the UEFA Champions League group stage in 2015 with a 6-1 score was only a prequel. The Serie A side lost the game to Ernesto Valverde’s men by conceding 4 goals, and scoring only one. Manchester City and Roma fans were not too happy at the end of the night as fans of the winning teams playfully taunted about repeat performances at the return leg on the 10th of April, 2018. Playful banter continued among fans as night closed in at the premium viewing locations. Premium lager brand, Heineken, will continue to share the drama of the UEFA Champions League to football fans in Lagos, Abuja and Port-Harcourt for the rest of the 2017/2018 Champions League season.