Senator Ebenezer Ikeyina is the National Vice Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Southeast zone. In an interview with EMMANUEL UDODINMA, he spoke on the party’s readiness for the 2019 elections, among other crucial issues. The SDP is said to be the Third Force. What do you mean by that? Nigerians have tried the All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and they have failed them. So, the SDP is providing the needed alternative that can deliver Nigerians from hardship. The party has what it takes to deliver Nigeria from the logjam caused by many years of bad governance. The two parties have failed and the Third Force is ready to restore hope, by rejuvenating the economy and restoring peace in the country. Why do people describe the SDP as the party for restructuring? We have been hammering on restructuring or what you may call true federalism from the beginning. We believe that Nigeria has had enough schisms here and there, all bothering on resource control. You have the Niger Delta restiveness and the Biafran agitators in Southeast. Even the Fulani herdsmen/farmers clashes are associated issues. We think that what will resolve these issues is that regions should control their wealth and resources and develop at their own pace. Then, you will see these problems disappear. Let the regions be stronger than the centre and you will have peace in Nigeria. I advocated for true federalism as a senator at the Third Assembly. My voice was very loud and I can remember vividly that the late Dr. Alex Ekwueme was in total support. The state of things in Nigeria at moment calls for a consideration of that option. The SDP has restructuring as its mantra. Do you think that the current administration is sincere with its recent bid to restructure the country? Nigerians are the ones to answer the question, not the SDP. Nigerians should know if they can trust this government from its antecedents. Has this government been able to deepen democracy? Has it given Nigerians the change it promised? I can only speak for the SDP. I do not know the mind of the government. When are the rumoured five governors and 20 senators going to defect to your party? It is not late for people to change parties. Just put your ears on the ground, because if you listen to news the SDP has been receiving new groups across the country on a daily basis. When we say that we are the Third Force and that we will usher Nigeria into greatness, we mean it. A lot of people are excited about the new move. It looks as if the SDP is poaching new members from only the PDP. Could you name any APC chieftain that is likely to join your party? We also have new members from the APC. I cannot mention names here, because even before you leave this place, you may hear that new members have joined. People are tired and they are looking for alternative vehicles that will take them to the promised land. The SDP is that vehicle. Is there an understanding between the SDP and Obasanjo’s Coalition of Nigeria Movement (CNM)? We have been meeting with a lot of stakeholders, not just former President Obasanjo. We have had meetings with him, but I cannot tell you categorically the level of the discussion. In politics, negotiations are constant and as you know, the general elections are about one year from now. So, be ready to see more group meetings here and there. How easy has it been mobilising people for the party in Southeast, given PDP and APGA’s dominance? You must know that the SDP is not a new party. It is known in the Southeast. We are only trying to enlarge our frontiers. I got to the Senate in the Third Assembly on the ticket of the SDP. What we want to do now is to win elections at all levels and reposition the party. People have been showing tremendous interest in joining the party. These other parties are no threat to us. We have done our homework very well and we are ready to take over. What is your assessment of the performance of the APC in terms of security? There are so many security challenges in the country now. The kidnap of 110 Dapchi secondary school girls is heart breaking. Nobody has been able to give an account of even one child (the girls have since been freed). The army and the police engaged in a war of words and it is very sad. The Boko Haram is at one corner ravaging the Northeast. At the Northcentral, you have the Fulani herdsmen clashes at its peak. The security challenges in the country are becoming alarming. However, I will always like to say that security is everybody’s business. If you notice strange things, report them. If your town’s man is culpable, please do not spare him, because the next victim may be your child. More importantly, I think that the security apparatus in the country needs to be overhauled. We should not let criminals like Boko Haram take the upper hand to the extent that the government will be boxed to a corner and start considering negotiation with terrorists. What is your view on the farmers/herders clashes across the nation, which seems to be getting out of control? This is a huge security challenge. Bloodletting has become the order of the day. Economically, Nigeria is losing so much money. The government seems to be treating this issue with kid gloves. The issue of ranching may be the best solution to this problem. Creation of cattle colonies may not be an ideal solution, especially when the herders are armed with AK47. Do you think the government is doing well in area of economy? The government is not doing well. We hear that we are out of recession, but the pains are still with us. I think that the economic team is faulty. The president should take a second look at his economic team and do wider consultations with experts on way forward. What is the position of the SDP on the refusal of the President to assent to the bill amending the Electoral Act on elections sequence? I will tell you that Nigeria is a leader in Africa. Everything Nigeria does is looked at by other countries. That is why it is important that we do the right thing. We must understand that an institution is greater an individual or individuals and people should not sit down and take certain decisions on personal grounds, especially the ones that can hurt the institution. Institutions are meant to outlive individuals. We may be setting a bad precedence if we do not consider appropriately some decisions we take for selfish motives. The constitution provides that for the president’s veto to be set aside, two-thirds of the members of each House would again pass the bill. If the Senate gets 72 members and the House of Representatives gets 240 members, they are good to go. The Senate is considering a bill to recommend capital punishment for hate speech offenders. How do you see this development? Globally, capital punishment is considered degrading. So, why will Nigeria be considering something that is out of fashion? In the first place, what constitutes hate speech? There is no clear definition here. I am worried about that because there may be a possibility of it being used as a weapon to silence criticism. The Senate should not be hasty in passing the bill, so that they do not take us back to the Stone Age and we end up shooting ourselves in the leg. 