•Students: ‘we’ll abide by rules’ About three months after it was shut, Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) in Ondo State will re-open on Monday to complete the 2016/2017 session. But, each student must pay N12,000 damages as a condition for returning to school. The school announced its resumption, following the adoption of the recommendations of  a panel set up by the government to probe January 22 violence that led to the school’s closure. The panel slammed N168 million damages on students for destroying school property during the violence. The resumption came days after the Students’ Union Government (SUG) issued a seven-day ultimatum. A statement by the Governing Council Chairman, Mr Banji Alabi, said the resumption was authorised after due consultations with Governor Rotimi Akeredolu. The statement reads: “All fresh students (ND 1 and HND 1) are to resume on Monday April 30, 2018, while returning students are to resume on May 14, 2018.” In addition to the payment of N12,000 reparation fee, the council said returning student must submit an apology letter in which each students must pledge to be of good conduct after resumption. The council said the letter must be signed by a prominent member of society, including elected members of House of Assembly, civil servants not below the rank of a Permanent Secretary, Chairmen of Local Government Areas or a legal practitioner. While reaffirming his commitment to reposition the polytechnic for improve service delivery, Alabi sought for stakeholders’ co-operation in the ongoing consultations and tasks ahead. He said: “As we work to ensure the commencement of what we hope would be a seamless academic calendar, we request from stakeholders to keep faith in our ability, show patience and commitment to the project. “In changing the fortune of the school, it requires concessions, sacrifice and tolerance towards changes that may occur as we cannot successfully rebuild for the future without first acknowledging that change comes with pain.” Alabi stressed that the council was ready to support legitimate means to engage with any member of the polytechnic community and utilise every contribution. He said members of the school community would enjoy freedom of association and peaceful gathering. “It is important to do so within the limits of Nigerian laws,” he said. He maintained that the council would adopt legal means to prevent future breakdown of law and order in the school. He said: “We are passionate about changing Rufus Giwa Polytechnic and make it a leading research institute committed to improving the human condition through advanced knowledge of science and technology. We demand every stakeholder’s enthusiastic support.” Reacting, SUG Public Relations Officer, Ayodele Oluwatobi, described the development as “good news”, saying students were elated to be called back to school. He said students were ready to abide by the condition laid down by the school.