A trader in Oto Community in Ijora Olopa, Lagos, has claimed that she spent over N300,000 on her nine-month-old daughter, who is  undergoing treatment for intestine infection after inhaling toxic fumes from an asphalt firm Mrs Fausat Akande told The Nation that Faidat suffered  infection after inhaling fumes emitted from  Righteous Construction Company Nigeria Limited, which is in front of her 6A Bello Lane home. The company was sealed off on Wednesday by officials of the Ministries of the Environment and Health following a visit to the residents. Faidat is one of the many complainants in the community, who  developed several health issues after inhaling the toxic fumes.  They have been diagnosed with  cough, catarrh, eye problem and asthma. Many of the residents  told The Nation: “Help us o, this company wants to kill all of us before our time; we must not get blind; we are tired of taking our children and ourselves to the hospital almost every day. They have chased some of us away from our houses; everywhere is dusty; our water is dirty all because of this company.” The Nation gathered that the problem started in 2016, following the damage of some of the firm’s machines. Mrs Akande told The Nation that Faidat’s sickness began last February with vomiting and stooling, adding that she took her to the hospital and it stopped. She said: “The sickness began again last month; she began to have difficulty in breathing, I took her to Massey Hospital and we were there for three days till they rushed us in an ambulance to Lagos Island General Hospital. Her stomach was swollen; she could not defecate and urinate; we did a series of test before it was later discovered that the area we live emits dust. The doctors said it is the dust  stored in her chest that affected her intestine; this was why they had to operate her. I spent a lot of money and spent about 15 days at the general hospital. I have spent all the money I have on treating my daughter; there is nothing in my shop again; all that I have in my shop is what I have sold to take care of this girl. “The owner of this company should take his company from here; such company should be in the bush and not in a residential area.  I took my baby to the company and they promised that there will be solution but still they have done nothing. This dust affects many people in this community, especially children.” Inspector Bako Husseini, who lives in the Police Barracks opposite the company, said he had also been diagnosed with infection as a result of the fumes from the company, adding that he is currently on anti-biotics. His four-year-old daughter, Goodness, also has skin infection and she is also receiving treatment. He said it all began about three years ago, noting that the community is tired of taking drugs and going to the hospital every now and then. “When they start the production, we hardly breathe in our homes. The dust will cover the whole house, our water, bed, food, clothes and our nostrils will be blocked. We breathe the particles into our nostrils. Our children have skin rashes all the time. We go to the hospital from time to time over difficult breathing, skin infection and we keep spending money every now and then. Almost everybody in this community is coughing; there is no house that is not suffering one sickness or the other and everybody’s house is dusty. “We have told the owner of the company more than three times that the fumes is affecting us and he told us that something spoilt in the machine and that is what is causing the fumes and that they will do something about it, Otto community has protested more than 10 times, but up till now, nothing has been done. If nothing is done about it, many of us will start dying in this community,” he said. Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP) Emmanuel Abel said many people have left the community because of the problem. “My four years old daughter, Deborah coughs every day for over a year up till now and I have spent a lot of money on her. My 10 years old son also sneezes continuously every time the company is producing. This company is just killing us; once they start the production, which is usually at night, we cannot sleep; the whole house is dusty, we have to cover our nose; our cars parked outside are always dusty, even though we wash them before going to bed at night. “All we want is that this company should relocate so that we can stop spending our money on drugs and hospital bill all the time. They should find alternative means to do their business and not affect the whole community,” Abel said. Mrs Labara Maiva, whose son, Innocent suffers eye problem, said she has taken Innocent to the hospital for treatment over 20 times in the past one and a half years. According to her, Innocent had no problem with his eyes until the company fumes began few years ago in the area. She said: “Innocent uses several drugs and eyes drop; his eyes are itchy and red, and I am already tired of him using the various eyes drop more than four times every day. “We cannot spread our clothes outside once the production starts; the fumes stick to our body and it itches; everywhere gets cloudy as if it wants to rain, we need government to come to our aid.” Alhaja Usamat Lawal, 80,  of 5, Bello Street, who coughed severally while speaking with our reporter, pleaded with government to come to their aid. She said she got her cough from the fumes, adding that eyes were also  affected. Alhaja Lawal said: “I have been in this community for years and I have been healthy not until about last year when these fumes from the company started affecting the community. Now I cannot see long distance. I have gone to the company to tell them to have mercy on me but nothing has been done; I was told to get glasses in the hospital but I don’t have money for glasses; I am currently on various eyes drop and the expenses are already too much. The cough in the past five weeks has been terrible, it affects my chest and I sometimes lose my breath due to the cough. I beg this company to leave this community and not allow me lose my life because of them.”