An NGO, Search for Common Ground ( SFCG ), on Thursday, organised a one-day sensitisation programme on the dangers of drug abuse and violence for Plateau youths in Jos. The event, in collaboration with International Herekrishna Consciousness ( ISKCON ), had participants from the 17 electoral wards in Jos North Local Government Area of the state. It was a brainchild of “Collaborative for Violence Prevention in Nigeria”, a project of SFCG. Mr Baladev Dasa, an Indian scholar, said youths were endowed with so much energy but lacked how to put it to proper use. He expressed regret that many youths indulge in drug abuse, violence and other vices simply because they don’t have total control of their inner minds. He added that “I think the youth have good energy, but the problem is that they don’t channel it into good use. They are not in control of their energies and inner selves. “So, the youth need to be guided to use their energies and talents to help people in the society not to cause troubles and other problems. “They are to be schooled on the effects and dangers of drug abuse because when they don’t do drugs, they won’t allow themselves to be used to cause violence in the society.” Dasa urged Plateau youths to put God first in their dealings, saying by doing so, God would guide them through the path of righteousness. Mr Jacob Pwakim, consultant of the project, also urged youths to shun violence in their undertakings. He explained that Collaborative for Violence Prevention was an initiative to discourage youths from involving in anti-social activities. He said stakeholders from different sectors – government, civil society, business, and communities should come together and brainstorm on ways to prevent violence and conflicts in the society. According to him, the initiative is to promote funding of interventions through local sourcing of resources both in cash and kind. He added that “for us in SFCG, hosting this event by ISkCON is a success for the project because it was funded locally. “We encourage other stakeholders and community members to organise events like this too or support organisations for win result.” NAN