Minister of State for Health, Dr Osagie Ehanire, has called on organised private sector to join the fight in combating malaria, stating the sector plays an integral role in eliminating the terrible disease. Ehanire gave the charge at the weekend in Lagos at a forum organised by Corporate Alliance on Malaria in Africa (CAMA) as part of activities to mark the world malaria day. He highlighted four key areas where the private sector can be influential to include innovation, policy, implementation and financing. According to him, 2019 would offer great opportunity for businesses to contribute to rapid acceleration of rate of progress in the global war against malaria. Success, he stated, will require transparency from all partners, concerted efforts to address system challenges and a continued effort in eliminating the scourge. Speaking on incentives for private sector involvement in funding malaria, he said: “We promised them that we are going to make use of their expertise, efficiency, management skills and their experience on distribution and giving them full partnership in the management of all programmes private sector is working with government. CAMA also demanded for more funding at the forum with the theme ‘Accelerating investment to bring malaria to zero’. Head, Sustainability Access Bank Plc, Omobolanle Victor-Laniyan, said substantial malaria control investments have been made in Nigeria within the last decade. However she said there remained considerable challenges in addressing the burden of disease and key performance indices are still below expectations. She said accelerating investment in malaria in Nigeria and Africa will prevent more than 80 million illnesses and more than 300,000 related deaths annually. According to her, ending malaria will increase school attendance, boost worker productivity and significantly lower out-of-pocket cost for treatment. “This is why malaria prevention and control remain a collective energy of the private sector and commitment of the global malaria community in uniting the common goal of a world free of malaria,” she stressed. President GBC Health, Nancy Wildfeir-Field, said funding for malaria globally is only at 41 per cent of its 2020 target of $6.5 billion yet almost half of the world’s population is at risk of contracting it. She said Nigeria accounts for the highest number of cases and deaths from malaria in sub-Saharan Africa, pointing out the economy loses $1.1 billion each year due to malaria-related absenteeism in the workplace and treatment costs. Wildfeir-Field said there is strong rationale for the private sector to play a role in shaping health markets in Africa and in particular in malaria with direct impact on the workforce, stating that investment is vital.   