A Lagos High Court in Igbosere yesterday ordered a driver, Emmanuel Egejuru, who allegedly defiled his neighbour’s 11-year-old daughter in a toilet, to enter his defence. Justice Sedoten Ogunsanya dismissed Egejuru’s no case submission to a one-count charge of defilement contrary to Section 137 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2011. The judge held that the Lagos State prosecution team led by Mr Adebayo Haroun had made a prima facie case against Egejuru, which required some explanations from him. Justice Ogunsanya held: “The defendant has been sufficiently linked with the offence as to require an explanation from him. “His no-case submission is overruled. The defendant is hereby called upon to enter his defence.” Egejuru, 60, was accused of committing the offences “sometime in the month of November 2011 and February 2012.” He pleaded not guilty. In his no-case submission, Egejuru disputed the prosecution’s claim that Hayatu was a minor. His counsel, Christian Emewulu, who later withdrew from the case, said the age of the victim was not established and there was no birth certificate. He faulted the prosecution’s failure to tender a medical report to prove defilement. Emewulu said Egejuru did not rape Hayatu. He argued that Egejuru and Hayatu had consensual sex in the toilet. But the prosecution insisted that Hayatu was defiled. Haroun told the court that the crime was reported to the police by Hayatu’s elder brother Isiaka Mohammed with whom she lived in the tenement building in Iyana Ipaja. Mohammed told the police that when he returned from work, he became suspicious when he saw Hayatu “walking somehow.” The prosecution also told the court that another neighbour, Mrs Grace Ubong, corroborated Mohammed’s claim. Ubong reportedly saw Hayatu go into the toilet, followed soon after by Egejuru. The girl later came out crying and walking awkwardly, she said. Haroun also submitted that the girl was below 18, so, there was no need to produce a birth certificate. Following the ruling, however, Egejuru declined to enter a defence. His new counsel, Chief O. Etudo, said the defendant would not testify. Etudo added: “Therefore, we ask for a date to file our final written address.” Justice Ogunsanya adjourned till June 27 for adoption of the parties’ final written addresses. 