INTEGRATED Oil and Gas Services Limited Chairman, Capt. Emmanuel Ihenacho (rtd), has said the upcoming Eko Refining and Petrochemical Limited will rely on crude from Escravos and Forcados for its feedstock because they are of good quality.
He said a refinery is based upon a particular specification, adding that this helps to determine the types and the costs of products that the refinery must produce. He said the Eko Refining and Petrochemical, which would refine 20,000 barrels daily will come on stream next year.
Speaking during a tour of Tomaro Industrial Park, where the refinery will be located, Ihenacho said it would be easier to refine diesel, kerosene, petrol and other by-products of crude that is coming from Escravos and Forcados terminals. He said: “In conceiving the idea of setting up a modular refinery in Lagos, we considered factors, such as accessibility of crude, types of crude, petroleum products that would be derived from the crude, the cost of refining the crude, among others, and we realised that those factors can easily be met, if we get access to crude from Escravos and Forcados, that were owned by Chevron and Shell and located in the southern parts of the country.
‘’Based on this, Integrated Oil would not have problems converting crude oil into petroleum products to meet the needs of the consumers.”
He said two tanks with capacity of 500,000 litres each will be built around the refinery and that the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) could draw fuel from the facility for 15 days, when there are problems in fuel supply. According to him, the issue, among others, would help in easing fuel scarcity, adding that achieving fuel sufficiency would no longer be a problem.
“The fuel tanks will be strategic storage and product supply tank facilities. Most tank farms rely on an arrangement where ships supply them and trucks come to pick products from the farms but because we are located on the Island as well as the function, the farm is designed to be supplied by ships and discharged also by ships. This means that smaller vessels would be used to take the products from Tomaro tank farms to those located at the ports,” he added. Continuing, he said: “With the capacity in Tomaro, there is no reason the park would not be the centre for tank farm operation because it would not only supply Apapa and Tin Can but also facilities in Port Harcourt, Warri and even some of the countries in the West African region like Ghana, Togo.
“That is why this facility is an industrial park and an FTZ.”