Ekiti State-born Kolade Afolabi came to the Gabriel Okara Cultural Centre, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, like every other persons on March 31. Afolabi simply wanted to enjoy the Easter Fest packaged by the Bayelsa State government. The Ekiti man followed the announcement preceding the event. He wanted to be entertained by musical stars and comedians invited to thrill the audience. He recalled the promises made by the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, whose ministry arranged the festivity. Afolabi was further moved to attend the event because there was no barrier to gain entrance at the venue. The only qualification to be in attendance was being a resident of Bayelsa. It had no ethnic and religious colourations. There was no fee attached to it. So, Afolabi went to the cultural centre in the company of his friends. But he left the place as a happier, wealthier and better person. The young man surprisingly won the star prize at the event. He won a brand new tricycle popularly known as Keke Napep after a raffle draw. Afolabi was thrilled. He thanked the state government and Iworiso-Markson for putting smiles on the faces of Bayelsa residents. “These things happening in Bayelsa at times are unbelievable. I can’t believe that all the way from Ekiti State, I could win a big prize like this. It shows this government is detribalised. It shows that the Governor of the state, Mr. Seriake Dickson, is a good man. He has redefined governance”, he said. Afolabi was not the only one that won a prize at the event. The raffle draw, which was conducted by the National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), produced other winners. People won double burner gas cooker, generator, pressing iron, clippers, among others. It was indeed a festival of comedy, music and dance. The sensational hip hop star, Skales, thrilled the audience numbering about 5000. It brought people together thereby fostering unity. Various sounds of laughter filled the air. In fact, people cracked their ribs as they threw themselves to different directions laughing at funny jokes. Besides, the fest was a gathering of budding talents. Rising stars from the state were allowed to showcase their talents. It was an event for the youths. The excited crowd praised the governor for bringing back social life to the state. They referred to the event as historic. They were further amazed that no incident of violence was recorded throughout the event. To them, it was an indication that the government security efforts were paying off. Presenting the star prize to the winner, Iworiso-Markson thanked the Governor for supporting the fiesta. He reinstated the detribalised nature of Dickson’s administration. To Afolabi, he said:  “In Bayelsa, we appreciate all those who are not from Bayelsa.  We appreciate non-indigenes; therefore we are so happy for you that you are winning this. We wish you the very best”. The commissioner also commended the young talents that entertained the crowd at the event. He expressed shock that such budding talents were Bayelsans. “I’m really shocked that we have this kind of talents in Bayelsa. What that simply means is that we are going to make this bigger next year. What we are doing in the Restoration Government is moving forward. Just two weeks ago, 24  young special advisers were appointed by the governor. “There is a deliberate policy of the Restoration Government to recognize the young people. The future belongs to you all who are young Bayelsans and therefore  there is a deliberate policy going on to expose  and show case  young Bayelsa talents  like the ones that we are seeing  here today. “What we will do going forward is that before the year runs out, we are going to have a special event that will showcase these talents again”. Iworiso said that the whole idea was to develop the number of talents that performed at the event. He said there was a need to explore bigger platforms for them. “They need to be signed to a bigger record labels. They need to be taken to other places where they can showcase these their talents. The upcoming event will give us the opportunity to select about 10 of them and Bayelsa state Government will give them that backing”, he said. He told the mammoth crowd at the event that the present administration would continue to look the way of youths since they remained the leaders of tomorrow. “What we are doing here is to encourage and support our youths with abundant talents. As I sat there watching, I couldn’t but confess that Bayelsa has talented boys and girls who are ready to take on the world. This is what we want and that is why this government of His Excellency is giving the youths more opportunities even in governance. “I am so excited that you all can come out tonight to have fun. This event has doused the tension of insecurity created often by mischief makers. Everywhere is safe and peaceful and that is what this government has worked hard in the last six years to achieve”. 