As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) activities, LG Electronics, a global leader in Consumer Electronics and Heating, Ventilation and Air conditioning, paid a courtesy visit to Adeoyo Maternity Teaching Hospital Ibadan, where it donated some units of All New Gencool Inverter Air Conditioners, Jet Cool Air Conditioners as well as treated mosquito nets to the hospital. Welcoming LG Electronics team to the hospital, the Chief Medical Director, Adeoyo Maternity Teaching Hospital, Dr, Adeyanju Olusoji, praised the team that shortlisted the hospital as a beneficiary of the donation for a job well done. Head of Corporate Marketing, LG Electronics West Africa Operations, Mr. Hari Elluru, who led the delegation, said: “We have remained competitive while improving sustainability; we have enabled investment and innovation required to deploy new technologies and to safely and responsibly develop progressive products.” Responding on behalf of management of Adeoyo Maternity Teaching Hospital, the representative of the Chairman Oyo State Hospital Management Board, Dr. Oni Lawrence, expressed the management’s gratitude to LG Electronics for deeming it fit to stop by at the hospital to make the donations. By donating these innovative electronic products, LG Electronics through this act of kindness has shown itself to be a brand that truly believes in the health sector. We are indeed very proud to be associated with the brand. Let me assure you that all the items donated here today will be put to good use.” Regional branch manager, LG, Ibadan, Mr Jad Atwi, who represented Fouani Nigeria Limited at the occasion, said: “This visit which is part of LG Electronics’ Corporate social Responsibility (CSR) activities is aimed at reaching out to health institutions in the country. It is my firm belief that the items we are donating today will go a long way to empower this health facility as well as the people of this community in their quest to enjoy sound health by empowering the hospital staff to do their jobs more efficiently.”