OIL giant Royal Dutch Shell has listed its contributions to the country’s economy through payment of taxes, royalties, use of local materials and support of local contractors, among others. In its 2017 Sustainability Report released in the week, Shell Group noted that its companies have contributed to economic development of the country with safety and security as their top priorities. It said: “Shell has interests in several companies in Nigeria, which are major contributors to the economy. They produce oil and natural gas, distribute gas to industries in the country, produce liquefied natural gas (LNG) for export, generate revenues for the government and provide social investment. Shell companies in Nigeria are also working with federal and state government agencies, communities and civil society groups, such as non-governmental organisations, to try to create a safe operating environment.” It added that Shell in 2017 paid more than $59.1 billion in taxes and royalties to governments around the world of which Nigeria is among. “In 2017, an agreement between The Shell Petroleum Development Company of Nigeria Limited (SPDC), the operator of the SPDC Joint Venture and its government partner, the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, came into effect. This agreement provides an improved structure to finance future oil and gas projects and commercialise the country’s large gas resources. Improved funding will enable the SPDC Joint Venture to explore more opportunities, particularly in shallow water offshore and to increase onshore gas supply to the domestic market. “The safety of staff and contractors in Nigeria remains our top priority. We continue to strengthen our safety culture around Shell companies in Nigeria with our Goal Zero ambition of no harm and no leaks including partly through a programme to connect senior leaders with contractor CEOs to promote best safety working practices. We also continued to run campaigns for employees and contractors in our production operations to help them better understand Shell companies in Nigeria’s work culture, reflect on their leadership and suggest improvements to maintain a safe workplace.’’ Shell said would continue to address safety and environmental challenges-related to both operational spills and illegal activities, such as oil theft in parts of the Niger Delta. It said though there was no damage to key oil and gas infrastructure  by militants since November 2016, the security situation remains volatile in the region. The report continued: “Shell companies in Nigeria continue to work closely with federal and state government agencies, communities and civil society to ensure that operations are carried out in a safe environment.” “We buy goods and services from local suppliers that meet our standards as part of our approach to share the benefits of oil and gas development to the wider economy. In some cases, we support businesses in developing the skills required to meet these standards. Our supplier principles integrate social considerations in the contracting and procurement processes. In 2017, we spent $42.2 billion on goods and services worldwide, of which around 58 per cent was in the United States (US), Canada, the United Kingdom (UK), the Netherlands and Nigeria. “In Nigeria, we use locally manufactured goods and service companies, which create jobs in the communities in which we operate. In 2017, Shell companies in Nigeria spent around $0.76 billion on contracts for Nigerian companies. Access to financing has been a challenge for suppliers to Shell companies in Nigeria. In collaboration with leading banks in the country, the SPDC Joint Venture (SPDC JV) and the Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company Limited (SNEPCo) continue to fund a mechanism that offers local contractors faster access to loans at cheaper interest rates. “To enable Nigerian ownership of key equipment, such as rigs, helicopters and marine vessels, Shell companies in Nigeria continue to support the development of local people and companies. For example, over the past seven years, SNEPCo has provided support to improve training and safety standards at Caverton Helicopters, one of the biggest aviation logistics providers in sub-Saharan Africa. “Nigeria also has one of our most successful Shell LiveWIRE programmes, with a total of $66,200 awarded to 60 young entrepreneurs from Ogoniland, all of whom completed its enterprise development programme.”