It is not a spectacular sight to watch grown men and women throw themselves around in the ring in the name of earning a living. However, that is the life of professional wrestlers who compete under the World Wresting Entertainment (WWE) franchise. They train every day and ready to fight every weekend, travelling to various countries to earn a living, while also entertaining the fans with their sublime skills. Fans watch in awe how these heavy athletes “fly” from one part of the ring to the other in an attempt to pin down their opponents to submission. However, they all say that it comes at a cost as they have to condition their bodies to take the punishment associated with the sports. They get slammed, slapped, hit in different parts of the body, while some viewed as villains are booed by the fans, which they are suppose to entertain. Despite the planned nature of the fight, it could get ugly sometimes, as some wrestlers who have issues with their opponents have gone against rules guiding the sports to inflict injuries on their adversaries. Some are also brutish and one begins to wonder how entertainment and professional ism are combined in the pro wrestling. So it was a thrilling experience to talk to some of the stars and watch them fight at close quarters at the WWE event at the Ticketpro Dome in Northgate, Johannesburg recently. Some of the wrestlers  who spoke to ADEYINKA ADEDIPE gave an insight on their chosen career.  Braun Strowman Braun Strowman ( born Adam Joseph Scherr ) partnered Roman Reigns to beat Samoa Joe and Elias in the main bout of the WWE fight at the Ticketpro Dome in Northgate, Johannesburg, South Africa last Saturday. If anyone had told Strowman that he would become one of the major acts six years after he was recruited, he would not have believed. However, the native of Sherrills Ford, North Carolina worked his way to the top to become one of the most famous faces in WWE. The 34 year old, who is 6ft 8in tall, says throwing his opponents around the ring is his strong point. He described his recruitment by WWE in 2012 has one of the biggest occurrences in his life and the other one is fighting his hero, the Ultimate Warrior in Mexico a few years back. Strowman who is known as the monster among men said he has found a house in WWE. He also said WWE has given him the opportunity to see the world and noted that he has been fortunate to get to the top despite making his debut six years ago. He also described himself as a caveman who throws his opponents around in the ring to submission noting “WWE gave me an avenue to do wrestling instead off lumbering around. Right now, I am an intelligent giant. “I am just getting started and I am enjoying the process. I am the least experience but I have been luck to fight some of the top wrestlers in WWE. My greatest fight so far is the one against Undertaker despite the fact that it was a tag team match. He is a legend and it was an honour being in the same ring with him.” Despite his love for travel, getting around in planes was one of the big problems he faced early in his career. However, having moved up the ladder, he now travels on first or business class. He says that his dream is to have a shot at the Universal World Title. Drew Gulak At 30, Drew Gulak has been involved with wrestling for 15 years, which means that he got into the game as a youngster. However, he described wrestling as a movie – make belief – but said the slamming ones opponents on the rings are real and could sometime get out of hand if the fighters have conflict with each other. According to Gulak, a professional wrestler must train everyday if he hopes to get to the top. He noted that he trains at least twice a day – each session lasting for two hours.  “To keep in shape, some wrestlers do time diet but if I am not in the gym, I think about what I will do in my next fight or promo. I stretch a lot before fights and eat little so that I will not be sluggish. I also listen to music to put me in the right emotion for my fights. “For me wrestling is life. I think about wrestling for 70 per cent of the day. It is like a religion and my brother is also a professional wrestler, “he added.  Gulak, who lost to Cedric Alexander in a cruiserweight title fight in Johannesburg, said he would have been a teacher if he wasn’t wrestling having bagged a degree in Behaviour Science. Despite getting terrified watching the likes of Hulk Hogan and Undertaker, Gulak said he was inspired by their feats and inspiration these men. “Though I got inspiration from Hogan and Undetaker my first contact with the sports was I joined a local company doing independent promotion and I got better as the year went by. When asked whether he would encourage his kids to go into Wrestling, he stated that he would encourage his kids to do whatever they choose, noting that wrestlers are trained to make the fight look real. He revealed that he could dangerous sometimes, adding that WWE has a robust requirement before a wrestler can be signed. He allayed fears over the violence attached to wrestling, saying the disclaimer put up before each fight and the fact that the kids should watch fights with their parents’ supervision should suffice. He said they are trained to take a lot of punishment in the ring. “Your body get used to the impact over time,” he added. Samoa Joe Samoa Joe (born Nuufolau Joel Seanoa) who was spotting a Mike Tyson T-shirt during the interview, said he got inspiration from the Former world boxing champion who dominated the heavyweight class in his active days. He described Tyson as a dedicated and influential champion, who he looked up to as a youngster. The 39-year-old, who has been wrestling for 20 years, said fighting with different companies has made him a better fighter. “I have had a great time wrestling all over the world. I started wresting professionally as a 19 year old and I am happy about the level I have reached after fighting for several companies.” Joe, who sold mortgage for a living, noted that he would have been a banker if he wasn’t doing wrestling.  He noted that wresting is an act and should not be viewed as violent; noting that the viewers especially the kids know wrestling is all about entertainment.  Today’s kids are intelligent and they can differentiate between reality and entertainment.   A disclaimer is put up before every fight and kids are warned not to try the wrestling moves at home. He stated that the greatest danger in wrestling is that the wrestlers put their body through a lot of punishment but “we are always happy to do things for our fans. Our training is the most consistent in sports as we train all year round, which is physically demanding.” According to Joe, most of the wrestlers have contemplated leaving at some point in their careers but stated that the medics have kept them going and ready to fight every week. Bayley Pamela Rose Martinez known as Bayley in the wrestling world said knew she would become a wrestler as a 13 year old who was still trying to make her grades in high school. She always trained after class and as soon as she turned 18 she became a professional wrestler. “Wrestling is one of the best things to happen to me. It is the best thing on earth and I have been a wrestling fan since I was a kid. I knew it was something I had to do and when the opportunity to turn professional and make my debut in 2008 I took it with both hands. Steeping into the ring doesn’t scare me, I have broken my head and dislocated my shoulder but I am still going strong. However, Bayley stated that the injury she got last year got her thinking about her ambition in WWE. “The Injury I got last year made have a rethink but the fact that I wanted to achieve my dream in WWE kept me going and I forgot the hurt the caused as soon as I stepped into the ring again.” Surprisingly, she enjoys the support of her family despite the fact that her parents would have loved her to complete her degree. “I get a lot of support from my family. They always want to watch my fights and that gives me a lot of encouragement. I was studying psychology before I stopped school but I will still return to complete my degree and be able to help people. “The fact that I also have friend in the company has helped me a lot as we cool off after fights despite losing. For me, I let it go and hope for a better fight next time. I also want to see a situation where women wrestlers will be part of the main event in WWE. We need to get at par with the men who headline all of these shows. Bayley who says she still plays basketball advised youngsters to take education seriously if they hope to be successful in sports.