Residents of Ubulu-Okiti in Aniocha South  have cried out following refusal of the Benin Electricity Distribution Company (BEDC) to restore the community to the national grid after eight years of disconnection. The community has raised alarm over alleged illegal levies of almost N30 million by BEDC. The Nation learnt that BEDC, then under Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) disconnected villages,  on Benin/Asaba section, including Ubulu-Okiti, following a policy to dedicate the line to the industrial layout. President General, Ubulu-Okiti Development Association (UODA), Mr. Izu Iloba-Agafiena, said:  ”Others,  such as Onicha-Ugbo, Iselu-Uku, Ubulu-Uku, Ogwashi-Uku, disconnected with Ubulu-Okiti, have been restored to the national grid, leaving us. ‘’We are also miffed that BEDC is conniving with some dubious elements in Ubulu-Okiti that it would restore the light, if they pay an illegal levy… ‘’BEDC, with their cohorts have extorted over N30 million from gullible residents in desperate need of power supply to revive their businesses”. Iloba-Agafiena said they were assured that in the new distribution management, BEDC will address their plight and restore supply to them. ”But to our chagrin, BEDC came and told us that Ubulu-Okiti was committed in the process leading to the acquisition of assets and liabilities of PHCN. ‘’So we took the matter to the National Electricity Regulations Commission (NERC) Forum in Benin-City. ”At the NERC Zonal Tribunal, aside their initial position that our community was not listed among their customers, BEDC said Ubulu-Okiti was not captured in their 2017 Power Supply Budget. ‘’However, NERC reprimanded them and directed that power supply be restored to the community in October 2017.” But Mrs. Esther Okolie, BEDC’s Corporate Affairs manager dismissed insinuations that the company is illegally collecting money to connect the community back to the national grid. Her words: “BEDC has not mandated any person to collect money on its behalf. Communities should desist from paying money to touts who claim to be ex-workers of the defunct PHCN. ‘’Plans are on to reach such communities; we are sensitising communities in Illah and Ebu in preparation to bring power to them. ‘’With patience, the power distribution company will attend to their needs shortly… these communities may have fallen into the wrong hands out of desperation to have power.”