Former Nigerian international and a member of the Super Falcons to the 2000 Olympic Football Tournament in Sydney, Lami Rachel Adamu, shares her romance with football before bailing to packaging of suya and kilishi in the USA  with  MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. She was one of the lasses that represented the country in the 1990s and a member of the Super Falcons  to the 2000 Olympic Games in Sydney, but  Lami Rachel Adamu has revealed why she quit the world of  football for a spot in the exotic packaging of Kilishi – the dried form of Suya (skewer neat) common with the Hausas in Northen Nigeria. Lami is a proud Nigerian in Disapora and her exploits as the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Saharan Kilishi in her New Jersey base in the United States has not gone unoticed.Two  years ago, Lami was amongst the Diaspora Young Professionals that were in audience with President Muhammadu Buhari  at the Nigerian Embassy in Washinghton D.C during his first official visit to the USA. “I came to the United States in January of 2002 on a full athletic scholarship to Bloomfield College in New Jersey and I took the full advantage of the opportunity I was given,”  explained Lami who earned  a first degree in management . “I got my bachelor’s degree in 2005 and went straight to obtain an MBA at Nyack College in New York. When I graduated, I was hoping to work in corporate America but that was the beginning of the financial crisis. “Afterwards, I coached both my college men’s and women’s teams as an assistant coach. I also did coaching for a number of years after college but stopped because I wanted something different. “I could not get a job, that was when I decided to start my suya and kilishi business  and I also offer catering services. I was motivated to start my suya and kilishi business to give Nigerians here in the USA the authentic taste of home. “I believe my travelling exposure before coming to the USA helped me a lot. My transition was not that difficult. Of course, my choice of business(suya and kilishi) surprised my family and friends especially my mom because of my educational background and exposure. But now , they are very proud of what I’m doing,”she said. Indeed, Lami has proved true that a woman skilled in her work would not stand before obscure men but  kings with her rich collection of clientielle. “I love doing what I do and that makes the work easier. The business has given me the opportunity to meet  prominent Nigerians from all walks of life including the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, in 2016. “As a Nigerian, it was an incredible honour to meet Mr. President and when we met  him, he was attentive and soft spoken. I could never have had this opportunity doing any other thing other than what I am doing.” Yet Lami is full of nostalgia about her days with the Super Falcons, adding that the beautiful game of football was indeed her first love.“I was very active and curious as a kid. I played a lot with the boys in the neighborhood. I became interested in football and it turned out that I was good at it. “Yes, football was and is still my number one sport. I did other sports like track and field, handball and volleyball but football will always be my favourite. Football always makes me happy and I call it my therapy, even now,” she stated. Indeed, football was her remedy judging by her difficult childhood occasioned by the death of her father when she was still a toddler. “My dad died when I was  just two years old and so I didn’t get to know or enjoy him as my father,” a crestfallen Lami further explained. “My dad was in the Nigerian army and fought in the Biafra Civil War but he later became a police officer. “My mum became a widow early and because she didn’t go to school, she stayed at home to take care of us; she did her best to raise us. My grandfather took my siblings and I because that’s just how it was because the children belongs to the father. “At age seven,  I was sent to go live with my uncle (my mother’s younger brother) in Jos. My uncle did not agree or have any support for me to play football. He tried to stop me but I was just stubborn because my uncle did not support me in any way “I kept at it (playing football) until one of our relatives told him to allow me because he does not know where the sport would take me and he reluctantly allowed me to continue playing football.” As it’s often said, there is a way when there is a will and Lami said she demonstaretd her willingness to excell in football when she joined Tiny City Queens of Jos  from where she left for Oladimeji Tigress of Ilorin. She narrated: “My first call up to the Super Falcons was in 1997 when I was with Oladimeji Tigress of  Ilorin. I was star struck when I got to the camp and I could not believe that I was in the same canp with the likes of Nkiru Okosieme, Mavis Ogun, Eucharia Uche, Phoebe Ebemekoumo, Florence Omagbemi, Omolove Branch, Ann Chejine and Mercy Akide who were  all in that set. It was amazing just to be there. “The Super Falcons of my time were passionate and completely dedicated to the game. I don’t believe the dedication is there now like it used to be during our time. “My best coach in the national team was coach Jossy Lad (RIP). He was quiet and gentle. His words of advice and encouragent helped me not only on the pitch but I still use it today. “I would always be grateful to coach Mabo for being a father figure and to all the girls. Going to  the Sydney 2000 Olympic Games  with the Super Falcons was surreal and it was a really beautiful experience that I’ll cherish and pass on to my kids and grand kids.” Regretabblly, the Super Falcons are no longer the most dreaded team like in the  days of yore when the continent  was their oyster, but Lami reckons the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) can turn the fortune  of the team for the better. “To improve women’s football in Nigeria, the NFF has to put in more resources and energy, but most importantly interest in women’s football. They need to develop the women’s league just like the men’s  by getting  sponsorships, organise competitions for all age groups, pay better benefits and  provide equipment. “It’s unfortunate that the Super Falcons are treated like second class citizens compared to the Super Eagles. I believe the situation has gotten worse since we left the team,” lamented the 39-year-old Lami.