ABOUT one week after former Defence minister and one-time Chief of Army Staff (CAOS), T.Y. Danujma, launched a scathing attack on the federal government for its seeming indifference to the rampage of herdsmen in many parts of Nigeria, the presidency finally responded fully last Saturday through a press statement by one of President Muhammadu Buhari’s spokesmen, Garba Shehu. By every consideration, the government’s response was civil and even laid-back. But it was no less poignant than Gen Danjuma’s vigorous and unsparing allegation of military connivance at herdsmen attacks. Gen Danjuma had spoken at the Taraba State University convocation ceremony three Saturdays ago where he decried the alleged collusion between military personnel and herdsmen to the detriment and woes of Taraba farmers and host communities. The former Defence minister is a Taraban. The issues raised by Gen Danjuma have been thoroughly dissected by analysts, including those who see his views from the perspective of his personal foibles. The general had been both livid and vivid in his denunciation of the collusion he felt was undermining the professionalism of the military and the unity of the country. Nigeria could be heading for the same kind of failed state status that smashed Somalia to pieces, he warned. Said the furious general: “But the peace in this State is under assault. There is an attempt at ethnic cleansing in this State, and of course all the riverine states of Nigeria. We must resist it. We must stop it. Every one of us must rise up. The armed forces are not neutral. They collude; they collude; they collude with the armed bandits that kill people and kill Nigerians. They facilitate their movement. They cover them. If you are depending on the armed forces to stop the killings, you will all die one by one. This ethnic cleansing must stop in Taraba State. It must stop in all the states of Nigeria. Otherwise Somalia would be a child’s play. I ask every one of you Nigerians, to be alert to defend your country; defend your territories, because you have nowhere to go.” The Buhari presidency had at first limited itself to expressing shock at the directness of Gen Danjuma’s accusations. They in fact did not go beyond cautioning the general that such remarks were capable of becoming self-fulfilling prophecies. Then they admonished him to be more temperate in his utterances, especially utterances that have far-reaching consequences on statecraft, inter-ethnic relations and national unity. But apparently, on second thought, the presidency decided to address some of the issues raised by the general, for those issues were really unprecedented and deeply worrisome. Said Mr Shehu, a presidential spokesman: “Silence can be dignified, but sometimes it can be misinterpreted and exploited. It is both shocking and scary to hear the recent comments by a senior citizen calling for Nigerians to defend themselves. What country would survive if its citizens rise against the country’s organised, trained and equipped military? The Presidency is very worried that criminal gangs will feel justified in defying legal governing and democratic institutions, and authority of legitimately elected democratic government if unrestrained pronouncements are made. We advise former leaders to take advantage of the various fora where people with a history of national security can offer advice to the government without resorting to the exploitation of emotional sentiments. The Presidency wishes to appeal to prominent Nigerians, who have national influence, to use their influence wisely and not continue to engage in public declarations that are likely to inflame emotional passions and threaten National Security. The Presidency commends the Nigerian military’s efforts to maintain peace and stability, despite being pulled in various directions by elements determined to destabilise the country and government for their selfish reasons…The civil war motto: ‘To keep Nigeria one is a task that must be done’ rings very timely at this time in our nation’s history. We must be careful to avoid the mess that destroyed other African countries like Somalia.” The presidency rightly acknowledged the need for a response, for the issues raised by Gen Danjuma were weighty enough to elicit their direct intervention. But other than the rhetorical flourish with which the response was couched, there was little in Mr Shehu’s response that tackled the general’s remarks or debunked them. Firstly, the general did not anywhere in his speech call for Tarabans or Nigerians at the receiving end of herdsmen attacks to rise up against the military. It is true he accused the military of complicity, but he limited himself to calling on victims to rise against herdsmen, to defend themselves because the state had failed in its constitutional mandate to defend the people. Moreover, Mr Shehu vulgarises the issues raised by the general by equating self-defence with criminal gangs who might wish to take the law into their hands or engage in defiant subversion of democratic institutions. Unfortunately, Mr Shehu seems to be more concerned about Gen Danjuma bringing the issue of the unchecked activities of herdsmen militias out in the open. Had the government he served taken firm and urgent steps to stanch the flow of blood in farming communities and curbed the rampage of herdsmen and their militias, neither the former army general nor anyone else would have felt the compulsion to raise the terrifying issues in public. The problem, it is clear, is not the publicity surrounding Gen Danjuma’s address and accusations, but the government’s lethargy in tackling the bloodlust triggered by herdsmen ostensibly because of restricted grazing routes and shrunken grazing reserves. Gen Danjuma did well to bring this critical problem into the open. It had previously been spoken about only in whispers. The government should accept responsibility for being slow and incoherent in addressing the crisis. For even if the ultimate cause of the crisis was the problem of shrunken grazing reserves, adequate and sensible proactive measures exist to address the problem instead of the government’s paralysis and unfathomable insistence on anachronistic livestock farming practices. On second thought, Mr Shehu and the Buhari presidency should have restrained themselves from responding to Gen Danjuma. It is clear they had no response, let alone an adequate one. If Mr Shehu had wished to respond well to the issues raised by the general, he should have giving proof of the impossibility of the Nigerian military colluding with militiamen. It was said of the soldiers of Frederick the Great that they could neither be bought nor sold. Nigerians, including Gen Danjuma and the harried farmers and communities of Taraba, needed to be assured that the Nigerian military was a disciplined and incorruptible force, for such virtues are not so esoteric that they could not be replicated and inculcated today. But most Nigerians know that both discipline and professionalism have withered considerably in the Nigerian military. Consequently, and sadly, most Nigerians are likely to find Gen Danjuma’s account more believable, even if some commentators think it impolitic and undiplomatic. The Buhari presidency exposed itself to allegations of acting mala fide in the crisis between herdsmen and farming communities. By running the country along insular lines, thus making Nigeria unrecognisable to those like Gen Danjuma, Ibrahim Babangida and ex-president Olusegun Obasanjo who had been involved in government at the highest levels, the Buhari presidency should not be surprised that its security appointments make tremors to course through the hearts of Nigeria’s elders — statesmen, generals, clerics and captains of industries. And given the conspiracy theories being bandied around by Dominique Boursicot, Intelicor Buro Chief for Françafrique on security issues in the West African sub-region, to the intent that there were more than met the eyes on Boko Haram activities and abductions as well as Nigeria’s bumbling economy, Mr Shehu’s response should have been more surefooted and factual. Gen Danjuma has raised some key issues about the modus operandi of herdsmen and their accompanying militias, and also proffered a tentative way out of the bloodletting. His panacea may grate on the nerves of the presidency, and may even be short-sighted and counterproductive. However, his ideas, for now, particularly in the absence of a sensible and coherent response from the government,  are the more profound and practical. Instead of berating the general and pointing fingers at his person, let the government instead put forward its own answers to the crisis for the public and experts to judge. The Buhari presidency has dithered for far too long and allowed the problem to fester, if not completely metastasised. Sitting on their hands is simply not the answer, especially at a time when insecurity has almost completely overtaken the country, with the law enforcement borders between soldiers and policemen either greatly obfuscated or completely obliterated.