I first met Major David Mark, a young, swashbuckling army officer through a mutual friend, Ambunde Ugar , also known as Tony in late May , 1978, on the eve of my departure to Bauchi for the NYSC . They had known themselves in India where Tony was a student and David Mark was on an officer on course. I first met him in Calabar, in Ayimo Hotel, Marian Road, Calabar where he was staying. He was in Calabar on official duty. He was then Chairman of the Abandoned Property Implementation Committee, a Committee set up by the Federal Government to resolve contentious issues regarding properties abandoned by the Ibo’s as a result of the unfortunate Nigerian Civil War of 1967 to 1970. When he got to know I was leaving for NYSC the next day he immediately offered me his hotel accommodation because according to him “Now Your Suffering Commences (NYSC)” so enjoy for one night at least. The motive for this spontaneous act of generosity to an inconsequential young man he was meeting for the first time and from whom he stood to benefit nothing has remained the subject of agitated debate till this day between us .Today is certainly not for escalating the debate. It is a day to celebrate a man of great insight, wisdom, talent, discipline and knowledge, a friend indeed, a leader, mentor, motivator, sportsman, musician and band leader, disc jokey,helicopter pilot ,traditional man and at the same time an ardent Roman Catholic , a man of incredible talents and humility, a testament to the fact that only the truly great are truly humble. He readily confesses his weaknesses and does not judge others. I did not meet a David Mark again in person until when I was elected Senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria to represent Cross River Central Senatorial District in 2003. I had however keenly followed his political ascendancy in the military politics of the time. He upgraded to Minister of Communications, Governor of Niger State, the home State of the then military president, General Ibrahim Babangida, member Provisional Ruling Council. He was easily the poster boy of that milieu and was one of the most famous of the small group of the innermost caucus of the time known as the “IBB Boys”. He became the subject of persecution after IBB’s regime and fled into exile. He suffered greatly even losing a brother in circumstances believed to be state sponsored. When I came into the Senate in 2003, though they were senior Senators already David and his twin Tunde Ogbeha, whom I had known from a distance in Ogoja where as a young army lieutenant he was the best known football referee after the Nigerian Civil War, and my family moved into a house he just vacated in Monaiya Hospital, Ogoja, sat directly behind me .This was curious as senior senators they should have been sitting right in front. However their decision to sit where they chose turned out to be most auspicious because when a curious decision was about to be taken to reject Senator Liyel Imoke as Cross River State’s ministerial nominee, I could seamlessly consult them, and advise Senator Bassey Ewa Henshaw from Cross River South, a very distinguished and cerebral Senator who sat directly in front of me. This was to be our baptism as Senators. With their advice Henshaw and I made the necessary moves and Imoke was confirmed as Minister. David and Tunde became my guardian angels. This was to be our baptism of fire as Senators. I thenceforth exploited their insights and our historical past to my fullest advantage. They thought me how the Senate worked and were anxious to see me make my mark as a Senator. When David Mark became Senate President in 2007 it was no surprise that I became Deputy Senate Leader. When he was re-elected Senate President in 2011 it had become evident I was going to be his Senate Leader, and that Ike Ekweremadu, his deputy in his first outing as Senate President would remain his deputy. His keen sense of history had been activated. He had achieved what Dr. Joseph Wayas, Senate President had achieved being the first Senate President to be elected a second time. David Mark however became the first in our history to be re-elected with his deputy, and the deputy Senate Leader as Senate Leader. He became the first ever Senate President to serve out two full terms with his core team. He provided stability and leadership in the country’s dire times and authored the ”doctrine of necessity” to bring back the country from certain political abyss. More significantly, David Marks’s eight years as Senate President remain the most stable years of the Nigerian Senate and the most scandal free. How this was achieved is for another day as David Mark, Ike Ekweremadu, Teslim Folarin, Kanti Bello, Bello Gwarzo, Abdul Ningi,Hosea Agboola and I will need to collectively edit the story. Kanti Bello, of blessed memory, will have to make his contributions from Heaven. However I attribute this feat to his remarkable management skills but more importantly his amazing understanding of human nature. Working with him in the Senate Leadership, first as Deputy Senate Leader in the 6th. Senate and Senate Leader in the 7th. Senate, the years of the David Mark Senate Presidency, was an uncommon learning experience. His sense of and respect for time, his punctuality are astonishing and uncharacteristic of the Nigerian “big man”. I had the rare privilege of nominating him as Senate President of the 7th. Senate. I had used the occasion to ask the often repeated question as to who makes what; is it history that makes the man or it is the man who makes history? David Mark, Opkukpuwulu Ochi Idoma, General of the Nigerian Army, Nigeria’s longest Senator, father to many, friend to many more is certainly an historic personage who has occupied main pages of Nigeria’s history in the last forty years. Whether in these years he made the history or the history made him remains the open question. As he celebrates seventy years of his birth, my family and I join  him celebrating a life of life time achievements ,of God’s bountiful grace and mercy upon him ,the opportunity of friendship, friendship so deep that he made me Godfather to his son Mark ( I almost said last son but how am I to know). For us Catholics, this is a deep sign of trust and faith in another person. We toast to this great man and enigma at seventy. We pray for many more years in good health and contentment and that the grace, mercy and blessings of the Almighty remain and abide with him . Congratulations 