It is no longer news that President Muhammadu Buhari’s opposition to unconditional tenure elongation for the National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) caused a stir in the ruling party. At the National Executive Committee meeting of the party held on the 27th of March, 2018, the President had bared his mind on the need to follow due process. The President had declared “I am delighted to once again welcome you to this National Executive Committee Meeting of our great party. As we usually do, I hope we will take the opportunity of this gathering to resolve outstanding issues and consolidate our plans towards making APC the strongest defender of the interests of our people. “ In particular, I think it is important for me to speak quickly on the contentious issue of the tenure of our National and State Executive Officers. As we all know, a motion was moved at the last National Executive Committee meeting of February 27, 2018, to the effect that when the tenure of the current executives expire in June this year, they should be allowed to continue for one year. “This motion was duly carried by a majority of members present at the last NEC Meeting, even though some of our party members have since spoken up very vehemently against it. Others have even taken the matter to court. “On my own part, I have taken some time to review and seek advice on the resolution. And what I found is that it contravenes both our party Constitution and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. While the APC constitution in Article 17(1) and 13.2 (b) limit the tenure of elected officers to four years, renewable once by another election, the 1999 constitution of Nigeria (as amended) in section 223 also prescribes periodic elections for party executives at regular intervals which must not exceed four years. “Furthermore, Article 31 of our great party constitution provides that any principal officer wishing to re-contest, or contest for another post, must resign from his current post, at least, one month before the election. “In this circumstance, what is expected of us, is to conduct fresh elections once the tenure of the current executives approaches its end. A caretaker committee cannot remedy this situation and cannot validly act in place of elected officers. Furthermore, I think if we deviate from the constitutional provisions, we might be endangering the fortunes of our party. “If the tenure of our party executives can be legally faulted, then, it means that any nomination and primary election that they will conduct can also be faulted. “This is not to talk of divisions that will arise and is already arising within the party when some of our members feel that they are being denied the right to aspire to executive positions or that internal democracy is not at play within the party. “I am, therefore, of the firm view that it is better to follow strictly the dictates of our party and national constitutions, rather than put APC and its activities at grave risk. Fortunately, we have already approved a timetable for the holding of congresses and elections. I think these should be allowed to go forward and all efforts should now be geared towards making them a great success.” he stated But rather than agreeing immediately with the President’s desire for the constitution of the party to be strictly followed, the outgoing NWC decided to set up a technical committee headed by Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, to consider the President’s position. For their various reasons, some of the governors were not happy with the President’s position. They wanted the Chief John Odigie-Oyegun led NWC be given tenure elongation. The division among the governors was very obvious last week Tuesday before, during and after the APC governors meeting with the President at the Council Chamber of the State House, Abuja. Before the meeting started, the governors briefly met while standing  on one side of the hall. Despite speaking to one another in low tone, it was obvious from their body language that the matter was causing a major disagreement among them. The governors’ meeting was cut short when the President’s arrival was announced in the hall. Although journalists were asked to leave the hall and they couldn’t see what actually transpired at the closed doors meeting, but they needed no witch doctor to know what happened. It was clear that all was not well.seeing the governors’ countenances  when they came out after the meeting ended, All the governors approached by journalists declined to comment on the outcome of the meeting with the President. While one of them confirmed that they have been instructed not to speak to journalists on the matter, some of them disclosed that the meeting among the governors will continue in Abuja that Tuesday night. Within 24 hours, the governors returned to the Presidential Villa last Wednesday and disclosed that all issues have been resolved and that there was no crisis in the party. The governors, which included Chairman of the Nigeria Governors Forum and Zamfara State Governor Abdulaziz Yari, Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Gamduje and Plateau State Governor, SimonLalong, said that the constitution of the party will be followed just like the President wanted. Yari said “Gentlemen of the press, you know yesterday we left you in the dark after the meeting and today we have seen so many captions that there is disagreement between the governors over the issue of party Chairman or about the party leadership. “No. We had a meeting with Mr. President yesterday (Tuesday), and we extended the meeting tonight and we followed up with the consultations with the President now. “We consulted and all the 24 governors of the APC are on the same page with Mr. President that we are going to respect our party constitution, we are going to respect the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. So therefore, we collectively agreed that we will have congresses at all levels – Local – State and National. “And the committee set up by the National Secretariat of our party headed by governor of Plateau State, is presenting its report later today. The governors are also meeting with the working committee today so that we come up with convention committee names as well as timetable of the election. “So, there is no deadlock in our meeting, we have progressed and very soon you will have the names of the convention committee members as well as the timetable.” he said Okorocha also added “I just want to let you know that there is no crisis in the APC at all. And we want to use this opportunity to advise the media operatives to stop spreading rumors of crisis in APC. There is no single crisis in APC. “The issue was one of people who believe that we did not have enough time to organize a party congress and run election. Some people felt that it was a good idea but the most important thing is that, if we do that we will be contravening both our party constitution and the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. That is the major issue that we have that they call crisis. We do not have crisis. “This morning we met with Mr. President to fine-tune issues, one regarding the congress and we have resolved that the congresses at all levels and the Chairman of the elongation committee, is also fine-tuning the arrangement in the same line. To this effect, the convention committee will be set out, it will be announced. “But let me correct one impression, the issue of congress and convention does not mean that the previous people who have served the party have done badly. And it does not mean that they cannot come back or that they cannot re-contest, that is not it. “We are simply saying that their tenure has ended and those who wish to re-contest can re-contest and can be elected into our party structure. So we are all one as family and we are set to go for 2019 elections in victory.” he said In a twist of events, the Lalong Technical committee set up by the NWC, while submitting its report last Friday, also supported the President’s position. Lalong said “This report has solved most of the problems that we were thinking was within the APC, that is to tell you that there is democracy in the party. We also looked at the passion and the commitment of the President towards keeping the party as one and at the end of the day, we made far-reaching recommendations. “We noticed that there were different interests, which is quite usual when you have a party like this, that is progressive, Already, we have received notices of NEC meeting for Monday which is also in line with our recommendations and we want to assure you that at the end of the day, APC is coming back to life,´´ he said. With this development, the Monday NEC meeting of the party in Abuja expected to decide on the date and time table for congresses and convention of the party towards paving way for a new set of leaders at all levels. It is really good to hear that the party has moved beyond the crisis. That is very key not only if the party want to remain the ruling party at the centre in 2019, also if it wants to remain dominant at the State and local government levels across the country. 