Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu and Senator Ajayi Boroffice are battling for the soul of the Sunshine state. The two All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains are at loggerheads over the 2016 governorship primary and the management of the party. Who will reconcile them? Asks Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU. There is no end in sight to the acrimony between Ondo State Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) and Senator Ajayi Boroffice, who is representing Ondo North District in the Senate. The question is: when will the two All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftains sheathe their swords? The rivalry played itself out at the recent 10th Bola Tinubu Colloquium in Lagos. As Akeredolu entered the Eko Hotel Convention Centre, the venue of the historic event, dignitaries on the front row, including Prof. Boroffice, rose up as a mark of honour. Beaming with smiles, the governor responded to the gestures by greeting, embracing and shaking hands with them. The guests included Senator Abu Ibrahim from Katsina, former Secretary to Government of the Federation Babachir Lawal, former Chairman of the defunct All Peoples Party (APP) Yusuf Ali, Hon. Tunde Braimoh, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro, Senator Barnabas Gemade, Hon. Raphael Igbokwe, Senator Babajide Omoworare and Senator Solomon Adeola. Boroffice sat between Gemade and Igbokwe, the leader of Southeast Caucus in the House of Representatives. Akeredolu, who greeted Gemade warmly, shunned Boroffice, who had already stretched his hand for a handshake. Later, the governor shook hands with Igbokwe. Gemade and Igbokwe were shocked. An embarrassed Boroffice told Gemade: “That is how he behaves to me.” Since 2012, the legal luminary and former university don have been rivals. Both wanted to rule Ondo State. But, the personality clashes got to a peak during the 2016 governorship primary. The shadow election, which polarised the party, led by Hon. Isaacs Kekemeke, was perceived as a war of sorts by supporters of various aspirants. Only the moles stepped down, ahead of the exercise. Although Akeredolu emerged as the flag bearer, the animosity continued in the post-primary period. One of the contenders, Chief Olusola Oke, left the APC for the Alliance for Democracy (AD), where he lost his deposit. He recently retraced his steps to the party. Kekemeke was suspended as chairman. His deputy, Ade Adetimehin, has been acting as chairman. Another aspirant, Dr. Segun Abraham, is still in court protesting the outcome of the primary. However, while the two lawyers-Akeredolu and Oke-have reconciled, the gulf between the governor and the senator has widened. The frosty relationship is a concern to many APC stalwarts. Few months ago, Akeredolu said he had embarked on reconciliation with some aggrieved members in the chapter. Thus, when President Muhammadu Buhari mandated Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to reconcile aggrieved chieftains nationwide, the governor said there was no need for any national reconciliation train to roll into Ondo State, adding that the chapter was peaceful. At the party’s unification rally in Akure, the state capital, where Oke returned to the fold, the former AD candidate praised the magnanimity of the governor. But, the governor inadvertently disputed the claim of harmony when he said he only recognised two APC senators from the state-Tayo Alasoadura from the Central District and Yele Omoguwa from the South, and not Boroffice, who the governor’s camp accused of anti-party-activities. Boroffice objected to Akeredolu’s claim, saying that Ondo APC is disunited. According to a source, there is a bone of contention between the governor and the senator. “The Asiwaju of Akokoland and the state party leader, Arakunrin Akeredolu, are not in good terms. The governor has reconciled with Oke, who left for the AD, but has now returned. But, he is not happy that the senator stayed in the APC during the election, but working for the AD. There was the speculation that Oke’s running mate, Ganiyu Dauda, a former member of the House of Representatives, had the backing of Boroffice. The governor believed that was anti-party activity,’ he said. Collaborating the source, the APC Director of Media and Publicity, Steve Otaloro, said: “It is incontrovertible that Boroffice, who came a distant fourth in the party primary, immediately ordered his supporters to move en mass to the opposition party. But, being a sitting senator on the platform of our party, APC, he couldn’t openly canvass for the opposition. He however, engaged in anti-party activities behind closed doors.” Besides, Otaloro said Boroffice has been docile in his legislative duties, adding that he has trifled away six good years playing mere politics and pursuing personal ambitions. He predicted that the senator will not get the ticket for re-election at the senatorial primary, owing to what he described as his “depleting popularity” among the people of his district. Ahead of next year’s poll, senatorial aspirants are already warming up in the North District, based on the calculation that the governor will not back a senator he has not recognised for re-election. The aspirants include Hon. Olemoga, who is representing Akoko Noertheast/Northwest in the House of Representatives, human rights lawyer Dr. Tunji Abayomi, former House of Assembly Speaker Hon. Victor Olabimtan, and Prince Solagbade Amudeni. Boroffice denied allegations of anti-party activities against him, saying that he is a loyal stalwart. He said the attack on him by the governor was unwarranted, urging him to separate facts from frictions. Boroffice said in a statement by his media aide, Kayode Fakuyi, that he has always supported Akeredolu in the best interest of Ondo State, “despite the underlying differences,” recalling that he rallied his colleagues in the Senate to support the governor when he sent two private communications to the Upper Chamber. He complained that he had been sidelined in Ondo APC, stressing that Akeredolu has never carried him along on any party matter since he assumed the reins last year. Boroffice said: “The governor has not extended any invitation to me, let alone turning down any of such invitation to attend any meeting or an APC’ s events since Arakunrin Akeredolu became Governor of Ondo State.” The senator also said he has added value to his district through his legislative activities and the infrastructural facilities he has attracted to the zone. Boroffice said it was not true that he worked against the party during the last governorship election. He said despite the “controversial” emergence of Akeredolu as the party’s candidate in 2016, he worked tirelessly for the victory of the APC in the November poll. The senator chided the governor for intolerance, saying that his attitude to other party leaders in the state who did not see things from his perspective has polarised the chapter and alienated critical mass of the party leadership and supporters. Boroffice added: “All is not well with the APC chapter in the Sunshine state and rather than for Governor Akeredolu to embrace the challenges of leadership and reach out to every leader of this party in Ondo State, he prefers to run the party and government of Ondo State with his trifling followership and continue to assert that he alone owns this party and others can go to hell. He continues to threaten others with expulsion from the party.” He urged the APC national leadership to intervene in the Ondo APC crisis, stressing that issues that polarise the chapter should not be swept under the carpet. Boroffice stressed: “It is for this reason that His Excellency President Muhammadu Buhari has called for reconciliation of leaders and resolutions of disputed issues. This is the wise road to travel and we cannot dissent and we fully support our National Leader, Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu on this course.” In Otaloro’s view, it is appalling that Boroffice has accused the governor of polarising the party and concocted a non-existing feud. He said the senator was only engaging in a blame game. He said: “We want to make it clear that the governor does not in any way intervene in the affairs of the party. The party affair is solely run by the leadership of the party in the state, led by Ade Adetimehin.” According to observers. the submission is disputable because the governor is the party leader. Otaloro said it is the senator that is fighting the governor. “It beats our imagination if Senator Boroffice could be referring to the governor as a controversial candidate after one year in office and still claim to have worked tirelessly and voted for him. It also remains irreconcilable why Boroffice, who sent a congratulatory message to the governor through his media after his victory at the poll, did not attend the inauguration ceremony of the governor,” he added. Akeredolu is consolidating his hold on the Ondo APC as the party leader. He still faces a challenge from Abraham, who is in court.  The governor and other party chieftains, including Boroffice, may still flex muscles as the political family warms up for next year’s federal and state parliamentary elections. The question is: who will reconcile Akeredolu and Boroffice in Ondo? 