Operatives of the Inspector-General of Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) have arrested a woman posing as a Nigerian Immigration Service (NIS) officer, Ehumibe Omoh, for alleged fraud and sex slavery. Omoh, who claimed to be a Deputy Superintendent of Immigration (DSI) attached to Seme Border, was arrested on Monday after the operatives raided her home at 15, Taiwo Street in Abaranje, Ikotun, Lagos. It was gathered that about five young boys she allegedly used as sex slaves were rescued from her home and several international passports recovered. Residents alleged that the young men approached the woman to assist them with travel plans but she held them hostage in her home and used them as sex slaves. Omoh, a native of Auchi in Edo State, was said to have defrauded many intending travellers, who she procured fake documents for. Trouble started for the suspect after she allegedly defrauded a military personnel, Captain Young Omokhuale, of N2.5 million. He paid her to secure travelling documents for two of his sons. Rather than provide the documents, the woman allegedly hypnotised and held one of the Captain’s sons, Evans, 29, hostage for months, fooling his parents that he had travelled. She was alleged to have arranged a telephone conversation between the hostage and his parents to make them believe he was abroad. The suspect, it was alleged, also collected N1.4 million from a lady identified simply as Paulinus and provided fake documents for her. It was gathered that Evans eventually escaped her grip and told his parents he had been in the woman’s house for five months, prompting a petition to the police. The suspects were being held at the state command headquarters as of yesterday. Police sources told our correspondent they wanted to establish how she got the international passports, who and where their owners were. Police spokesman Chike Oti, a Superintendent (SP), confirmed the arrest of the suspect. He said: “The woman claims to have been an Immigration officer. She uses that platform to defraud people. She is being interrogated and was cooperating with the police. She was the only one that was arrested.”