U.S-based Nigerian boxing champion, Gifted Cole Chiori, told TAIWO ALIMI about growing up in Ajegunle, his passion for giving to the needy, as he prepares to defend his title in May. As Nigeria-born reigning World Boxing Federation (WBF) Junior Middleweight champion, Gifted Cole Chiori returns to the ring, come May 12, in Atlanta Georgia, to defend his title against Teemu Touminen of Finland, he could not but talk about his humble beginning in Lagos famous ghetto, Ajegunle, fondly called AJ by ‘sons of the soil.’ AJ has produced renowned stars in football and music and among them are Samson Siasia, Taribo West, Emmanuel Amuneke, Ikpe Ekong, Obafemi Martins, Taribo West, Jonathan Akpoborie, Brown Ideye, Alfred Emuejeraye and current highest paid African player, Odion Ighalo. With its own brand of dance step called ‘galala’, AJ has also churned out musicals lords in the brand Daddy Showkey, Baba Fryo, Marvellous Benji, Daddy Fresh, to mention but a few. Speaking from his Riverdale, Georgia, United States of America (USA) base, the Global Boxing Federation World (GBFW) Super Middleweight title holder said AJ’s tough environment played a significant role in his formation as a boxer. “I wouldn’t be a boxing champion today without learning the art in AJ. I used to fight on the street a lot. One day, I ran into a place where I saw people training in a boxing gym and I signed up and that was how I became a boxer.” He said he later moved to Festac Town, where he became seriously involved in boxing. “So, it was at Festac that I really learnt the art of boxing. I will always be grateful to my older brother, Peter, who was always telling me that I would become a world champion one day and made me believe in myself.” Perhaps touched by the slum of AJ, Gifted is giving back to the community now that he has become successful. “I grew up in the slums of Ajegunle, and I’m proud of who I am today and plan to help young kids from the ghetto,” he said and has kept his promise. He is so particular and emotional about the plights of orphans, widows and the mentally disordered people in the society. His charitable mind, however, did not go unnoticed and indeed has attracted the United Nations, UN, that he was made the Peace Ambassador in 2014. He, however, sees giving to the less privileged as a lifestyle without asking for support for his charity. He’s planning to take his charity to parts of Africa and Asia, which will include Ethiopia, Kenya, and Uganda. “To me, giving back to the society is even worth more than winning a boxing title and I’m looking forward to even doing more,” he said. On the forthcoming 10-round bout in Atlanta Georgia against Teemu Touminen of Finland, he said, “After being out of the ring for almost two years now, I can’t wait to bring back the fire, come May 12. With the kind of rigorous training I have gone through, I should be able to stop him in the third round. I’m not underrating my opponent or being over confident, but I had perfected the strategy to stop him early after watching some of the tapes of his previous fights.” Cole, however, admitted that defeating the Finish would not be a walk in park. “Touminen is a tested boxer and a worthy opponent any day and could be very tricky,” he said. Cole, rated 13th by WBF, knocked out German opponent, Tom Reiche, in the 4th round, to retain his Junior Middleweight WBF title.