A Youth activist, Chris Ifeoluwa, has urged the youths to participate in politics, instead of complaining about bad governance. The activist, who is the convener of the ‘Not Too Young To Run’ initiative in Surulere Federal Constituency I, Lagos State, said the time is ripe for generational shift. He spoke at a conference in Lagos with the theme: ‘The youth and their significance to the struggle for a new Nigeria,’ to create awareness for youths on political participation. Ifeoluwa said there is the need  for fresh ideas in politics to replace the penchant for the preservation of self-interest by politicians. Other speakers called on youths to embrace politics and registered before next year’s general elections. Ifeoluwa, who is an aspirant to the House of Representatives, said: “Let the youths stop lamenting and blaming the older politicians. We are young and vibrant and if we feel things are not done properly then it’s high time we took up the mantle. “Do not say there no to fifth term in your bedroom. Come out openly and say no to fifth term in Surulere Federal Constituency I and let people hear our voices.” At the primary, the aspirant will compete with Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, who may be seeking re-election after spending 16 years in the House of Representatives. While reeling out his campaign promises, Ifeoluwa also donated books and other educational materials to students in selected schools across the nine wards in the constituency. He said the donation was to ensure that students have access to reading materials, thereby aiding their academic excellence and ultimately securing their future. He ssid the intervention was necessary to make learning attractive and take pupils off the streets. He said the highly successful men and women all over the world had their roots in proper and sound education. He urged them to make good use of the items. Ifeoluwa added: “I also urge the students to take advantage of the good educational policies currently running in Lagos State, given the foundation laid by our able leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, to be able stand out in the future.” The aspirant also organised a one-week free health programme for the people of his constituency. The programme included free eye test and distribution of drugs to people with different ailments. He said: “The one-week free health programme ended with a visit to Heart of Gold motherless home where donations were made to the kids.”