The Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) has changed the name of UnityKapital Assurance Plc to Veritas Kapital Assurance Plc. The NSE also changed the company’s trading symbol on Monday from UNITYKAP to VERITASKAP. Head, Listings Regulation Department, Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE), Godstime Iwenekhai, said the changes were in compliance with the resolution passed by the company’s shareholders at the annual general meeting of the company held on September 14, 2017. Veritas Capital Limited, the new majority core investor in UnityKapital Assurance, had opted to change the name of the company to Veritas Kapital Assurance Plc to reflect the new ownership and divestiture of Unity Bank from the insurance company. In a regulatory filing at the NSE, the directors of the insurance company stated that the new name was sequel to the completion of the divestment of Unity Bank from the insurance company. Veritas Capital had acquired the 50.3 per cent majority equity of Unity Bank Plc in UnityKapital Assurance. Following Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN)’s banking regulatory regime that required banks to either divest from non-core banking subsidiaries or form a holding company to hold those subsidiaries, Unity Bank had opted to divest from its non-core banking businesses including UnityKapital Assurance. Veritas Capital and Unity Bank had in 2016 executed a Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (SSPA) detailing the terms and conditions of the acquisition of 50.3 per cent equity stake in UnityKapital Assurance. In March 2016, a total of 4.16 billion shares of Unity Kapital Assurance were swapped in a cross deal at 77 kobo per share at the NSE to Veritas Capital. This represented the first tranche of 30 per cent equity stake in Unity Kapital Assurance. UnityKapital Assurance had emerged in 2007 following the merger of three insurance companies with similar values. The merger followed the requirements of Insurance Regulation of September 2005, which required insurance companies to recapitalise to the level of N3 billion for non-life companies and N2 billion for life companies. 