Chairman of the House of Representatives Committee on Petroleum Downstream Joseph Akinlaja, who represents Ondo East/West Federal Constituency on the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) platform spoke to reporters in Lagos on a wide of national issues. Deputy Political Editor RAYMOND MORDI was there. The issue of killings by herdsmen has been a source of concern. What do you think is the solution? It is sad that Nigeria is gradually being turned into a state of blood as a result of killings by herdsmen and clashes between them and farmers. From Benue to Taraba, to Nasarawa, Zamfara and other places, including some the southern part of the country, killings by the herdsmen has become a worrisome development. But we must find a way to provide a lasting solution, because for a farmer who plants crops do so in order to reap profits. For them, farming is a means of livelihood, just as the cows of the Fulani herdsmen must survive; they must graze. Then, what is the solution? The solution is for cattle owners to start building ranches. Cattle rearing is big business; a big commercial venture, so those who are involved must be ready to spend money to secure their business and the only way to do that is for them to start building ranches, as it is done in other parts of the world. It is only in Nigeria that cows have become kings of the road. They have become a big threat and nuisance to other road users. Look at the pathetic case of that young promising Nigerian goalkeeper, Joseph Dosu, his career was terminated abruptly when he had a life threatening accident when some herds of cows ran into his car some years ago on a Lagos highway and thereby causing the young man to sustain serious spinal cord injuries. It was God that saved his life. The best way to avoid killings by herdsmen or prevent them from becoming a nuisance to farmers and road users is to build ranches for the cows. That is the modern practice and through that way, there will be peace; enough of bloodletting. Some observers say though the number of parties is unwieldy, INEC is still registering more. What’s your view on that? I’m also of the view that we have too many political parties. However, INEC should not be blamed for the registration of new political parties. INEC is just complying with the provision of the nation’s electoral act which stipulates certain criteria and conditions to be met by those wishing to float new political parties. Any group or association that met those criteria is bound to be registered by INEC. There is nothing anybody can do about the new parties; it is left for Nigerians to accept or reject them. Some Nigerians are canvassing for a third force to wrest power from the PDP and the APC. What is your reaction to that? There is nothing wrong with a third force. It is part of politics, and in politics political alignment is nothing strange. There is nothing wrong with it. It is part of political processes, but what I disagree with is the habit of some of our politicians who can’t tolerate the idea of being in opposition for a second. There are some politicians, the moment their party loses power, you see them cross-carpeting to the new ruling party. That’s not genuine politics, but it is the popular thing in this clime. Look at a country like the United Kingdom (UK), there was a time the Labour Party was in opposition for 18 years, and yet none of the party members left to join the then ruling Conservative Party. But, in Nigeria, that’s not the practice. Look at the number of PDP members that have defected to the APC. Is that progressive politics? It is sad that many people who profess to be politicians in Nigeria are just looking for what to eat, and that is why they are not principled and reliable; you only see them in places where their bread can be buttered. This is what I call pocketism; what can I get for my pocket, and not how best can I serve my people. Most of the so-called politicians in Nigeria don’t have principle – they lack political ideology. How do you see the Coalition Movement for Nigeria being floated by former President Obasanjo? Apart from Obasanjo, I don’t know much yet about other characters that are part of the movement. Although Obasanjo’s voice is very strong, but I don’t know how he wants to go about the whole thing. I don’t know how he wants to get the desired change he craves for Nigeria. Why do I say this? Without having a political platform, it will be difficult to effect any change, and Obasanjo’s coalition movement is not a political party. If Obasanjo’s coalition movement doesn’t transform into a political platform or party, nothing will come out of its efforts. Agreed, Obasanjo is a very strong personality, without a political platform, there is nothing he can do or achieve regarding the change he claims he desires for Nigeria. Do you see the prospects of an alternative to the APC and the PDP? We should not dismiss those people and groups involved in the ongoing alignment and realignment of forces with a wave of the hand yet. Nobody knows what can happen tomorrow. Before 2015 general elections when those groups that eventually crystalised into the APC started meeting, some Nigerians didn’t take them serious, but at the end of the day we all know what happened; how the APC eventually defeated the PDP. In politics, anything can happen. Nobody or group should be underrated. I don’t underrate anybody in politics. The only group that I know that could have formidable political party if they are united is Nigerian workers. If Nigerian workers have been united, the Labour Party would have been a formidable party. But, unfortunately, Nigerian workers even though have very strong structure, are not united. How do you see the PDP faring in 2019? Like I said earlier, in politics anything can happen. Nobody should underrate the PDP. It will bounce back in a very big way, if we can get our acts right. We must however realize that the PDP bouncing back will not be on a platter of gold. We have to work very hard. Again, everything will depend on how the party’s affairs are being steered by the national leadership. For the PDP to bounce back in a big way, it is going to be a collective effort, but surely it will be suicidal for APC to underrate PDP or write the PDP off. What’s your take on the re-ordering of 2019 general elections by the National Assembly? There is nothing you do in this country that people will not read meaning into. What members of the National Assembly have done by re-ordering the 2019 general elections to start with the National Assembly elections were done in the best interest of democracy and Nigerians. More so, this is not the first time that general elections will start with the National Assembly first. The fact that we reordered that elections should not start with the Presidential election first as it was done the last time in 2015 didn’t mean that our action is targeted at President Buhari or any other individual. Those saying that President Buhari is being targeted are being mischievous. The question Nigerians should ask those saying that is, whether APC lawmakers were not part of the decision? Or is President Buhari no longer an APC member? What about Senate President and the House Speaker, are they not APC members like President Buhari? National Assembly members in their own wisdom have decided that National Assembly elections should come first, and this is the consensus by all members and our decision was taken in national interest, Nigerians should ignore those people reading meaning into our actions. As lawmakers, we are patriots and in whatever we do, Nigeria comes first. You were a former Secretary-General of NUPENG. What is your reaction to the perennial fuel crisis in the country? It is a big shame that Nigeria as an oil-producing nation is having this problem. Our hope is that things will be sorted out very soon. The National Assembly and other stakeholders have also intervened, and we are taking measures that we hope will resolve the problem once and for all. There is a lot of confusion in the oil industry, and this is why the sector needs to be sanitized. Successive governments have been spending a lot of money on Turn Around Maintenance (TAM) of our refineries, but yet there have been no tangible result, as we still continue to have fuel crisis every now and then. Our refineries need to be operating at maximum level, but sadly it is still far from that. It is unfair, very unfair for Nigerians, to be suffering from perennial fuel crisis when they are aware that their nation is an oil producing country. What is your take on the APC’s new position on restructuring? For those doubting the APC, certainly they have their reasons. But, one of the reasons which I know that is making some Nigerians doubt the APC’s sincerity is that until now the party had expressed reservations about restructuring; actually it opposed the idea. This is why some Nigerians are baffled by the party’s sudden u-turn on the issue. But my own take is that if the APC is serious about restructuring, let it do it now, before the 2019 general elections. Otherwise, the promise will be seen as an election gimmick. The APC is the party in power and if it wants it done, it can be done. 