The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustapha on Wednesday received the final report of the Presidential Committee on Special Detainees linked to Boko Haram Insurgency. A statement by Lawrence Ojabo, Director Information, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), said that the 5 chapters, 47-page report contained detailed information on detainees’ profiles and categorization. Receiving the report from the chairman of the committee, General Abdullahi Bagudu Mamman, the SGF represented by the Permanent Secretary, General Services Office, Office the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Olusegun Adeyemi Adekunle Esq. commended the committee for their painstaking efforts, and for doing a good job. He lauded the Minister of Interior, Lt General (rtd) Abdulrahaman Danbazzau for initiating the committee and the idea of looking into the welfare of  the unfortunate citizens. He noted the urgency expressed by the chairman of the committee on the aspects of international relations, inadequate infrastructures, and human rights of the detainees, and promised that the report would be forwarded swiftly to Mr. President for his action. The SGF further reiterated the commitment of the present administration to rein in all security challenges ravaging the different parts of the country and assured that the report would be given quick attention with the view to implementing all the recommendations. In his earlier remarks, the chairman of the committee, Gen. Abdullahi Bagudu Mamman (rtd) said the committee was inaugurated in December 2016 with the mandate of profiling and categorizing the Boko Haram detainees in the various detention prisons across the country. He disclosed that 6512 detainees were identified including todlers who followed their mothers into detention. According to him, some detainees had spent up to nine years awaiting trial. He called for justice for suspects who might be innocent. General Mamman commended President Muhammadu Buhari for taking the plight of Nigerians seriously. He thanked government for given them the task and also ready to make themselves available for future assignment. The Permanent Secretary, Political and Economic Affairs Office, Office the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Gabriel Tanimu Aduda commended the Committee for its patriotism, passion and doggedness in carrying out the assignment.