The Federal Government has reacted to the barrage of attacks by some of the named alleged treasury looters and has gone further to name 23 others, most of them members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a press statement, Minister of Information and Culture, ALhaji Lai Mohammed said the list of alleged looters which Government released earlier was based on verifiable facts, including the amount involved, the date the amount in question was collected and from where it was taken. Mohammed, also said those complaining that the list was too short apparently did not understand that it was strategically released as a teaser. “At the press conference where the list was released, I did say it was a tip of the iceberg. Apparently, this does not mean anything to people whose style is to comment on issues they barely understand, or just to shoot down anything coming from the government,” he said, adding that the Federal Government has a large number of alleged looters on its list. Alhaji Mohammed slammed the PDP for daring to challenge the Federal Government over an issue that the party knows is its weakness: Looting
of public treasury. ”What was the PDP expecting when it challenged the FG to name the looters of the public treasury under the party’s watch? Did the PDP actually believe that the massive looting under its watch was a joke?
Did they think it is April Fool?” he queried. The Minister said the PDP’s reaction to the looters’ list has shown that its recent apology is an election-induced act, contrived to deceive unsuspecting Nigerians to vote for the party in the 2019 general election, even when it has not come clean on its looting spree during its time in office. ”The hysterical and panicky reaction from the PDP has shown that the party is not at all sincere about its choreographed apology. Were it not the case, the party would have followed in the footsteps of one of its leaders, Senator Ibrahim Mantu, who simply owned up to his role in the party’s rigging in the past elections and said he had turned a new
leaf. ”It is said that a true confession is done in humility with an attitude of repentance. It is clear that the PDP does not know this,
hence its resort to hubris instead of humility and genuine penitence,” he said. Alhaji Mohammed said the Federal Government will neither be intimidated nor blackmailed into silence, adding that it will also not
rest until all those who looted the public treasury have been brought to justice. SECOND BATCH OF ALLEGED LOOTERS AND THE AMOUNT ALLEGEDLY EMBEZZLED 1. Former NSA Sambo Dasuki: Based on EFCC investigations and findings
alone (this is beside the ongoing $2.1billion military equipment
scandal), a total of N126 billion, over $1.5 billion and 5.5 million
British Pounds was embezzled through his office. A good number of
these monies were simply shared to persons and companies without any
formal contract awards. 2. Former Petroleum Resources Minister Dieziani Alison-Madukwe: In
just one of the cases the EFCC is investigating involving her, about
N23 billion is alleged to have been embezzled. She is also involved in
the Strategic Alliance Contracts of the NNPC, where the firms of Jide
Omokore and Kola Aluko got oil blocks but never paid government taxes
and royalty. About $3 billion was involved. The Federal Government is
charging Omokore and Aluko and will use all legal instruments local
and international to ensure justice. 3. Rtd. Lt.-Gen. Kenneth Minimah: N13.9 billion. N4.8 billion
recovered by EFCC in cash and property 4. Lt.-Gen. Azubuike Ihejirika: N4.5 billion. N29m recovered by the EFCC so far. 5. Alex Barde, former Chief of Defence Staff: N8 billion, and EFCC recovered almost N4 billion in cash and property already. 6. Inde Dikko: former CG Customs: N40 billion, and N1.1 billion in cash recovered in cash and choice properties. 7. Air Marshal Adesola Amosun: N21.4 billion. N2.8 billion recovered in cash. 28 properties and 3 vehicles also recovered. 8. Senator Bala Mohammed, former FCT Minister: N5 billion. Interim forfeiture order on some property secured. 9. Senator Stella Oduah: N9.8 billion. Interim forfeiture order on some property secured. 10. Former Niger State Governor Babangida Aliyu: N1.6 billion – from NSA. 11. Senator Jonah Jang, former Plateau State Governor: N12.5 billion. 12. Bashir Yuguda, former Minister of State for Finance: N1.5 billion. $829,800 recovered. 13. Senator Peter Nwaboshi: N1.5 billion 14. Aliyu Usman: Former NSA Dasuki’s aide: N512 million 15. Ahmad Idris: Former NSA Dasuki’s PA: N1.5 billion 16. Rasheed Ladoja: Former Oyo Governor: N500 million 17. Tom Ikimi: N300 million 18. Femi Fani-Kayode: N866 million 19. Hassan Tukur, former PPS to President Goodluck: $1.7 million 20. Nenadi Usman: N1.5 billion 21. Benedicta Iroha: N1.7 billion 22. Aliyu Usman Jawaz: Close ally of former NSA Dasuki: N882 million 23. Godknows Igali: Over N7 billion