THE Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), and Senior Staff Union of Colleges of Education in Nigeria (SSUCOEN) at the Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Otto/ Ijanikin, have urged the Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, to upgrade the 59-year-old institution to a university of education in June to coincide with its 60th anniversary. The unions, at a briefing, noted that the proposed upgrade was long overdue. The Nation learnt Ambode may announce the conversion of AOCOED, which is the oldest tertiary institution into a university of education, any moment. The unions’ chairmen, Michael Avosentiyen and Wunmi Ombugadu praised Ambode for the initiative. Avosentiyen said workers, management and students were already in jubilant mood over the development, adding that they would be happier if the governor could make it a birthday gift in June. He said: “We have been able to convince the governor that the university of education is not only the trend; it is also cultural as our society is no longer interested in college of education again as reflected in the college’s previous admission statistics of students who deliberately chose AOCOED as their first choice. “The implication of this is that the state government and the college will be at a loss while the staff may not be able to justify their existence.’’ Avosetinyen noted that AOCOED has the wherewithal in terms of personnel and facilities to meet up with the new status. He recalled that various accreditation teams of the National Universities Commission (NUC) had accredited the college’s degree programmes run in affiliation with Ekiti State University on three occasions with 100 per cent endorsement for structures and personnel. “In terms of the highest academic degree, which is Ph.D, no college of education in Nigeria and faculty of education in any of the Nigerian universities can beat our college. AOCOED is endowed with over 60 Ph.D holders while about 10 lecturers are getting ready for their defence soonest. Apart from that, more than 50 lecturers are on their Ph.D home and abroad,’’ he added. COEASU former national president, Mr. Sam Akindele, AOCOED governing council member, Dr. Lanre Aiyejuyo and two former SSUCOEN chairmen, Adeoye Sofidiya and Mr. Yemi Ayeni, also urged Ambode to anounce the upgrade at the college’s convocation in May. They said doing so would jerk up students’ enrolment.