A group, The Citizens’ Right Congress (CRC) on Wednesday held their quarterly review of security situation in Nigeria in Lagos. According to Comrade  Israel Abolaji, the president of the group said the CRC assemblage of Nigerians was shocked to the bone marrow when it heard some mouthy and excited Senators passed remarks’ during yesterday’s plenary canvassing or contemplating calls on President Muhammadu Buhari to sack all Nigerian Security  Chiefs,  alleging  security lapses but before we delve into the evil intentions of the Senators, the hollowness of such calls and the belated deceptive posturing of these Senators on matters of security is unreservedly condemnable, self-serving and undignified. We beg to reject it unequivocally at this point in time.” Speaking further, he said “let us make it unambiguously clear to the undiscerning Senators that such calls or resolutions are very unnecessary, derogative, insensitive,  a mockery of democratic liberties and plight of Nigerian people,  as reflected in their various contributions to the motion raised by Sen. Suleiman Adokwe (Nasarawa). We cannot but laugh at the pretentious and belated posturing   of Senate’s concern for the security of Nigerians.   It is the same Senate which refused for no apparent reason to grant a $29 billion loan request facility President Muhammadu Buhari forwarded to it for consideration in 2016. Part of the loan fund was to be devoted to “protection of Nigerians” (security issues) for the internal security of Nigeria. But the Senators rejected it.” “We are aware of  the recent controversy instigated by the same Senate over the State Governors consent to the release $1 billion from the Excess Crude Account (ECA) and the subtle plots to frustrate utilization of the funds for arms procurement to battle insurgency by the Buhari Presidency. These are public indications of the deep-seated hatred some of these Senators nurse on the security of Nigerians.  You cannot say, after Lucifer led Adam and Eve to commit a sin in the Garden of Eden, through the serpent, the same devil cannot come back preaching salvation through the backdoor.” “The CRC therefore, finds it resentful, despicable and bemusing, the meaningless trumpeting of  a pretentious concern about the security  of Nigerians by the Senators. We are astonished by the clever manner the Senators are seeking to shift blame and transfer the burden of their irresponsible leadership to a team of security working hard to quell the internal crises some of them have instigated in their domains. We want to state without mincing words that the  debate by Senators in plenary, which called for the removal of Service Chiefs, and their replacement,  citing fresh killings in parts of the country, particularly attributed to  the remarks of Sen. Solomon Olamilekan  (Lagos APC) and his other colleagues is nauseating, to say the least. It underscores’ the extent some national parliamentarians’ have downplayed  the efforts of the Federal Government and the sacrifices Nigerian security apparatus have made in the face of biting armed internal insurrections.” “It is perplexing how these Senators think security can function effectively, when they are more aligned to playing the ostrich and politics with the lives of Nigerians.  If we should ask, how much of defence budget have they appreciated in line with the enormous and widespread insecurity in the last two years to empower the military and other conventional security agencies to effectively perform their constitutional responsibilities? The Nigerian Army in particular has consistently complained of inadequate funding to cope with the increasing demands of the consuming internal security threats.  But the Senators have shown more interest in chasing mundane issues in the vexatious and unacceptable promotion of their ego and blind appetite for power. We think they should be a time for reality.” “This Senate cannot sound this sanctimonious at this stage. Is it not the same group of lawless and unfocused Senators at the National Assembly who cooked the unjustifiable suspension of Sen. Ali Ndume, representing Borno South for 180 Legislative Days, at the peak of Boko Haram terrorists terror on his people and worsening humanitarian crisis? Barring other reasons, did it ever appeal to the conscience of these Senators that the suspension was ill-timed, insensitive and callous, but they refused to submit to reason in spite of a court order nullifying it? Where is the sudden passion for the security of Nigerians emanating?” “The CRC assembly has met and reviewed the calls by NASS and has resolved thus; It has passed a vote of confidence on all the Security Chiefs particularly the Army, Air Force and Navy Leadership for the sustained collaborative efforts that have been deployed to curtail the various hydra headed monsters created by our politicians in the name of unrest across the country. We implore President Buhari to ignore, discountenance and reject the calls by the Senators for sack of Service Chiefs because it is malicious, vindictive and politicized. In effect, the CRC is calling on the NASS under the leadership of President of the Senate, Sen. Bukola Saraki to change their negative perception of the administration of security in the country. Security is a collective responsibility and the parliament should henceforth concentrate more on discharging the patriotic and lawful parts of the bargain. If this task is too much for them to execute on behalf of Nigerians, they should do the needful by quitting the stage. It is pedestrian and hogwash for the Senators to call on sack of Security Chiefs to cover their own failures at NASS and bargain for public sympathy and appreciation. We therefore, call on the Senators, to declare themselves as failed representatives instead; humbly resign and retire home for the glaring evidence of the abdication of their lawful responsibilities, he added”.