LAGOS State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday praised tax payers for performing their civic duty as he opened 21 roads and two bridges to mark Easter in Alimosho, the largest federal constituency in the country. He said the projects, which are in four different locations within Alimosho, were part of the continuous bid to transform the axis and build a new economy around it. Ambode said: “This is what is called dividend of democracy. We are making this Alimosho axis economically viable and also livable. We don’t need to travel far to earn a living. By opening up the whole network stretching 27.4km, we have brought economy back to this place. ‘’With the walkways and street lights, these communities are becoming safer and there is more to do. By expanding the infrastructure around this axis, you can travel as far as to Ojo or Badagry without necessarily passing through the express road. That is what you voted for and that’s why we are returning  here to say we have kept all our promises.” Ambode hailed All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for activating the transformation of Alimosho when he was governor,  with the construction of LASU-Iba Road and former Governor Babatunde Fashola for taking the project up to Ipaja. He said: “What we are doing today is historic and of great importance that we must send the message rightly so that people can understand why we are celebrating on Easter Monday the change in the life of our people which the resurrection of Christ symbolises. “First, we salute all our political leaders starting with Asiwaju Tinubu for starting the vision of making Alimosho a place of pride with the construction of LASU-Iba Road such that taking off from Badagry, you can drive through LASU-Iba Road up to Igando, Egbe and so on, and you have a pleasurable ride. My predecessor, Governor  Fashola took it up to Ipaja all in a bid to build a new economy in this particular axis. “We have taken it from Ipaja to Ayobo, Command Secondary School Gate, Abesan, Aboru Bridge and roads. What we are doing today is momentous as we are connecting over 60 communities together and we are happy we have achieved this.” Ambode said the roads were alternative routes to decongest traffic from the Lagos-Abeokuta Expressway, adding that they  could be used to access Ipaja up to Badagry without using the expressway. “It is an alternative route, we don’t need to congest ourselves on the Lagos-Abeokuta express when you drive from Gateway Hotel and start driving through Ojokoro, Ipaja and so on. Now, you can take this alternative route and go all the way to Ipaja and Badagry without having anything to do with the expressway,” the governor said. The government, he said,   completed the projects using the taxes paid by the people. “These projects are made possible by the tax payers. Your taxes made it possible for this administration to improve on the economy and solve traffic challenges in the state. “So, when you understand that this was not done with Akin Ambode’s money; When you realise that I did not put a kobo there apart from my own taxes. When you realise that it is the taxes that you have contributed that we have used to improve on this particular economy, then you will be able to support our commitment to make every part of Lagos economically viable and livable, so that all the people in this area can have the same kind of life that others are enjoying in the other axis of Lagos. The idea of the project is to open up all our suburban communities, reduce traffic congestion and then create better life for the people,” Ambode said. As part of the continuation of the axis’  development, the governor promised to dredge Ilo River, rehabilitate Adekoya Road, Makinde Road, Suberu Oje Road, Old Ota Road and Ishefun-Ijan Road, which will be connected to a jetty through which people can ride a boat  to connect  Marina on Lagos Island in 20 minutes. He also said  a modern bus terminal and Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor would soon be constructed in the area. “We would do more, based on the budget for 2018. There are other infrastructure we have to put in this community… We want to do economic integration of all the Southwestern states and the nearest to us is Ogun State and that’s why we are expanding the road network to enter into the boundary of Ogun State. “We are doing something similar between Epe and Ijebu-Ode to enter into the Ijebu-Ode-Ore Express road. That is what economic integration means, that is how to expand commerce, that’s how to create jobs for our people and by this project people in this community will benefit from the jobs and also benefit from the commerce and that is what inclusive governance is all about,” the governor said.