•Backs lawmaker’s senatorial bid A group within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the southern senatorial district of Kwara State, the Caucus for Progressive Change (CPC), has decried what they described as “unfortunate and avoidable killing” of defenceless civilians and men of the Nigeria Police Force last week during broad daylight attacks on banks in Offa. The group also threw its weight behind the senatorial ambition of Hon. Saheed Popoola, the member representing Offa in the Kwara State of House Assembly, saying his nomination is as a result of the need to position someone who has always worked with the people in the national assembly in the interest of the district. The group made the statements after an emergency meeting held on Friday at Ajasepo, Irepodun local government area of the state. “The brazen attack during broad daylight by an organised armed gang on banks in Offa again calls for more proactive moves from the government. The Kwara State governor, Alhaji Abdulfatah Ahmed, must live up to the oath he swore to by ensuring the security of lives and properties in Offa town in particular, the Kwara South senatorial district and the state in general. “Offa is central to both our economic and social life as a people in this senatorial district. The caucus sympathises with the Olofa, sons and daughters of Offa. May the almighty God heal all wounds inflicted by the satanic event,” the statement which was signed by Alhaji Tajudeen Hussein, the senatorial leader and other APC chieftains from all the six councils in the district, read in part. Similarly, a call has been made on the Inspector General of the Police to promptly investigate the wanton killings by armed bandits in Offa. The Organising Secretary of the Joint Active Citizens of Kwara (JAACK), Joe Mahmud, made the appeal in a statement released in Ilorin on Friday after the robbery attacks in Offa that lasted almost two hours. “The operation was carried out in a commando -like fashion where private citizens were mowed down and security operatives brutally murdered. Confusion became the order of the day. “It is therefore clear that the state government is helpless in this situation and there is the need for the federal government and police high command to step into the matter and secure lives of law abiding citizens of Offa local government area of the state. The only place to turn for help at this critical moment is Abuja to guarantee security of lives and properties of the good citizens of Offa and entire Kwara South Senatorial District,” the group said.      