Today, Sunday, April 22, is exactly one year when Tajudeen Ajide, the incumbent Chairman of Surulere Local Government Area of Lagos State, miraculously survived an assassination attempt on his life. In this exclusive interview, conducted by Taiwo Alimi, Ajide, for the first time since the attack, opens up on how he was attacked, how he survived, and his resolve to continue. Excerpts AprIl 22, 2017 will never depart the memory of current Chairman of Surulere Local Government Area, Hon. Tajudeen Ajide. It was exactly one year ago that he was attacked and left for dead by unknown assailants at his Surulere-Lagos home. The footballer turned politician said it was a miraculous escape from the jaws of death for him. Speaking exclusively with The Nation, the seasoned politician, who has served the local government as vice-chairman before assuming the chairmanship seat said he was ‘dead’ for six days. The fatal assault coming three months to the last local government election in Lagos, he said, was meant to take him out as the leading aspirant He narrated the day’s occurrence at length: “Foremost, I thank God for life and for a second chance because I was dead and God brought me back. I was in my house in Surulere on that day on April 22, 2017, about a year ago, not knowing what was going to happen. Some of my colleagues-politicians were with me as they usually do on weekends to discuss political issues. On that particular day, we overhead some people arguing among themselves and I came outside to settle it among them. In between the settlement, some of them wanted to urinate close to the house and we stopped them. Not long, when I realised that they are just looking for excuse to make trouble, I allowed the matter to go and we all dispersed.” “Not long after that, I was alone in the compound after my friends had left and my younger ones were out on errands. The people working with me were away for the weekend. The gate around the compound is the type that you can see through from outside and at that moment the environment was deserted and quiet. I have a ram that I rear and so I decided to feed it. That was the last thing that I knew. I felt my head busting from an impact from behind. Two unknown people had sneaked in behind me and hit me with something hard and left me dead. The impact was so much that I slumped and became lifeless. Of course, they thought I was dead. It was one of my brothers that had called me some minutes before that he was coming to see me that met my lifeless body on the bare floor.” But for that divine intervention, he said he would have crossed to the great beyond.  “He took me to the hospital and alerted party leaders who rallied round to take me to a safe hospital while still in coma. When I came back to life after six days, I was told that an emergency operation had to be carried out on my head and that medical intervention did save my life.” Even after that, his condition was still critical, hobbling between life and darkness. At this point, unable to contain his emotion, Ajide burst into tears. “I could not remember anything. I lost all feelings and knowledge. I could not talk, lift my hands and legs. I became like a baby and it was after weeks of therapy that I began to learn how to talk, and move parts of my body. We know the number of political assassinations that have taken place in this country. And sometimes when I think about it, I feel sad and it brings tears into my face. I am not at loggerhead with anyone. I did not take anything that is theirs. I did not encroach into their property neither did I take their money or wife. I relate to people with fairness and all I do is to focus on my career and how I can make a difference in the life of my people.” One year after the attack, he still lives with the impression of the attack. He may have regained full capacity of his faculty but has to bear with half measured right arm and leg. “I’m still undergoing therapy and my doctor says I would be fully fit in few months.” Ajide is of the opinion that the incident has not changed his ideology to politics and life, neither has it affected his work in any way. “I am grateful to God that I am alive and because I know God is the only one that crowns kings and leaders, I do not allow that incident to affect me. My political ideology has not changed. I am who I am and if you ask the good people of Surulere, they will tell you that I have done well, even more than chairmen that are hale and hearty. You cannot mention five performing chairmen without mentioning my name. The attack is a propeller for me to achieve even more.” He has followed a blueprint fashioned years before returning to the chairmanship saddle. One that has seen him achieve one road project every month. “We have done many roads. Should we talk about Alhaji Thanni road, Shitta roundabout, Ogunlana lane, Little London street and others, as well as the Customary court that we are reconstructing into a modern and befitting monument? In all, we have done about ten roads, one per month and we are still going to do more. I want to touch every CDA and areas in the local government.” “As political leaders in our community, we are the closest to the people where we live and work and we must do things that will make life comfortable for them. Aside from the great work that Governor Akinwumi  Ambode is doing since he assumed office, we have to take cue from him and complement him. Even with our little resources, we can maximise and do a little and people will see it and say we are trying. With this, we gain their confidence and they can support us again. For example, we are campaigning for our governor for second term, but he has done his own campaign for himself with the quality of work he has been doing in the past three years. He has accomplished many road projects and other things that we cannot imagine within a short period and he’s not relenting. So, as chairmen, we have to complement the good work.” “I want to use this opportunity to thank party leaders, who stood solidly during my trying period. Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, the national leader of the party, reacted instantly and instructed that I be taken to one of the best hospitals in the country. He spent his time and money. I also thank Governor Ambode for his fatherly role and the fact that he did not withhold his financial hand from me during my treatment. It is an honour to have them as my leaders. Many leaders in the community also came to my aid and I thank them. It is however shameful that some people are saying all sorts of things that I drank a charm that had negative effect on me. If that was true, why then did I seek orthodox solution? Why did I go to hospital? “ Ajide is also of the opinion that some things must change in local government system of administration. “The councillors that made life unbearable for me the first time did so in bad faith. They lied to people that I did not give them their dues, yet I have records of all that they got without passing a single bye-law for three years. Their main job is to make bye-laws and I introduced many, yet not one was passed because they want to make governance unbearable for me. They collected salary, got allocation for running cost for doing nothing, and N50, 000 monthly sitting allowance when they only sit to discuss how to sabotage my effort. I was petitioned and was invited to EFCC many times and each time I came back without blemish. Something must give so that councillors would not constitute stumbling blocks to the chairman. In six months, I have done so much to touch the lives of Surulere people and that is because there is an enabling environment.” My prayer is that the proposal that councillors should serve on part-time capacity would sail through so that they can do something and only sit when it is necessary. Some of them just make the chairmanship seat hot for the man at the saddle, and for selfish reasons. What is their job if they cannot make bye-laws? Is it to work against the good work of the chairman? When our fathers were councilors, they did it with pride, but today, it is a different ball game.  They don’t even come to work. They just want money without working. Something must change if we want chairmen to give their best and serve the people to the maximum,” added Ajide. 