Heartland FC of Owerri has faulted the claims by referee Yusuf Garba and his assistants over their report during a rescheduled Nigeria Premier Football league (NPFL) against Plateau United. Heartland FC of Owerri in its Twitter handle, claimed that referee Mr Yusuf Garba tried to change the direction, tempo and atmosphere of the match through his officiating, in an interesting game. The statement further said, the Kano-born referee and his assistants used all means possible, to give the visiting Plateau United team, a favourable result, leading to the attack from the irate Heartland FC supporters. It read” That a delightful game that interested all the fans that loved watching good football was marred by the attitude of the center referee Mr Yusuf Garba from Kano state, the facts remains that Garba marred the game right from the onset, it was obvious that he already had a premeditated motive to favour the away team, which was evidenced in the several questionable calls he made after the second half game which gave room for suspicion”. The statement also faulted Garba for his display of nonchalant attitude towards the Owerri based club, as was seen in his refusal to use his whistle and also caution the visiting team when the club’s goalkeeper was fouled in the last minute of the game instead he allowed play to go on, adding an unwarranted extra 8 minutes after full time. ‘’This was what sincerely affected the interesting game except you think otherwise. At the end of 90 minutes if you watched closely you would have seen the fourth official signaling him for additional time but he intentionally ignored him to allow about 4 minutes before adding 4 minutes extra time even. When the extra four minutes ended, the match commissioner Mr Roland Abu called his attention to end the game as the time was up and following his questionable calls to save the situation but he responded by saying nothing happened. To the surprise of everyone, a throw-in was taken by Plateau United but one of their strikers held Heartland’s goalkeeper Ebele Obi’’, the statement added. The statement concluded that the referee and his officials were saved through the intervention of the police on the ground and finally called on the LMC, the NFF and all football stakeholders to do the needful to save this country’s league from disrepute.