Matriculating students of the Health Information Management of the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba have been urged to remain focused and take advantage of every opportunity that the institution offers to make their studies fruitful. Health Records Officers Registration Board of Nigeria Registrar, Mr Muhammed Ibrahim Mami gave the advice in Lagos. Speaking at the matriculation held at the school’s premises, he urged the students to be serious with their studies. Mami, who spoke on ‘The role of students in promoting professionalism: Health information management perspectives’, said: “I see this profession as a calling. Answering it should, therefore, demand high level skill development through training and commitment to continual learning. This would, therefore, suggest that students of Health Information Management, who aspire to become professionals, should be prepared to submit themselves to continuous excellence in training and proficiency.’’ Earlier, LUTH Chief Medical Director, Prof. Chris Bode, represented by the Principal, School of Health Information Management, Mr O. T. Olofinluyi, said the course is one of the multidisciplinary programmes being run in the hospital. According to him, the course deals with creating, distributing, utilising, maintaining and disposing records and information about patients’ hospitalisation and public health. Health Information Management, he said, is one of the fastest-growing professions in Nigeria. Careers in Health Information Management  encompasses medicine, law, business and Information Technology. “Every healthcare facility needs a Health Information Management department that is prepared to provide appropriate systems and methods using data that are important in patient care, administrative functions, planning for future needs and focusing on quality care. The systems may be paper-based or computerised. Decisions relative to patient care and financial reimbursement depend on the information in the patient record. ‘’Therefore, it is necessary that this information be complete and accurate because clinical data management responsibilities are now paramount to effective healthcare delivery services. In fact, healthcare systems require Health Information Management professionals to be knowledgeable about the needs of the clinical staff,” Olofinluyi added.