Twenty-one thousand displaced people are benefiting from the Water Sanitation and Hygiene ( WASH ) interventions in Guma and Logo Local Government Areas of Benue, an official has said. Mr Ibiyemi Olu-Daniels, the Deputy Director, WASH Emergency Response, Federal Ministry of Water Resources, made the disclosure at a WASH Emergency Working Group Meeting in Abuja on Tuesday. Olu-Daniels said that the interventions, funded by the UN Children’s Fund ( UNICEF ), had been able to scale up hygiene promotion programmes to reduce disease prevalence in the camps. “In IDPs camps in Guma and Logo Local Governments, water facilities are lacking or decrepit, majority of the IDPs have no access to toilet; it is saddening that about 1,000 people share one drop-hole. “This is making open defecation commonly practiced, there is low level of hygiene awareness, Limited WASH sector response is currently provided, but it is not enough,” he said. The deputy director, who described the situation as an emergency, called for more interventions to sustain the growing needs of IDPs. According to him, the humanitarian crisis in Benue is affecting no fewer than 200,000 people, which was further aggravated by the continuous farmers-herdsmen crisis. He said that 12,000 WASH kits had been distributed to IDPs, 10 hand-pump boreholes were rehabilitated and provision of water chlorination to promote access to potable water. Olu-Daniels said that part of the intervention was the sensitisation on sanitation and safe excreta management in the host and IDP communities using the Community-Led Total Sanitation approach. He said that this would reduce the prevalence of diseases and forestall outbreak of waterborne diseases in the camps. Olu-Daniels noted that with support from the state emergency management agency, two camps had been opened for the Cameroonian refugees. The deputy director stressed the need for the provision of water points and sanitation and hygiene kits for them. He added that the WASH Emergency Response Team was working in Yobe, Borno and Bauchi States toward hygiene promotion through the distribution of WASH kits and sanitation activities. Olu-Daniels said that there was need for state rural water supply and sanitation agencies to take ownership of scaling up sanitation and hygiene. He said that we should not wait for an emergency before actions were taken. Olu-Daniels added that with the continued reports of cholera cases in Bauchi, the team would carry out an on-site assessment to know what immediate response to be given. The WASH in Emergency Group is working to see that humanitarian responses, especially in the North-East reach their target population. NAN