Residents of Benin City, the Edo State capital, have received free treatment and counselling at an oral hygiene seminar organised by the state chapter of the Nigeria Dental Association (NDA), in collaboration with the Benin University Dental Students’ Association (BUDSA). JOHN AMHANESI (300-Level Dentistry and Dental Surgery, University of Benin) reports. More than 350 people have benefitted from free dental procedures, screening and counselling organised by the Edo State chapter of the Nigeria Dental Association (NDA) in partnership with the Benin University Dental Students’ Association (BUDSA). The event with the theme: Say Ahh: Think mouth, think health, was held to commemorate the World Oral Health Day. A seminar was held at the Ministry of Health, where the beneficiaries, comprising market women, children and students, were engaged by dental surgeons to educate them in dental and oral health. After the seminar, organisers held minor dental procedures and screening for the participants, counselling them on proper oral hygiene. People with severe dental complications and disorders were referred to the dental unit of the University of Benin Teaching Hospital (UBTH) for further treatment. NDA’s deputy chairman, Dr Ngozi Ebiogwu, said the level of awareness about oral health education in the country was not encouraging, noting that only a few people created time for regular dental check-up against the prescription of practitioners. She said: “The theme was carefully chosen to raise awareness about oral health. Not many people know that several systemic diseases can be contracted through the mouth.” She advocated for preventative oral healthcare programme, saying government must show concern for oral health advancement. With the National Health Insurance Scheme, she said preventative oral hygiene remained a salient factor to support the scheme, because it could only cater for minor dental procedures which may only occur when the level of oral health awareness is high. Dr Jude Okachi, a Consultant Orthodontist, noted that dental health remained one of the key challenges facing healthcare in the country. He said health professionals and dental students are striving to make oral health a mainstream issue in national discussion. He praised dental professionals who kept the debate on the front burner to draw attention to the challenge, urging them to sustain the campaign for good dental health. Experts at the event said only about 30 per cent of Nigerians were well-informed of the right steps to take in preventing and treating oral diseases and disorders. This, they said, is responsible for underutilisation of oral health facilities, late presentation at the clinic, and increase in cost of dental care. They listed resultant dental complications that may arise from ignorance to include facial deformity, orofacial swelling, odontogenic pain, cleft lip and palate, craniofacial malformation and death. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, Madam Josephine Otasowie, one of the beneficiaries, said the seminar had equipped her with knowledge on preventing oral diseases. She promised to raise awareness about dental hygiene in her community to save people from diseases. Osariemen Ize-Iyamu, a Dentistry student, hailed the BUDSA president, Covenant Osewenkhae, for facilitating the partnership with the association and ensuring members learn from healthcare professionals. She said: “I believe a new breed of dental doctors and professionals is being branded to create an endless cycle of positive change and community development.”