Vitamins are small and mighty nutrients and therefore we have to tell their story.  Like in many stories, we start with the Egyptians.  They are an ancient people.  They also left some lasting documentations.  Wikipedia tells us “The ancient Egyptians knew that feeding liver to a person may help with night blindness, an illness now known to be caused by a vitamin A deficiency” https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vitamin. Then we talk about the Europeans.  “In 1747, the Scottish surgeon James Lind discovered that citrus foods helped prevent scurvy” (Wikipedia).  During long ocean travels, sailors of the Renaissance developed scurvy which was resulting in their deaths. Lind published his Treatise on the Scurvy, in 1753.    Lind’s prescription of citrus fruits (lime) was salvific for many and was adopted by the British Royal Navy hence a sailor eating limes became known as a “limey”. Then we talk about the first scientific discoveries. Scientific evidence for vitamins may be as far back as the late 18th and early 19th centuries.  Animals were being deprived of foods in order to identify remedies of deficiency states.  Fish oil was used to cure rickets in rats.  The useful fat-soluble nutrient was called “antirachitic A”, which was really the now known Vitamin D.   In 1881, Russian surgeon Nikolai Lunin at the University of Tartu (in Estonia) fed mice with  separated components of milk – proteins, fats, carbohydrates, and salts – and found that only the mice given whole milk survived.  The various components alone were not sufficient for life. His conclusion that natural foods contained small quantities of unknown substances that are essential to life was rejected by his advisor, Gustav von Bunge, even after other students reproduced his results. Then we talk about the Asians. Beri beri was an endemic disease amongst East Asians who ate polished white rice as their staple food.  A medical doctor, of the Japanese Navy, Takaki Kanehiro, in 1884 observed that beri beri was endemic amongst low ranking sailors who ate mainly such rice but not amongst high ranking offices who consumed a richer diet. He and the Navy went on to conduct an experiment that in today’s science would not get ethical approval.  They used the crews of two battle ships and fed one with only white rice and the other with a diet of meat, fish, barley, rice, and beans. They recorded 161 members of the white rice group developed beri beri with 25 resulting deaths. The better fed group had 14 cases of beriberi and no deaths. Takaki and the Japanese Navy thought sufficient amounts of protein in the diet could prevent beri beri. The real experiment came in 1897 when Christiaan Eijkman, a Dutch physician and professor of physiology discovered that chicken fed unpolished rice did not develop beriberi while chicken fed with polished rice developed beri beri which led to the discovery of antineuritic vitamin (thiamine). In 1898, Sir Frederick Hopkins, an English biochemist,  postulated that some foods contained “accessory factors” — in addition to proteins, carbohydrates, fats etc. — that are necessary for the functions of the human body. Hopkins and Eijkman were awarded the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine in 1929 for their discovery of vitamins, even though Kazimierz Funk (in English Casimir Funk), a Polish biochemist, is widely credited with discovering vitamins. Funk read an article by Christiaan Eijkman describing how people who ate brown rice were less vulnerable to beri-beri than those who ate polished white rice.  Funk wanted to find the substance in brown rice that was responsible for prevention of beri beri.  He isolated a chemical amine and called it “vitamine” and described it as “anti-beri-beri-factor”. His compound later became known as vitamin B3 (niacin), though Funk thought that it was thiamine (vitamin B1). In 1912 he wrote an article for the Journal of State Medicine, proposing the existence of at least four vitamins: one preventing beriberi (“antiberiberi”); one preventing scurvy (“antiscorbutic”); one preventing pellagra (“antipellagric”); and one preventing rickets (“antirachitic”).  Funk then published a book, The Vitamines, in 1912. Then we talk about a sad twist.   Umetaro Suzuki, a Japanese scientist had in 1910 extracted a water-soluble complex of micronutrients from rice bran, the first vitamins to be scientifically isolated, and had named it “aberic acid” (thiamine), because it was preventing beri beri.  Suzuki presented his discovery before the Tokyo Chemical Society in 1910, but as most of the medical community thought beriberi was the result of a microbial infection his findings were ignored. The following year his   Japanese article was published in German but   “…the translation failed to state that it was a newly discovered nutrient, a claim made in the original Japanese article, and hence his discovery failed to gain publicity” (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vitamin). In 1912, Funk isolated the same complex of nutrients calling it vitamine. Scientists discovering vitamins continued to get the Nobel Prize.  In 1937, Paul Karrer and Norman Haworth  for their investigations on carotenoids, flavins and vitamins A and B2, received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. In 1937, Szent-Györgyi, a Hungarian biochemist was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for his discovery of Vitamin C.  In 1943, Edward Adelbert Doisy (American Biochemist) and Henrik Dam (Danish biochemist and physiologist) were awarded the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their discovery of vitamin K and its chemical structure. In 1967, George Wald (American Biologist) (along with Ragnar Granit (Swedish neirophysiologist) and Haldan Keffer Hartline (American physiologist)) was awarded the Nobel Prize for his discovery that vitamin A could participate directly in a physiological process. (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vitamin). Then we talk about the business men.  In the mid-1930s, the first commercial yeast-extract vitamin B complex and semi-synthetic vitamin C supplement tablets were sold. In the 21 century, vitamins are widely available as inexpensive over the counter medications, food supplements, and food additives and are a part of big business. The scientific study of vitamins is called vitaminology.  Dr. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis. For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635