The stage is set for the May 8 governorship primary of the Ekiti State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Three aspirants are expected to compete for the ticket. ODUNAYO OGUNMOLA examines the contenders and their chances at the shadow poll. The state is set for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) primary in Ekiti State. The exercisae will hold on May 8. The governorship poll will hold on July 14. The number of contenders has been narrowed down to three, following the defection of some aspirants from the party. They defected to protest t Governor Ayo Fayose’s adoption of his deputy, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, as his preferred candidate. Before the September 6, 2017 adoption of Olusola by Fayose and his caucus in the Ekiti PDP, the party had seven aspirants. They were three former deputy governors, Chief Adebisi Omoyeni, Chief Abiodun Aluko and Dr. Sikiru Lawal; former Minister of State for Works Prince Dayo Adeyeye; former High Commissioner to Canada Ambassador Dare Bejide; Senate Deputy Minority Whip Abiodun Olujimi and former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Owoseni Ajayi. The ‘adoption crisis’ forced Aluko, Omoyeni, Bejide and Lawal out of the party. Aluko defected to the Mega Party of Nigeria (MPN). Omoyeni and Bejide moved to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) while Lawal joined the Labour Party (LP). Adeyeye, Olujimi and Ajayi stayed in the party.  But, Ajayi did not obtain the Nomination and Expression of Interest Forms. The implication is that the battle for the PDP ticket is now a straight fight between Adeyeye, Olujimi and Olusola, who had been screened to contest in the primary. The three gladiators are people of impeccable pedigrees. But, as they have their strengths, they also have some weaknesses. Adeyeye: Prince Clement Adedayo Adeyeye, the scion of the late Arinjale of Ise-Ekiti, Oba Adeyeye Agunsoye, has a rich political background, which dated back to the era of the Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN) in the Second Republic. He started politics as a student in the University of Ibadan where he acquired bachelor’s and master’s degrees in Political Science before going to the University of Lagos to study Law. He was later called to the Bar. After many years of practice as a journalist and lawyer, Adeyeye, a disciple of the late sage, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, became National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere, the pan-Yoruba socio-political group. Adeyeye was a governorship aspirant in the Action Congress (AC) in  the 2007 governorship poll before he moved to the PDP, citing irregularities in the primary. He was appointed by former Governor Segun Oni as the Chairman of the State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) where he won the best SUBEB boss in the Southwest. Other  positions held by Adeyeye included Minister of State for Works under former President Goodluck Jonathan and PDP Caretaker Committee National Publicity Secretary. Adeyeye is a grassroots politician whose structure, the  Prince Adedayo Adeyeye Movement (PAAM), is formidable. He sought for the PDP governorship ticket in the 2014 election.  Adeyeye is popular among PDP members and the crowd that attended his declaration attested to his status. But, Adeyeye has a mountain to climb to clinch the PDP ticket because he does not enjoy the support of Fayose, which is key in the contest. Olujimi: Senator Christine Abiodun Olujimi has a media background. He was a broadcaster with the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) for many years before he entered politics. After leaving her media job, she has invested in some key sectors, including merchandise, property and hospitality. Olujimi’s political journey started with the defunct All Peoples Party (APP), where she served as the National Publicity Secretary between 2000 and 2003 before she defected to the PDP. She was elected into the House of Representatives in a by-election in 2003, following the assassination of his predecessor, Mr. Abiodun Talabi, along Abuja-Lokoja Road. Olujimi did not complete her tenure in the House of Representatives. She was appointed by Fayose as  deputy governor following  Omoyeni’s resignation. Omoyeni left the position  to resume as  Group Managing Director of Wema Bank Plc. Olujimi was impeached along Fayose by the House of Assembly on October 16, 2006 over alleged gross misconduct. She was locked in power struggle with the former Speaker, the late Chief Friday Aderemi, and Fayose, who was in hiding. Later, former President Olusegun Obasanjo declared a state of emergency and appointed Brig.-Gen. Adetunji Idowu Olurin (rtd) as Sole Administrator to end the confusion. Olujimi served as Commissioner for Works during the Segun Oni administration. She was appointed Member, Governing Council, University of Ilorin and Member of the Nigerian Communication Commission (NCC). She was elected senator on March 28, 2015 during the National Assembly elections to represent Ekiti South District. Olujimi is the Senate Deputy Minority Whip. The senator has experience as a party officer, commissioner, deputy governor and federal legislator.  She has a deep pocket to prosecute her governorship campaign. She has executed many projects and empowered people in her constituency, which is a plus for her ambition. But, Olujimi is believed to have declared her ambition very late. Many party members had committed themselves to other aspirants. Fayose is  working against Olujimi’s ambition with money, men, resources and connection. The list of delegates to vote at the primary is believed to have been skewed in favour of Olusola. Olusola Prof. Kolapo Olubunmi Olusola got into politics by accident. His father, Pa Olusola Eleka, was penciled down as the running mate to Fayose in the run-up to the 2014 governorship poll. But, fate decided otherwise. Fayose was on a visit to Pa Eleka when the octogenarian’s phone rang and the old man said: “how are you doctor?” At the end of the conversation, Fayose asked: “Who is that doctor?” The man replied that he was discussing with his son, who is a lecturer at the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife. He pleaded with Fayose to make him the deputy governorship candidate instead of him, a request that was graciously granted. Olusola was sworn in as deputy governor on October 16, 2014. The governor declared publicly that he (Olusola) should stay away from politics as the two of them would leave the Government House together at the end of their tenure on October 15, 2014. The order of his principal made Olusola to stay away from politicking as he faced governance, policy formulation and execution. Olusola worked tirelessly in the education sector and he was credited with the success recorded in the National Examinations Council (NECO) School Certificate examination. In the examinations, Ekiti State came top in 2016 and 2017. Fayose who had been looking for a successor for about two years stunned the people of the state when he anointed Olusola as the man to take over from him in September 2017, barely a month after he became a Professor of Building Technology. Following his adoption, Olusola is in a vantage position to succed his boss. Fayose is ready to deploy his financial, material and political powers to his advantage. Except an upset happens, majority of the delegates are expected to vote for him at the primary because they are nominees of Fayose. The majority delegates are local government councilors, chairmen, House of Assembly members, commissioners, special advisers, National Assembly members, and party executives at ward, local government and state levels. But, Olusola is still regarded as a neophyte in politics, who is yet to learn the ropes. His cause is not also helped by many aggrieved party men who did not defect, but are are ready to subvert him during the poll. Even, if he wins, the prospect of managing a divided house looks daunting for him.