It was an emotional moment for Victor Kalu, a 100-Level History and Strategic Studies student of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), after he was presented with a four-year scholarship. Victor, a visually-impaired student also living with albinism, was presented the scholarship by Onome Akinlolu Majaro (OAM) Foundation. Victor is the fourth child of a family of six and the third albino in the family. Having lost his mother years ago, Victor and his siblings are being raised by their father – a commercial driver. His desire to be educated and rise above poverty made him sit for several examinations until he was admitted into UNILAG. Reliving how he suffered vision impairment, Victor, who hails from Abia State, said: “When my mother died, survival became necessary. We are six in number and my father is a Danfo driver. So, escaping hardship became a goal. I have a desire to be a media practitioner. I was not born blind; I lost my sight about 20 years ago in a domestic accident. I was mistakenly hit on my left eye during a fight among some people. Due to wrong medications, I lost the second eye.” On how the four-year scholarship will impact his life, Victor said the support would help him realise his dream of becoming a media practitioner. “The scholarship will improve my approach to academic psychologically and bring out the best in me. Before, I was living in fear, because everything is expensive on the campus. Because of my condition, I have to spend more to get things done. The way we study is different and materials for the visually-impaired students are expensive. With the scholarship, I have hope.” Explaining how the foundation found out about Victor’s challenge, OAM Foundation’s co-founder Mrs Onome Okagbare Majaro said a member of the non-governmental organisation, Mrs Mary Orjiako, drew attention to the student’s plight. Mrs Majaro said: “Our aim is to give support to people living with albinism. The foundation decided to take it up. We have drawn up the agreement, and also done the signing. The foundation is aimed to put an end to the stigmatisation and misconception about persons living with albinism and improve their wellbeing. “In line with this objective, we are supporting Victor to realise his life dream. We have been supporting people living with albinism academically but this is the first time we are doing for an undergraduate. We plan to offer more scholarship in future and we are open to partnership to enable us do more in empowering more albinos. “We have no money, but only the zeal. We want people to contribute and help in keeping Victor and others in school by donating to this cause. Stigmatisation of people living with albinism must stope. The condition is not a disease but only a genetic disorder,” she added.