A new weekly magazine family TV show, ONGAcious, that is aimed at promoting Nigeria’s culture, tourism and healthy living, has started showing on selected television channels across the country. ONGAcious is sponsored by Onga, a brand from the stable of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, which also manufactures Cowbell Milk, Loya Milk, Top Tea and other quality products. The educative programme, which premiered on Saturday, April 7, 2018, airs every weekend on select TV stations in Nigeria including: TVC Lagos, African Magic Family (DSTv and GOtv), OSRC TV Akure, STV Jos, ABS Awka, NTA Kano, NTA Ilorin, NTA Kaduna, NTA Aba, NTA Port Harcourt, NTA Minna, Rima TV Sokoto and Nigbati Tv (StarTimes channel 137), with more channels expected to be added to the list. Speaking recently at a media interactive session in Lagos, the Marketing Manager, Promasidor Nigeria, Mr. Abiodun Ayodeji, said the company has chosen to sponsor ONGAcious because its thrust aligns with the brand essence of Onga, which revolves on trust, family, responsibility and caring. Ayodeji said that the show has a strong appeal to families and would offer Nigerian families a rare opportunity to jointly watch an educative, informative and entertaining programme for six months. According to him, the show would expose the audience to the country’s rich cultural diversity and tourist attractions. He added that the series would help to preserve Nigeria’s cultural heritage as it would reconnect viewers with their ancestral roots. He said: “We have a very rich culture, which many people do not appreciate. The show is saying, ‘let us talk about Nigeria; let us celebrate our culture; let us talk about our local delicacies and their health benefits’. This is the only way the younger generation can appreciate the country’s culture. “Each episode exposes viewers to the unique history, traditions and culture of a specific city or town. Apart from the documentary, an individual who is grounded in the culture of the place takes the audience through its history in an engaging manner. The show also shows the audience the array of local foods they can prepare and highlights the health benefits of such delicacies.” The Brand Manager (Onga), Sophiat Bello, added that the TV stations were selected from different parts of the country to reflect the national appeal of the Onga brand. ONGAcious, according to her, is a pan-Nigerian programme both young and old would find valuable. Brand Onga was introduced into the Nigerian market in 2004, pioneering the powder segment of the seasoning market. 10 years later, in 2014, the brand extended its offering into the cube sub-category. Onga powder is available in Stew, Classic, Chicken and Ginger, Onion and Garlic variants while Onga cubes is available in Classic and Chicken variants.