 The Police in Ebonyi state have arraigned a top local government boss in the state, Chukwuma Igwe for allegedly demolishing a building and fence belonging to a 94 year old man, Pa Omabe Obini worth N15million. Mr Igwe is the Coordinator of Ezeukwa Development Centre,  Onicha local government area of the state. Development Centres are the fourth tier of government created by the Ebonyi state House of Assembly during the Sam Egwu administration in the state to step down governance to the remotest areas of the state. Each local government has at least three DCs. A Coordinator is in charge of the DC and work with the local government Chairman to govern his or her locality. They are appointed by the Governor and ratified by the House of Assembly for about three years tenure which can be renewed. Igwe, 49, was arraigned alongside other five suspects; Ejiuwaka Igwe, Okoronkwo Nwinyinya, Stanley Ejiofor, Chinedu Igwe and Joel Okorie on four counts charge. According to court records, the suspects allegedly carried out the demolition of Omabe’s building on 30th March 2018 and thereby committed an offence punishable under section 451 of the Criminal Code Cap 33 vol. 1 Laws of Ebonyi state, 2009. The demolition of Pa Omabe’s building  took place at Uwani Anike village in the area was allegedly carried out by nine suspected thugs alleggedlly under the supervision of the Coordinator. But Alm the avcussed persosns including Mr Igwe pleaded not guilty to the charges. They were alao granted bail by the Court even as the matter was adjourned to 3rd May, 2018 for hearing. Omabe had last week narated to journalists how Mr Igwe led suspected thugs to invaded his compound with axe, digger and cutlass  and chased away members of his family before embarking on the demolition of his building and a section of his perimeter fencing. He also paraded a 30 minutes video clip to journalists to prove his allegations. He further allegged that this was the second time the coordinator was sponsoring such attack against his property in the village. Pa Omabe who said he has reported the matter to the police, appealed to the state government and human right activists to intervene into the matter. He lamented that his health condition has worsened following the demolition. He said there was no basis for the action considering that he had no land dispute between members of the community or Igwe. In a reaction, Igwe who said he was the Chairman of Anike General Assembly said what was demolished was Pa Obini’s perimeter fencing which constiteued boundary between him and Umu Anike. He alleged that the decision to demolish the building was taken by the Anike General Assembly following Pa Obini’s refusal to appear before it for violating the resolution on the disputed boundary. The Police had upon reception of the complaint commenced investigation which culminated to the arrest of Mr Igwe and his subsequent arraignment today.