There are conscious efforts to create a leadership rebirth in Ogbia Local Government Area of Bayelsa State. Former President Goodluck Jonathan hails from Ogbia, an oil-rich council which has remained poor and underdeveloped. The council has suffered from prolonged leadership defects. Most of the known Ogbia leaders saw the council as their conquered territory. They lord it over their people and derived pleasure in keeping the masses in perpetual penury. Therefore, while the masses remained poor and hungry, the leaders blossomed. They derive joy in their personal estates. Besides keeping the people in destitution, they ensured that the people are also denied political awareness. But there is an effort for a paradigm shift. Many Ogbia citizens are seeking ways to dispense with the old order. Political awareness is massively being created in the council and Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the Commissioner for Information and Orientation, is leading the campaign. As part of his efforts to politically reposition the council, Iworiso-Markson embarked on Operation Get Your Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC). As a result of his logistics support, officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) relocated to the council during the continuous voter registration exercise to register eligible voters. To ascertain the progress of the registration, the commissioner recently visited his community in Opume. He was impressed by the turnout of people for the exercise. Youths and women turned out en masse to receive their proud son. They thanked him for all his people-oriented initiatives in the council. They described him as the light at the end of the tunnel. Iworiso-Markson said the INEC officials were moving round various communities and wards to mobilise people for the exercise. He said they left Otuoke for his communities to enable them to go around and present people the opportunity to register. The commissioner said he decided to drive the process because it was in line with Governor Seriake Dickson’s principles of political inclusion. He said the main objective was to mobilise the people and give them the opportunities to support the tendencies of Dickson in raising the new leadership for the state. He said: “This is the Restoration Government led by Governor Seriake Dickson. We want to see the sustenance of this government’s legacy. We want to be part of those that will bring in the new government not just by saying so. “We want to ensure we do that through our actions. We are determined to ensure that the tendencies that the incumbent governor supports for the next line of leadership are the tendencies that will emerge at the end of the day. “We are not going to do that by violence, snatching ballot boxes. But we will do that by mobilising our people and the records of the governor will speak for him. “People have seen these records and they want to see a continuation of that legacy. That is why we are mobilising our people to get their PVCs and cast their votes when it is most needed.” Besides, Iworiso-Markson argued that Ogbia had fallen in the pecking order of number of voters in the state. He also said Ogbia used to be number two in the state but fell to number five. According to him, it was time Ogbia regained its former position or even surpass it.