The chairman of the Kano state chapter of Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Malam Abbas Ibrahim on Wednesday declared that his administration has concluded plans to set up a committee to flush out quack journalists in the state. Abbas who made the statement while inaugurating the newly-elected executive members of the state-owned Triumph newspapers Chapel, warned fake journalists operating in the state to desist dubious practices or face the wrath of the law. According to him, machinery has been set in motion to flush out quack journalists in the state, so as to ensure professionalism and checkmate excesses of quacks who hide under the garb of the profession to defraud innocent citizens. Also speaking, the Managing Director and Editor-In-Chief of Triumph Newspapers, Lawal Sabo, urged staff of the newspaper outfit to remain more committed and rededicate themselves to duty to ensure proper revival of the once moribund newspaper company. Sabo recalled that the immediate-past administration in the state had closed down the company, leaving most workers stranded and redundant, “but we are happy today that we are back to the newsstand. “We can only remain grateful to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje for ensuring that the scattered bones of Triumph rose again; and we have a duty to stand up on our fit and make him proud by choosing to succeed than to fail.” According to him, “as the oldest state-owned newspaper company in Nigeria, Triumph has pride itself high in terms of professionalism and adherence to the code and ethics of journalism.” He promised to ensure the welfare and interest of members and staff of the newspaper company and urge them to always use dialogue to press home their demands, adding that, “unionism is all about partnership for progress and not confrontation.” In his acceptance speech, Chairman of Triumph Chapel, Malam Usman Gwadabe called on the state to facilitate the rehabilitation of the permanent site of the company to enable management and staff discharge their duties in conducive atmosphere. He, however, hailed the state Commissioner of Information, Malam Muhammad Garba who he said was behind the struggle for the revival of the company.