President of the Senate; Dr. Bukola Saraki was Wednesday allowed to see embattled Senator Dino Melaye who was admitted to the National Hospital, Abuja on Tuesday. Saraki who stormed the hospital with an entourage of about 40 senators, was allowed to go into the trauma centre where Melaye was being given medical attention. Only eight of the about 40 senators were allowed to accompany Saraki to the ward, while others were made to wait in the hospital’s conference hall. The President of the Senate, who came out of the ward after spending about 20 minutes with Melaye, said the embattled lawmaker was in stable condition but that he still required medical attention. Saraki however said the hand cuffs in which Melaye was taken to the hospital by the police Tuesday night had been taken off. Melaye was handcuffed and taken away on stretcher from Zankli Hospital, Abuja to the National Hospital on Tuesday night. He had gone to the private hospital to get treatment after an ordeal with the police team that attempted to take him from Abuja to a court in Lokoja, the Kogi State capital for alleged criminal charges. The police has charged the lawmaker with gun running and monetary inducement linking him to some political thugs who the police said had confessed to having been sponsored by the Kogi West senator. The Senate had, at the plenary session earlier in the day, bemoaned the harsh treatment meted out to Melaye by the police. The lawmakers were forced to adjourned plenary to enable them visit the embattled senator in hospital. The first batch of four senators that went to visit Melaye earlier in the day was denied access to the lawmakers and had to report back to the Senate leadership. Senator Melaye has been having a running battle with the governor of his home state, Yahaya Bello over political differences. Melaye had raised the alarm a few weeks ago to draw public attention to the importation of weapons and military hardware into the country by Governor Bello. The embattled senator had pointed out that there was no End User Certificate from the office of the National Security Adviser to certify the imported security items. A few days after the senator had raised the alarm, marauders stormed some communities in Kogi East, killing, maiming innocent villagers and setting houses ablaze. 