A presidential aspirant in the 2019 general elections, Adamu Garba II, has confirmed he will be seeking the ticket of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) for the contest. According to youthful Garba 11, founder/CEO, IPI Solutions Nigeria Limited, a leading cloud computing company based in Lagos, his decision to contest on the platform of the ruling party is because of the need for Nigeria to preserve its democratic institutions. At a press conference in Lagos yesterday, the young presidential aspirant also revealed that he has been a card- carrying member of the party for a while now. Garba said it is wrong to say the entire current political parties’ structure in Nigeria is bad. “I strongly believe the APC is that party with the right history and structures needed for me to actualise my ambition, which is to be president and nothing less. “As democrats willing not just to participate in politics and get appointments but reading to contest elections and win to be able to fix the many problems of this country, we must not say because the guys in APC and PDP have stolen our money, they did this then we need to go to another party. “No, if we do that, we are not doing the right thing for the country’s history. We need to stay within and change the rot from within,” he explained. He added though he shares the agitation of youths to be more involved in politics, his aspiration is beyond the clamor for young people to take over the leadership of the country. “My own candidacy for the presidency is not just on the premise of becoming the President for the young people. It is not just about youthful ideas. It is more about being capable to fix Nigeria because I have a superior manifesto. “And I believe very strongly that if APC adopts our own, it is going to transform the entire country, especially under my leadership. And that is why this aspiration is not just for the young but for everybody. “I don’t want to confront our current leaders within and outside my party. And I am not confronting our elders. I believe there are serious responsible people among them. “But it is time for them to take the back seat as advisers while we take charge of the country. I am in APC and I want the presidential ticket,” he said.