•15,000 benefit from HYPREP’s outreach As part of activities to mark the implementation of the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) Report on Ogoni land, the Federal Government, through, the Hydro-Carbon Pollution and Remediation Programme (HYPREP), has embarked on health care delivery exercise in the four local government areas of Ogoni. The four local government areas are Khana, Gokana, Tai and Eleme. No fewer than 15,000 people are expected to benefit from the yet-to-be concluded exercise which began barely there weeks ago. Communities visited are Taaba, Bori, Nonwa and Kpite while the ongoing Ogali exercise is for all surgery cases identified during the two-week outpatient exercise. The programme is the second phase of the free medical outreach for the people. The first phase was held towards the end of last year during which over 6,000 people were said to have been treated and 65 surgery cases conducted. Provision of health care and potable water is some of the critical emergency measures recommended in the UNEP Report as part of the critical programmes towards the clean-up exercise. However, the essence of the health care programme, according to the Technical Assistant to the Minister of State for Environment, Dr.  Ishiyaku Molid, is to generate data to design robust health care programme for the people of the oil-rich areas of Ogoni in particular and the Niger Delta in general. Molid reiterated the commitment of the Federal Government in cleaning up Ogoni land, assuring that it would be evident before the end of the third quarter of this year. “For now, we are in the process of collecting data from patients that live in Ogoni land, but the analysis is still ongoing. We can now see directly what the impact of hydrocarbon has done in the health of residents of the polluted Ogoni land.  But be that as it may, the proper clean-up is being accelerated and before the third quarter of this year, there will be tangible results. “The essence of the health care exercise is also to gather reliable information on the health of the people of the area, with the view of designing a robust health care programme for the people of Ogoni land.” he said. After going round the various departments, Molid said:  “From the first phase of the medical outreach and the report that was generated by HYPREP indicating that over 6,000 people were treated and over 65 surgeries conducted, impressed the Minister and the Vice-President who is the chairman of the Committee on Niger Delta and who approves the second phase of the programme so as to cover more people. This is because access to health care is one of the ancillary supports for the overall cleaning of Ogoni land. “What I see in this venue is a lot of enthusiasm by all the health personnel in the field as well as the patients who have come out en masse to take advantage of the exercise.” The programme attracted huge crowd.  Beneficiaries were treated and they did not hide their feelings about the exercise. Lady Charity Melele Wibiabubari appreciated the free medical treatment, but the need to clean up the environment for fresh breathe should not be compromised;  at least not with the prevalent cases of black soot in the area. “I’m happy to have benefited from this exercise. I came here for routine check-up and noticed that the exercise was on. I have to take the advantage to do my body checks and get drugs free. “However, HYPREP and the Federal Government should hasten the clean-up exercise. Things are getting worse here every passing day.  The pollution is spreading and now black soot is taking its toll on the lands. We need the clean-up now than ever before,” she insisted. Another beneficiary, Johnson Zua Kimbe said: “I have been feeling very sick but with the help of the drugs, I strongly believe that I will be well. “That the Federal Government organised the free medical programme indicates that it will certainly clean up oil-impacted sites in Ogoni land as it has promised.” Meanwhile, many of the beneficiaries called on the Federal Government to provide potable water for the people of Ogoni as part of the directives by the UNEP Report. They complained about lack of drinking water, describing it as one of the most essential needs of the communities. “Our rivers have been destroyed by oil, we do not have drinking water here. We are calling on the Federal Government to provide us with potable water. “We have been taken from one process to the other to  ensure we are properly checked and right drugs given to us,  but if at the end of the day,  we use the same polluted water to take the drugs, then the aim is defeated,  and the drugs will not have the expected effects on our health.  Potable water is of paramount importance to us in Ogoni land.  Our rivers have been completely destroyed by oil, we need clean water to be alive,” the people said. In a chat with reporters , head of the medical team, Dr  Vetty Agala and President-elect Medical Women’s Association of Nigeria,  Rivers State branch said:  “There are over 140 medical personnel participating in the outreach. There are 35 doctors, 30 nurses, 15 pharmacists, 25 laboratory scientists and 30 data collectors. “The last group is important to us because it is what will help HYPREP to be accurate in carrying out their health impact assessment, which is the main reason for the exercise. On the cases prevalent in the area she said: “We are seeing cases rangingfrom malaria, hypertension, diabetes, a lot of arthritis and a lot of HIV here,  but the good thing is that some of them know their status and have been on their medication,  while some others did not know. So, we did the needful by way of counselling them and later refer them to the appropriate hospital where they can be placed on medical care to manage their new health status.” Continuing, Dr. Agala said:  “We have some eye conditions mostly glaucoma, cataract and refractive errors. Eye glasses were invented to the last category of patients to help them manage the situation if not corrected.  Those whose cataracts are complicated were referred for surgery. Also a lot of patients visited the dental department for various dental cares ranging from washing and scraping, infilling and extraction, among others.” For the HYPREP Coordinator,  Dr.  Marvin Dekil, the enormous crowd witnessed in each of the programme venues shows the commitment of the Federal Government and the Minister of Environment towards ensuring that the clean-up exercise was done well. “There is no doubt about the sincerity of the government and the principle actors in the clean-up process. We are re-affirming the commitment of the Federal Government that the process is real and the process for remediation is on. This is only an aspect of the implementation of the health care. “The clean-up proper will take off  soon,  and we assure that it will be a transparent process; the advertisement for competent contractors is on. We are calling on local, national and international companies to come forward and take advantage of the opportunity the exercise is providing to showcase the capability in handling pollution on environment.