To ensure that it meets the desires of its esteemed consumers LG came up with the advanced ALL NEW GENCOOL Air conditioner with Dual Inverter technology, this is in its determination to offer Nigerians a cutting edge technology especially consumers seeking energy efficient products. The air conditioner is renowned for its ability to save as much as 70% on electricity consumption with 40% faster cooling, thereby reducing bills. The ALL NEW GENCOOL Air Conditioner features a DUAL inverter compressor with 10 Year Warranty that helps users enjoy benefits of LG air conditioner for a longer period of time According to a consumer Mr. John Okoro, who shared his experience at a Media Event last week at the LG brand office, Ogba Lagos, “the ALL NEW GEN COOL AC works seamlessly with my 0.7 KVA Generator (Popularly referred to as “I pass my neighbor”) which is a popular source of power among Nigerian populace. This is a clear departure from the conventional ACs. With this unique feature, LG has demonstrated clearly that it possess the ability to meet the needs of consumers who wants to use AC with small capacity generators without necessarily worrying about the start-up electric power for optimum performance in Nigeria anymore.” However, while addressing newsmen, Mr. Taeick Son, Managing Director LG Electronics West Africa Operations said “there is no doubt the beauty and functionality of the AC would go a long way to encourage more and stronger ties among family members who wish to spend quality time with their family members in a relaxed and cool atmosphere.” An excited consumer Mrs. Nkeiruka Chima who also volunteered to share her personal experience stated that “durability is just as important as strong performance hence my excitement when I heard the AC comes backed by 10-year warranty on the inverter compressor. Let me add here that I have used different air conditioner units from some other brands; I can say without mincing words that the innovations from LG Electronics is second to none. “