An elder statesman and a close associate of the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, Chief Ayo Adebanjo, is a dogged fighter. The Afenifere chieftain is one of the voices in the Southwest. He is usually forthright when it comes to national issues. In this interview with RAYMOND MORDI and MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, Adebanjo, who is celebrating his 90th birthday  this week, speaks on the All Progressives Congress (APC) panel’s report on restructuring, next year’s general elections and the import of the herdsmen’s attacks in various parts of the country. How did you get into politics? I got into politics right from school. I started reading newspapers when I was in primary school and I used to buy copies of the West African Pilot newspaper. This habit of reading newspaper inspired the spirit of nationalism in me. We had a vendor that supplied us early in the morning before going to school. By the time I get to school, my class teacher would have got his own copies of about 10 newspapers. He would say, Adebanjo, have you got your paper? I would open by bag and bring out my copy. That was where I cut my teeth in politics. I read some of the best columnists of those days, including Nnamdi Azikiwe and Magnus Williams. Those columnists were comparable to contemporary ones that make good analysis. Going back to your question, when I was in secondary school, I was very critical of my principal. People were surprised that I got the best testimonial from the school during my time. The principal stated in the testimonial that I am broad-minded, have a strong character and good in moral and literary pursuits. When I was working, I became entrenched in political issues. In fact, I always felt strongly about political issues, particularly federalism, which was the parting way between me and Azikiwe. Zik had postulated a unitary Nigeria, while I stood for federalism, would allow for development of segments of the country. You are still politically active at 90. When are you going to retire? It is not possible for me to retire from politics. That was the same question we asked Chief Awolowo and he said ‘you don’t retire from politics’. Today, even though Awolowo is no more, people are still keeping his thoughts alive and making reference to what he said at one time or the other. People are still comporting themselves with all that he stood for in character and every other thing. People are still talking about Awolowo’s programme and his landmark activities. At 90, I should not be seen talking politics, if my followers were doing what we expected them to do. I should not be talking politics, if they had followed the way we were doing things and if they had aligned themselves to the Awoist fold. I should be feeling relaxed and saying I have those who will carry on from where we stopped. But, you find lots of those who claim to be supporters Awo not doing what he stood for. You find them reneging from their initial principle when they find themselves in government. You have been involved in Nigeria politics since inception. Where did the country get it wrong? The military took over and converted the federal constitution to a unitary constitution. That was the time we deviated and we must go back to it. I have said it before that until the country is restructured and we go back to federalism, we will not get it right. We must restructure and put in place true federal constitution; that was the agreement reached by our founding fathers: the Awolowos, the Azikiwes and the Sadaunas and sanctioned by the colonialists in London in 1954 and implemented in 1960. Those who don’t understand restructuring should go and read the agreement and even those who benefited from the agreement and are in office and not obeying the agreement. What do you make of the APC Panel Report on Restructuring? If they are serious about it, let them go ahead and implement it now. I don’t want to discuss it. The recommendations may not be perfect, but it could spearhead what we want. Similarly, when we went to the 2014 National Conference, some of our people were arguing that it is not sovereign and that it would not serve our purpose. But we told them, look, we are looking for 10, they give us seven and you are agitating for the remaining three. Why don’t you find solutions to the challenges facing the country with the opportunity you have on your hands? I’m not one of those who say that the 2014 National Conference was perfect, but we utilized it to come up with recommendations to solve the country’s problems. Our founding fathers have already given us the template. If they want to amend it, they can go ahead; it is amenable to improvements. There is nothing like true federalism. It is a Nigerian coinage, because the concept has been corrupted by the military. That is why people are now saying we want true federalism. We now have a unitary form of government, but have labeled it federalism. That is why Chief Rotimi Williams said our constitution is a fraudulent imposition. ‘We refer to our country as the Federal Republic of Nigeria, are we federal?’ he once asked. In your view, what are the issues that will shape next year’s general elections? Until we settle the basis on which we are going to live together, we would not get anywhere. All the issues being raised, such as the Biafra agitation, marginalisation and even corruption are all related to the fact that we are running a unitary system of government. The high incidence of corruption in the country is a function of the fact that the Federal Government has too much money to spend, compared to the states. Under federalism, that should not be the case, because the state controls the local governments and has its police. We should start from all the things that are causing confusion, such as the unwieldy structure of our federation. But by the time you make the centre less attractive, nobody will be bother who becomes the president. When we were in the Western region, all the landmark projects in the capital, Ibadan, were carried out by Chief Awolowo with proceeds from cocoa. We had free education, good roads, medical facilities and it was a very clean region. We are not a nation; the way out is to restructure the country and put in place a constitution under which we are coming together. All the countries that have various nationalities, religion and culture usually have a federal system of government. America, Canada, Australia, India, New Zealand, Soviet Union and all that look inward to find solutions to their problems. Yugoslavia and other countries that were forcefully brought together under a faulty premise had to break up. Even some Nigerians who claim if they get to power they will do this or that failed in that direction. Look at Chief Olusegun Obasanjo; he had the best chance to restructure this country, but he decided to use the power to his own advantage. That was why he was busy looking for third term. The Southwest voted for Buhari in 2015. In your view, how should the Southwest vote in next year’s elections? We should ask Tinubu. I am not one of the supporters of Buhari in the Southwest. Rather, I warned the Southwest of the consequences of voting for Buhari. I told them not to vote for Buhari and I stated my reasons. I want you to now go back and review my position, to see where I went wrong. They said we got money from Jonathan and that is what informed our position. As politicians of our age and by our upbringing we have no price. That is why we are not rich. Those of us, who were critical of what was going on before the election, were criticised; when we tried to make the position clear, they told us that we were on our own. Buhari only claimed to be a born- again democrat because he wanted to win an election. If our decisions are right, it is because we have not fallen into the wrong hands. All the newspapers stood up to for the APC and left no room for critical judgment. Look at the recent incident that happened in Dapchi; the government should have covered its face in shame. What I am saying is for you and not for me; you are the people that must fight for yourself. How can a man who blamed Jonathan for the abduction of Chibok girls allow the same thing to happen again? What is the essence of protecting lives and property, particularly on an issue that had happened before? That was why Jonathan was voted out, but the Buhari government keeps complaining about the man. The man is no longer there and this country has no reason to be poor. But we are victim of bad leadership and bad followership. Bad followership, including you journalists, when you see evil you can’t talk, because they put some butter in your mouth. What about your Vice President who took Obasanjo to court over restructuring of local governments when he was the Attorney General of Lagos State? He now got to Aso Rock and said there is nothing like restructuring. That is a professor of law and a pastor for that matter. With all the killings in Southern Kaduna under his nose, with all the atrocities going on, the Vice President has the gut to insult the nation that there is no nepotism in Buhari’s administration. And here is a man born in democracy and federalism; myself and his father were the followers of Awolowo. He was born in this thing that I am talking about and by the grace of God he is a product that we are proud of. He is well educated, intelligent, brilliant, articulate and anything that is attached to scholarship. Those of us who are not disposed to working with Buhari only joined the fray because of Osinbajo. Those of us who reconciled ourselves with working with Buhari did it because of the Vice President. I don’t believe in the coalition, but I hanged on because of the Vice President. He does not belong to that camp, even if the APC has reason to go astray, he has no reason to go astray. He has his integrity to protect; I am saying this because of his antecedents. He has no reason to serve in that cabinet, because he is putting his reputation at stake. Some observers see the herdsmen attacks as a new Boko Haram tactics, while others say it is part of the Fulani expansionist agenda. What’s your take on it? It is part of the Fulani expansionist agenda. We should go back to history to justify the fact. It is not just only that Buhari is supporting them, Buhari is condoning them. And I say it without any fear of contradiction. Here is the commander in chief, to protect life and property, but an incident happened more than twice all over the country, but there is no arrest of one person. Even with the Fulani carrying arms in Adamawa, Benue and all over the place, not a single arrest. To show how unfair the government is, how many people did the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) kill before it was declared as terrorist? Buhari is not honest about this country. Here are people killing others all over the country, nobody has been arrested or stopped them. Even Asiwaju Tinubu who led the APC to victory has been sidelined in Buhari’s government. The Vice President is out of the government. Is this the reason he took the Yoruba to that place? Many of you would not know, when the Fulani had issues with the late Lam Adesina of Oyo State, it was Buhari that led a delegation to Oyo to warn the governor over the issue. That is why I am accusing you journalists of not living up to your responsibilities. You people facilitated the success of NADECO, what are you doing now? This country is for you and your generation. They have sidelined the Yoruba in the administration and must be seeing them as complete mumu. And they still have the effrontery to say they are going to win election in Yoruba land in 2019 and in the South as a whole. When all the offices are being occupied from those from Katsina, why would they not ensure that Buhari comes back in 2019? Today, I am telling you the pains of an embittered old man and want you to carry the message further than this. If we must get out of this enslavement Nigerians must do the right thing. Given the vested interest of the political class, will restructuring ever see the light of day? The voters put them there; they did not put themselves there. That is why I said if the APC is serious about restructuring let them do it before the election. Restructuring could be made a campaign issue. By the time it is settled, there will be no question of anybody asking who they will vote for. So, under what condition will you be casting your votes? If the APC or Buhari is serious about restructuring that is what they should do. If there is no law that empowers them, they should make the law. People are not made for the law, it the law that is made for the people. If there is any impediment, it should be cleared off to give room for restructuring. 