The Citizens United for the Rehabilitation of Errants (Cure-Nigeria) yesterday in Kano lamented that out of over 70, 000 prisoners in Nigeria, more than 50, 000 awaiting trial, may be innocent of their alleged offences. Speaking during a joint-news conference with the Kano branch Chairman of the Prison Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), the Executive Directive of CURE-Nigeria, Mr. Sylvester Uhaa, accused law enforcement agencies of being responsible for deaths and sufferings of prisoners who are unjustly detained and denied access to their families and legal aid counsels. He decried that most  inmates languishing in prisons without trial were denied access to justice. According to him, most of the over 50, 000 people languishing in prisons without trial are innocent of the alleged offences. This number does not include the thousands of undocumented people in police cells and other detention facilities around the country. “Many of these people would die in these facilities without anyone being held accountable because their families are not even aware that they are held in these facilities. This is because our law enforcement agencies violate the basic legal provision which mandates them to assist arrested persons to contact his or her family or legal counsel upon arrest.” He added that, “the fight against corruption in Nigeria cannot be complete without addressing the corruption and abuse of power in the criminal justice system, particularly during the pre-trial detention period. “This is because the pre-trial phase receives less scrutiny than subsequent stages of the criminal justice process, giving too much discretion and power to the lowest paid and most junior actors in the system. “These have destroyed the credibility of our government that is committed to fighting corruption to address the corruption and abuse of power in the justice system and restore its integrity. “We call all stakeholders, particularly the police and the judiciary in Kano State to check all forms of corruption, abuse of power and due process in the criminal justice system in the state and to hold to account those who violate human rights and engage in corrupt practices.” Uhaa explained that the growing prison population in the country was due to the neglect of the Federal Government and its inability to invest in the welfare of prison inmates which leads to frustration and stigmatisation of the prisoners. “Low investment in welfare spending of prisoners leads to marginalisation, exclusion, poverty and results in high crime rates,” he added. He kicked against Federal Government’s policy on building and equ` “So, our message to Kano State is that the state should invest more on welfare and social programmes such as education, job creation, infrastructure and poverty alleviation programmes than in arming security agencies. Guns and more guns alone cannot effectively fight crime.” He also condemned the possession of illegal firearms and light weapons by Nigerians, which out of 500 million illegal arms and light weapons in West Africa, a whopping 350 million are in Nigeria. Uhaa, therefore, commended the recent mopping up of illegal fire arms exercise by the Nigeria Police Force.