Endometriosis Support Group Nigeria (ESGN), in collaboration with the German Endometriosis Scientific Research Foundation (GESRF) and Nordica Fertility Centre, have held a rountable on endometriosis management in Lagos. Two foreign experts Professor Klaus J. Neis and Dr. Klaus Buhle as well as Dr Abayomi Ajayi spoke at the event . OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA reports. How to manage endometriosis topped discussions at a rountable in Lagos. Experts said the disease can be difficult to diagnose. They said studies had shown that there could be a delay in diagnosis of four to 10 years, resulting in decreased life quality and disease progression. The experts Professor Klaus J. Neis, Dr. Klaus Buhle, and Dr Abayomi Ajayi, said endometriosis cannot be ruled out by a normal examination and pelvic ultrasound. They spoke at physicians roundtable, which had as theme “Current diagnosis and management of endometriosis.” Neis, a specialist in Obstetrics and Gynecology, founder, European Training Centre (For Gynecology, Endoscopy and Surgery) and former Chief Physician, Caritasklinik, St.Theresa in Saabrucken, spoke on “Surgical management of endometriosis’’. Buhler, vice-chairman, Scientific Endometriosis Foundation (SEF), former chairman, German Scientific Societies in Reproductive Medicine, former chairman, National IVF-Registry (D-I-R) Certified Clinical and Scientific Endometriosis Centre of the University Hospitals of Saarland spoke on “Medical management of endometriosis,” while Ajayi, obstetrician/gynaecologist, Endo Hero 2016, founder, Endometriosis Support Group Nigeria Convener and Host Annual Physician Roundtable (PRT) and Fertility Treatment Support Foundation trustee, and founder/Medical Director, Nordica Fertility Centre (Nigeria), talked on “Fertility preservation in endometriosis”. According to the experts, treatments for endometriosis suppress menstruation and reduce pain. This is because though they are contraceptive, they have no effect on subsequent fertility after discontinuation. The physicians advised women who have severe, persistent, or  symptoms and pelvic signs of endometriosis to check if the initial management was effective or not. Ajayi said endometriosis could  be long-term, with substantial physical, sexual, psychological, and social impact, adding that the roundtable was aimed at helping participants in the disease’s diagnosis and management. Ajayi added that the rountable was aimed at creating awareness on the symptoms of endometriosis, and  advise women with symptoms. He added that endometriosis is hormone-mediated and is associated with menstruation. The cause is not known, but it is accepted that its cells in the pelvis can implant and develop. It is a condition caused by pelvic pains, painful periods, and sub-fertility. “Endometriosis presents a diagnostic and clinical challenge, with many women left undiagnosed, often for many years. Small observational studies have reported delays of four to 10 years in diagnosis, which can result in decreased quality of life and disease progression. The diagnostic delay is not limited to adults; endometriosis is also often missed in adolescent girls, and this workshop set out to improve care by highlighting this age group in some recommendations,” he explained. Ajayi added that younger medical doctors should be urged in laparoscopy training because they have a better grasp of tools and equipment, compared with older doctors. Neis advised surgeons to perform surgery for endometriosis laparoscopically, unless there are contraindications. “During a laparoscopy to diagnose endometriosis, consider laparoscopic treatment of the following, if peritoneal endometriosis not involving the bowel, bladder or ureter, uncomplicated ovarian endometriomas. As an adjunct to surgery for deep endometriosis involving the bowel, bladder or ureter, consider three months of gonadotrophin-releasing hormone agonists, before surgery. Consider excision rather than ablation to treat endometriomas, taking into account the woman’s desire for fertility and her ovarian reserve,” he added. On the management of endometriosis, Buhler said physicians should explain to women with suspected or confirmed endometriosis that hormonal treatment for endometriosis could reduce pain and has no negative effect on subsequent fertility. “Offer hormonal treatment, for example, the combined oral contraceptive pill or a progestogen, to women with suspected, confirmed or recurrent endometriosis. If initial hormonal treatment for endometriosis is not effective, not tolerated or is contraindicated, refer the woman to a gynaecology service, specialist endometriosis service/centre, or paediatric and adolescent gynaecology service for investigation and treatment options. It is good to ask women with suspected or confirmed endometriosis about their symptoms, preferences and priorities with respect to pain and fertility, to guide on surgical decision-making,” he added.