Mr Daniel Itsuokor, a 400 level student of mathematics, University of Lagos (Unilag) has emerged overall best out of 56 participants in mathematics competition organised by National Mathematical Centre (NMC). Unilag also triumphed over 14 other universities that participated in the competition. Prof. Stephen Onah, the Director/Chief Executive of NMC disclosed this during the closing ceremony of the competition on Friday in Sheda. Represented by Prof. Peter Onumaiye, the Coordinator, Mathematical Sciences Programme of the NMC, Onah said five participants won gold medals, nine got silver medals, while 14 went home with bronze medals out of the 56 participants. The director congratulated the participants for the performance and urged them to remain focused and be good ambassadors of mathematics. He advised the participants not to look at what they would benefit from working hard, rather, they should have goal or target and work hard to achieve it. Itsuokor, who spoke on behalf of other participants, expressed gratitude to the centre for the opportunity given them to exercise their capabilities in the knowledge of mathematics. The overall best attributed his success to hard work and determination and encouraged other students to embrace mathematics, saying studying the course was not so difficult as presumed by some students. Prof. Benjamin Oyelami, the Coordinator, Academic Planning, NMC, said the essence of the competition was to encourage students of mathematics to study hard and be ambassadors of the subject in the world. He said “Nigeria needs to be developed and to develop a nation, you need trained minds; minds that are innovative. “And that is the reason why your parents sent you to the university to develop your minds.” According to him, mathematics is the only science course that develops minds of people to be able to reason and develop things. “So, you have been trained and I believe that after your graduation as you go into the world, you will make Nigeria proud,” Oyelami said. He advised the medalists to continue to work hard “as to whom much is given, much is expected”. He encouraged other participants who could not win any medal not to lose hope, but have confidence in themselves. A total of 14 Nigerian universities took part in the 2018 National Mathematics Competition for university students which started on April 17. At institutional stage, Unilag came first, followed by Federal University of Technology Akure in second place, while University of Nigeria Nsukka claimed the third position. NAN 