Tayo Adedugbe, a small business and youth empowerment/projects consultant, is the Executive Producer of Game Changers Nigeria Show, a television magazine programme which empowers businesses in the bottom of the pyramid. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf he shares his experiences and perceptions about SMEs and other related matters. What really informed the idea behind Game Changers Nigeria Show? Game Changers Nigeria Show was created in order to change common narratives amongst the youths in the society. We interview individuals who have unique and unusual business ideas or solutions to societal problems. The objective is to give them a platform to be seen, heard, promoted, and most especially to inspire the audience to be part of the citizens creating something out of nothing. These individuals include young entrepreneurs, job creators, wealth creators, exceptional leaders, social change agents and many others. We specifically seek those who fall into the category of challenging the status quo, thinking outside the box and making a difference. Another important element of the show which many find fascinating and look forward to is a segment called, ‘Street Help Naija’. This segment is focused on economic empowerment with special focus on the informal sector and women. On this segment, you would find your regular street trader, food seller and various other artisans. We talk to them and try to find out challenges they face in their businesses. To the least of their expectations we give them the sum of fifty thousand naira to empower their businesses. I personally think it’s the most exciting part of the show because with just that amount we are able to support and transform businesses and lives of people. These people are those whose businesses are not doing so well and just need a little bit of support to get started all over. The idea behind the segment is to create more wealth for the ordinary people we walk by or drive pass everyday. Beyond rhetorics, what do you stand to gain? In other words, what’s in it for you? What do I stand to gain? I have always been passionate about projects that are positive and driven towards youth entrepreneurship, job and wealth creation, women empowerment and small business development in Nigeria. Now, a number of my friends don’t believe in Nigeria and just like millions of other youths, they had been disappointed many times by leaders, policies and lack of encouragement in the system towards good business ideas or existing businesses. The sad part is when they leave the country, they do fantastically well. How do you expect those kind of people to love the country or want to come back? Most do not come back. We are losing our best brains everyday as a result of the perennial deliberate man made problems or imbroglios we have found ourselves. A friend went for a course in US recently, came back and said he was relocating with his family. He’s 32 years, married with a daughter. Now, this guy is a brilliant nurse who has come up with a health solution idea that would benefit most Nigerians and I had to make some calls so that we could get some work done on the brilliant idea. To God’s glory they are looking positive. If things go well, he could make at the least, one million naira a week; with that kind of money he would be able to employ people. He would be on our show soon as well because what he has is needed in this country.  Now if we are not careful, we could lose him just like we are losing many others out of frustration and anger at how the country has paid them for being its citizen. I know at least five youths who are leaving Nigeria between this week and next. I can’t begin to tell you how many young people are running or relocating out of Nigeria, I can’t begin to tell you how many people call or message after watching our show to say how happy they were to watch the show or those who want us to help their businesses on Street Help Naija. The citizenship positivity is low, young people are unemployed, uninspired, tired and depressed. I must confess to you that depression is real amongst young people these days, it is alarming and should be taken seriously. Wealth is not being created, and if wealth is not being created, we can’t have jobs. Don’t forget today’s youth are supposed to be tomorrow’s elders and leaders; if they can’t be made productive now, we would have myriad of problems as a nation. People are hungry, frustrated and almost giving up. Our show is here to change that, I want to change that. We want to give hope, inspire, empower and help create wealth. You mentioned that you also empower women in the bottom of the pyramid with seed capital of N50,000, where do you source these funds? Yes, we do empower women with funds. Most of the funds used were sourced personally with a few support from friends and family but an altruistic mentor did support a lot on it and I do appreciate him for that and I will forever be grateful to him. I had a dream and not everyone would believe in your dreams but he believed in me. What’s the criteria you adopt for beneficiaries of these funds? Here’s what we do. I get the production team in the car and say we are going on a Street Help Naija ride, we go to areas where we would find petty traders and micro businesses. We identify the traders who have scarce and limited stock, then we approach to have an innocent interview. Many of the traders we approach usually object to being on TV and that’s because they are unaware of our end goal. We are however successful in convincing a few of the traders to speak with us and they are always pleasantly surprised at the end of the day. But back to your question, the businesses have to be micro in nature and don’t seem to be thriving as well as their counterparts. We always go back to see what they have done with the money and this is the most beautiful part of the show because the enormous impact on the business and countenance of the beneficiaries is very evident. Do they pay back, if so, at what interest? No. We give the money as a grant. The ideal situation would be to have an organisation, institution or bank to partner with us on giving the grants. We would appreciate the help of individuals and corporate organisations, government and its agencies, developmental institutions and citizens representatives to assist in giving grants to these micro business owners whose little profits are used for basic living. You are already airing on DSTV, GOTV, are there plans to expand reach to make it more popular? Yes we air on Wazobia TV on GOTV, Startimes and MyTV on Sundays at 5pm and on Wazobia Max on DSTV and terrestrial channels on Mondays at 9:30pm. We want the show to be viewed all over Nigeria in order for it to have the desired impact. We want to be seen on NTA, AIT, TVC, Channels, Mnet and state owned TV stations. Game Changers Nigeria Show and its segment Street Help Naija is for every Nigerian. Therefore, we are looking at opportunities to expand our reach to millions of Nigerians. How many people have been empowered so far from Your empowerment program me and how do you hope to expand the scope as well? We believe that we have impacted on thousands who have watched the show through the interviewees’ inspired and growth stories. Financial empowerment have been mainly through Street Help Naija and we would like to do more than we already are. Our plans are to empower ten thousand annually and possibly five thousand this year. We would showcase a number of them on social media everyday with acknowledgement from partners and sponsors. We do want to expand the scope beyond women and extend to students and youths. We have received messages from youths who want to buy specific business equipment but are unable to do so due to financial constraints. We have to encourage people to create wealth for themselves in the absence of jobs. These would have significant impacts on thousands of families and millions of dependents. So we can have Street Help Naija Lagos, Kano, Kebbi, Anambra, Enugu, Rivers, Kwara, Adamawa, Abuja, Osun, Ondo etc. This way, we would be able to create more wealth for the people. Are you in partnership with any organisation or you are operating solo? No, I am not. At least not yet and this says a lot about our country. Corporate sponsors would rather sponsor a show with entertainment content with N200 million, N300 million, N500 million, than invest in a show like ours. I don’t have any problem with the sponsors, but it would be in greater societal interest if sponsors also invest in our own show. I say this with all confidence that Game Changers Nigeria Show is the show to watch in this country and better than a seemingly entertaining show because of the value it brings to the youths and the society. I challenge everyone reading this interview to watch a clip of our show and watch a clip of any other popular entertaining show and say with all sincerity which one they would rather their sons, daughters, cousins, nephews, nieces watch? Which show would a mother or father recommend to the children to watch, which show would a grandma or grandpa have the grandchildren watch or a boss to a subordinate, a pastor or imam to his congregation? Which show would a young person with vision or dreams recommend to another friend to watch? Like I said earlier, I don’t have a problem with the sponsors who prefer shows like that but they should also look at shows that can retain viewership like ours and still have positive impact on the society. Give us N300 million for our Show and see how many lives we would impact positively. You would see the quality of work we would do and jobs we will create. Now check this out, imagine with the beauty of our show we don’t get sponsors, wouldn’t that confirm the thoughts and fears about this country and give people more reason to relocate or give up? That a beautiful inspiring show like Game Changers Nigeria Show is not getting the required support. Our show is entertainingly inspiring by the way. I’m calling and appealing on the telecoms companies because we need them for reach, banks, FMCGs, Drinks companies, developmental organisations, Office of President and Vice President, Senate as led by Senate President, House of Representatives as led by the Speaker, governors, ministers, government agencies, NGOs, local government chairmen, international institutions to join us on this journey and dream. Which leaders are you considering to be on Game Changers Nigeria Show? Just like people we interview on the show, it would be leaders who are doing things differently, challenging status quo, creating wealth and making a difference. I live in Lagos and I like what Governor Ambode is doing especially with the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), where they charge the lowest interest rate of five percent for small businesses. I was there as a guest during the Private Sector Governorship Debate prior organised by the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry prior to the elections. I went to ask and know the plans for the funds; I am happy he fulfilled the promise. We would be honoured to have him talk about his infrastructural projects, tourism but most importantly wealth creation in Lagos through FDIs and LSETF. We did interview the Executive Secretary of the Fund though; I applaud him for the fantastic job he’s doing. I know Governor Akeredolu of Ondo State also has plans for an Employment Trust Fund and I would want to appeal to him to please make it happen as well even though I know there might be funding challenges. I’m also fascinated by governors of Kebbi and Anambra in the areas of rice production and it would be an honour to have them on our Show to know more on what they are doing on wealth creation, job creation and future plans in other areas for food sufficiency. Mr Tony Elumelu is doing a great job with the Tony Elumelu Foundation, empowering thousands of young entrepreneurs in Africa. We need more people like him with the finances to help do more for young people especially in Nigeria. Mr. Jim Ovia is also someone I would love to share his story. Mrs. Ibukun Awosika, CBN governor and many others space might not allow me to mention. Who inspires you? I have mentors who I go to when I need to start a project or just need an advice. Like Professor Oye- Ibidapo Obe, Mr. Dele Alake, Mr. Kunle Soname, Mr. Tunde Savage and my godmother, Mrs. Susan Oyemade. They all inspire me. I also draw inspiration from successful people like the ones I mentioned earlier and some others who are not Nigerians. Just a bit from here and there. If you have these people, then why do you need sponsors? I think the question is why do I need to know anyone at all to get sponsors or funding for my business? If one has a good business or idea, why can’t there just be a system in place to attract funds than to have people to help? How many young people have that kind of access? Maybe one percent. I know and I’m confident that our show is one for Nigerians because it is entertainingly inspiring and a positively driven one that would nudge many from their seats to productivity. I want to use this opportunity to appeal to our Minister of Information and Tourism to please help us set up a fund for sponsorship of projects and social change projects. This, I believe would go a long way in impacting our society positively which would in turn would drive growth and productivity.  