The Bayelsa State Government on Saturday commended the country’s wrestling contingent to the Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia for their victorious outing. In a statement signed by the State Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Mr. Daniel Iworiso-Markson, the government hailed the resilience and dogged disposition of the wrestlers. The wrestlers won eight medals, comprising three gold, two silver and three bronze medals. The statement was full of praises for the Bayelsa wrestlers, who accounted for four of the medals, adding that, their performance underscores Bayelsa’s position, as the craddle of wrestling in Nigeria and Africa. The statement also described the feat of the wrestlers, as a direct manifestation of the Restoration Government’s investment in the sports sector in the last six years. According to him, the wrestlers did not only have their pre-games camping in Yenagoa, but were provided with a conducive atmosphere and supported during the two-month camping period, which enabled their excellence in Australia. The commissioner particularly commended Blessing Oborodudu-gold medalist, Melvin Bibo-silver medalist, Amas Daniel and Ebikewenimo Welson, bronze medalists for making Bayelsa and the country proud at the games. He stressed that, their place in the annals of sporting history at the state and National levels would remain indelible. The statement paid special tribute to the President of the Nigerian Wrestling Federation and member of the State House of Assembly, Hon. Daniel Igali for his drive, passion and personal commitment to the growth of wrestling in the country. “As a state and as a government, we are proud of the performance of the wrestlers and for Daniel Igali, he has remained a shining star and a modivating force behind the success story of Nigerian wrestling. We can only, but keep supporting and encoyraging him to do more for the country”, he said. According to Iworiso-Markson, the Bayelsa State Government, will at the most appropriate time accord our worthy sporting ambassadors a deserving honour and recognition.