Governor Muhammad Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa state has warned Nigerians and common men not allows unpatriotic and looters to be votes in to power in the next coming elections. The governor made the warning on Monday in his speech while commissioning the New World Micro Finance Bank and introductions of ATM machine at Birnin Kudu town Birninkudu local government of the state. ‎Alhaji Badaru Abubakar advised Nigerian to keep following the list of looters by the federal government whom embazled and coverted public funds in to their personal once “please follows federal government see the name of their names and not give them any chanses to leads you. Don’t entrust them, they will never change”. He described the Past administration of PDP both at all levels as looters said, they came to power with empty pocket but within sixteen years of their leadership they end up of making themselves rich and their families. According to him, it is very unfortunate that, the opposition whom bankrupt Nigeria’s treasury and now exposed to the public by the EFCC and other Investigative agencies are still‎ jostle to take over public office again. He said, the opposition whom paralyzed Nigeria and its future are now busy ‎criticizing the present administration’s effort of rebuilding a better Nigeria that everyone will proud of in the future. ‎”It is a shame of PDP leaders particularly from Jigawa state that, how can somebody whom were elected to lead various political offices with nothing but end up of making themselves and their families billionaires and start bragging. Nigerians will never allow you to lead them again” he said. Also speaking at the Commissioning, the Chairman board of Directors of the Bank and one of the APC Chieftain Alhaji Farouk Adamu Aliyu said, the aims of re branding the bank is to ‎boost the local economy in the state and ensure sustainable development of the state. He said, the bank also reached a bold step of collaborating with two deposit Money banks, Sterlin and Keystone bank‎s to jointly operate Automated Teller Merchines (ATMs) in the bank. Aliyu also in his effort to support‎ both state and federal government effort on Agriculture, said very soon he will invite. Governor Badaru to laid a foundation of multi-billion fertilizer plant in Jigawa state.