Associate Director of Population Science and Professor of Epidemiology and Public Health, Greenebaum Comprehensive Cancer Centre and Institute of Human Virology, University of Maryland Medicine (UMSOM), Baltimore, United States Prof Clement Adebamowo has been named a Fellow of the American Society of Clinical Oncology (ASCO). Adebamowo was honoured at the opening session of this year’s ASCO Annual Meeting. He was a former professor of Surgery, University of Ibadan and consultant surgeon, University College Hospital, Ibadan. ASCO is the world’s leading professional organisation for physicians and oncology professionals caring for people with cancer. Almost 40,000 people attend its annual meetings which have been held in Chicago, IL for several years. The ASCO Fellows are awarded the award in recognition of their extraordinary volunteer service, dedication, and commitment to the association. Recipients have been involved in efforts that benefit ASCO, the specialty of oncology, and, most importantly, the patients whom they serve. The award was previously called the “ASCO Statesman Award” and recipients add FASCO after their name. Kevin Cullen, MD, Director, Marlene and Stewart Geenebaum Comprehensive Cancer Center said, “Dr. Adebamowo is a dedicated international researcher with stubbornness to develop quality, international clinical research studies and training opportunities.” While Jay Magaziner, PhD, MSHyg., Department Chair of Epidemiology and Public Health said of him,  “His impressive track record in cancer research in complex and challenging populations and settings truly makes him a leader in the oncology field and worthy of this special award,”. Dr. Adebamowo received his Bachelor’s degree in Surgery and Medicine with honors from the University of Jos and his post-graduate surgical training at the University College Hospital, lbadan, Nigeria. Upon completion of his residency training, he joined the Department of Surgery as a Lecturer 1 and was promoted Professor of Surgery at the University of lbadan, in 2001. In 2004 he received his Sc.D. in Nutritional Epidemiology with a minor in Biostatistics from Harvard University. During his medical training and subsequent work he received multiple travel grants and was a Guest Scholar of the American College of Surgeons and the American Society of Clinical Oncology. In 2009, he joined the Institute of Human Virology, Department of Epidemiology and Prevention, Division of Cancer Epidemiology, and the Population Research Programme of the University of Maryland, Marlene and Stewart Greenebaum Cancer Centere as an Associate Professor.  In 2013, he was promoted to Professor and in 2015 he became the Associate Director of Population Science, Greenebaum Comprehensive Cancer Centre.   