Osun State is the most peaceful in the country, according to a report on Nigeria Peace Index (NPI). It is closely followed by Kogi and Ekiti States, according to the report. According to NPI, Kwara and Imo ranked as fourth and fifth respectively in the rating. The inaugural peace index report put together by the Foundation for Peace Professionals, a research organisation that advocates for peace, adopted similar methodology of the Global Peace Index. It also followed the pattern of the United States Peace Index and the United Kingdom Peace index in series of national indexes. Speaking at the unveiling of the report in Abuja, the Executive Director of FPP, Abdulrazaq Hamzat, explained in attempting to rate the level of peace in Nigeria, NPI investigated the extent to which states experience social, economic, political and environmental factors that either hinder or promote peace. He said: “We collected data for 2010 to 2016, an average of which gives us the result of Nigeria peace Index 2017. “Five broad indicators were adopted for this index and they include the level of poverty crime rate, level of education, rate of human rights abuse and level of Incarceration. “Key findings of the NPI showed that Osun State is the most peaceful state in Nigeria and it has greater tendency for peace based on its overall performance in the five broad indicators. While Osun didn’t come top in any of the five indicators, its overall score is the least violent. “Osun, Kogi, Ekiti, Kwara and Imo States are five most peaceful states in Nigeria. “Kogi is second most peaceful state in Nigeria and most peaceful in the North. Imo is the most peaceful state in South-East and fifth most peaceful in Nigeria. “Akwa Ibom is most peaceful state in South-South, Kaduna in North-West, Kogi in North Central, Osun in South-West, Imo in South-East and Taraba State in North-East.” The report stated that Yobe Kebbi, Bauchi, Zamfara and Sokoto were five least peaceful states in Nigeria, adding this was apart from Borno that was not considered due to insufficient data and the Boko Haram red light. The report therefore assumed that Borno was overall least peaceful. It said Lagos had least poverty in Nigeria while Zamfara had least crime and Imo the most education. The NPI noted that Ekiti had least incarceration and Taraba had least human rights abuses, adding that the North-West with least education and most poverty in Nigeria was one of the two least peaceful regions in the country despite being most performing in the other three indicators.