Nigerian cinematographer, Olusegun Oshokunuofayo, who is simply known as Fayo in filmmaking circles, has said that the Nollywood film industry does not give cinematographers the dues they deserve. Fayo, who says that his journey to cinematography was borne out of ‘endless crazy love and passion’, said that for the industry to grow, cinematographers have to be given their due recognition. “It’s been God all the ways,” said Fayo, speaking on his jourey so far. “And at the same time it’s been funny crazy but seriously an incredible and amazing journey for me as that Nollywood breezed cinematographer. Because when I look back at that little tinny me, from early 2001 who started very local with handmade equipment at Movie Land Studios, today my works have gone global and been nominated to many awards even if have not won any yet.” Fayo was sent to Mumbai, India on a two weeks short course on cinematography as a beneficiary in 2014 Project ACT Nollywood initiated by the Goodluck Jonathan administration. His training at Whistling Woods International, Mumbai, he says, inspired his recent works including the likes of ‘Just Not Married’, directed by Patrick Uduak, ‘Resident Permit’, directed by Afe Olumowe, ‘What Men Want’ and ‘Homely’ both directed by Akin Harrison. “Whistling Woods International gave me another thousand ways on how creative technically I should be and also following the rules of cinematography as a filmmaker and the secrets of cinematography as well. Presently I just launched my company, Vigor101 Media and it is strictly into filmmaking, documentaries, TV content, photography and a whole lot of others. By God’s grace I will be working on my first ever short film titled ‘The Venoms’ as well as ‘The Good Fight’,” he said. He also revealed that Vigor101 Media has been responsible for some of the rave making events like Chief Lucky Igbinedion’s 60th birthday coverage, 2Face Idibia’s ‘A Million Voices for Peace’ campaign, the triple tour of 2face and the American singer, Bridget Kelly and a host of others. Vigor101 Media, he said, will soon be officially launching Vigor101 TV Channel and Vigor101 Media Academy.