Ibijoke Maxwell Odedina is the host of the Jo Maxwell Show which focuses on the achievements of Nigerian and African women in the Diaspora.  She also has a background in Accounting & Finance, and is an IT specialist. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about the inspiration for her talk show, capturing the achievements of women in the Diaspora, challenges and more. WHAT inspired you to start your talk show? I saw a gap on the screen showcasing the achievements of black women. So, I felt that as a Nigerian I would like to bridge this gap and show that Nigerians in the UK are doing great. Unfortunately, we are not doing things together and collaborating to maximise the opportunities available. For the show, what we did was to bring men into it because of the feedback that we got. As long as we want to be feminists, we still need to carry the men along. It’s been received well and it has also opened my eyes to new areas and opportunities. I would also like to say that I am more than a talk show host because I do other things to motivate and inspire other people. I am also the founder of PEP (Passionate Empowered Professional) Network. PEP is a network that brings together black career women living and working all over the UK and from around the world. It is first and foremost, a connective and inspiring network, as well as an avenue to sell your brand, receive advice or ideas and be inspired and motivated by like minded business/career women. What we are doing here is to bring together like minded women to connect, do business, work together and add value to lives in different ways. A lot of times, we talk about empowerment but a lot of us do not understand what empowerment means. We have people who have helped to find jobs and connections for each other here. Most of them haven’t seen themselves for about 10 years and they live in the United Kingdom. It is really refreshing and we leave all our worries and network. It’s been great. The intention is that at some point, the network would be in different parts of the world. I am the founder and I have other women who are helping to push the vision. The theme Press for Progress covers a lot and I believe that as women we should come together and learn to add value to the things that we do. The talk show is a screen for the black women in the Diaspora; we actually don’t have a lot of that. We often get featured once in a while. And even when we get featured, it is about the bad stuff. I am also doing some documentary about how people have gone from nothing to something great. The intention is to capture the full lifestyle of a woman from different angles. What was the first edition of the show like? It was very interesting and exciting for me. I grew up liking to talk and I wasn’t a brilliant student. I was one of those 50 per cent and no parent would see talking at that stage as a gift. So, for me, talking and having a good conversation had always been a part of me. So, doing the talk show was like a second nature to me. What are some of the challenges that you faced doing this? I feel like it is something that I am called to do. I don’t find it stressful or challenging at all. If anything, I am always thinking of creating content, writing and having the right topics to discuss.  Some of the issues discussed include domestic violence and child abuse. We have also looked at whether a woman should down play her success to please a man, bi-racial marriages and why African men don’t like to date older women. We also talk about identifying your gift and how to turn this into business. We have done a number of things that are quite significant to today’s young woman. I just want to give back to the other woman out there. For the network, I also found that the major challenge is to get women to come out of their comfort zone to network. For me, it is a journey and it is not something that I am expecting to change overnight. The truth of the matter is that a lot of women are faced with different kinds of stress from marriage, children, career or business. So, the network brings the estranged woman out of her shell. Now, she gets empowered and feels that if the other woman can do it, what stops me from doing it too. Did you practice over there? Yes, I did. I studied Accounting and Finance and when I graduated I worked as an accountant for a while. I later changed my career to IT because I kind of felt that I wasn’t getting what I wanted as an accountant and so I moved into IT and I kind of enjoyed it for a while. At some point, I still felt like something was missing. I worked for some IT firms in the financial sector and it was related. It has nothing to do with my background, but again, I found myself in the financial services sector. I was born and raised in Ogun State, Ijebu-ode. I did my early years here up to secondary school. Then I moved to the UK to further my education. I studied Accounting and Finance because I just wanted to be that fantastic accountant. I just thought they looked successful, they looked corporate and had that image that I wanted to have when I grow up. I wanted to be successful, I wanted to look professional. You usually see them with the brief case going to work. I aspired to be successful and I studied in the UK. I moved to the UK at age 17 to join my family and I went to college, did my professional qualifications there as well. How would you describe the experience? It’s been good. It pays the bills but I kind of just felt that there is something that is still not complete. Then, I found it. Is there someone influencing you in the family? No. I think growing up I saw a lot of successful people around me. My mum single handedly raised us and seeing people hustling to make it in life inspired me. But in terms of media or an accountant, there was no one. So, I am just in my own way trying to figure it out. My mom was a lawyer and she did a second degree to be a registered nurse in the UK. So, career-wise, maybe not; but as a woman, yes. She is an inspiration; me trying to follow through to make sure that I do something and make something of myself. Would you describe yourself as a feminist? I am proud to say that I am a feminist. I think there is a mix of the Nigerian woman and I hate to speak for just one part of the demography. We do have a variety, the strong ones, the not-so strong and confident. We also have those who live in the shadows of the people and it is kind of hard to describe them in one way. In a nutshell, I have experienced both sides of the spectrum of life while living in Nigeria and the UK, as a Black African woman trying to overcome the odds to live a successful life while grappling with cultural issues uniquely faced by black African women. I would also say that life experiences show that no matter what part of the world African women live in, the issues we face culturally are pretty similar, and we deal with all these issues whilst striving for success in all areas of our lives. Do you think that the women in politics are doing great? It would take a strong woman to step out in politics. Even abroad it is the same. We are starting to see some but it is not a normal trend. But it will take a while because people are still trying to get used to this feminism thing right now. So, I think it would take a while for women to really step up into politics. Talking about women supporting one another, I think it all depends on the confidence and the fact that you have to add value. You need to know that there are certain values that you will instil something about you that you want to give to the world. Not just that I am a woman and equal opportunity goes. If I know that she would be adding value and making changes, then I would go for her. As for a female president, I am not sure we are ready yet. I think we should focus more on getting the younger generation in their 40s and 50s in leadership. This way the change would start to happen. It is good to see Fela Durotoye and a few others running now, that would encourage more of the younger people to aspire. Are you married? Yes, I am married. It’s been great. I do have a very supportive husband who allows me to work with my ideas and he encourages me. I have been married for ten years and we have three children. What is your definition of style? My big hair is my signature. However, when it comes to my overall style, I would say that I am happy-go-lucky. So long as it looks good and feel classy, it would be okay for me. When it comes to outfits, I like everything about Africa; our clothes and accessories. For red carpet, I like to stand out or sometimes being edgy. It could also be a bit of both. Let’s talk about the women you admire It’s a tough one because I admire people for different reasons. In general, there are quite a few. In Nigeria, I would say Mo Abudu is one of the women that I admire, just for the fact that she is a woman and she has created that platform for women, supporting what women do. In the Diaspora, it would definitely be Oprah Winfrey. I also like Ellen of the Ellen Show and there is also Wendy. How do you relax? I like to relax with the girls. At such moments, I love speaking with the locals, be myself and reach out to others. I also like Nigerian food, especially amala.