It was a good development last week Monday that President Muhammadu Buhari decided to end the suspense that hung over Nigeria in the past few months. He chose the National Executive Committee meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) held in Abuja that Monday to declare his intention to run for the 2019 presidential election. That declaration has definitely kickstarted other underground and open activities by other interested parties who are aiming to also win the 2019 presidential election. As a reason for declaring his intention last week Monday, the President said, ”I declared before leaving home because Nigerians were talking too much about whether I would run or not. “So, I felt I should break the ice. We have many things to focus on, like security, agriculture, economy, anti-corruption, and many others. We needed to concentrate on them, and politics should not be a distraction. “The majority of Nigerians appreciate what we are doing, and that is why I am re-contesting.” he said The President decided to take  the bull by the horn and ignore the advice of some former leaders including former President Olusegun Obasanjo and former military President Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida. They felt that Buhari should not seek reelection in order to allow younger Nigerians with fresher ideas to rule the country. While these leaders and others Nigerians kicked against Buhari’s emergence in 2019, it was reported that Buhari’s declaration to seek reelection was welcomed by many Nigerians across the country, especially in the North. Welcoming the President’s decision, Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, said, ”We are fully in support of his decision and its part of democratic culture, traditionally the president has the right of first refusal of the candidature of their party, so its not something that is unusual or unwarranted or unconstitutional he has done the right thing, he is going to contest and we are solidly behind him. “He is not under any obligation to consult governors or anybody, he has been under tremendous pressure to make that pronouncement so we should heave a sigh of relief since he has finally announced his intention to contest. “We will give him the kind of support we gave him in 2015,” the governor stated Assuring that the declaration will not distract government, the governor said, “Certainly it is not distracting government, it will even calm down governance so that people will concentrate on the real act of governance and deliver the dividends of democracy. “Certainly, he is the single kinetic president in Nigeria’s political life till date,” he said Apart from youths in Kano State jubilating Buhari’s declaration, the state government has also welcomed the decision by President Buhari to re-contest election in 2019. A statement by the Commissioner for Information, Youth and Culture in the state, Malam Muhammad Garba, had maintained that the second term tenure of President Buhari will ensure the consolidation of the achievements recorded in nearly three years of the administration in the area of economic growth, security, fight against corruption, transparency in government . He also noted that Nigeria has gotten out of recession, higher level of transparency in government has ensured foreign investments, the administration’s zero tolerance for corruption coupled with its holistic approach to fighting insurgency has boosted the country’s image in the international community. As the strongest support base of the President, he said that the good people and the administration of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in Kano state will ensure the success of Buhari at the polls to consolidate the gains so far made. Kogi State Governor Yahaya Bello, in a statement by his media aide Kingsley Fanwo, said, “I am a staunch supporter of Mr. President and I am proud to be associated with such a great leader and personality. “We thank Mr. President for listening to the voices of Nigerians who are satisfied with his performance. Kogi people were the first to organise rallies in different towns and cities to call on Mr. President to seek re-election. “As the leader of the state, I wish to assure Mr. President that my people are solidly behind his policies of economic recovery, security and the fight against corruption. Kogi will deliver to Mr President, more votes than the state gave in 2015. “President Muhammadu Buhari has not lost his magic touch. He is a trusted leader who the masses want as their President beyond 2019. But it is also instructive for us to know that corruption will begin to fight back with renewed vigor to stop the march of the masses. We shall triumph. “Today’s declaration of Mr President for second term has further reinvigorated our belief that he will continue to make sacrifices for the greatness of our nation.” he stated Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, in a statement by his Media/Publicity Coordinator, Jide Orintunsin, said “It is heart-warming that Mr. President today told members of the NEC of his intention to seek re-election. This is the brightest moment for our country. It’s a moment that has rekindled the hope of our people. “A moment that has reaffirmed that all the good works, the good initiatives of the President that saw us out of economic recession the country was plunged into by mismanagement of past administration will now be sustained to take us to the desired enviable position among the comity of nations. “The President has exhibited high sense of good leadership. He has shown that he listens to the yearnings of millions of Nigerians who called on him to continue the good work he started since 2015. “The onus is now on all good and well-meaning Nigerians to rally round our President and ensure that the reactionary forces of the opposition and agents of doom are not allowed to dash the much cherish hope we all have in the emerging Nigeria by doing the needful during the next general election. “We cannot afford to go back to the dark days of extravagance and impunity. President Buhari has changed the game. He has brought sanity to governance. The war against insurgency is nearing logical conclusion and our economy is improving. “Posterity will not forgive us as a people if we allow this golden opportunity to slip off our hands. Mr. President has declared. We have to do the needful as a people by supporting him.” he said Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, in a statement by his media aide, Sam Onwuemeodo, said “The declaration of the President to go for a second tenure would also go a long way to reduce the noise of the opposition and take care of the idiosyncrasies of certain elements in the system. “Those who had wanted to blackmail him out of going for another term can now find other meaningful things to keep themselves busy. “The President would largely garner more votes in 2019 than he had done in 2015 because most Nigerians, including people of the Southeast have seen that he meant well for the nation and the citizenry. “The APC has no apology to make because it has done wonderfully well, considering the magnitude of the rot it met on ground in 2015. “The antenna of the opposition in the country will finally be lowered when the campaigns begin and the party will be showing Nigerians its achievements in the states under its control and at the Federal level. “When a political party had admitted that the government it ran was a huge failure and then apologised, such scenario goes with restitution and not with reward.” he added Now that the momentum is gathering towards 2019 elections, it is really hoped that Nigerians will really get value for money for the remaining one year of the current administration. The coming political campaigns, either by the ruling party or other interested parties, should not be hindrance to socio-economic development of the nation for the next twelve months. It is the expectations of many well-meaning Nigerians that substantial part of the change promised by the current administration would have been achieved by middle of next year. 