The death of Senator Mustapha Bukar (Katsina North), five days after the passing of House of Representative member Umar Buba Jibril, has set tongues wagging. The senator’s demise brings the death toll in the Eighth National Assembly to nine in about three years, reports RAYMOND MORDI Deputy Political Editor. THE passing away of Senator Mustapha Bukar, the lawmaker representing Katsina North in the upper chamber of the National Assembly last Wednesday has stirred the conscience of the nation. Bukar’s death has drawn attention to the growing number of lawmakers dying suddenly and others “after a brief illness”. Senate President Bukola Saraki said he was saddened by the development. His words: “I am saddened to learn about the passing of another friend and colleague, Senator Mustapha Bukar. As a first-time Senator, Mustapha stood out for the quality of his contributions on the floor, his pragmatism and his work to strengthen the institution of the legislature.” Bukar was the Chairman, Senate Committee on Capital Markets. Reports say he died in the early hours of the day at Nizamiye Hospital, Abuja. He was survived by two wives and and 12 children. The deceased was aged 63. The death of the lawmaker who represented President Muhammadu Buhari’s constituency in the upper house, otherwise known as the Red Chamber, brings the death toll in the Eighth National Assembly to nine in close to three years. It was felt because it came five days after the passing away of another lawmaker, Hon. Umar Buba Jibril, who represented Lokoja/Kogi Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives, on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Jibril passed away on Friday, March 30, 2018, after “a long protracted illness”. The 58-year old lawmaker was a three-time member of the House and a former Speaker of the Kogi State House of Assembly. Two weeks earlier, another lawmaker, Senator Ali Wakili, had died suddenly. Wakili who represented Bauchi South in the Senate was suspected to have died from heart attack. The 58-year old senator took part in the high-society wedding of Fatima Dangote, the daughter of Africa’s richest man Aliko Dangote, to former Inspector General of Police, Mohammed Abubakar’s son, Jamil Abubakar on Friday March 16, 2018 in Kano. The next day, he was reported to have slumped at his Gwarimpa residence in Abuja, the nation’s capital. The 58-year-old lawmaker, until his death, was the chairman of the Senate Committee on Poverty Alleviation and a member of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). He was also a retired controller of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS). In all, four senators and five reps have died in this dispensation. Speaking while mourning the death of Senator Wakili, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara, said: “It’s unfortunate that we have to do this time and time again, our prayer to God is that God should preserve all of us members of the National Assembly. I don’t think it’s ever happened like this before, where we’ve had to bury – to my quick recollection – about three senators and five members of the House of Representatives.” Five of the lawmakers who died during the period are in their 50s; four of them are above 60. Incidentally, none of them died from accidents, violence or disasters. All deaths were medically related; some coming after protracted illnesses, while others took place suddenly. The first death in the current National Assembly took place before it was inaugurated on June 9, 2015. That was the death of Ahmed Zanna, who had been re-elected to represent Borno Central in the Senate. But he died a month to inauguration. Zanna passed on after his re-election bid in April 2015, but did not live to witness his inauguration as a member of the Eighth National Assembly. The 59-year-old was said to have lost his battle to a terminal ailment. In 2012, Zana was linked to Boko Haram when a top leader of the sect, Shuaibu Mohammed Bama, was reportedly arrested in his house in Maiduguri. In February 15 last year, Hon. Bello Sani, who represented Mashi/Dvisi Federal Constituency, also passed away at the age of 51. Abubakar Adamu, an aide to the late lawmaker, said his principal had suffered protracted illness for several months leading to his death. He was a member of the APC. In April last year, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, who represented Osun West on the platform of the APC, equally died at the age of 62. Adeleke died on the morning of Sunday, April 23, 2017 at Biket Hospital in Osogbo, after suffering a heart attack, although there were controversies on the circumstances. Sen. Isiaka Adeleke had aspired to lead the people of Osun State in the next governorship election, which is scheduled for September 22, 2018. Little did he know that his dream will never be fulfilled. He died not long after he returned from a political outing. Adeleke’s death raised a loud controversy which led to riots in Ede, his hometown. Mr. Alfred Aderibigbe, a nurse, who was alleged to have administered an overdose of drugs on the late senator, denied the allegation before Coroner Inquest Panel, set up by the government, which was also suspected to have known something about his death. The death of Adeleke was eventually declared by Dr. Solaja Olufemi, the pathologist who conducted the autopsy examination on the late senator and who testified before the coroner inquest in Osogbo, to be linked to excessive dose of analgesics, sedatives and alcohol. Contrary to the claim of some people, who thought he was poisoned. The three-term senator and a former civilian governor of the state, was described by his colleagues as a calm, principled and responsible gentleman. He was eventually replaced by his younger brother, Ademola Adeleke, who contested on the platform of the PDP to win the senatorial bye-election. Three months after, Abdullahi Wammako, a member of the House of Representatives from Sokoto State, died at an Abuja hospital. He died on July 14, 2017, after a brief illness. A first term lawmaker, he represented Kware/Wammako Federal Constituency. He contested and won the 2015 parliamentary election under the platform of the APC. The 50-year-old deceased lawmaker was a younger brother to Aliyu Wammako, former governor of Sokoto State. In March 17, 2016, Hon. Musa Baba-Onwana, who represented Nasarawa/Toto Federal Constituency on the platform of the APC, passed away at the age of 50. The cause of his death was unknown. He was elected to the House of Representatives in 2011 and returned in 2015. Similarly, the member representing Ifako Ijaiye Federal Constituency, Mr. Elijah Adewale, popularly known as Jah, had also slumped and died at the early hours of Thursday, July 21, 2016 in his house in Abuja. Jah who was a member of the ruling APC was suspected to have died of heart attack. The 65-year-old lawmaker, who was reported to have attended the caucus meeting of the House of Representatives in the evening of the previous day, died very early on Thursday morning, the following day.