Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Ekiti State, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, has accused the loyalists of the Deputy Governor, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, of unleashing terror on his (Adeyeye’s) supporters in Ikere-Ekiti. Adeyeye, former Minister of State for Works, alleged that suspected thugs loyal to Olusola, led by a legislator, launched attacks on his supporters after last Saturday’s ward congress to elect delegates to vote at the primary. He also alleged that his supporters in the town are being coerced to swear to an oath to support Olusola, which he described as “a flagrant violation of their fundamental human rights of association”. Adeyeye identified his supporters who were allegedly attacked on Sunday to include the Ikere Local Government Deputy Chairman, Sunday Olorunfemi; and the Ikere PDP Treasurer, Tunde Ajewole. Former Ikere Local Government Chairman, Mr. Banji Aluko, and Gbenga Ayeni, were some of the loyalists of Adeyeye also allegedly attacked during the ward congress. In a statement by the Director of Media and Publicity, Prince Adedayo Adeyeye Movement (PAAM), Chief Niyi Ojo, called on the Police and Department of State Services (DSS) to investigate the alleged attacks and bring the perpetrators to book. Ojo said: “If truly Prof Olusola is popular at his hometown, why resorting to beating people and forcing them to swear to an oath to support his ambition in Ikere. “This is a manifest signs of rejection at home and flagrant violation of the fundamental rights of association of these people.” But the Director General of Kolapo Olusola Campaign Organisation (KOCO), Chief Bisi Kolawole, denied the allegation that Adeyeye’s supporters were compelled to swear to an oath to switch allegiance to the deputy governor. Rather, Kolawole alleged that people suspected to be Adeyeye’s supporters attacked the Commissioner for Local Government, Mr. Ayo Alabi, with masqueraders in Ise-Ekiti (Adeyeye’s hometown), during the congress. He said the attack by Adeyeye’s loyalists in his hometown disenfranchised many party members who wanted to vote. Kolawole said: “The issue of putting some people under oath to support the deputy governor is not true. Was the oath done with the Bible or traditional means? We challenge them to tell the world. “As politicians, we know those working for Adeyeye in Ikere and I want to say that those suffering such fate are double dealers who collect money from Olusola, Adeyeye and Olujimi. “Adeyeye should not have taken those raising the allegations serious, if you are for Adeyeye, why do you go to Olusola’s meeting? You came as a spy, why do you double deal?”