Mr Patrick Omeje, the Chairman, Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, says the council has concluded plans to construct a legislative chamber for councilors. Omeje who spoke in Nsukka, when he briefed traditional rulers, stakeholders and residents on his 100 days in office, said the legislative building would also provide office accommodation for the councilors. “Plans have been concluded to build a legislative chamber and soonest the council will start the building. “The building will provide office accommodation for the 20 councilors and legislative support staff. “The present situation, where councilors are using the LGA hall for their sitting, gives me concern,” he said. The council boss expressed satisfaction on the good working relationship between the executive and the legislature, and called for sustenance, in order to move the LGA to the next level. Omeje said his administration had given issues concerning education, health, agriculture, as well as grading of roads priority. “When I assumed office, going to Ehe-ndiagu was a nightmare as a result of bad road, but today, farmers in that community can bring their farm produce to Nsukka town with ease,’’ he said. The chairman said the council had opened livestock section at lkpa Commodity Market, so that residents would not go long distances for their livestock needs during ceremonies and festivities. He said his administration had empowered many youths as well as appointed them into various positions to enable them contribute their quota in the development of the area. “My administration appointed 20 special assistants, 60 executive assistants, 40 road marshals and 40 environmental marshals, all of them youths,’’ he said. Mr Fabian Onah, PDP Chairman in Nsukka LGA, expressed satisfaction on Omeje’s performance in 100 days and solicited for continued support for him. The traditional ruler of Nru community, Igwe Sylvanus Arum, who also spoke, said the administration of Omeje had ensured peace and unity in the LGA. He urged the council chairman to sustain his leadership style.  The leader of the  legislative council, Mr Chinedu Eze, who also spoke, said the  legislature  would continue to work harmoniously with the executive in order to move Nsukka LGA to the next level. Eze expressed happiness on the plans of the Omeje’s administration to build a legislative chamber for councilors. “Present councilors and future ones will remain grateful to your administration if your administration actualise this plan of building a legislative chamber in Nsukka LGA for councilors, ”  he said. NAN