The hammer, which recently fell on seven directors and staff of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), have continued to  generated controversy in the system. It is also threatening to heat up the already not too cordial relationship between the Presidency and the lower chamber of the National Assembly. Seven NEMA staff, including the Director of Finance and Accounts, Akinbola Hakeem Gbolahan; Ag. Director, Special Duties, Mr. Umesi Emenike;  Director, Risk Reduction, Mallam Alhassan Nuhu; Pilot in-charge Air Ambulance and Aviation Unit, Mr. Mamman Ali Ibrahim; the Chief Maintenance Officer, Mr. Ganiyu Yunusa Deji; and the Director of Welfare, Mr. Kanar Mohammed, were suspended over corruption allegations. While the suspension was based on yet to be concluded investigations by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), to probably save their necks the staff involved took the case to the House of Representatives Committee on Emergency and Disaster Preparedness, chaired by Honorable Isa Ali. While some Nigerians have wondered if the committee had a special interest in the matter for delving into the case already being handled by the EFCC, others also see the move as corruption fighting back. The controversy that followed has   also raised the question whether the decision by the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo led Governing Board of NEMA to suspend the seven directors and staff was an act of victimization or purely in the interest of the nation. EFCC investigations before the suspension revealed that the seven directors and staff have soiled their hands and really have cases to answer. Allegations against them included misappropriation of public funds, frivolous claims of personal emoluments and conspiracy with the other officials to short-change the Federal Government of due revenues, among others. The suspended Director of Finance and Accounts, Akinbola Hakeem Gbolahan is accused of maintaining many bank accounts with questionable transactions. His GTBank account was said to have suspicious deposits totaling N27, 650,000 including over £37,000 and $120,000 found in his domiciliary accounts. His Naira account is said to have several suspicious deposits from NEMA account in excess of N50 million. For the Ag. Director of Special Duties, Mr Umesi Emenike, the investigation showed that funds meant for programmes and maintenance of the South-South Zone operations of NEMA under his supervision were paid directly into his 14 personal accounts instead of paying into the Zonal Office Account. The investigations have also shown that he has freely withdrawn cash, electronic transfers or through ATM Machines, without any evidence of using them for NEMA activities. His subordinate, the Zonal Accountant was also said to have made several cash lodgements into the personal account of Mr. Emenike. About N238, 000,000 was so far been traced from NEMA directly to Mr. Emenike’s personal accounts, which were placed in fixed deposits and used freely by the Ag. Director. It also showed that the Director of Risk Reduction, Mr Alhassan Nuhu, maintained 5 bank accounts which were apparently used as conduits to receive and distribute money from NEMA coffers. Mr. Nuhu, so far, according to the investigation, has not been able to give satisfactory account of the transactions, including NEMA Funds moving through him to a company called Dambo Farms Limited. The Pilot of NEMA’s Air Ambulance, Mamman Ali Ibrahim, is accused of commercialising both the NEMA Air Ambulance and Helicopter. Report also showed that EFCC traced at least N285 million to the pilot, of which only N63 million was paid to the Accountant General’s Office and another N11 million paid to NEMA, while the balance could not be accounted for. The investigation further showed that some of the money was channeled to his family members through his company, Aerocare West Africa Limited, while others in foreign exchange were directly traced to the former DG NEMA, Mr. Sani Sidi’s accounts. Indicting the Chief Maintenance Officer; Mr. Ganiyu Yunusa Deji who was in charge of fuel supplies to NEMA generators, the investigation showed that he has been receiving regular returns into his personal account from the supplier, Rekimat Global Resource Limited. It also discovered that the fuel that used to last for one week now lasts for more than a month since Mr. Ganiyu Yunusa was suspended. For Kanar Mohammed, the Director of Welfare, it was alleged  that his six bank accounts were found to be replete with NEMA funds, including a N214 million meant for displaced traditional rulers in the North East, N184 million paid by him to one Crystal Chambers and N29.5 million paid by him to a former Minister, Abdul Bulama. The investigation also revealed that the former NEMA DG, Sani Sidi, maintained 20 different accounts in various banks with suspicious deposits amounting to 164,000 US Dollars in his domiciliary account at Standard Chartered Bank alone, all made within 18 months, between January 2014 and June 2015. The report also showed that he had up to £58,000 in his Pound Sterling Account. For those who faulted the action of the Vice President to suspend the staff, the current NEMA DG, Mustapha Maihaja, said: “By the provision of the Act, the relevant section of the NEMA Act that allows the Governing Council to superintend the affairs of the Agency is Section 7(10). “The Council shall have the power to (a) manage and superintend the affairs of the Agency. (b) subject to the provisions of this Act….and function of the agency “(c) for the term and condition of service including remuneration of the employees of the Agency after consultation with the Federal Civil Service Commission, and do such other things which in the opinion of the Agency are necessary to ensure the efficient performance of the functions of the Agency.” he stated The Chairman of the EFCC, Ibrahim Magu, had claimed that the suspension recommendation was made by the Commission in its interim report of its investigation. He said “We received a petition in December 2017 and we went into the investigation proper. At a level, an interim position was provided and that those whose evidence of wrong doing has been established to be suspended in order not to hinder the investigation. “Investigation didn’t just get to suspension, it was a process, and our recommendation  was to maintain the integrity of the investigation and prejudice against it. Their case hasn’t been determined yet, they’ll be reinstated if nothing is found agains them at the end of the day” he said The Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mrs. Winifred Oyo-Ita, also backed the suspension of the seven directors and staff, stressing that it was in line with the public service rules. She said “Under Section 4 serious misconduct is specified as serious wrongdoing and improper behaviour which is inimical to the image of the Service, which if investigated and proven can lead to dismissal from service. “The list is contained in sections 03, 04, 02 and it includes falsification of records, suppression of records, conviction of a criminal charge, bribery, corruption, misappropriation, embezzlement and sabotage etc. “Any indicted officer would cease to be on his / her duty and the suspension can come from the Civil Service Commission, Head of Service or the Governing Council,” he said Every effort should be geared towards breaking the ring of corruption in the Nigerian system. Searchlight should also be beamed on other government agencies and parastatals, especially the quiet and seemingly hidden ones.