Do you experience constipation? Or have a feeling of being bloated or your skin is dull, or almost cracking? You may benefit from Colonic irrigation. According to Fashoggi Healthshoppe Chief Consultant and a member of the Nigerian Council of Physicians of Natural Medicine, Olayinka Fashipe, Colonic irrigation also called Colonic Hydrotherapy is a safe and effective method of cleansing the colon by repeated gentle flushing with warm filtered water under very low pressure, using specialised massage techniques on the tummy area to stimulate release. Fashipe said people may wonder why the need to cleanse the colon. “My response is that in 90 per cent cases just going to the toilet is not enough because our ‘modern lifestyles’ are completely unnatural and this lead to a buildup of toxic waste in our bodies that accumulates over the years. And many factors contribute to this fecal accumulation, the most common are- stress, our busy lives and the temptation to always ignore the urge to go to the toilet when pressed. “The underlying factors are our diets, which are high in gluten and diary; red meat and processed meat consumption. Refined carbohydrates, sugars, processed foods, artificial preservatives, sweeteners and other chemicals. Low intake of vegetables, fruits and not enough water with consequent dehydration. High consumption of alcohol and caffeine also predisposes.” Fashipe, a right-hand man of the famous nutrition therapist, Dr Bamidele Ogagah, said colonic irrigation has eight important benefits for the health. It improves bowel regularity, resolve constipation,  increases energy levels and improves mood. It also improves digestion, provides a clearer and brighter skin complexion, boost immune system, assist in weight balancing and body shaping. It can alkalise the body, and hydrate the body.  Colonic irrigation Explaining the therapy, Fashipe said colon cleansing encompasses a number of alternative therapies intended to remove non specific toxins from the colon and intestinal tract thus removing any accumulation of faecal matter. “Colonics are well worth it, in spite of cost, because they help remove an incredible amount of loosened waste material. It allows the use of much more water and it is easier to massage the abdomen while on your back. Numerous people, who have undergone it do testify to the efficacy and incredible benefits of colonics,” he said.  The process  A colonics hydrotherapist flushes out the colon by sending gallons of water into the body through a tube inserted into a person’s rectum and evacuates faecal matter, which had been in the colon over time. This procedure, which is completely odourless and painless can cost about $80 – $100 or more per session in the United States. “However, here in Nigeria, particularly in Lagos where l am conversant with, a session is lesser and cost between N10, 000 – N25, 000 depending on your place of choice. Dr. Ogaga as a nutritional/food doctor, who is now back in Lagos after many years of ‘sabbatical’  in Warri is among the very few owners of colonics irrigation machine in this clime. Sessions fees are generously discounted,” said Fashipe. Fashipe said colon cleansing can undoubtedly help improve the body’s overall health and wellness, and may even greatly reduce the risk for colon cancer, “other benefits include, but not limited to making the digestive system more effective. maintains regularity and prevents constipation. It increases energy by releasing toxins from the body, increases the body’s absorption of vitamins and nutrients and improves body’s overall concentration. “It also maintains PH balance in the blood stream and alkalises the body, assists in weight loss balancing and body shaping, e.g. pot bellies. It gives clearer and brighter skin complexion and boosts immune system,” Fashipe explained. According to Fashipe, “ones appointment includes a full consultation, followed by a session of treatment which lasts between 45 to 60 minutes. “You will be well covered with a towel during your treatment so that your privacy, comfort and dignity are maintained. A disposable speculum is very gently introduced. Only a controlled amount of water is allowed to enter the colon at any one time. Throughout your treatment you will receive deep skillful abdominal massage to encourage the release of stored matter and gas,”he said. He continued: “Note that several treatments or sessions are necessary to cleanse the fecal wastes that have accumulated over the years in the bowel, which is five – six feet long. For this reason, l highly recommend a starter course of 3 to 6 treatments. “An assessment will be done after each treatment as to when to come back for another session. Nutritional and lifestyle advice will be given at the end of each session. A high quality probiotic culture to restock the bowel flora will be recommended. The improved bowel environment combined with a good diet will encourage the ‘good bacteria’ to grow, boosting your immune system, bowel health and overall well-being. You sure need a colonics; not later but sooner.”