Portfolio Management Institute (PMI) Nigeria, has signed an agreement with Chartered Institute for Securities and Investment (CISI), United Kingdom (UK). Its President, a former Managing Director of FUG Pension, Usman Suleiman, at the signing ceremony in Lagos, said the agreement will open the gateway to mutually rewarding and beneficial relationship between CISI and PMI. He said professional collaboration if well managed and sustained, can engender immense mutually beneficial reward for the parties. He stressed that he has no doubt considering the wealth of experience of all the parties involved, the collaboration will surely not only be of great value addition to our collective members, but also lift us up to higher levels of our collective goal achievements,” he said. He said it is a thing of joy for members of PMI joining the global professional community, which will avail them the opportunity of being identified with global best practice in investment and portfolio management. He noted that professional institutes, colleges and universities collaborate on initiatives that individual institutions might not be able to accomplish alone, adding that collaboration results in the creation of a formal entity with its own staff, budget and governance. He said: “Colleges and universities use collaboration to grow their influence with commercial providers and in this way, benefit the development of learning ecosystems. This is PMI’s focus and it is optimistic that the arrangement will be of immense benefits to membership and other stakeholders at large. “The business of banking and finance including investment and portfolio management, is of utmost trust and confidence, which should not be breached in whatever form, hence, the imperative of continuously sustaining professionalism and ethical behaviour. The Institute is putting in a lot of effort at repositioning and ensuring aeffective delivery of membership services and realisation of utmost professional value to members.   