• Gov: he’s at war with his conscience Senator Andrew Uchendu(Rivers East) yesterday told Rivers State Governor to stop fighting him. But the governor replied the Senator was at war with his conscience, saying he had nothing to do with him. The Senator spoke at a thanksgiving service at the First African Mission Church in Port-Harcourt for emerging victorious during the bloody legislative rerun. He also declared power must rotate in the multi-ethnic Rivers State in 2019 to ensure peace, harmony, justice, equity and fairness. Director-General of Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), Dr. Dakuku Peterside; wife of Transportation Minister, Dame Judith Amaechi; a former Acting Managing Director of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Mrs. Ibim Semenitari and Deputy National Secretary of the APC, Chief Victor Giadom among other eminent Nigerians attended the thanksgiving and reception. Uchendu said: “Please, tell Nyesom Wike to stop fighting me and face governing Rivers State. “I am an anointed son of the Lord. I will continue to serve Rivers people. I have anointing of God to be in politics. “My people also called on me and I answered their call. I was in the House of Representatives three times of twelve years. I never said I wanted to contest. “God again used Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi (former Rivers governor). Throughout the period, we were working with somebody called Nyesom Wike. Finally, the bubble burst. “My younger brother, Wike, continued to harass me over nothing. Amaechi and I begged the people of Obio/Akpor LGA of Rivers State for Wike to go for second term as council chairman. “I ran the longest election in the history of Nigeria. I, members of my family and many people in the senatorial district could not vote during the 2015 election because of violence and massive rigging by PDP members. “A month after my inauguration as a Senator, I had a major attack and God used a lot of people, particularly Amaechi, his wife and my wife to save my life. “I was flown out of the country unconscious. After two and a half months by God’s grace, I returned to Nigeria stronger. It is good to thank God for His mercies.” The National Chairman of APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, who was represented by the National Auditor of the ruling party, Chief George Moghalu, described Uchendu as a senator in whom members of the APC were well pleased. But Wike said the senator was at war with his conscience. Speaking through the Commissioner for Information and Communications, Chief Emma Okah, the governor said: “Wike is not fighting Senator Uchendu. He (Uchendu) is at war with his conscience because he knows that the position he is occupying today, he is reaping the fruit of another person’s (Senator George Thompson Sekibo of PDP) labour and it will continue to haunt him. “Senator Uchendu is running a hostile agenda against Governor Wike, who is always saying that all Rivers people should first think about Rivers State. “All members of the National Assembly from Rivers State each recently got brand new 2017 model of Toyota Land Cruiser Sport Utility Vehicles (SUVs) from the Rivers State government. Only Senator Uchendu refused to take his jeep.” 