An auto mechanic, Temitope Oshikoya, requires N350,000  for a genital surgery. Oshikoya told The Nation that he fell into a gutter on January 10, 2001, in Egbeda, Lagos. The plank he fell on while trying to buy snacks, he said,  hit his genital and affected the pipe he uses to urinate. He has since been moving from one hospital to the other. He did an x-ray and was operated on, but he still needs money for another surgery as he finds it difficult to urinate through his organ. Oshikoya said: “I went to repair a car at Egbeda bus-stop, after which I went to buy biscuits and sachet water in the area; I was standing on a plank with my right leg, but while I stretched my hands to collect the biscuits and water, and at the same time I placed my right leg on the plank; the plank fell and hit my genitals. “I was rushed to a hospital around Ikotun, where I spent about three weeks; they dig a hole in my stomach and I was later discharged. I went back to the hospital about three weeks later and learnt that the doctor that attended to me in the hospital was not a professional and that he should have referred me to a general hospital. I later went to a general hospital at Ijebu-Ode, where my penis was treated; I was there for about a year but when I could not bear the stress, I was transferred to University College Hospital (UCH) in Ibadan, Oyo State, where I also underwent treatment till 2013. I spent a lot of money both on treatment, transportation and accommodation. When I could no longer afford the expenses, I stopped going, besides, the hospital sometimes went on strike. “Along the line in 2014, I developed appendix and I was operated upon, I had to go back to UCH where I did x-ray which cost me N100,000, I also went to a private hospital in Eruwa, where I met a man who collected N100,000 for another operation. I spent about six weeks there, but the man died and I had to go back to UCH. I was told to do x-tray but I could not afford it. I decided to go to Gbagada and I was also told to do the x-ray, that they need it before they could perform any operation. I had to sell my car to get the money, I did the x-tray for N75,000 and I was told I still have to be operated, which will cost me N350,000.” He said he has sold all that he has on his health, noting that he does not have money for the operation. He said that his wife, a hairdresser has been the one catering for the family. “I beg Nigerians to help me because I don’t have any money. I live at 2 Sunny Road, Agbado. I use to be a mechanic but since I did the operation in 2014 I can’t work as a mechanic any longer because I don’t have power to do it as before. Someone gave me a car that I use to carry loads for traders and I deliver to him after work. I want Nigeria to help me so that my body will be okay; I am married with a child.” His account number: Oshikoya Temitope Skye Bank – 3011330455.