With technological advancements in Artificial intelligence, mixed reality, quantum computing, 3D printing and others disrupting what is work and learning globally, Microsoft Vice President, Worldwide Education, Anthony Salcito, has called for changes in mindsets that would allow educators prepare learners for jobs of the future. Speaking at the opening of the two-day BETT Middle East and Africa Leadership conference and exhibition held at the Abu Dhabi National Exhibition Centre (ADNEC), Abu Dhabi Monday, Salcito said kindergartners who would graduate by 2030 needed a different kind of education from what is presently on offer. Based on a research by Microsoft and McKinsey on “Preparing the Class of 2030”, the technology expert said their education needed to be more personalised and teach more soft and emotional skills. In doing this, Salcito said technology becomes an enabler that would, rather than take teachers’ place, strengthen them to learn more about their students and as a result give them education tailored to their needs. He said teachers needed to realise that technology could not take their place but could make them more productive in preparing their learners to excel in a world where the skill sets needed were presently unknown. He said such education should infuse passion in the learners. “The reality of why Artificial Intelligence is often feared is because of the displacement of jobs. In many ways it is going to create potential to improve existing jobs – potential to help students get better by providing teachers with tools to assist their jobs,” he said. In his speech, the Minister of Education at the United Arab Emirates, H.E. Hussain Ibrahim So, said his country was preparing hard to equip its citizens with the right kind of skills by evolving policies and establishing schools where innovative learning takes place. “UAE is the first to have a specialist for the fourth industrial revolution to create policies and laws. We need high quality education to enable our children for the future. “We were very proactive in the UAE and launched smart learning in 125 schools. We are planning to launch in 700 schools,” he said. In an interview with The Nation, the Story Adviser to Gov Abiola Ajimobi, on education, Dr BC Akin-Alabi said the Oyo State was ready to embrace the transformation technology brings. She said the government was partnering with Microsoft to make basic and advanced digital literacy curriculum available in all schools, public or private, at all levels.