Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode said yesterday that in its determination to make workers in its employ the envy of all, the government was organising a training for senior civil servants in information management. The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions, Dr. Akintola Benson Oke, spoke while declaring open a two-day training for senior management staff with the theme: “Information Management for Positive Perception of Lagos State government”. It was organised by the Lagos State Ministry of Establishment, Training and Pensions, in conjunction with Messrs. XLS Consult Ltd, at NECA House, CBD, Alausa, Ikeja, Lagos. The governor said information had been described as the fuel of the government, hence the present administration deemed it fit to train and retrain its workforce, so as to fit into the wheel of progress as the state moves from mega to smart city. He said: “One may suppose that what sustains a government and in fact, a system of government, is the will of the people. That may be true. But what influences the will of the people is information and the way it is managed. This is why every responsible government will place premium on the establishment, maintenance and sustenance of a modern, robust and effective information management system. The net effect is that if civil servants are well-equipped to discharge these tasks, government’s programmes will be positively perceived by the populace and will receive support for success.” Ambode urged the trainees to participate in the discussions and justify the money spent on them by the government. He challenged the workforce to come up with data-backed and data-inspired ideas that would rival the example S of France and Moscow. The Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Establishment, Training and Pensions, Mrs. Rhoda Ayinde, congratulated the participants for being part of the programme. She said they should thank Governor Ambode for approving the training, which would not only be beneficial to the government, but also to the civil servants who participated in the training.   