Mutiu Agboke is the Resident Electoral Commissioner of Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in Oyo State. He speaks with Sunday Oguntola on plans for the 2019 general elections and electoral issues, among others. Excerpts: Oyo State has over 16,000 uncollected Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs). Have you been able to know why the PVCs remain unclaimed? The factors responsible include lack of general awareness on the parts of the owners of the cards. Two, the fact that some of them who were living in a place had moved from the place. I will give you an example. I called the HOD of my ICT department that we should do an experiment. We selected some cards and we started calling them one after the other to actually know whether they were still alive or not. Unfortunately, out of hundred, only one of them is still resident in Oyo State. If you make a call now, they all said they are far away in other parts of the country but commended INEC for the initiative. Some said they are now in Umuahia, others said they are in Port Harcourt and some other far parts of the country. A lady came to my office for an interview and approached me that her PVC she did in 2015 as a student in another state had not been collected. She has just moved to Ibadan. I requested for her TVC Temporary Voter Card (TVC) and sent it to the local government where she registered. They were able to locate the PVC and sent it to me. She had to come to me to come and collect. The question is: how many people would have such opportunity? Then, imagine the number of people in her category who of course their PVCs would be there and they will not be able to know that they have to go and collect. So, those are the things that we have identified. Not even that, where you have students’ populated areas, the more you have them and allow them to participate in the process of registration, the more you are going to have the problem of collection because it will be easy for them to register than to collect. One of our commissioners conducted a survey and discovered that those people who are unable to collect their PVCs in the north are mostly house wives. They were mobilised to go for the registration but nobody has deemed it fit to mobilise them to go and collect the PVCs. You can see the problem we are facing and it is a serious problem. Voters’ apathy is not also unconnected with uncollected PVCs. A lot of people just want to register and not vote. What are you going to do to make sure that many of these apathetic voters are more interested? They have to be interested. Any process we have in Nigeria, we do not expect an angel to be sent from heaven to come and do it for us. We are the ones that will do it, midwife it and ensure the process is credible and acceptable. The onus is on INEC because INEC by its mandate is empowered to ensure that there is regular continuous voters’ education across board. Number one, we have to instill the confidence again in the people because most people have lost interest and confidence when of course our staffers have been alleged of one atrocity or irregularities or the other in the past and as such you cannot expect the people to trust the process again. Also, like someone said recently that INEC has not done enough to ensure that it is where people vote that they get the results. These are the things that we know. And our duty is to ensure that we up our game in terms of putting INEC in better perspective for people to appreciate it as a credible election a management body. Must INEC continue to use ad hoc staff considering the many challenges it has faced with them? If you look at history, it was INEC staff doing the job. Across the country we made use of our staff. The ad hoc staffs were just complementary. But later, there were issues and public debates that INEC staffs were not helping matters and that was what brought about the MoU with INEC and NYSC. So, it is not that we are just dragging the corps members. Not only that, we have a synergy with higher institutions where we make use of senior staffs and lecturers as returning officers. I think whether INEC staff, NYSC ad hoc staff or even the universities personnel are not the issue. The issue is about our values system as a nation, as individuals and as organisations and that was why INEC has identified and developed two major documents for operationalisation of INEC ideas and ideals. The first document is called INEC strategic Programme of action 2017-2021. The second one is INEC strategic plan 2017-2012. The purpose of the document is for us all to ensure there is a regular and constant engagements as stakeholders through regular trainings and re-trainings of our staffs, which we are doing within the Commission. What do you see to INEC’s clamour for a special tribunal to try electoral offenders? If the Commission is clamouring for a special tribunal, it does not mean we are saying due process will not be followed or that we are going to jump process. Our legal system in the country is accusatorial. What that means is he who alleges must prove. The Commission is saying take away the burden or trial of this electoral offenders from the regular courts. Once we have a commission for it, like we have election petition tribunal, it is not somebody from somewhere that sits as a judge there. It is still these existing judges that sit there. What we are saying is that once we have a court and a judge is appointed for electoral matters, it is designated so and that will be his own area of adjudication. The use of electronic smart cards for verification was turbulent in 2015. Are we set to go that way again in 2019? You will always have challenges in the product of human intelligence. It is only when you are an angel or God you can be perfect. All we are doing is to ensure the process has sanity and all the challenges we have seen must be a better in 2019. All the bad card readers have been isolated, some are being procured and we are still going to procure more. Finance is a major one because the budget for the election is still hanging and we are still appealing to the National Assembly to do the needful. But for those machines we just procured to replace those that were bad, we are already test running them ahead of the elections. We made use of some in Anambra governorship election and other bye elections. We are going to use some of them in Ekiti, Osun and other bye elections. The National Assembly is against the sequence of elections released by INEC… The Commission has no big problem with anything. People don’t know the sensitivity of INEC. INEC is a creation of law and empowered to carry out all mandates according to the law. INEC has come up with a time table as prescribed by laws and ordered elections in line with our operational guidelines and framework. The time table has generated issues between the National Assembly and executive but that does not concern the Commission. For us, we stand by the timetable we have released. It is until when there is a clear cut direction guided by law that INEC can now say there is a new development. How can voters who have relocated get their PVCs? If you registered in a place and relocated and so yet to collect your PVC, what you do is just go and meet our officer in your new location and explain the situation to our officers. They will tell you how you can apply for transfer from the state you registered. You have to go to any of our offices physically to apply for the transfer because it cannot be done by proxy. You cannot send anybody. Even within a state, PVCs could be transferred from one local government to another and the process is not as difficult people think.