Theresa Onwuka holds a BSc. Banking & Finance degree from the University of Port Harcourt Nigeria, and an MBA from Brunel University, London after a robust career in banking for seven years, she moved to fashion designing. Her brand, Needle Point is known for its classy and elegant designs which have been worn by top Nigerian celebrities such as Kate Henshaw, Rita Domnic, Eku Edewor among others. She shares with ADETUTU AUDU why she dumped banking for designing. Fashion designing started as a hobby for you. What were you doing before fashion designing? For me fashion runs in my family. My grandfather made uniforms during the war and my mother went to London school of fashion.  Her focus was bridal wears, during the school holidays I usually go to her workshop and helped her embellished. That was where I picked it.  I can sew, I am very good with my hands and know how to design, but I don’t know how to cut. I am artistic. After I left banking after the birth of my second child to focus on the family.  In 2004, after working as a banker for seven years, we decided I become a stay-at-home mum to focus on raising our two young children as my husband’s career entailed a lot of travelling and long work hours. When my son turned 1 year old, I started asking God to point me in the direction of His Purpose for me, asking Him to show me the talent I was born with.  Through prayer, it came to mind that in secondary school, I had done a hand-stitched embroidery piece of work. Initially I did want to be collecting fabrics, I just wanted to embellish.  But people keep saying we see what you wear, why don’t you design and it started like that from my home. I stopped in 2006 and started again in 2010 and opened the store in 2011. When would you say was your major breakthrough? In 2010, I received an invitation from a family friend, Udo Okonjo, to attend a women’s meeting -WOW DIVAS( Women Of Worth , Divinely Inspired Victorious Anointed Sisters, now changed to IWOW – Inspired Women  Of Worth) . I prayed for guidance first as being a very private person, I was truly wary of a gathering of women. However, I was inspired because the meeting was all about women being the best they can be. It was a meeting of woman, who truly loved God. The message that left a solid impression in my mind was, “If God says you can, who says you can’t”. A few months prior to my attending this meeting, people kept asking me to return to my hobby.  In all honesty, I truly believe that God was calling me to put what he had planted in me to use. A few weeks later, the WOW DIVAS decided to have a formal group launch and included a fashion show in the program.  This was my first show and the response was truly encouraging. It got me thinking. During a WOW DIVA hangout a few weeks later, we studied the Bible passage where Jesus had asked Peter to step out of the boat and walk on water. This story asked me to step out of my comfort zone, keep my eyes on Jesus and believe. And that was it, since then we have been going from strength to strength and grace to grace. The brand began in 2006 but got re-launched in 2010. Since then, ‘Needle Point’ has unveiled several collections such as the Fusion Collection (2012), Amina Collection (A/W 2013) and The Butterflies & Bees (S/S 2014). Since its re-launch, the brand has enjoyed features in various fashion publications. In 2013, Needlepoint was selected to show at ARISE Magazine Fashion Week, Lagos Fashion & Design Week, and Ebony Life TV Runway Series. Where do you draw your inspiration from? Things I like.  For instance I saw a dress when I travelled. I saw a slit on a dress and the collection was built around slit opening. I just thought oh, it’s a freedom collection, freedom of speech, freedom religion, free to be who you are. That opening represents the freedom.  I used slits, openings, movement in form and colour as well as variations in fabric texture to depict my own interpretation of freedom- spiritual, mental or physical.  Dominant colours in the collection are burgundy which represents life is in the blood, White which represents peace and Yellow which represents ray of hope. I like to conceptualize things like that. The Freedom Collection”, an everyday fashion piece. It is trendy, stylish and available in different colours.  The collection was designed on the premise that being free is everyone’s fundamental right.  It starts from things I like and obviously I pray about it. You seemed very religious, what would you not be caught doing as a designer? I would not make things that would reveal part of the body that should be covered. I make decent clothes. I love African prints and our brand focuses on women dress. We do African contemporary, for me I will like to open my wardrobe and say this is what I want to wear, it is Ankara but it is modern. That is the vision I have.  The brand’s DNA has identified the ‘Needle Point’ woman as confident, loves her classic pieces and remains stylishly elegant. Can you share with us the first piece of cloth you designed? The first person I made something for, it was for her wedding. The wedding gown is strapless and she wanted me to make a jacket. The fact that she trusted me to make something for her wedding gave me confident. Who are those who influenced you in life? My mother, because I picked the talent from her.  My mother, who had attended the London School of Fashion in the 1980s, inspired me into the fashion industry. Immersed from a young age into a world suffused in creativity, shape and colors, I was exposed to the rudiments of detailing, design and embellishment. My husband because I have seen the way he works.  In terms of integrity, your name is key in anything you do. You may be the poorest man, but have a good name.  I tried to put that in my business and also hard work. My family in general. What would you say are your challenges? Because the world is going global, we need access to more funds so as to meet demand because the market is out there. So many Nigerian designers are doing fantastic things.  You can only do little with savings and family support. But few banks are supporting. Nigerians are fashionable, there is market for everyone. If you have vision and you are following in that direction. The manpower and skills is also another challenge. In my office, we operate as a family unit, sometimes I get shot in the leg, but that is who I am. You manage people, tolerate them. People that work with you wants you to know that what affects them affect you. Like my staff we always go out every year. They are artisans but we try to educate each other. How would you describe yourself? I describe myself as very simple and down to earth woman, who tries to be led by the Holy Spirit in her daily life. I believe in the importance of having a relationship with God above all else. I am married to, Emeka for over 15years and God has blessed us with three children. How supportive is your husband? He’s very supportive, a hundred percent. He’s the best man in the whole world (laughs). If the job is taking me away for a long stretch of time, I make sure that everything he needs is at home. And he supports me with prayers. In this era where marriages don’t last, what has been your secret? The secret is understanding; because two different people coming from different backgrounds, the way we were brought up is very different, The secret is to learn each other, study each other, because if you can’t dwell only on the negatives. Let the positives override the negatives. That way you will be able to get the best out of your spouse. What would be your advice to those who want to go into the fashion business? My advice would be that they need to believe in themselves. They don’t need to make money their priority. Money is a part of it, but your integrity is very important. If you are coming into the fashion business, make sure your integrity is very sound. If it is only about money, you will not be able to deliver your jobs on time and next time, they will not patronize you. Also, don’t say what you know you’re not. If you know you’re not good, don’t go and proclaim it. How competitive is the Nigerian fashion industry? Everybody is into fashion I guess. A large number of ladies are interested in fashion these days but the there is really no competition, sincerely speaking. But the difference also comes in the form of creativity. Most people copy from others. Your creativity is what makes one different from the rest. That’s what going to bring people to you. How is that working, especially given the present state of the economy? It is still amazing despite all that is going on. The difference is that we don’t buy much outside the country like we used to. We are all gifted; we are all talented in this country. So the best part of fashion now is creativity. Whatever you think you are buying outside, you can actually create here. So it is actually amazing that people still patronize the fashion industry. How does importation of foreign made goods affect the growth of SMEs? That is not just a big challenge, it is a big problem. You see when these goods come in from Overseas, especially from places where their government has subsidized things and help get cheaper funds – talk about China, talk about Taiwan – their goods come cheaper and they hamper the growth of our own SMEs because the government of those places has helped them to produce goods at a cheaper rate, and sent it down, and the Nigerian populace as well prefers imported goods. There’s a perception that those are better though it is not always true, but the perception is there, and people go for it. This is really damaging the growth of our own SME industry. It has to stop.