As part of plans to revive the Nigerian economy and position it for global competition, the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has assured investors of its determination to ensure early completion of the Industrial Park phase 2 at Idu and make it ready for use by local and foreign investors. The FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello gave the assurance at the FCT Day of Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) Focus Labs holding at the Abuja Sheraton Hotel. The FCT Administration team comprising the Permanent Secretary, Mr. Christian Ohaa, Executive Secretary FCDA Engr. Umar Gambo Jibrin, Chief of Staff Bashir Maibornu and other relevant top functionaries held direct talks with investors in order to address any inter-agency problems that could hinder investment in the Territory. According to a statement issued by the Minister’s Special Assistant Media, Abubakar Sani, top among the investors is Zeberced, a Turkish investment giant that is presently constructing the second phase of the Idu Industrial Park. The 245-hectare Park is expected to provide over 170 industrial plots of land for various categories of investors from manufacturing to retail marketing as well as create thousands of jobs. The discussions identified the uncompleted access road to the Park as a major hindrance to prospective investors. The FCT Minister and the State Minister for Budget and National Planning, Zainab Ahmed, agreed to work together to mobilise funding for the completion of the road. The collaboration and understanding achieved between Zeberced and the two Minsters also paved way for the resolution of issues concerning other investors who made presentations at the Lab. Major investors in World Health Organization certified Pharmaceutical manufacturing, Liquefied Petroleum Gas and footwear manufacturing, who all sought for land allocation to set up their industries, were all linked up with the industrial park developer for location of their businesses. The FCT Minister also directed the Abuja Investment Company to facilitate all the linkages and ensure that investors who have also expressed interest in the Abuja Technology Village (ATV) were also provided with necessary support and guidance. The ERGP Focus Labs being organized by the Ministry of Budget and National Planning aims at achieving three cardinal goals namely: restore growth in the economy to a positive path and sustain it to, at least, 7% by 2020; invest in the Nigerian people and improve their living standards as well as build an economy that is globally competitive.