The spending $496m without parliamentary approval has pitched President Muhammadu Buhari against the House of Representatives with most members calling for the impeachment of the President. Following the reading of President Buhari’s request in a letter by Speaker  Yakubu Dogara at Tuesday’s plenary informing the House that $496m had been spent for the procurement of military aircraft  from the United State of America(USA), lawmakers could not hide their disdain for what they called breach of the constitution by the President. According to Buhari, the expenditure was made in anticipation that the Green Chamber would approve it, as part of the 2018 Appropriation Bill, currently before the National Assembly. The letter titled ‘Supplementary input into the 2018 Appropriation Bill: Purchase of Super Tucano Aircraft from the United States Government, dated April 13, 2018 reads in part: “In the expectation that the National Assembly would have no objection to the purchase of this highly specialized aircraft, which is critical to national security, I granted anticipatory approval for the release of US$496,374,470.00. This was paid directly to the Treasury of the United States Government. “I am therefore writing, seeking approval of this House for the sum of US$496,374,470.00( equivalent to N151,394,421,335.00)to be included in the 2018 Appropriation Bill, which the National Assembly is currently finalizing…” Kingsley Chinda, (PDP, Rivers) in a a point of order said the President’s action was an infraction against the 1999 Constitution( as amended) that should  not be treated with levity. Saying that an impeachment proceedings should be initiated against President Buhari, he added, “There is no where in our law that talked about anticipatory approval. We cannot seat down  and allow this to take place. “You are talking about anticipatory approval, is this House a rubber stamp? It is an impeachable offence. There is no infraction that  is worse than this. Let us not continue to sleep. “I propose that we commence impeachment on Mr President”. Sunday Karimi (PDP, Kogi) said the President should be ready to face the consequences of impeachment, “This is the time to tell the President  that we have been elected to serve our people. “There  is need for this house to reply him and tell him that he has breached  the constitution and should be ready to face the consequence,” he added. Sergius Ogun (PDP, Edo) said “Chuba Okadigbo was impeached for anticipatory approval. We are not a lame duck House”. Deputy Minority Leader, Chukwuka Onyeama (PDP, Anambra) said:  “It has been established that there’s a breach of the constitution. What we should be talking about now is to reply the Executive.” However, the Chairman, House Committee, Emmanuel Orker-Jev  (APC, Benue) said the President’s letter must go through second reading as stipulated by the House rules but he was greeted with disapproving shouts of no. Also, Aliyu Sani Madakian APC, Kano) said  House rules should not be applied on the matter as Section 1 of the constitution provides that the constitution shall be binding on everybody, and that any other law inconsistent with it is null and void. Deputy Majority Whip, Pally Iriase (APC, Edo) expressed the view that two wrongs could not make a right while Mohammed Tahir Monguno (APC, Borno) said: “I concur with the submissions of the chairman rules and business. It is the same constitution that gives us the right to come up with our rules.” However, Speaker Yakubu Dogara ruled that the House would go by its rules and the letter would go to second reading before a decision is taken on it.