A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Rotimi Olowo, yesterday washed his hands of Easter Sunday’s  attack on Somolu Local Government Chairman Abdulhamed Salawu aka Dullar at a street carnival. Olowo, who represents Somolu Constituency I, said he  learnt of the incident from a councillor on Easter Monday. In an interview with our correspondent, Olowo said his opponents were behind the allegation that he had a hand in the fracas. He said he was at the party at the invitation of a Special Adviser to the Governor, Mr Adeleke Adekoya. Olowo said: “On that fateful day, I left the house with my brother to the birthday of Iyaloja-General of Somolu Local Government. From her house, we moved to Adeleke’s party. There were two parties on the same street – Iyaloja’s birthday and the Anifowoshe Carnival – sponsored by Mr Adeleke. The party was about 100 to 200 metres apart on the same street.  I had another party at Stallion Base in Abiodun, and there I met Williams Lawson, the former Sole Administrator of the council and some of his friends. We all returned to Anifowoshe for Adeleke’s party. Not quite long, Salawu popularly called Dullar came in and greeted me from a distance ‘Olumoko’ and I responded “Bawo ni” then he settled down. “After a while I left Adeleke’s party for another party where I was to be given an award. I later learnt that when Dullar was leaving, his boys were pushing people to create space for him and those people fought back. Then one of his (Salawu’s) boys broke a bottle and the bottle hit him in his hand and part of the bottle touched his lips, that was what transpired and even at that, there was no serious issue at the party. It was from there I gathered that he went to Alade Police Station to report that I beckoned on some boys to attack him’’. He called for investigation of the matter. “I urge the police to investigate the matter and prosecute the culprits. As I am speaking with you, the Area ‘H’ Commander has taken over the case but what actually baffles me was that, Mr Taofeek Sanjay was with me throughout that Sunday only for the council chairman to point at him that he should be arrested, that he is one of those that attacked him. If Salawu said some people attacked him despite having some boys going about with him… why can’t they arrest the person that actually broke the bottle? They know where he lives; why can’t they arrest him and get information from him. Olowo gave Area ‘H’ Commander  one week to act on the matter or “I will take it to the next level.”