Are there fertilisers in Edo State for farmers to improve their yield? Opposition says no, but findings by Niger Delta Report indicate otherwise, reports OSAGIE OTABOR It appeared derelict. That is the impression one has on approaching the Edo Fertiliser and Chemical Plant in Auchi, Etsako West Local Government Area. It seems the factory is devoid of any activity except for the presence of security personnel at the gate. But the reality is different. The fertiliser plant is meant to provide fertiliser for neighbouring states such as Kogi, Delta, Ondo and Anambra. The perceived inactivity at the plant, perhaps, explained why the Edo State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) challenged Governor Godwin Obaseki to show the world fertilisers produced from the plant that was inaugurated in August last year by Vice-President Yomi Osinbajo. At a news conference in Benin-City, the Edo State capital, Chairman of Edo State chapter of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, described the fertiliser plant as another fraud of the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration. Orbih said the plant was not operational, even as he said it was worrisome that Osinbajo could be made to inaugurate a plant that was never meant to function. A fact-finding visit to the plant revealed that the PDP’s allegations were baseless. The visit showed that the plant has commenced commercial production of fertiliser. The fertiliser plant was revamped last year with a target to produce 60,000 metric tons of fertiliser. The move to revitalise the plant began in January, last year when Obaseki led the Director-General of Nigeria Sovereign Investment Authority, Uche Orji and President of Fertiliser Producers’ Association of Nigeria Thomas Etu to the plant with a view to reviving it to meet the Federal Government’s target of creating 250,000 jobs from all the 38 fertiliser blending plants across the country. Orji told reporters that the visit to the fertiliser plant was part of the Presidential Initiative on Fertiliser (PIF) whose purpose was to ensure that farmers in the country buy fertiliser at the cost of N5,500. During the inauguration of the plant in August last year, Osinbajo said the desire to revitalise fertiliser blending plants across the country was the direct consequence of Buhari’s initiative to diversify the economy and move the country from being dependent on crude oil to agriculture by boosting farming activities as well as develop the agriculture value chain. Osinbajo added that agricultural activities in the country could be enhanced significantly if fertilisers are easily available and accessible to farmers. The visit to the fertiliser plant on Tuesday last week revealed that over 30,000 bags of fertilisers have been produced since August last year and stored in the warehouse waiting to be sold. Factory Manager of the plant, Mr. Iyere Okhuorabo who took reporters on a guided tour of the plant and the stores where the fertilisers were stored said the plant did not deliberately stop production. Okhuorabo further explained that production was stopped because the factory’s stores were filled with finished products that had not been sold. He said: “For the few days, we were able to produce more than 30,000 bags. That translates to about 51 trucks with 600 bags of fertiliser each.  Six trucks have been loaded already. “We are expecting order for 11 trucks so that we can start production again. We stopped production because of space constraint. Our stores are filled up. “Now that we are getting orders for supply, we now have spaces to stock fertilisers when produced. This means that the plant will start operations again. What is stopping us is not lack of raw materials but space for storage. We can produce 60,000 metric tons per annum. “We are getting power 15 hours daily but we want them to give us more. As the farming season has begun, we are receiving orders from farmers. We are set to load out 18 trucks within two weeks. Our plant is running but we reduced the two shifts to one interchanging them because of space.” Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on Agriculture, Prince Joe Okojie, said there was abundance of fertilisers for farmers in the state. His words: “I came to see what they have in stock. We are getting our farmers ready to go to the farms. They have been producing and storing fertilisers. I came to make sure fertilisers are available for our farmers. You can see that there is abundance of fertilisers. They will be made available as we need them. There is no doubt about the plant’s working ability.” The price tag of N5,500 was boldly written on each bag of fertiliser.