 *Roma sells ticket versus Liverpool before draw It is no longer news that the Semi final fixtures of this year’s Champions league has been announced with Roma pitched against Liverpool and Real Madrid pitched against Bayern Munich. But the big question on the lips of soccer pundits and fans across the globe now is; could the pairing have been fixed? Has there been some element of rigging in the process?  The queries are propping up following reports that Roma who against all permutations edged out hot favorites Barcelona, in the quarterfinals have already sold Roma versus Liverpool semi final tickets before the Friday draws were announced. SUSPICIOUS fans fear the Champions League draw was fixed as Roma advertised tickets BEFORE Liverpool were announced as their opponents. The Italian side appeared to offer supporters the chance to purchase home seats against Jurgen Klopp’s side on Thursday night. Roma accidentally offered supporters the chance to buy tickets to face Liverpool on June 2 The website error was quickly taken down, but not before eagle-eyed viewers grabbed a screenshot of the tie supposedly taking place on May 2. They then drew the Reds in the draw in Nyon on Friday afternoon. Liverpool are, in fact, due to face Roma at the Stadio Olimpico on May 2. Conspiracy theories are storming social media with fans fearing some sort of corruption. So. Roma knew yesterday that they’d be playing Liverpool as they advertised tickets on their website. But it’s not fixed of course. If this is true, it’s a sad day for football, roma’s website selling tickets for the Champions leauge semi final a day before the draw is made. Time will tell” Were some of the submissions from worried fans One fan wrote: “Never seen something so rigged in my life, Roma selling tickets at 10am this morning against Liverpool away for season ticket holders.” Another said: “If this is true, it’s a sad day for football, Roma’s website selling tickets for the Champions League semi-final a day before the draw is made. Time will tell. Back-to-back winners Real Madrid will play German giants Bayern Munich in the other semi-final. The premature fuelled conspiracy theorists. Just last year Spanish publication AS suggested that Uefa had used a heated ball to avoid an all-Spanish final.         