The Chairman, Kaduna State Independent Electoral Commission (KADSIECOM), Dr. Saratu Binta Dikko-Audu on Tuesday announced that the elections into the 23 local government areas of Kaduna state will hold as scheduled despite the fire outbreak that affected some offices of the commission. Dr. Dikko-Audu made the announcement at an emergency meeting with all political parties in the State, adding that there will be no Smart Card Readers (SDR) as the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) would not be able to make the cards available for the election. She however, stressed that the Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) will be used and verified through the voters register during the election. But the major opposition party, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) kicked against the information that there would be no card readers during the election. According to the State PDP Secretary, Ibrahim Wusono, “It is a grand design to rigg the election, and therefore it is not acceptable to us in the PDP. The card readers must be made available during the election”. On the other hand, the State All Progressives Congress (APC) called for the postponement of the election because of the forthcoming national convention of the APC that will hold two days after the local government election. The State Secretary of APC, Yahaya Baba-Pate said, “We in the APC are calling for the postponement of the election because of the APC national convention coming up on May 14. It has been the tradition nationwide that whenever there is national event, the State event has to step down for the national event. Therefore we are calling on the SEICOM to postpone the election to enable stakeholders prepare for the national convention”. The election had earlier been scheduled to May 12, 2019 before the fire incident. But following the fire outbreak, there was speculation that the election might be postponed. Recalled that legal and finance departments of the Commission was gutted by fire last Saturday. No life was lost to the inferno. Responding to PDP’s accusation about the card readers,  the SEICOM boss said, “We started talking to INEC about card readers about two years ago. But we were shocked to get a letter from INEC that it would not be able to provide us with the card readers because it was preparing for 2019 election. “INEC cannot hold us back; we have to go ahead with our own election as scheduled. “If there is anybody here that can convince INEC to give us the card readers we will appreciate it. However, we are going to use electronic voting machine which is one of the sensitive materials”. On the call for the postponement of the election, she noted that the election date was not the same with that of the APC national convention, and as such the election cannot be shifted. The Chairman informed that some of the materials were destroyed in the inferno, but stressed that, the remaining Electronic Voting Machine (EVM) will be adequate for the election.