Faith-based institution, Benson Idahosa University, has emerged as the only institution in the country rated amongst the Best 100 companies to work for in Nigeria, according to Jobberman’s 2018 list of best 100 companies to work for in Nigeria. According to a survey conducted by Jobberman; an online platform that prides itself on providing viable solutions to unemployment, Benson Idahosa University was ranked 71st and the only university on the recently released list of companies recognised as best employers of labour in Nigeria. The annual best 100 Companies to work for in Nigeria rates companies in the country based on measures such as employee satisfaction, happiness, work-life balance, career growth prospects and other relevant metrics as voted for by employees and career professionals. According to the job search platform, the major work parameters responsible for the satisfactory ratings were centred primarily on Monthly Salary, Work-life Balance, Career Growth and Advancement, Welfare Benefits and Job Security. Reacting to the news, the President of Benson Idahosa University, Bishop F.E.B. Idahosa expressed excitement as the institution is the only university that made the list. According to him, State Government still owe salaries for months but Benson Idahosa University has paid promptly since inception in 1996, including what could have been a rough patch after the death of the founder, Archbishop Benson Idahosa. “For taking care of salaries during a recession and for the excellent welfare scheme for staff, Benson Idahosa University was noticed and it got us ranked among Nigeria’s big six oil companies, and right up there with Nigeria’s top 5 banks. Our State Governor who also pays salary on time is also proud of us for doing well for the State,” Idahosa said. Meanwhile, software development firm, Andela was ranked as the number one company to work for in Nigeria, while commercial banks like UBA, Union Bank and Access Bank were all in the top 10, along with consulting firms like KPMG and PricewaterhouseCoopers, with Dangote group rounding up the top 10. This is the fourth edition, after the rankings were first released in 2014. The 4th edition of the ranking considered a total of 2,156 valid respondents, consisting of career professionals and employees across Nigerian owned companies and multinationals. Other companies that made the list include Google, First Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank, Union Bank, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC) and Konga, amongst others.