Chief Olarewaju Oloyo, the Chairman of the Governing Council of  Auchi Polytechnic in Edo,  has warned the staff  not to engage in unethical practices capable of ruining the reputation of  the institution. Oloyo gave the warning at an interactive session with Deans and Directors of the institution on Thursday in Auchi. While congratulating Dr Sanusi Jimah over his appointment as substantive Rector of the school, he said the council had come to the realisation that “the majority of staff, teaching and non-teaching, are reasonably obedient, hardworking and disciplined.’’ According to him, the polytechnic “which is well respected among its peers,’’ has a great potential to serve the community and the nation through productive research and service. The council chairman, however, said a few members of the work force engage in unethical practices which impact negatively on the reputation of the polytechnic. “ Few members of staff wantonly break regulations by setting aside grievance procedures outlined in the terms of engagement. “Destroying any nation does not require the use of atomic bombs or the use of long range missiles. It only requires lowering the quality of education and allowing cheating in examination by such students. “Patients die in the hands of such doctors. Buildings collapse in the hands of such engineers. Money is lost in the hands of such economists and accountants. “Humanity dies in the hands of such religious scholars. Justice is lost in the hands of such judges; the collapse of the education sector is the collapse of the nation,” he said. “ We want to assure all of you that this council is in place to supervise the healthy and steady growth and progress of this institution. “Council believes that the welfare of staff is a necessary condition for progress. We assure you that council will pursue the welfare of staff as a cardinal principle. “Council also assures staff of fairness and justice. Staff should at all times endeavour to follow laid down grievance resolution mechanisms. “The idea of externalising grievances in the press is unhelpful. It impacts negatively on the polytechnic as an institution and on yourselves as workers of the polytechnic. “The community and the country have a myriad of problems requiring solutions. Problems can be solved through research; we mean productive research which solves or ameliorates problems. “We believe that this institution has the calibre of staff that can focus on such problems and solve them. “ In this direction, we challenge staff to come up with viable proposals that can solve problems. “We will find the money to fund such proposals. You worry about the proposal, leave us to worry about getting you the funds. “If this polytechnic must continue to make progress, discipline must be the guide. Under our oversight, unethical behaviour  like extortion, money or amorous gratification  for good grades for students will not be accepted. “The side tracking of regulations to externalise grievances in the courts or the press will also not be accepted. Council insists that internal grievance resolution mechanism should be exhausted before petitions start flying to all manner of offices in the country or in the court or the press. `We enjoin you to pass this message to your subordinates. Council will be compassionate, fair and just to all members of staff. “However, acts of indiscipline will be dealt with very firmly, I mean really very firmly. “Our hardworking staff needs to be protected. The image of the polytechnic needs to be protected from the nuisance of the few who soil our gowns,’’ he added. NAN