An Associate Professor and Acting Head of Department of Industrial Chemistry of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Dr. Baba Alafara, has been elected the secretary of Hydrometallurgy and Electrometallurgy Committee by the Minerals Metals and Materials Society (TMS) in the United States (US). It was at the 147th annual meeting and exhibition of the Pan American Materials Congress (TMS 2018) in Phoenix, Arizona. He is to serve  for two years. Based on his contributions to the success of the TMS 2018, Alafara was also appointed as co-organiser of the Rare Metal Technology for the coming TMS conference taking place in San Antonio, Texas. The week-long event with the theme: The world comes here, was attended by over 4,000 participants across the globe. The global event witnessed several technical presentations, committee meetings and exhibitions on materials science and engineering for economic sustainability and development. Alafara, during the Rare Metal Extraction and Processing session, presented a research paper titled: Purification of a Nigerian Wolframite Ore for Improved Industrial Applications. He also served as a mentor at the Meet-a-Mentor session, where he led a group of international scholars on Turning Passion into Expertise, comprising Geraldo Alvear from Aurubis, Argentina, Hani Henein of University of Alberta in Canada, Simona Hunyadi Murph of Savanna River National Laboratory, among others. The Rare Metal Technology encompasses the extraction of rare metals as well as rare extraction processing techniques used in metal production, mineral processing and development. Prof Hojong Kim and Prof Bradford Wesstrom of the Pennsylvania State University and Freeport McMoRan El Paso in the U.S. were also elected as Chairman and Vice-Chairman. Alafara expressed appreciation to the UNILORIN management for supporting him in attending TMS 2018. He promised to share the knowledge gained from the conference with students and colleagues to improve the quality of teaching and research activities in the Department of Industrial Chemistry and Faculty of Science. 