Market Development in Niger Delta (MADE), a DFID funded five year programme (2013 – 2018) using the Markets Work for the Poor (M4P) approach to generate sustainable inclusive economic growth in the non-oil sectors across the states in the Niger Delta will hold dissemination workshops in Delta, Imo, Edo and Akwa Ibom States as part of activities to wind down the first phase of the  programme. The programme was initiated to improve market access to poor producers, increase economic activity and trade and raise incomes of 150,000 poor men and women, 50% of which were women in the nine states of the Niger Delta. A statement signed by the Communications and Advocacy Manager, Mr. Fidelis Ekom stated that the dissemination workshops will provide stakeholders the opportunity to share lessons, opportunities, business models, innovations, potentials for investments, crowding in opportunities in the Niger Delta He noted that MADE also motivated market actors to change their behaviour in a sustainable and catalytic way, and facilitated access to new knowledge and information services and technologies to small and medium scale farmers and entrepreneurs. “As a dynamic and adaptive programme, MADE undertook an end to end review of its intervention initiatives across the six sectors in 2016. This helped us to refine our strategic framework and expand our scope from six major interventions to sixteen sectoral intervention initiatives which we vigorously pursued from 2016 to this year. This broadened what is possible for MADE to achieve, creating a platform for scaling up of the current level of activities and scaling out into new activity areas, particularly in relation to women’s empowerment,” Ekom said. He said MADE’s reflective evaluation focused attention on the underlying systemic constraints that affect the lives and livelihoods of target beneficiary groups in the six markets. According to him, the systemic constraints related to technical and business skills gap; improved technology and business linkages; and productivity, losses and cost reduction; necessitated the scaling up the initiative. “Our strategic assessment led to the scaling up of the initiative. We relaunched the Technology Adoption Grant/Fund (TAG) and the grant process was slightly modified to stimulate adoption from the demand side and that changed the dynamics and response to market actors,” Ekom said. “The scope across the six value chains were complemented with core cross-cutting initiatives such as access to finance, communication and advocacy, gender and women economic empowerment and a robust monitoring and result measurement system,” the statement added. The statement said financial institutions, as well as technology service providers, have been invited to be part of the dissemination workshops in order to ensure robust interaction and sharing experience amongst critical stakeholders. It explained that participants at the workshop will also include government representatives, the media and other key actors from across the Niger Delta.