The All Progressives Congress (APC) will hold an emergency National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting on Monday to discuss the report of the technical committee on tenure elongation and take a final decision on the issue, it said yesterday. National Chairman John Odigie-Oyegun, after a meeting between the National Working Committee (NWC) with some APC governors, said notices had been sent out for the NEC meeting. It will be the third in quick succession. Party spokesman Bolaji Abdullahi said the final decision on whether to back track on the earlier decision of NEC on tenure elongation, would be taken on Monday. He said Zamfara State Governor Abdulaziz Yari was only expressing his opinion when he said the governors had decided to back the President on the need to conduct party congresses. Oyegun said: “Today, the governors and the National Working Committee of the party decided to sit and look at the issues that are seemingly dividing us. I want to say to you with absolute satisfaction and pride that all the issues you have been commenting about in the last two days have been completely and totally resolved. We are back in business as one united and happy family. “I want to say also that yesterday, we set up a technical committee as ordered by NEC. From the very first minute that we called them to section, they have worked non-stop because I emphasised when I was inaugurating them that their report was time sensitive. It is sensitive because we have already sent out notices for the meeting of NEC, which will hold on Monday. “I am glad to say that the chairman of the technical committee has reported that his report will be ready this evening or tomorrow morning. This report will be placed before NEC on Monday, April 9 and appropriate decisions will be taken. “Thereafter, we will announce to you the further steps that we are going to take resulting from NEC’s consideration on the recommendations when we receive them.” Abdullahi said it was wrong for people to conclude that the governors had decided to go with the President on tenure elongation because the position of the President was not inconsistent with the position of the party. He said there was no fundamental difference between the position of the governors and that of the President, adding that the governors were not opposed to the National Working Committee as there was no time they worked at cross purpose. He explained that the party was working towards having a win-win situation for all members, pointing out that the interest of President Buhari had always been to have a solution to all the issues. Abdullahi said: “It is left for the NEC to decide and if the committee recommends that the position of NEC should be maintained, then there would be no need for an elective convention and then the President and those who are concerned that the decision we have taken is correct or not will have more confidence in the position of the party. “But if the committee recommends that congresses should be held, then NEC will consider the report and at the same time decide whether to reverse itself. However, as I speak with you, there is no evidence whether the Committee will recommend this way or the other way.” Governors at the meeting are Rochas Okorocha (Imo), Yari (Zamfara), Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi), Abdullahi Ganduje (Kano), Akinwunmi Ambode (Lagos), Abubakar Badaru (Jigawa), Ibikunle Amosun (Ogun), Yahaya Bello (Kogi) and Simon Lalong (Plateau). Also there were Niger State Deputy Governor Mohammed Ahmed Ketso and House of Representatives Chief Whip Ado Dogowa.