Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar will on Wednesday be a guest at the Royal Institute of International Affairs ( Chatham House ) in London. He is billed to deliver an address on how to unlock the immeasurable potentials of Nigeria to the benefits of its people for job creation, prosperity and security to all component units of the federation. A statement issued on Monday by his media office gave the topic of Atiku’s presentation as “The Importance of Strengthening State Economic Management Systems.” According to media office, Atiku’s presentation will lay bare novel and real prescriptions that if implemented, will help Nigerian states come out of their present economic quagmire and ultimately get Nigeria working again. “The Chatham keynote speech is one in a series of engagements by the PDP presidential hopeful to showcase the possibilities that exist in Nigeria and how to unlock its huge potentials to the good of all Nigerians,” the statement said. It added that the former vice president will also deliver another major keynote speech at the Invest Africa and British Council for Africa Annual Debate. It further stated that Atiku will be speaking alongside Dr. Liam Fox, International Trade Secretary of the United Kingdom Government, on building new trade partnerships in Africa. “These engagements are a follow-up to Atiku Abubakar’s meeting in June of 2017 with Liam Fox and Prime Minister Theresa May where they discussed the UK’s plan for increased trade with Nigeria post-Brexit. “The PDP presidential hopeful will also be the guest of honour at a lunch on Nigerian inward investment to be hosted by Lord Anthony St John (former UK Minister for Africa) and be a guest speaker at Round Table of key UK business leaders keen in investing in Nigeria at the Institute of Directors, Pall Mall. “The visit to the UK by Atiku Abubakar, one of Nigeria’s most successful business leaders and foremost advocates for restructuring and free trade, is a continuation of his life-long commitment to find real solutions to help rescue Nigeria from its current economic crisis and set it on the path of economic growth and prosperity,” the statement added.