Women Arise President Mrs. Joe Okei-Odumakin joined scores of  Badagry residents yesterday to protest over the epileptic power supply in the area in the last decade. The protesters, who carried placards, marched through the coastal town, causing heavy traffic congestion at the roundabout on the Badagry–Lagos Expressway. Among inscriptions on the protesters’ placards were: “FG give us light”; “No light no bill”; “Electricity is our fundamental human right’’; and “Ambode please save us”. Mrs. Okei-Odumakin expressed displeasure over the epileptic power situation in the ancient city. She noted that estimated billing without power supply was corruption and must be eradicated. She said: “Badagry is written in gold in our history books because it is the cradle of civilisation. So, it’s saddening that such an important place doesn’t have power supply. I learnt that for over 20 years, the power supply in the city has been extremely terrible and despite all these, residents still receive estimated bills for services not rendered. Estimated billing is evil and part of corruption. So, it must be eradicated totally. This protest would drive home our request that something must be done in that aspect.” Mr Ayo Akinde, a resident of Itoga Road, said Badagry residents only got a maximum of four-hour power supply weekly in the past 10 years. According to him, Badagry residents have not enjoyed two hours of uninterrupted day time power supply in the past decade. “The power situation in Badagry has become so bad that many people have moved out of the ancient town to other areas such as Agbara and Ibereko where there is stable electricity,” Akinde said. Another resident, Sewedo Samuel, said the epileptic power supply was killing small businesses in the area. “It is a shame that an ancient town known as `tourism haven’ is in darkness and businesses running on generators,” Sewedo said. Mr Ovi Kuponu, the coordinator of the protest, noted that the poor power supply was negatively affecting economic activities of the people. He said: “We have been affected by the non-existent of power in the town as this has affected most economic activities, especially the tourism and hospitality sectors. “Tourists who are supposed to stay over after visiting the town’s numerous tourist sites do not do so, because most hotels cannot run on generators for 24 hours. “Drastic steps must be taken to rectify our power supply because it has slowed down development the city.” An official of the Eko Electricity Distribution Company (EKEDC) in Badagry told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that measures were being taken to rectify the issue. “The city would soon be connected to the national grind and the power supply would improve drastically,” said the EKEDC official who pleaded for anonymity.