Soldiers attached to 143 Battalion, Umunneochi in Umunneochi Local Government Area of Abia State under 14 Brigade, Ohafia have intercepted a lorry conveying over 16,000 litres of diesel believed to be illegally procured. The soldiers were on routine stop and search operation when they encountered the vehicle. The owner of the product, identified simply as Kanayo, was arrested and was said to be cooling his heels in the soldiers’ detention facility. The driver of the lorry with registration number ABN 686 XA reportedly took to his heels when the vehicle was stopped at the checkpoint. The Nation gathered that, in order to beat security operatives, the driver covered the diesel tank with over 200 bags of animal feed filled with sawdust. The Chief of Staff to the 14 Brigade Commander, Brigadier A.K Ibrahim, Col. E.U Effiong confirmed the seizure, commending the vigilance of the personnel. Effiong who spoke while handing over the suspect and the impounded vehicle to the Abia State Command of The Nigerian Security and Civil Defense Corps (NSCDC) said it was the duty of NSCDC to further investigate and prosecute suspects of illegal petroleum products. He said, “In the course of our duty in the state we carry out patrols and during such patrols, if we suspect any crime, arrest is made and when we arrest, we hand over the suspects to the appropriate security agency in charge of the crime committed for further investigation and prosecution. “If the suspects are found guilty the law will take its course. What we are doing today is in line with our own part of internal security operation which is the secondary role of supporting the Police and other security agencies to aid civil authority. “This has been going on between the military, police, civil defence and the road safety corps. We pray as we cooporate and play our own part Abia state will continue to remain peaceful for people to go about their normal business”. Confessing to the crime Kanayo admitted that he bought the diesel in Port Harcourt, but denied that the product was illegally sourced. According to him, he was arrested while convening the diesel to Enugu State where he would sale the product to distributors. The suspect also admitted that he had no license to lift petroleum products, adding that he has been in the business for one year. When asked why he had covering papers that claimed he bought animal feed, though he blamed it on the driver of the lorry who is now at large. “I bought the diesel from the right source and they gave me receipt, I don’t know how the driver came up with the animal feed paper,” he claimed. The soldiers also arrested one Okeke Maduabuchi who allegedly robbed an Aba resident of his Toyota Sienna car at gun point. The suspect was said to have been arrested at Ihube in Imo State, while two of his accomplices are now at large. Maduabuchi and the SUV recovered from him were handed over to personnel of the Aba Area Command of the police who were also on the ground for further investigation and possible prosecution. 