The Department of Human Resource Management (HRM) in the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has conducted an in-house training of no fewer than 25 administrative staff in basic computer knowledge. Speaking on the significance of the training, Assistant Director, Manpower Development, Mr. Rotimi Ajayi said that it was necessary to further build staff capacity to perform their tasks better. Ajayi who was represented by Head of ICT in the Transportation Secretariat, Mr. Ernest Ajorgbor said, “This programme is designed for the administrative staff in order to get them introduced to the latest skills of the Microsoft packages and to let them understand the essence of the computer. Some of them have not used computer before now and they are eager to learn. This is particularly important because the FCT Administration may be introducing a paperless office in the near future, so we have to get our staff prepared for that task. On whether the training was impactful, Ajayi said: “Day two of the programme has been rewarding. The first day, we had computer appreciation programme, where we taught them on how to use the computer. Some of them did not even know how to put it on and off before; while others had little computer skills and could do something without actually knowing what they were doing. “Some of them are so skillful using their phones, which has android application packages similar to the new computer packages we are introducing them to. So we are trying to migrate those skills they have about the mobile phones to the computer, and they are making a lot of progress. “It is an in-house training to abreast the staff with the new skills because most of these new application packages are been introduced on a yearly basis so there is need for us to train and retrain the workforce on the skills, and the FCTA, in this trial stage, is training 25 of them. But will they be given personal laptops to continue practicing after the three days? Ajayi explained that the FCT Administration would have loved to do that but the paucity of funds wouldn’t allow that to happen, at least not now; expressing hope that with improved financial capability, the Administration could look into that, adding that such laudable initiatives were brought up due to the FCT Minister’s prudent financial management. Noting the high percentage of computer literacy among the FCTA staff, Ajayi however noted that about 37 percent of the staff were not computer literate, even as he stated that the training would also eliminate time wastage in treatment of files due to lack of secretaries within the system as certain officials would be able to type their memos themselves. Some of the beneficiaries we spoke to expressed delight and gratitude to the Administration for giving them the opportunity to have the latest skills in computer, calling on the management to extend the same to their colleagues. Ayam Stephen Mario said: “the training has gone a long way in helping us improve in the discharge of our responsibilities in our various offices. There are certain things we did not know before, but now we know them. “For instance, I have typed, printed and done a few other things on the computer before, but I have just known how to create a folder and save in it during this training and this will make me manage files better. I have also learnt that within a folder, I can create many folders, so it is a good thing for us to be here. Ayam, who works with the disciplinary unit of the Human Resource Management department, appealed to the Administration to give them personal computers to enable them improve faster and master the skills. “We thank the management for organising this kind of training for us,” he said. “There is the need for them to give us a personal computer. We need a personal computer so that we will continue practicing even when we are home because some of us do not have access to any in our offices.” Another beneficiary, Ofuna Thomas also said that the experience was very helpful to them. he said: “Work in the registry and we are supposed to have all files documented so that anytime we are looking for a file, we will not only go to the in-coming and out-going registers, but we can also do that with  the use of a computer. “The knowledge we are gaining here can help us use the computer to know not just location of a file but the date it came in and went out, including which officer is handling it.” Ofuna who also thanked the FCTA management for the training, asked for more, both for him and other staff. 