The Rector of Federal Polytechnic, Ekowe, Bayelsa State, Dr. Seiyaboh Idah, yesterday slammed those criticising the management, after a student, Adekunle Stephen, got drowned. Speaking in Ekowe, Southern Ijaw, Idah lamented the death, but said the claims by critics that the victim died because management failed to provide potable water on campus was false. He said the desire of the victim to learn swimming led him to the river, adding that he had been saved twice from drowning. The rector said despite warnings by the management against using the river, students, including those unable to swim, still visited the river. Idah said it was unfortunate and irresponsible for critics to capitalise on the misfortune and peddle falsehood against the school. He said it was time for his critics to allow him work, adding that his enemies had vowed to frustrate the matriculation. Idah said: “Enough is enough. What is this? Allow me to do my work. Allow me to make progress. I had matriculation. Some people said it would not happen. But I went ahead to do it. I am not a politician. Leave me to do my job. Don’t distract me by all of these things. It is enough. “I’m not here to manage crisis, I’m here to manage a polytechnic and make it move forward, but people are just bringing crisis from all directions at every given opportunity.” Narrating how the victim died, he said: “During the orientation, we told the students not to go to the river. This particular boy that died, the dean of Students’ Affairs met him bathing in the river. He doesn’t know how to swim and the man told him to leave the place. “This guy had almost drowned twice because he refused to leave the river. I don’t know what his problem was. Twice, he was rescued. There were five students all pushing one another. They didn’t go there to fetch water, but to swim. They have been doing that everyday. “Adekunle, we are very saddened by his death, but he did not die because there was no water. Adekunle died because he was overzealous and wanted to know how to swim by all means. “We are sad by it, but people should please not use this as an opportunity to fight us. You are supposed to be helping us get out of this, not fighting us. So, we are setting the facts very clear. We are aware that people are being sponsored to fight us with this.” The rector lambasted his critics for insinuating that he and workers of the school were operating from the polytechnic’s Liaison’s Office in Yenagoa, instead of the school’s campus in Ekowe, a riverine community in Southern Ijaw. He said he locked up the Liaison Office in Yenagoa and forced employees and the management to perform their duties on the main campus. “This office has been locked up for sometime now. No staff here. Even some workers are fighting me because I insisted everybody must operate from the Ekowe main campus”, Idah said. He lamented that politicians operating within Bayelsa and seeking his removal were the brains behind the attacks on the school management, alleging that they sponsored students to lie against the school. The rector said his critics were envious of his modest achievements, as they could not believe the milestones the school had attained within the short period he took over its management. He advised persons after him to desist from pulling the school management down. Idah said: “We are not the first to have such issues. I don’t see any reason why people should use this as an excuse to say we are not working, especially when this is coming from Bayelsans. People who are supposed to support us to get there are the ones bringing us down. “We know that these things are political. There are people that just don’t like the face of the rector, and anything that happens here they must use it to fight this man. Nobody has even said this man has tried, the school is bubbling with students; let’s see how we can support this man.”