Edo State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) senatorial and House of Representative aspirants have begun consultation and mobilisation ahead of next year’s elections. Correspondent OTABOR OSAGIE examines preparations for the contest. The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) are preparing for next year’s parliamentary elections in Edo State. Aspirants are intensifying their consultations and mobilisation, ahead of the exercise. There is no governorship election in Edo State. So, the  parties are focusing on the National Assembly and House of Assembly polls. While the APC is boasting that it will install majority of the legislators, the PDP is also saying that it will pull the rug off the ruling party’s feet. For the APC, the National Assembly elections is a must. The Senate election will be a big battle. The party is planning to field individuals capable of unseating PDP legislators in Edo South and Edo Central districts. Edo North is the stronghold of the party. To the APC, it is a ‘revenge election’ to finally ‘ bury’ the PDP in Edo. The calibre of APC candidates will determine whether the party will be victorious at the polls or not. However, the PDP is not sleeping on guard. It is trying frantically to consolidate on its successes in the 2015 general elections. Following the announcement of the 2015 National Assembly elections results, APC leaders were shocked that the PDP emerged victorious in Edo South and Edo Edo Central senatorial districts. Two senators-Clifford Ordia (Edo Central) and Matthew Urhoghide (Edo South) were elected on the platform of the PDP while APC’s Francis Alimekhena was victorious in Edo North, the stronghold of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole. To ensure victory at the polls, the PDP has inaugurated a 10-man committee on grassroots mobilisation. It is headed by Prophet Emmanuel Ojo. The committee, according to the party chairman, Chief Dan Orbih, is to woo new members from every part of the state into the party.  Edo South: Senator Urhoghide, is nursing a second term ambition. Many members of the PDP have given him the nod to seek re-election, owing to what they described as his ‘superlative performance in office.’ Urhoghide is the fourth person to represent Edo South since 1999. His predecessors are Senator Roland Owie, Daisy Danjuma and Ehigie Uzamere. Only Uzamere has succeeded in securing a second term in office, based on the support of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole, who was in a battle of supremacy with Chief Tony Anenih. The seat has always been occupied by the PDP. But, Senator Uzamere decided to jump ship. He was elected to the Senate in the PDP. He defected to the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (CAN) after he fell out with Anenih. After he was re-elected in 2011 in the ACN, the serial defector returned to the PDP, a party he once described as worthless as the Zimbabwean dollars. From all indications, Senator Urhoghide may become the flag bearer at the primary.  Former APC governorship aspirant Dr. Don Pedro Obaseki has indicated interest to run for the Senate. But, PDP leaders have urged him to drop the ambition and allow Urhoghide to run for a second term. APC chieftains who are interested in the Senate in Edo South are  the former deputy governor, Dr. Pius Odubu, Special Adviser to Governor Obaseki on National Assembly Matters, Hon Patrick Obahiagbon, Senator Ehigie Uzamere, Hon Matthew Iduoriyekemwen, Samson Osagie and a former Attorney-General and Commissioner of Justice, Henry Idahagbon. According to sources, Obahiagbon is more favored to get the APC ticket. Obahiagbon served as Chief of Staff to Oshiomhole. He served in the state House of Assembly for two terms before moving to the House of Representatives where he served only one term. A chieftain of the APC said Iduoriyekemwen may give Obahiagbon a though battle at the APC primary. Others are still consulting on whether to run or not.  Edo Central: The APC has found it difficult to penetrate Edo Central. The PDP is a household name in the district. Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu got majority of votes from Edo Central during the 2016 governorship election. In 2011, the defunct ACN scuttled its chances of winning the elections because its leaders were not united. Party insiders said Senator Clifford Ordia of the PDP, who is currently representing the zone, will get the ticket to re-contest. His victory at the poll may not be easy because APC leaders are also working hard to dismantle his stronghold. Chieftains of the APC interested in the race are Prince Joe Okojie, Chief Francis Inegbeneki, Emmanuel Usoh, Hon Frank Okiye, Felix Akhabue and Theophilux Okoh. It will be a battle of wits for the contenders. The serious contenders are Okoh, Okojie and Inegbeneki. The chairman of the Esan West Council, Patrick Aguinede, said Anenih’s retirement from politics and the defection of some PDP chieftains are a great blow to the PDP in Edo Central. He said: “Edo Central was the core hub of the PDP because of Chief Tony Anenih who is from this place. But now, many PDP leaders like Osunbor have defected to the APC. Chief Anenih is now retired. His retirement also means a lot of people are retiring. Government’s deliberate developmental policies have made a lot of people to see the need to appreciate what the governor has done. They are joining the APC. One of their arrowheads in Ekpoma, Felix Akhabue, is now in the APC. He commands a large following. He has left the PDP. Many of them have left the PDP. The PDP is a thing of the past in Edo Central. We are going to get pockets of opposition here and I see that the APC victory will be overwhelming.” Aguinede added: “The APC will win in this state because the governor has performed very well. The elected chairmen are success-driven. They cannot but replicate the developmental drive of the governor. If the chairmen have performed well, why will the APC not win? With the local government chairmen on ground, I see no reason why we will not win. The policy of ‘you must win your ward’ as introduced by Governor Obaseki is such a thing that will help us. It will be good to introduce it at the federal level. Every politician that wants something in government is enjoined to win his ward. You will now see politicians working hard to win elections in their wards. It has paid off very well. In the local government elections, if you did not win your ward, you have no reason to aspire. It was implemented in this contest. Many people did not make it because it shows they are not popular in their area. People are now looking inward and working to win their wards.” But, Orbih said the APC will fail at the polls. He said: “The APC have the right to say whatever they want to say. but we know the reality on ground. Today, I can frankly state that the APC situation in Edo Central is worse than it was in the last election. Edo Central is one senatorial district that they have been denied everything politically. Look at all the appointments in the state. Edo is made up of three senatorial districts and each senatorial district has been well represented by previous administrations. But today, under Obaseki, for reasons best known to him, Oshiomhole, his political godfather, determines and dictates what is done under his administration. “For reasons best known to Obaseki, the position of the Speaker was taken away and given to Edo North. Edo North that had a governor for eight years and now has the deputy governor. Is that what will make them consolidate their support in Edo Central? That is one district they should not expect any support in the next election. It is very unfair to Edo Central people. It is an insult for the APC to even consider coming to Edo Central to ask for votes.”  Edo North: Since 2008, the PDP has always found it difficult to win elections in Edo North. It was a fierce battle in 2016. Alimhekhena is interested in returning to the Senate. But, the primary will not be a walk over for him or any other aspirant. He has a serious opponent in Professor Julius Ihonvbere, who contested at the APC primary against him. The former university don is still be interested in the Senate. But, some postings on the social media by his supporters also suggest that may be interested in the House of Representatives ticket. Edo North is a stronghold of the APC. The PDP’s dream of winning election in the zone may be a mirage because of the achievements of Comrade Oshiomhole.