•His last moments, by widow Many could not control their emotions last Friday when the remains of Bariga Local Council Development Area (LCDA) ex-councillor, the late Solomon Adewale Awokoya, were interred at his Pakuro, Mowe, Ogun State home. Those who gathered to pay their last respect to the departed councillor were in tears. The late Awokoya, represented Ward ‘C’ in the Bariga LCDA Legislative House, died on Saturday 7. He was survived by his mother, wife, Ibukun, 50, and two children Ayomide, 22, a student of Tai Solarin University of Education, Ogun State and Olajide, 20, Kwara State University student. The church service was held at The First African Church Mission (Ebenezer Parish), Popoola Street, Bariga. The officiating ministers were led by Revd Adewale Adekunle. He advised the congregation to always be God-conscious. Mrs Awokoya said she was devastated by her husband’s death. According to her, the late Awokoya’s priority was to assist the people in his ward. “He always told me to be patient and even asked my friends to plead with me to exercise patience because he wanted to give back to the community,” he said. Recounting his last moments, Mrs Awokoya said: “On Friday night, he went round to play with some people and returned home with some empowerment materials he wanted to distribute to the people in his ward on Sunday. He met some guests outside the house, played with them and saw them off to the Bus-Stop. He returned home and by 11pm; he told me to wake him around 6am that he wanted to meet the council chairman at the secretariat for a council event. He took his bath and sat on the chair. “I went to sleep around 11:30pm. Around 1:30am, I went to the restroom and saw him working on his phone. I said ‘you should be sleeping by now because of your early morning event at the council’ and he said ‘okay.’ I returned to bed. Not quite long, I heard him coughing continuously and quickly rushed out, asking what happened! My daughter also came out, he couldn’t say anything. I thought he was having cold; I quickly switched off the fan; got a bottle of Robb and anointing oil to rub his body. I called his younger sister, neighbours and some friends. We quickly rushed him to a hospital but the doctor said he needed oxygen and some other things. He advised we take him to Gbagada General Hospital. We got an ambulance and headed to the hospital. It was at Gbagada General Hospital that another doctor told us that he was dead. We have not even brought him out of the ambulance. I couldn’t believe what I heard. Just like that!” According to Mrs Awokoya, her husband dream was to send the children abroad for further studies. “He wanted to erect a borehole for people to enjoy potable water, empower the widows and youths,” she said. She thanked the council Chairman, Kolade Alabi, and her late husband’s friends for staying by the family. 