The Governor of Sokoto State, Waziri Tambuwal has applauded the efforts of the Nigerian military in the fight against insurgency and Internal Security challenges in the Country. Tambuwal who was represented by the State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Hon Suleiman Usman SAN and Commissioner for Energy, Hon Bello Mohammed Goronyo gave this commendation at the 2018 West African Social Activities (WASA celebration held on Saturday at 26 Battalion Parade ground, Giginya Barracks, Sokoto. He commended the efforts of the military for being professional and responsive in the discharge of their constitutional duties in the country particularly in the fight against insurgency in the North East and Internal Security challenges in Benue, Taraba, Zamfara and Plateau States. He also expressed satisfaction in particular on the efforts of the troops of 1 Brigade, Sokoto in assisting the government to combat security challenges within the State. He stressed that several military operations being undertaken in Tureta, Goronyo, Isa and Sabon Birni Local Governments in the last two years have helped to ensure serious security challenges been faced in other states were not allowed to rear their ugly heads into the State. He however, pledged that the State Government will continue to support the military towards achieving its mandate as their roles in ensuring the protection of territorial integrity of the Country and aiding the civil authority in Internal Security cannot be over emphasized. Earlier in his welcome address, the Commander 1 Brigade, Brigadier General Lynus Kennedy Udeagbala stated that WASA is an age-long much cherished Nigerian Army regimental and social tradition that provides opportunity for officers, soldiers and their families to come together to celebrate successes achieved during the outgone year. It further avails the opportunity for a formation or unit to establish start lines and focus for the activities for the New Year. WASA is usually conducted in a relax ambience of socialization that often showcases the rich cultural heritage that abounds in our Country. The occasion provides an opportunity for the leadership of a Command to appreciate troops for their contributions to successes achieved by the Command during the outgoing year. It fosters unity, enhance civil – military relations as well as regimentation. Gen Udeagbala thanked the Chief of Army Staff, Lt Gen TY Buratai and the GOC 1 Division, Maj Gen M Mohammed for their support to the Brigade. The Celebration was colourful as guests were thrilled with performances by diverse cultural troupes, tug of war competition and other comic reliefs. The occasion was graced by His Eminence Sultan of Sokoto who was represented by Ardon Shuni, Alhaji Mohammed Jabbi Harande, Commander Forward Operation Base, Nigerian Air Force, Gp Capt EE Owei, Zonal Commanding Officer Federal Road Safety Corps, ACM Ayobami Omiyale, Commander, Military Hospital, Sokoto, Lt Col II Amara, Commanding Officer 26 Battalion, Lt Col PO Alimekhena and representatives of Heads of Security Agencies in the State, Captain of Industries as well as the families of officers and soldiers from 26 Battalion, Brigade Garrison and Military Hospital Sokoto.