A recently discharged National Youth Corps (NYSC) member in Zamfara State, Olatunde Mustapha, saved his monthly stipend to establish a small-scale business. Months after, the business has turned into a profit-making enterprise and has created direct jobs for youths. IBRAHIM ADEYEMI writes. The fear of being jobless after school pushed Olatunde Mustapha to the world of innovation. The ex-National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) member, who was discharged last week, set up a small-scale business enterprise with his monthly allowance. Olatunde saved his N19,800 stipend for more than three months and turned the money to seed fund with which he started an event management firm. The 28-year-old graduate of Sociology from Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) opened the business just before he was discharged by the NYSC. In an interview, Olatunde told CAMPUSLIFE that he could not afford to be jobless after his National Youth Service; the reason why he became self-employed. He said: “I know what it means to be jobless and I don’t want to pass out of NYSC and remain in my parents’ house. In order to be self-reliant, I thought of what to do after service. Then, I remember I have a flare for event planning and management. “I saved my monthly allowance for more than three months and established myself. Just within a short period, the N19,800 has multiplied profitably for me.” With N59,000 seed capital, Mustapha established 4M Global Concept – a firm for event planning and management, media consultancy and sales of provision. Advising Corps members to embrace entrepreneurship, Mustapha said there would be no unemployment if the youth could innovate and create jobs. “Many youths keep looking around for nonexistent jobs when they can use their brain and create jobs for themselves and others,” he said. At the time he was passing out of the NYSC last week, Olatunde had engaged eight youths in his business to manage different chains of activities in his firm. He said: “I have employed eight staff and I still intend to employ more. My company has a salary scale of nothing less than N150,000 monthly paid to staff I directly engaged. I make more than N50,000 in profit after deducting my overheads.”