President Muhammadu Buhari, Tuesday named 23 member National Population Commission (NPC) for Senate confirmation. He also nominated one additional Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) commissioner and two non-legal practitioners as members of the Federal Judicial Service Commission for confirmation. The position of the NPC members is said to have been vacant for about three years making it difficult for the board of the commission to form quorum for its meetings. President Buhari’s nominations are contained in a letter dated 27th March 2018 entitled “ Request for confirmation of appointment of 23 members for National Population Commission” addressed to the Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki. The letter read in part, “In accordance with the provision of Section 154(1) of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended), I write to forward to the Senate for confirmation, the following names of 23 nominees representing their respective states at the National Population Commission.” Those named included, Nwanne Johnny Nwabuisi (Abia), Dr. Clifford T.O. Zirra (Adamawa), Mr. Chidi Christopher Ezeoke mni(Anambra), Barr. Isah Audu Buratai(Borno), Navy Captain Charles Iyam Ogwa (rtd) (Cross River), Sir Richard Odibo (Delta0, Okereke Darlington Onuabuchi (Ebonyi), Mr. A.D. Olusegun Aiyejina (Edo), Ekike Ezeh(Enugu) and Hon. Abubakar Mohammed Danburam (Gombe). Others nominated NPC members include, Prof. Uba S.F Nnabue (Imo), Dr. Abdulmalik Mohammed Durunguwa (Kaduna), Suleiman Ismaila Lawal (Kano), Prof. Jimoh Habibat Isah(Kogi), Dr. Sa’adu Ayinla Alanamu (Kwara), Nasir Isa Kwarra(Nasarawa), Barr. Aliyu Datti(Niger), Yeye(Mrs)  Seyi Adererinokun Olusanya(Ogun), Prince(Dr) Oladiran Garvey Iyantan(Ondo), Senator Mudashiru Oyetunde Hussain (Osun), Mrs. Cecilia Arsun Dapoet (Plateau), Dr.Ipalibo Macdonald Harry (Rivers) and Sale S. Saany (Taraba) President Buhari nominated Kaduna State based Barrister Festus Okoye, for confirmation as National Commissioner representing South East geo-political zone. He named Senator Abbe Ali (Katsina) North West and Mohammed Sagir (Niger) North Central for confirmation as non-legal practitioners members of the Federal Judicial Service Commission. President Buhari solicited expeditious consideration of the requests.