Bothered by the negative image trafficking in persons has brought to the country, the Federal Government, in 2003, enacted the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) in a bid to address the scourge. Despite the enactment, it continues to thrive. OSAGIE OTABOR reports that, angered by a BBC report that Edo State is the hub of human trafficking in Nigeria, Benin monarch, Oba Ewuare II and the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) have placed curses on perpetrators of the evil act. last week, the Edo State chapter of the Christian Association of Nigeria woke up from its slumber in the fight against human trafficking. For the first time in 30 years during which the business of human trafficking has thrived, CAN lend its voice by placing a curse on pastors aiding perpetrators of the inhuman act. The business of trafficking young girls to Europe began in the 1990s by those regarded as Italian Madams, even though some males were involved. It was seen as an easy way to make quick money as the supposed victims were made to pay thrice the amount spent to sponsor them to Europe. Many parents allegedly pledged their properties for their sons or daughters to be taken abroad without asking what jobs were available for them. The business blossomed so much so that it was a thing of pride to be called ‘oversea sponsor’. Those who have nothing to use as collateral for their children to be ‘sponsored’ abroad had to resort to oath-taking at various shrines. The oath-taking involved taking various parts of the prospective victim’s body such as pubic hair, finger nails, toe nails and hairs, among others. These are collected by the native doctor with a threat that doom awaits any girl that refuses to pay. It was during the administration of Lucky Igbinedion that the fight against human trafficking actually began when his wife Eki took up the campaign to stop girls from being trafficked abroad for prostitution. In 2003, the National Agency for the Prohibition of Trafficking in Persons (NAPTIP) was established by the Trafficking in Persons (Prohibition) Enforcement and Administration Act 2003. The Agency was part of the Federal Government’s response towards addressing the scourge of trafficking in persons. However, as NAPTIP fought to end the menace, some pastors and native doctors backed human traffickers with prayers charms. In some churches, pants, bras, special anointing oils, bathing soaps were sold to parents to send to their children to enable them to get good clients. This made business of human trafficking to continue to thrive despite measures put in place by NAPTIP. It was learnt that a news report by the BBC in March, depicting Edo State as the hub of human trafficking peeved the Benin Monarch, Oba Ewuare II. On March 9, Oba Ewuare II summoned traditional priests, priestesses and native doctors from various shrines such as the Ohen Okhuae, Ohen Ovia, Ohen Noriyekeogba, Ohen Ake, Ohen Niwuo, native doctors, Ohen Sango, Odionwere, Iwueki and the  Enigies (dukes) to his palace. At the palace, the Oba brought out some ancient juju which, according to the Esogban of Benin, Chief David Edebiri, has not seen sunlight for over 800 years and began invoking curses on human traffickers, robbers, kidnappers and their collaborators. Oba Ewuare II said the essence of the curse was that he wants to sustain the positive stories emanating from the state, even as he warned those aiding and abetting human trafficking through the use of black magic and subjecting them to the oath of secrecy to desist from the act or face the wrath of the gods. He noted that the interest of the palace was to work for the development and progress of the state. He urged all his subjects to work towards that direction by doing what is right. His words: “From today we end all the oaths and it will not affect those placed on the oath. Those who walk on Edo land and eat the food cooked with salt and oil will die if they continue to do things that will bring shame to the land. “Henceforth, the juju will kill those that want to engage in human trafficking. Even those that go to other places to perform juju will also die. Native doctors should not force girls again and they should return the things they collected from the girls. Native doctors whose businesses are to subject people to the oath of secrecy and encouraging this evil act on the land, you have to repent, stop doing it. This is not a joking matter and if you do not repent, you have to wait for the repercussion. “The palace is not against those who are native doctors but those who use their position to perpetrate evil in the land through aiding and abetting human trafficking. “We want to tell those who are under any oath of secrecy that they are now free. We revoke the oath today. “What the palace stands for is peace and the development of the state. I want to tell you that the palace seriously frowns at the act of using charms to aid trafficking. “We want us to join hands together to fight human trafficking in the land”, he said. The event received applause when the monarch  declared that those under oath of secrecy have been set free and at liberty to air their views as well as reveal their sponsors without fear of any harm from their sponsors. The native doctors were later asked to parade the streets of Benin-City to invoke curses on human traffickers. Two days after the Oba placed the curse; videos were seen online of trafficked girls who cried out that their madams were still asking them to pay money. Many girls are still trapped in Libya because their various madams have stopped sending feeding money because of the curse. A source in Italy said some madams freed their girls immediately after the curse while some madams are still adamant that the Oba did not ask the girls not to pay. The source said: “Obaseki should go and rescue those girls in Libya because their madams have stopped sending them money. The situation in Italy here is very tough since the curse was proclaimed. “Some girls were already in Libya before the curse and no madam wants to pay to cross any girl again after the curse. Many of the girls do not have anybody in Europe. It was the madams who send them money.” A Benin Chief who pleaded anonymity said no native doctor would want to go against the Oba’s directive because the Oba owns all the shrines from where the native doctors derived their powers. One month later, leaders of the Christian body in the state followed the footsteps of Oba Ewuare II by placing a curse on pastors and prophets who are aiding as well as providing prayers for human traffickers. President of Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria (PFN), Rev. Felix Omobude, who spoke at the event tagged CAN Intervention on Human Trafficking, urged CAN to publicly disown any pastor supporting human traffickers. Rev. Omobude asked God to take care of such pastors, adding that the church must stand firm and strong against the menace of human trafficking. His words: “We must take a stand as a church that what is wrong is wrong. We must educate our people and take a strong stand. We are going to pray that the heavens should take care of any pastor who will bring disgrace to us. “Whatever we bind on heaven is bind here on earth. Grace will run out of any pastor that supports human traffickers. He will not live to reap the reward of his work. “None of our pastors should deceive the people or give them false hope.” State Chairman of CAN, Bishop Oyonude Kure, described as ‘little pastors’ those who offered prayers and support trafficked girls for prostitution in Europe. He said they should be prosecuted. Kure said: “Any pastor involved in this inhuman and nefarious activity must repent and stop this evil act. Anyone who refuses to stop and is caught, the Church of Jesus Christ in Edo State and Nigeria will deny the person and ensure that the authorities arrest, prosecute and punish the person. “Whatever is the rationale for this evil act is unjustifiable in its entirety and is against the tenets of true religion. Section 33 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) which guarantees the right to every Nigerian is being violated by this inhuman activity.” State Coordinator of NAPTIP, Mr. Nduka Nwanwenne, told Niger Delta Report that more victims are now willing to testify in courts since the Benin monarch’s pronouncement. “Everybody is joining the fight; we are arraigning more people in court. More victims are being rescued. The fight has intensified“.