Delegates to the 30th Annual Synod of the Methodist Church, Nigeria, Diocese of Owo, Ondo have called for Christians active participation in politics and governance. They faulted the impression that politics is a dirty game,stressing that it would remain so if spiritually enlightened minds were not involved in polity. Besides, the synod pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration to provide relief on the present hardship in the country. Delivering his address at the Methodist Church,Isure-Idoani in Ose local government area,the Diocesan Bishop, Revd Solomon Adegbite urged Christians in politics to make the difference, rather than messing up the name of Christ and the Church in political arena. The Synod noted that God gave Nigeria everything except leadership, stressing that it had been the bane of development in the country. The Church lamented that most political leaders were only mindful of themselves and their families to the detriment of those being led. Rev Adegbite said” as things are we have not had it rosy, the common man on the streets cannot afford three square meals, it baffled recently that some hungry Nigerians were exhuming chicken buried at a site by the custom officers. “The situation has gone so bad in Nigeria where we are blessed with Natural Resources in an unprecedented measure, this boils to bad leadership. “Security challenge has become part of our daily routine, herdsmen are on rampage everywhere and much is not being done to curb their wanton destruction of lives and property all over Nigeria”. The Church called for reinforcement of principle of Federal Character in the distribution of offices, saying there was no area in the country deprived of competent hands in any field of endeavor. It urged eligible voters to secure their voter cards and ready to vote in 2019, stressing that the umpire on election matters should remain unbiased and ensure that every vote counts. The Synod observed that Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu’s administration in the past one year had ushered in more dividends of democracy in term of developmental projects. This, it noted, particularly in prompt payment of salaries, urging the state government to sustain the tempo and ensure that no project is abandoned. The Diocesan Lay President, Oladapo Olawoye highlighted various challenges facing the Diocese, stressing that the national and global economic downturn currently being experienced in the country was affecting them. He recalled that the Synod last year recommended a viable economic blueprint for Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) modalities to put an end to existing practice where Development funds in the Circuits would be used to pay Assessment.