Former Ekiti State House of Assembly Speaker Femi Bamisile is among the 35 governorship aspirants in the All Progressives Congress (APC). He hosted his supporters at Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, where he unfolded his agenda. ODUNAYO OGUNMOLA reports. Former Speaker of Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon. Richard Olufemi Bamisile, has placed his hand on the plough and there is no going back. He was the first All Progressives Congress (APC) to unfold his governorship ambition in Ekiti State. His supporters believe that the first should not become the last. So, they are working assiduously to get the ticket at the primary. Bamisile hosted party delegates, leaders and members from the 16 local government areas to a get-together at his residence in Ado-Ekiti. The crowd of party faithful that attended the event said the ex-Speaker has the wherewithal to win the poll, if fielded as the flag bearer. The get-together was also attended by Ekiti indigenes who believe in Bamisile’s dream for the development of Ekiti. The delegates described Bamisile as a loyal party man who wooed many people into the party with his populist and philanthropic gestures. Popularly known in political circles as “BAFEM,” Bamisile was the first opposition aspirant to challenge Governor Ayo Fayose to political contest three years ago at a time party members were still mourning the electoral misfortune of  2014, following the ‘defeat’ of former Governor Kayode Fayemi by Fayose. He has been moving round the 177 wards and 16 local government areas, selling his blueprint to party members and empowering market women, okada riders, students, youths, widows and the less-privileged. The chairman of the occasion was former member of Edo State House of Assembly and Commissioner for Youth and Sports, Hon. Chris Okaeben, who described Bamisile as a popular and grassroots politician capable of winning Ekiti for APC. Okaeben said Bamisile was the name on the lips of the people of Ekiti since his arrival in the state. He said the aspirant defied intimidation by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and woke many party chieftains from their slumber. He said: “Ekiti people have been yearning for good governance, inclusive governance. They are tired of intimidation, they are tired of oppression and BAFEM has offered himself as the arrowhead of the revolution to bring positive change to Ekiti. “BAFEM has become a movement not only in Ekiti but in the Southwest and Nigeria. He has committed himself to Ekiti liberation. “When the PDP was in power at the centre, Ekiti people were robbed of their votes and the state was in disarray. BAFEM offered himself as the arrowhead to revive the party and today, the PDP in the state is in panic. “He has been moving round without escort and I asked him why. He said the people are his army. Today’s event should not end with eating and wearing Aso Ebi, go and preach the message of BAFEM to the remaining delegates. This project is God’s project.” Some party members who spoke with our reporter urged delegates to give Bamisile their votes on the strength of qualities which they said he possessed Sulaiman Adebayo from Awo Ward in Irepodun/Ifelodun Local Government, said: “Bamisile was the only aspirant we saw when things were difficult and people were afraid to come out. “People were afraid to hold meetings at our party secretariats, but he encouraged and motivated us. He supported us when we needed him and this is the time to reciprocate with votes at the primary election.” Otunba Oluwadamilare Oke, an indigene of Ikere-Ekiti and  a member of TEAM BAFEM, Abuja Branch, said: “We are looking forward to having BAFEM as governor in Ekiti State. “A vote for BAFEM is a vote for life-changing policies in education, infrastructure, health, job creation, agriculture and development. “He is determined to bring investors to Ekiti; he says making Ekiti work again is possible and he believes so much that Ekiti will work again.” A party leader in Ado-Ekiti, Akogun Abayomi Lustay, said: “We are for Bamisile and it is the votes of Ado that serve as game changer. BAFEM is a special candidate who will bring the needed transformation to Ekiti.” On the rostrum,  Bamisile spoke on his readiness to take Ekiti people to the promisand and implement policies that will change the lives of the electorate. He assured Ekiti residents of good governance, investment in commercial agriculture, creation of jobs for the youth, empowerment for various segments of the population and positive orientation of the masses. The ex-Speaker promised not to waste state funds on white elephant projects and pledged to pay workers’ salaries on the 25th of every month. Bamisile said he was not intimidated by the motley crowd of aspirants jostling for the APC ticket saying he has the requisite education, experience, exposure and pedigree to occupy the governor’s chair. He explained that, having commenced his political outreach very early and Judging by his grassroots appeal, he will win at the primary.  Bamisile said: “We are putting our people together not as a show of strength but to enjoy this festive period together and prepare ourselves for the coming party primary. “Ekiti APC has about 2,400 delegates as you see here today, there has been accreditation. We have over 1,200 delegates here which stand to be half of the structure that stands to vote at the primary. “That by itself will tell you that Team BAFEM, we have built ourselves for over three years and we have not built ourselves based on money. It is consciousness, having an interaction with people. “This time around, we have been meeting the downtrodden, we have been meeting the less privileged. Power has been taken away from the so-called big ones, it has been returned to the masses.” On his pedigree, Bamisile said: “Am I not a former Speaker? And as a former Speaker, I represent the entire state. I didn’t represent a constituency but I represent the entire state. “Don’t forget, I have served under every governor that had ruled the state. I know the banana peel that fell each and everyone of them and one thing I have done is to put our people together, seek the opinion of market women, artisans, those who actually do the voting. “The difference between me and most of the aspirants is that I am local; I have been here for 18 straight years and when I travel overseas, I don’t do more than a week, I come back here. This is my base, this is my people and I am going to be their governor.”