Six-time Olympian Olufunke Oshonaike has canvassed support for Nigerian coaches to update their knowledge across all sports. She also urged corporate bodies to identify with table tennis, considering the laurels the sport has won for Nigeria in major competitions across the globe. Also, the Oshonaike annual U-21 tournament is expected to serve off on Thursday, at the Lagos Country Club (LCC) in Ikeja. The Germany-based former African champion spoke at a press briefing to herald the commencement of the tournament later this week, said she was willing to continue to lift the fortunes of the sport in the country. “I want to appeal to those in charge of our sports to support our coaches to update their knowledge in various sports across the country. There is no doubt that we have the talents that can withstand any team in the world, but our talents must also be supported by knowledgeable coaches that will complement their talents with the right coaching. I am passionate about table tennis and I am using this opportunity to appeal to corporate bodies to come to the aid of the sport so that we can produce more top-class players,” she said. For the three-day tournament, Oshonaike said this year’s tournament coincides with her 44th birthday and she intends to use it to lift the fortunes of the sport by staging a tournament that will throw up talents. For the chairman, Adna Hotel, Ehi Braimah, Oshonaike’s initiative needs to be supported, as it would help to discover talents. Braimah who is a passionate table tennis fan believes other ex-players should take a cue from Oshonaike by coming up with what they can do for Nigeria. In his remarks, Chairman, table tennis section of LCC, Charles Osuntunyi said the club will continue to support the initiative, promote and develop table tennis in Nigeria having staged several junior tournaments in the last two years. The tournament was supported by LCC, Adna Hotel and other well-meaning Nigerians who believe in the ideals of Oshonaike.