The Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA) is committed to the establishment of Single Window Operation (SWO)  for government agencies at the ports to promote efficiency and ensure competition with neighbouring ports, its Managing Director, Ms Hadiza Bala Usman, has said. Ms Usman, who spoke with The Nation, said the introduction of a Single Window Operation and automation of services at the ports were necessary to drive the change needed to reform the sector. The single window operation and automation, she said, will enhance efficiency and decrease waste, adding that there would be openness in the system and process of cargo clearance. Ms Usman said people would be attracted to the ports with increased volume of cargoes, which would then enhance revenue generation. According to her, there will be more employment and the ports will become the preferred destination for importers. “Some of the delays affecting our ports have been eliminated by NPA and we are also collaborating with other agencies like Customs to introduce other electronic system of doing things,” she said. The NPA chief urged other government agencies to take deliberate action to address many challenges confronting the port system through consistent and predictable policies. Investors, she said, need certainty and ease of doing business in Nigeria, which can be brought about by quick intervention, especially in the gridlock at Apapa. According to her, no matter how efficient a terminal is, if there is no road to evacuate cargoes, how can you do it. She also advocated for the deployment of Flat Bottom Vessels (FBV) in channels with low draught in the nation’s seaports. The use of the FBV in shallow channels, she said, will serve as a workable solution for the draught limitations in some ports, mostly  in Calabar and Warri. A flat bottom 200-metre long and 61,000mt heavy vessel FBV, according to her, berthed last year in Calabar Port, despite the draught limitations of its channel. This, she said, underscores the fact that such vessels can navigate in such shallow channels. She appealed to stakeholders in the sector, especially those in the shipping sub-sector, to devise ways of collaborating with the NPA to see the presence of more FBV in such channels, considering their comparative advantage. “The NPA is willing to midwife and facilitate any proposal, which would make the new arrangement possible,” Ms Usman said.