Standing at a full 6.5 inches with raw muscles, Ajibade Babalade, the former Super Eagles and Shooting Stars defender, naturally inspires confidence and strength among his peers and fans, but he has revealed that he got his buoyancy and inspiration from late Stephen Keshi, the Super Eagles skipper and coach. Once, Babalade, as a rookie national team player, got to share a room with the likable libero and that experience inspired him to strive for greatness on and off the field. The ‘Keshi-magic’ happened when Keshi was seen as the capon of the infamous Super Eagles’ mafia  and could determine who made the final list due to his influence in the team and with the coach. The Ibadan-based, who now works with his former club, Shooting Stars as Team Manager said he would forever be grateful to Keshi for his kindness and making him believe in himself. “My role models are Franco Baresi and Stephen Keshi,” Ajibade who recently marked his 50th anniversary told The Nation.“Once,  I had the experience of sharing a room with Stephen Keshi in the national camp and it was as if I was living with a king. I had to sleep so close to the wall because I was afraid of touching him. “There was a case when I wanted to wash his jersey and he restrained me telling me that I will also become a special person. After the match against Togo when he was going back to Belgium, he gave me his kits and boots. I was so happy. Keshi was not arrogant; he was a born leader. “Keshi led by example. I was very happy to play with him and be his roommate. It was a great honour to even share the same defence line with him. Stephen Keshi was a born leader. “They say he (Keshi)  was the chief mafia; I have to say that in any society, organization or group you will still find caucuses, but Keshi did not disparage anybody. He inspired me and I will always be grateful to him. May his soul continue to rest in peace?” Speaking with Olanrewaju Agiri, Babalade practically opened up his cubbyhole to talk about growing up, family, wife, and the journey to stardom and aspiration.  What is growing uplike and tell us about your journey intofootball? I grew up in Lagos.I attended Seventh Day Adventist Primary School, Abule Oja very close to the University of Lagos (UNILAG) and then to Igbobi College. I gained admission to Igbobi College in 1980 and I finished in 1985.When I was so young, all I wanted was just to play football. My dad objected to it, he did not want me to play football but there wasnothing he could do about it. It’s a God given talent. My father resented the idea of me playing football. When I was in form one, Iused to play with my seniors. I played as a mercenary, and I got paid for doing that. One of my seniors then at Igbobi College, Lagos saw meone day and told me, ‘you will go places’. After abouteleven years, we met again in Abidjan. He asked me if I rememberedwhat he told me some years back, that one day I was going to representNigeria. What about your family background? I am from Iye-Ekiti. Both my parents are also from there. I don’t know how the two of them met themselves in Lagos. My mother was born and brought up in Ebute Metta, Lagos. My dad relocated to Lagos when he was about 17 years. My father is Israel Folorunso Babalade. He was a Nursing Superintendent at the National Orthopaedic Hospital Igbobi for 35 years and he was president of the National Association of Nigerian Nurses and Midwives, Lagos State for 15 years. I am from a polygamous family. My dad had four wives. Presently, twoare dead. My dad is late too and I have many stepbrothersand sisters.I was so close to my mother than my dad. If my dad should ask of ten naira from me, it means that I would have given my mum about a thousand naira. My dad and I still had a good cordial relationship but you cannot compare the love I had for my mother with my dad. How did you meet your wife? I met her here in Ibadan in 1992. Then I just signed for Shooting Stars. Dotun Alatise and I were driving in a BMW car I was using thenand we drove through Onireke area, very close to her office. When I saw her, I stopped and requested to lift her and she said no. I didnot take no for an answer too and I told my friend not to move. I had to plead with her before she finally succumbed. I followed her home and she said her name as  Ngozi but because of her fluency in the Yoruba language, I never knew she is from Eastern part of the country. From there, we started dating and got married in 1994, June 12th. I won’t forget that date. What attracted her to me is her height. She is tall and very beautiful. Laterwhen we got to know each other better, I discovered that she isindustrious, hardworking and respectful. She was working with her mumin her shop. The way she does her things, endeared her to me. How did you propose to her? It was 1993. By then we were still dating. Her father called me and asked me if I wanted to get marry to his daughter or the relationshipwas just a fling. I told him that I wanted to marry her. He advised me to speed things up and show some level of seriousness. My mother on her own was so tired of me bringing home different types of girls andshe asked me to settle down and get married. Funny enough, one day,while relaxing the bed she brought a calendar and asked me to choose adate. We both chose the date and to the glory of God, we got marriedon that day. Our expectation on our wedding daywas tolive for better and for worse. We want to grow old together. Our marriage is about 24years now and there has never been any problem. Have you been able to realize those expectations? Yes, lots. I happen to be the first person to take her out of theshores of this country to South Korea. When I was in Austria too, shefollowed me. She has been to many countries of the world and presentlyshe is in the United States with the children. Has there been any time you thought of calling off your marriage dueto one problem or the other? Somehow, but not to the extent of contemplating a divorce. Can you describe her strong and weak points? Her greatest strength is in her courage. If anything happens to her,she takes it in good faith. Her greatest weakness is her anger andthat is my own greatest weak point too. I am quick to get angry too, but for her now, she has really changed. Maybe because she knows thatwe are both quick to anger. We need to be very careful, so she tookthe path of change. I am trying to work on my temperament too. Did this quick temper help you out in the field of play between your coaches and teammates? I tried to comport myself a lot because I wanted to make a career outof football. Being shown a red card every time will spoil someone’sfootball career. How did you cope with family life while playing actively? It has not been easy because here in Nigeria, when we were here in thecountry, we used to see each other except when I travel out of Ibadan. When I was in South Korea, for about six months I didn’t see myfamily. It was as if the whole world was coming down. I had to tell myclub that I wanted to come down with my whole family. The clubprovided the ticket for my family to join me in South Korea. How did you keep your family together? You know in life, you experience ups and down. Sometimes, you targetthings that you might end up not getting. Sometimes, miraculously itcomes to pass. The only thing in life is that whatever comes your way,you just have to thank God. With my wife and children, I thank God because He has been so magnanimous and good to me. In spite of the countlesschallenges, I believe there is still family bond. I see this in some of my friends like MutiuAdepoju, Ike Shorunmu. The bond is still there in the way they relatewith their families. If you see some of my step brothers, you cannot differentiate because we look alike. They are muscular the same way.In a polygamous family, it is not as if you will never encounter anyproblem, you will have it but presently, I don’t think there is suchin my family. Why is it that sportsmen prefer their families to stay abroad while they live at home? Things are better back home. Life is more expensive over there. Maybe it is because of the type of life, they are used to. For example, electricity over there is stable. Do you intend to follow in the footsteps of your dad? I don’t pray for that because before my dad died he told me never totry polygamy in my life. I know the reason behind it. It is because hehas seen it all. He advised me to settle any problem between my wifeand I. he told me as a matter of fact that my wife is a good woman andI will enjoy her till I die except the fault comes from one. Thisadvice is based on the fact that my wife was so close to both my parents. I have never had it at the back of my mind to get married toa second wife. Most people believe celebrities; sports men and women inclusive are promiscuous, why is this so? It is not only celebrities. Whether it is true or not, I can’t answerthat. I know people do it a lot. It is as if the light is shining onthe celebrity because your face is known everywhere. What is your advice for younger players considering the high rate of scandals and divorces among sports celebrities? It is not all about going to the altar to get married. You have tolove who you want to get married to. You guys have to court and knoweach other very well before jumping into it. Marriage is like a bond,it is like a long term business partnership where you can’t just optout anyhow. There are some marriages in which both parties are noteven happy and there are married to each other just to bear the name Mr and Mrs The advice is that they must know themselves, know andunderstand each other very well. Stick to one wife. We cannot all befaithful to our wives because men will always be like men.” While playing professional, which was your most memorable match? It was playing against Real Madrid at the Santiago Bernabeu Stadiumduring a UEFA Champions League match. This also was my childhood dreamclub and there was I playing on their pitch. I still haveClarenceSeedorf’s jersey till today; we exchanged jerseys after the game. Playing career In Nigeria, I played for Golf FC now Chevron, then Ajibulu FC then in Lagos but we played all our league matches in Ogun State. I ran away to Akure and played for both Investment Corporation and Housing of Akure. I came back to join Stationery Stores in 1989. We won the F.A. Cup in 1990. I joined Iwuanyanwu Nationale of Owerri in 1997 and then Shooting Stars Sports Club in 1992. I joined Africa Sports of Abidjan in 1993 and still comeback to Shooting Stars in 1995. Then we won the F.A and the Charity Cup. In 1996, we were in the Champions League finals where we lost to Zamalek of Egypt. In 1997, I was in South Korea for two years. I also went to Austria and had the opportunity of playing in the EUFA Champions League. My club was in the same group with Inter Milan of Italy, Sparta Moscow and Real Madrid of Spain. Thank God I had the opportunity of seeing and playing against Ronaldolima of Brazil, Raul Gonzalez of Spain, Clarence Seedorf of Netherland. I also took pictures with them. It was a sweet experience for me that I can never forget in my life. I was capped 27 times for the national team, Super Eagles. I didn’t record any goals playing for Nigeria but I scored many for my club sides. I played with Stephen Keshi, Rashidi Yekini, Mutiu Adepoju, Thomson Oliha, Ike Shorunmu, Austin Egueavon, the 1992 Senegal African Nations cup and both world cup and nations cup qualifier. I was in Senegal 1992 African Nations Cup. I got injured there I played the opening match against Senegal (2-1), against Kenya (2-1). I was injured against Congo (1-0). I played against Ghana (1-2), I was givena red card in that match. What is your future plan? I have been thinking about it a lot. Thank God my children are brilliant. The first is Segun Chukwuemeka Babalade, 24 years old. Yemisi Chinyere, 21 years old and Nnamdi Tosin, he is 16 years old. My plans for them are great but I have to put them into the hands of the Lord. As for me, I want to rise to the higher level in football management. I want to be a very good soccer administrator. I am dreaming of seeing myself in the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) and work for this country. And I want to give back to the society and the younger ones. 