Intellectual property ( IP ) is the intangible property that is the result of creativity (such as patents, trademarks or copyrights). It is a category of property that includes intangible creations of the human intellect, and primarily encompasses copyrights, patents, and trademarks. It also includes other types of rights, such as trade secrets, publicity rights, moral rights, and rights against unfair competition. Artistic works like music and literature, as well as some discoveries, inventions, words, phrases, symbols, and designs can all be protected as intellectual property. Intellectual property law has evolved over centuries. It was not until the 19th century that the term “intellectual property” began to be used, and not until the late 20th century that it became commonplace in the majority of the world. The main purpose of intellectual property law is to encourage the creation of a large variety of intellectual goods. To achieve this, the law gives people and businesses property rights to the information and intellectual goods they create, usually for a limited period of time. Because they can earn profit from them, this gives economic incentive for their creation. However, as there was advancements in science and technology, it became necessary to protect these intellectual properties against plagiarism and piracy, this led to the establishment of the World Intellectual Property Day in 2000. The event was established by the World Intellectual Property Organisation ( WIPO ) to “raise awareness of how patents, copyright, trademarks and designs impact on daily life” and to celebrate creativity, development of the world at large”. 26th of April was chosen as date for the celebration because it coincides with the date on which the convention establishing the World Intellectual Property Organisation entered into force in 1970. The idea was first birthed by a statement made at the Assembly of the member states of the World Intellectual Proper Organisation (WIPO) in September 1998, the Director General of the National Algerian Institute for Industrial Property ( INAPI ) proposed on 7 April 1999 the institutionalisation of an international day against piracy of intellectual property throughout the world. Each year, a message or theme is associated with the event. This year theme is “Powering Change: Women in Innovation and Creativity.” Thus, this year’s World Intellectual Property Day Campaign seek to celebrate the brilliance, ingenuity, curiosity and courage of the women who are driving change in our and shaping our common future. Every day, women come up with game-changing inventions and life-changing creations that transform lives and advance human understanding from astrophysics to nanotechnology and from medicine to artificial intelligence and robotics. In recent time, women have really been performing excellently well in the creative sphere, whether in the movies, animation, art and culture, music, fashion, cinematography, sculpture and more, women are re-imaging culture, testing the limit of artistry and creative expression, drawing us into new worlds of experience and understanding. According to World Intellectual Property Organisation ( WIPO ), “The important and inspiring contributions of countless women around the globe are powering change in our world. Their “can do” attitude is an inspiration to us all. And their remarkable achievements are an invaluable legacy for young girls today with aspirations to become the inventors and creators of tomorrow. “More than ever before, women are assuming leading positions and lending their voices on various issues affecting the larger society. This is good news. With all hands on deck, we strengthen humanity’s hand, and improve our political systems, alleviate poverty, boost global health, and safeguard our territory.” It is high time to ensure that increasing numbers of women and girls across the globe engage in innovation and creativity and why this is so important. This year’s World Intellectual Property Day celebration is an opportunity to highlight how the Intellectual Property (IP) system can support innovative and creative women (and indeed everyone in their quest to bring their amazing ideas to improving the global market. As you celebrate this international day, ensure you join the conversation using #worldiplay and share on your Facebook page the female inventors and creators who are fostering change near you. Do keep the celebration glowing.