Vice-chancellor (VC) of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) in Ondo State, Prof Igbekele Ajibefun, has re-affirmed that the school remained passionate about issues pertaining to human development. The VC spoke when he received participants of Course 11 at the Institute in Security Studies in Abuja, who visited the school’s Centre for Entrepreneurship Studies as part of their study tour of Ondo State. Represented by his deputy, Prof Olugbenga Ige, the VC said the university remained passionate about development issues, especially on security and human capacity development. Ajibefun, who praised the team for finding the school a worthy destination to learn, said the theme of the course, Cultural values and contemporary governance: Challenges of ethnic nationalism and youth disillusionment, was timely, noting that it interrogated contemporary security challenges. The VC said: “We appreciate the fact that our university is considered a fertile ground for an intellectual transaction of this nature. Since no single agency can claim to have all the answers to the security challenges; effective security requires collaborative efforts among the nation’s security agencies as it will help in reducing the nation’s perennial security problem.” The VC said AAUA was ready to partner with other academic institutions and government agencies in providing answers to security issues. He added: “Institutions are set up to provide answers to critical national issues. There cannot be a time more suitable than now when the country is facing dire security challenges. We have to look critically at more effective ways of handling security challenges. “For us at Adekunle Ajasin University, we are always ready and willing to make contributions that will help the country to excel. We are always ready to partner with willing government and institutions to remedy these challenges.” Responding, leader of the team, Prof Dauda Saleh, hailed the government and people of the state for receiving them. He also commended the university management for aiding their study efforts, saying the participants were exposed to innovations during the tour. Other members of the Course 11 team include Mrs Winifred Elikwu, Mr L.I. Okoloagu, Mr Gani Danyaya, Stephen Jiyason, John Usman, Galma Yahaya, Aminu Hena, Friday Anuche and Nuhu Umar. Othera are Bello Adamu, Igwe Ibenere, Ibani Romokere, Oluwole Adewusi, Happiness Ojukwu, Amaka Okafor, Chukwara Iyu and Salami Abiola.