Group Capt. John Ukeh, Commander, Base Services Group ( BSG ) of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF), Enugu, has called for more synergy among the various security agencies in the country to tackle the various security challenges. Ukeh made the call after the NAF Second Quarter Route March in Enugu, which took place between Enugu-Onitsha and Enugu-Abakaliki Road on Saturday. He noted that no single security agency or formation can effectively shoulder the security responsibility of the country. “This route march as directed by the Chief of Air Staff ( CAS ), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, is meant to keep the troops ready and fit for deployment to combat and trouble zones. “It will help to strengthen the health of NAF personnel and ensure that they are agile at all time. “This exercise also promotes inter-agency relations as we have members of sister security agencies marching in unison with our personnel this morning. “It is clear that no single agency or security formation can effectively tackle security challenges in the country. “So, we needed to create avenue for greater and closer synergy among all security agencies,’’ Ukeh said. The commander, however, urged the troops to be dedicated to their duties and bring innovative ideas meant to facilitate the mandate of the Chief of Air Staff and NAF in general. Speaking, Mr Cyriacus Enechukwu, Area Commander, Police Area Command in Enugu, lauded the NAF for keeping to its tradition of quarterly route marches and involve sister security agencies. “It is heartwarming that security agencies are working together to provide solutions to security challenges; and this will definite produce better results,’’ Enechukwu said. Mr Agu Justin of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps Command, Enugu and Mr Chukwuemeka Ochi of Nigeria Immigration Service, Enugu joined in thanking the NAF for putting up a “well-organised and well-attended’’ route march. “This gesture of carrying everybody along will help security agencies understand one another and improve the overall security of Enugu State and by extension the country,’’ they said. The newsmen reports that personnel from four formations within NAF in Enugu took part in the route march, which covered 10 km. The formations included: Headquarters Ground Training Command, 405 Helicopter Combat Training Group, personnel from NAF Comprehensive School, Agbani and personnel of Base Services Group. NAN