Former Minister of Finance Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala is to explain how about $250million of the $500million recovered from the family of the late Head of State, Gen.Sani Abacha, was withdrawn, The Nation learnt yesterday. The cash was released to the Office of National Security Adviser( ONSA) without appropriation. About $36,155,000 (N13,015,800 billion) out of the $250million was also withdrawn in cash “without any purpose” on March 2nd, 9th, 16th and 18th of 2015. The Acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, has approved Mrs Okonjo-Iweala’s invitation. A letter of invitation has been sent to her. According to a fact-sheet obtained by The Nation last night, detectives probing the whereabouts  of the $500million have recommended that the ex-minister be interrogated. A top source said: “Following preliminary findings, a strong recommendation was made to the Acting EFCC chairman for an interactive session with Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala. “Magu has approved the invitation of the ex-minister. We have dispatched a letter of invitation to her. We are hopeful that she will respond. “Her presence is necessary because there were issues about the $250million released especially why $36,155,000(N13,015,800billion) was withdrawn in cash. “She needs to assist the EFCC team on what became of the balance  of $250million which was yet to be traced. “She has to explain  why some of the funds were diverted to  extraneous matters including media services, opinion polls and personal matters.” In another position of the fact-sheet, the Office of the National Security Adviser in a memo on January 12, 2015, requested the former Coordinating Minister for the Economy and Minister of Finance, Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala to transfer $300million. The memo said: “Please refer to our meeting on recovered funds.  You are please requested to remit the sum of $300m and £5.5m to the following account being ONSA share as agreed. In response, Okonjo-Iweala via a memo to ex-President Goodluck Jonathan requested for the release of $300m from Abacha loot to the former National Security Adviser(NSA). But only $250million was released to the ex-NSA. The memo explained that this is to enable the NSA’s office to purchase ammunition, security and other intelligence equipment for the security agencies in order to enable them confront the ongoing Boko Haram threat. “This request is sequel to the meeting you chaired with the committee on use of recovered funds where decision was made that recovered Abacha funds would be split 50-50 between urgent security needs to confront Boko Haram and development needs (including a portion for the Future Generations window of Sovereign Wealth Fund). “This letter is to seek your approval to borrow these funds, for now, to disburse to the NSA. These funds form part of projected FG Independent Revenue to be appropriated. “In light of this and for accountability, given the peculiar nature of security and intelligence transactions, we would expect the NSA to account to your Excellency for the utilization of the funds.” On January 29, 2015, the ex-President responded to the ex-Minister as follows: “CME/HMF, approved.” But Okonjo-Iweala had in 2015 insisted that she had no case to answer. She said: Former President Jonathan set up a Committee comprising of the former Minister of Justice, former NSA and the former Minister of Finance to determine how best to use both the returned  and expected funds for development. A former Chairman of the EFCC, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu had claimed that Abacha “took over $6 billion from Nigeria.” He also said $2 billion was recovered when he was in charge of the anti-graft agency.