Executive Director, Salvic Petroleum Resources Limited, Mrs. Henrietta Orjiako has urged youths to discover themselves as there are potentials in them that can produce greatness beneficial to them and the society. She stated this on Saturday at the Job/Entrepreneurship fair organized by the Young Catholic Professionals of the Catholic Church of the Assumption, Falomo-Ikoyi Lagos. With the theme tagged “Unlocking your Potentials” Orjiako encouraged the youths and job seekers to first find out what they would want to do, as it is alarming to discover that there are some youths who do not know what they want to do in life. She further told the youths to find out how they would do what they have in mind. “If you want to go into business, the option of taking a loan can be considered, but you should find out proper ways to go about it.” She stressed the importance of being different, and making themselves better because nothing is new in Nigeria again. For her, it is important for the youths to find out what makes them stand out, even among their peers, and their competitors. Orjiako lamented the unemployment rate in the country, stressing that the government has not done enough to salvage the situation. “The Federal Government can do more than what the youths are having now. The youths are the future, and the current unemployment situation in the country should worry any government. She commended the church for setting up the summit, and urged them to do more, as it is one way of eliminating unemployment from the society. According to the Parish Priest of the Church of the Assumption, Rev. Father Pius Omofuma, it is important to focus on the youths because they are leaders of tomorrow. “We need to focus on the youths because they are the leaders of tomorrow. The leaders today were youths in time past, and they maximized every opportunity they had in their time. If you look at it, in the next twenty or thirty years, the youths today will be at the helm of affairs, so we need to focus on them now. “The church is embarking on this project because we have so many unemployed youths. As we know, a hungry man is an angry man, so this is a way of helping youths discover themselves also get employment.” Explaining the motive behind the programme, the President, Young Catholic Professional, Church of the Assumption, Mr. Patrick Andoya said “We are energizing young people that are unemployed, such that those that have the entrepreneurial spirit will identify it and make efforts to go into small businesses.” “Again, we give jobs to these that really need it and have the qualifications to get one, and that is why we have invited people that have made it through the ranks . “We do trainings also. We organize with enterprise development center, which is a part of Lagos Business School. We also had one with the Nigerian Institute of Management, and these programmes are for free, open to everybody. Speaking on the current unemployment rate, Andoya alarmed that “It is very bad. We are sitting on a time bomb, and not much is done by the government, maybe they are doing something, but it is not enough. “Crime is on the increase because graduates come out of school, and they have nothing to do. That is why a programme like this is organized, and we urge more churches, mosques and private bodies to come out with more programmes that will curb unemployment.”