Kano State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in collaboration with the French Embassy, has sponsored 10 candidates from Kano state-owned tertiary institutions for their PhD in the Near East University in Cyprus for 2018/2019 academic year. The scholarship will cost over N30 million. Giving background about the scholarship, Deputy Governor, Prof. Hafiz Abubakar who represented Ganduje during the award of scholarship, said: “The French government approached the state government in 2015 and first offered 11 scholarship opportunities for 2016/2017 academic session for students from the state to study second degrees in various fields of study. “After the successful completion of their courses, five of them were retained by their universities to study up to PhD level. “Last year, another round of 11 students was sent to France for 2017/2018 academic session. Out of which five were for PhD programmes and nine for Masters Degrees. “In the 2018/2019 academic session, 10 slots were given to the state for another round of Kano students to go to France and study up to higher degrees level. All scholarships were on tuition-free arrangement.” Hafiz, who doubles as the Commissioner for Education, Science and Technology further noted that, “Kano is the only state in Nigeria that was contacted by the French Embassy to have this tuition-free relationship.” Congratulating the beneficiaries, he said they should thank Ganduje for his support to the education ministry, “especially looking at the large sum of money being appropriated on education.” He urged the students to be focused on their academics and well behaved. “You are going to a world-class university, especially as an engineering environment. We are looking forward for your academic seriousness and good behaviour,” he said. In her remarks the Executive Secretary, Kano State Scholarship Board, Prof. Fatima Umar said over 800 students have successfully completed various programmes overseas and returned home since 2015. On the academic partnership between Kano and Cyprus she said with the new beneficiaries, the state has 29 students studying at various levels in Cyprus. Umar explained that in the tuition-free arrangement, “the universities bear the cost of tuition fees plus VAT for the students, while the state government is expected to provide the cost of accommodation, upkeep and other incidental expenses for the students.”