•Restructures South Africa’s operations Lafarge Africa Plc is optimistic that the ongoing implementation of a turnaround plan at its South African business and continuing strong performance of the Nigerian business will quicken the return of the group to profitability. Lafarge had in 2015 consolidated its businesses, majorly in Nigeria and South Africa, to form Lafarge Africa Plc. Chief Financial Officer, Lafarge Africa Plc, Bruno Bayet, said the cement group has started implementation key initiatives that will further improve the performance of its Nigerian business and help to turn around the dwindling South African business, which had impacted negatively on the group performance over the past three quarters. According to him, with all the initiatives, Lafarge Africa will return to profitability in the very near future, with further improvement expected in the performance of the South Africa’s operations in the second quarter. He explained that the decision of the company to increase dividend payout for the 2017 business year by 42.9 per cent was a demonstration of the confidence that the company remains on sound footing despite the negative bottom-line occasioned by timing of inventory movements and performance in South Africa. The board of directors of Lafarge Africa had recommended distribution of N13.01 billion to shareholders as cash dividend for the 2017 business year. A breakdown of the dividend recommendation showed that shareholders will receive a dividend per share of N1.50, 42.9 per cent above N1.05 per share paid for the 2016 business year. The company has indicated that the dividend would be paid from its 2012/2013 pioneer profit reserve, implying that there would be no deduction of 10 per cent withholding tax. He noted that the performance of the company’s business in South Africa had been impacted negatively by the arrival of new competitors between 2015 and 2016, technical disruption to production and decline in South Africa’s overall cement market. He outlined that the group was also concerned about the performance of the South African business and has taken decisive measures to fixing the issues with the turnaround plan in place and the appointment of a new executive team that will return the business to profitability. “Luckily all of those issues have been sorted and we are looking forward to a much brighter future,” Bruno said. He said the first quarter 2018 results of the showed stability in the market and operations which have kept revenues steady in the past quarter, pointing out that improvement plans in Nigeria delivered strong operational performance while turnaround actions will be consolidated further in 2018 through energy optimisation as well as commercial and logistic improvement. He said the outlook for the group remains bright with expectations of a strong market, favourable pricing in Nigeria and gains from logistic and commercial initiatives expected to sustain market share and help to build earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (EBITDA) margins above the 35 per cent benchmark. With energy improvement plan in Nigeria continuing to outperform with increased use of alternative fuel and coal, capital expenditure for Nigeria will be mainly devoted to energy and production optimization while turnaround plan in South Africa is focused on cost containment, commercial transformation and industrial stabilisation. He assured that the company will continue to find ways of optimising its fixed costs noting that the increase in operating expenses was largely due to non-recurring restructuring costs. Key extracts of the interim report and accounts of Lafarge Africa for the first quarter ended March 31, 2018 showed net sales of N80.6 billion in first quarter 2018, a marginal decrease of one per cent from N81.3 billion recorded in the corresponding period in 2017 due to volume in Nigeria and South Africa.  