Acting Chairman of Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr. Ibrahim Magu, his Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) counterpart, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu and the Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Tukur Buratai, are among dignitaries expected to participate in the forthcoming conference of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) criminal justice reform committee. The conference is to hold from April 24 to 27, 2018 at the Asaba Convention Centre,  Asaba, Delta State. The theme of the conference is “Criminal justice administration in Nigeria: The journey so far.” This was disclosed by the chairman of the NBA criminal justice reform committee, Chief Arthur Obi Okafor (SAN) at a press conference in Asaba yesterday. Others expected to participate in the three day  event include: Director-General of National Agency Against Traffic in Persons (NAPTIP)  Ms. Julie Okah-Donli, Acting Chairman Independent Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Commission ( ICPC)  Mr. Usman Abubakar; Executive Secretary, Presidential Action Committee on Corruption (PACAC),  Prof. Bolaji Owasanoye; Chairman, National Judicial Council  (NJC)  Committee on Monitoring of Corruption Cases and Trials (COTRIMTO), Justice Suleiman Galadima (rtd.); Chief of Army Staff, Gen. Tukur Buratai and Controller-General of Immigration,  Mr. Mohammed Babandede. According to Okafor, “The conference is the fifth in the series of conferences organised by the NBA Administration of Criminal Justice Reform Committee and spanning several years. Equally instructive is the fact that resolutions from these conferences have contributed immensely in reshaping our criminal justice sector. Instructively, this conference will undertake a painstaking and holistic review of the Act with a view to tackling challenges and plugging all loopholes relating to its smooth implementation.” The keynote address is to be delivered by the Chief Judge of FCT and Chairman of the Administration of Criminal Justice Monitoring Committee, Justice Ishaq Bello. Also expected tom speak are the Chief Justice of Nigeria, Justice Walter Onnoghen,  Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki; Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, and Delta State Governor, Dr. Arthur Ifeanyi Okowa.  