In the coming weeks, we will be taking a look at some common symptoms which are common complaints that frequently bring the healthcare consumer to the doctors.  Such common complaints are, pain such as headache, abdominal pain, fever, loss of appetite, tiredness, bleeding, constipation, sleeplessness, vomiting, swelling in one part of the body or another, loss of weight and or excessive weight gain and many more. In some weeks past, we have dealt with weight issues, be it gain or weight loss. We have also dealt with matter of sleeplessness. I urge the reader to get these past titles to enable us reconnect with current discussions. In today’s and this week’s discussion, we will take a look at headache which is a common complaint that practically all doctors will attend to at some points in their careers. You as healthcare consumer will also experience headache at some points in your life. What is headache? Simply put, headache is a pain in the head. Since pain had different ways of making itself known to us, it could come in form of ache or be described as ache or be indescribable by the sufferer.  Pain, wherever it occurs in any part of our body, in general is a foretelling of an underlying more serious condition that is calling us for attention. The nature of pain. Just like any other pain, headache could be dull or sharp in character or peppery. It may be described as banging or pinching or like a blow or throbbing. Each person will use the words in a manner he or she knows best to describe the headache.  Doctors will also like to know where the headache is located and when it comes on. Clinicians are investigators and they will do their utmost to get to the root of the problem. So when your doctor is asking you to tell him or her, the duration of the headache, he means how long you have endured the pain. Similarly, the doctor may want to know the period when the pain comes on. You have to be observant and note the times so you can tell your doctor. Also, doctors will ask you to explain what relieves and or worsens the headache. Like all investigators, we as practitioners want to get to the bottom of the matter so that we can offer our customers credible solutions. Therefore endeavor to be truthful and forthright with your doctors. In some occasions, the pain may move from one part of the head to the other in what we call pain radiation. It may be that the pain moves to the ear, neck or eyes. You should tell your carer so. The doctor-investigator who is diligent may want to know what other associated factors with the headache are. Is vomiting, fever, reduced sight, ear ache and so forth associated with the headache? With all these, the doctor will compute your information, crunch the data and come to a suspected cause of your ache. What causes headache? Thus, headache may be due to a million and one causes. Let us just pick, not in any particular order or importance, the most common causes in our environment. First is infection such as malaria and typhoid. Both are common in our clime here. Stress is another major cause. Very often this is associated with irritability, poor sleep, tiredness and poor productivity. Such headache may be relieved by sleep. Anaemia especially in women by virtue of heavy menstrual period and also in children with poor nutrition or anyone with heart disease, history of bleeding may have headache. Disease such as silent killer as hypertension (raised blood pressure) is a major cause of headache. This type of headache often occurs at late stage of the disease when things have gone really bad.   Other very frightening cause of headache is a tumor or growth within the head or a growth in other parts of the body that migrated to the head (metastasis). Such growth may actually be an innocent growth or pernicious as cancer. Injuries to the head, road traffic accidents, domestic blow, fights, or trauma in general could lead to acute or long standing headache. Diseases that affects or originating from adjacent organs such as ear, throat, nose, eyes may be the root of a headache. Yet, diseases in distant organs such as kidney, liver, blood or even our toes and skin may lead us to have headache. Have you not ever heard of a pimple giving rise to headache? Headache may also be a significant symptom in mental health matters such as depression, anxiety and psychosis. Solutions: Try and rest or have a sleep and take some pain killers for the first 2 days of the perceived headache. If the headache refused to disappear or it becomes unbearable at any time despite your rest and taking pain killers, do not wait, go straight to see a competent medical doctor for help. If you delay, your condition may worsen beyond repair. Act as soon as possible.