Lagos State is planning to upgrade its two colleges of education to universities. To some, the plan is good, but others fear that scrapping the colleges may not bode well. Their impending scraping, they argue, may affect their mandate of providing middle-level manpower for schools. ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA, JANE CHIJIOKE and CHIMAOBIM IHEDI-OBI report. To  the Lagos State Government, education remains a priority. For this reason, it has joined the Federal Government in ensuring that only graduate teachers will soon man basic and junior secondary schools. The state is planning to upgrade its two colleges of education – Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED) Oto/Ijanikin, and Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED), Noforija-Epe – to universities. Upon the upgrading exercise, AOCOED will  become Adeniran Ogunsanya University of Education; MOCPED will be called Michael Otedola Open Distant Learning University. The groundwork for the exercise is at advanced stages. The governing councils of both  colleges have also been notified. Feelers indicate that once the colleges become universities, the government will scrap the National Certificate of Education (NCE) programmes.  Govt’s position The House of Assembly Committee on Education Acting Chairman, Lanre Ogunyemi, told The Nation on phone that the government might do away with NCE programme because it is naturally phasing out like its teacher training cousin. “NCE is becoming the least qualification for employment in Lagos State,” Ogunyemi began. “You will realise that there is no teacher training anymore, and NCE appears to be going in that direction too. That is why MOCPED now has a mandate for primary education; and even at that, go and check their level of enrolment, it keeps falling every year. “If you don’t have a first degree, you cannot teach in any school in Lagos. Those who were employed with NCE have been asked to upgrade. It is only in private schools now that NCE is still being considered. “Now the idea (behind the proposed upgrade) is that we realised that many colleges of education are in affiliation with universities for a degree programme. If you go to AOCOED, for instance, they are also in affiliation with the Ekiti State University where the students receive the training at the college, but EKSU issues the certificate. We then said, if these schools (AOCOED) have come all the way and have the requisite personnel and facilities, why don’t we just upgrade them and let them start on their own?” However, stakeholders in AOCOED had eagerly anticipated the upgrade for the 59 year–old college of education adjudged the oldest tertiary institution in state. They believe the institution possesses physical and intellectual infrastructure to mutate into a university. However, while many await the pronouncement, some stakeholders led by the AOCOED Alumni Association are worried that the government is not thinking of retaining NCE by siting it elsewhere.  Precedence In April 2013, the Federal Government announced plans to scrap colleges of education, thereby abolishing NCE, which, according to the National Policy on Education, is the basic requirement for teaching in primary and junior secondary school. The then Minister of State for Education, under former President Goodluck Jonathan, Kenneth Gbagi, announced it in Abuja while inaugurating the technical committee on the establishment of six new federal universities and the future of colleges of education, polytechnics, and mono-discipline universities in Nigeria. He said: “We are on the verge of whether we should phase out the colleges of education or upgrade them to degree-awarding institutions or convert them to purely technical schools. One of the universities we are going to set up  will be to train teachers for the upper echelon of education. “It is no longer fashionable for us to have this teacher training stuff with colleges of education. So, come up with an in-depth arrangement as to what we intend to do,” Gbagi further instructed the committee.  Stakeholders react However, to Mrs Bumi Oluokun, headmistress of Ansar-ud-Deen Nursery and Primary School, Mafoluku, phasing out of NCE in the state is not a big deal. Mrs Olukokun’s concern is the government’s preparedness to allocate more funding and right personnel. “I do not see anything wrong if the government chooses to abolish NCE. The government should make it a gradual process,” she said. She continued: “Life is not stagnant; you can only keep updating your knowledge. NCE is gradually fading out like Grade 2. Even the teacher training school has faded out. If colleges are gradually being converted to a university, the government then needs to equip them with the right personnel and structures because becoming a teacher is different from every other programme. There are some basic knowledge that a student should be equipped with. Now I cannot employ an NCE holder without an additional degree. If, at all I do, I won’t place you in any of the upper primary classes.” Mrs Akintola Oluwatoyin of City of Wisdom Schools, Ijesha, appealed that NCE should not be scrapped, describing it as a programme that grooms people to become better and qualified teachers. She said: “There is no way the NCE can be scrapped, no matter how they try to phase it from the education system. This is because those colleges will forever enjoy that exclusivity where teachers are trained. There is always a clear distinction between a teacher who passes through Grade 2, NCE before acquiring a degree and a teacher who proceeded to university for a teaching programme after his secondary school.” Principal of Ghazlak Private Secondary School, Mafoluku, Mr Adebayo Ayinla pitched his tent behind Oluwatoyin “There is a big difference between teachers who went through the NCE programme and those who did not in all aspects of teaching,” Ayinla noted. A teacher from a public school in Lagos, who simply identified herself as Mrs Nwaneri, described NCE as the bedrock of teaching. “That (NCE) is where the basics of teaching are being acquired before going to the university. Without these basics, a teacher cannot teach effectively. Mrs Yemi Danisa from Olayomi Private School, Ijesha, said some, owing to their humble background, prefer to acquire NCE certificates first, with which they earn a living before proceeding to the university later. Miss Itanla Titilayo who teaches at Kingdom Kids Minders School, Lawanson, said any would-be teacher desirous of being grounded in the profession should go through NCE. “One should not just jump into a profession without following the right process, which is NCE because this is where one gets to know how to handle students, and gather other knowledge and skills required for teaching. Rather than separate them, retired principal in Lagos State Mr Abayomi Adegunle, is suggesting that both the NCE and degree programmesshould be allowed to run concurrently. “If we say we don’t want NCE graduates again, who will teach at the basic level,” he asked. In the area of cost implication, Adegunle said NCE graduates are better off, and cost a lot less to manage. “In terms of cost, an NCE graduate could handle two or more subjects because he would have specialised and be grounded in them before graduation. But a university graduate specilises in only one subject, so where is the money to pay all the university graduates when government eventually employs them? Moreover, Adegunle hopes the government is already considering the financial implication of such huge projects, urging the authority to take a cue from a Southwest state that once tried same, but ran into problem shortly afterwards due to its inability to adequately fund the school.” Mrs Christiana Olanipekun, headmistress of Honey Field Nursery and Primary School, Mafoluku, recalled her Grade 2 and NCE days with nostalgia. “I have my Grade 2, NCE and my degree certificates. During my NCE days, I discovered that my opportunity of getting employment was very slim because I did not have a degree. “I discovered that in NCE, the lectures were raw, practical as against what I experienced in the university. At the university, we do not have 100 per cent practical-inclined personnel, but because I had gone through NCE it was easy for me. You cannot use NCE to get a job in the public sector; that is to show how irrelevant it has become.” Last month, the College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU) of AOCOED, in a briefing noted that the union welcomed the government’s initiative, adding that a college of education is no longer a fad. The union appealed to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to announce the new status at AOCOED’s forthcoming convocation in June, which will also coincide with the institution’s 60th anniversary. He said:  ”We have been able to convince the governor that the university of education is not only the trend, it is also cultural as our society is no longer interested in college of education again as reflected in the college previous admission statistics of students who deliberately chose AOCOED as their first choice,” said COEASU-AOCOED Chairman Comrade Michael Avosetinyen, ”The highest statistics in the Joint Admissions Matriculation Examination (JAMB) in the recent past is 24. The implication of this is that the state government and the college will be at a loss while the staff may not be able to justify their existence”. Similarly, during the college’s matriculation of NCE full time last month, its Registrar Mr Shehu Adedamola Muhideen, re-echoed the government’s stance He said:  “The government is considering doing away with NCE institutions in all the state tertiary institutions and transmuting us into a university of education. We’ve had some directives and moves were going on at the level of government to have this realised in full. So, it’s most likely that we may be having the last set of NCE students who were matriculated a few weeks ago. From the next academic session, we are looking forwards to seeing a university of education.”