Shareholders of Custodian and Allied Plc yesterday approved a change of the group’s name to Custodian Investment Plc in a strategic move to align the brand name with the enlarged business outlook of the group. At the annual general meeting in Lagos, shareholders approved a special resolution to change the name of the company from Custodian and Allied Plc to Custodian Investment Plc or any other name that may be approved by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) without any further reference to shareholders for their approval. Custodian and Allied, a holding company, includes four subsidiaries- Custodian and Allied Insurance Limited, Custodian Life Assurance Limited, Custodian Trustees Limited and CrusaderSterling Pensions Limited. Chairman, Custodian and Allied Plc, Dr Omobola Johnson said the group has been positioned to take advantage of emerging opportunities and sustain growth across all its portfolios. She noted that following the meltdown of the stock market and the relatively low interest rate regime of 2016, the environment in 2017 was more favourable to companies with net investible funds such as Custodian and Allied Plc. According to her, the various revenue streams of the group including premium income, investment income, fees and commission recorded significant growths while the company’s costs were effectively managed, resulting in a 37 per cent increase in net profit. “In spite of the uncertainty that usually accompanies election cycles in Nigeria, it is my utmost belief that our management is well positioned and adept enough to weather the storm and continue to take our company to greater heights,” Johnson said. She urged shareholders to support the board and management of the company as they strive to create better values for all stakeholders. Shareholders who spoke at the meeting commended the board and management of the company for the impressive performance and dividend payout. Custodian and Allied witnessed significant improvement in its profitability in 2017 as the group’s profit after tax rose by 37 per cent from N5.3 billion in 2016 to N7.3 billion in 2017. Gross revenue increased from N38.55 billion in 2016 to N43.05 billion in 2017. Shareholders approved the payment of a final dividend of 32 kobo for every 50 kobo ordinary share. The company had earlier paid an interim dividend of 10 kobo per share, bringing total dividend per share to 42 kobo, the highest payout by the company so far. The company has consistently paid dividends to its shareholders every year for the past 20 years. Custodian and Allied is a non-bank financial institution with investments in life and non-life insurance, pension fund administration, trusteeship and property holding businesses.  