The Nigerian Institute of Management (NIM) has advised the Federal Government judicial system to adopt speedy prosecution of corruption cases to ease genuine development of the country. NIM President, Professor Olukunle Iyanda made the call at an executive training organized in partnership with the National Defence College at the NDC Headquarters, in Abuja. The training which was fourth in its series was to present professional membership certificate of the institute to top officers of the Nigerian Armed Forces, who attended the special capacity building. Iyanda explained that the system should encourage transparency, accountability through rewards but ensure timely punishment of those involved in criminal and corrupt practices. His words: “Nigerians want infrastructure to be efficient, we want people to use the enormous resources of the country for the good of the people to provide good education and health. If people actually apply the fortunes of Nigeria to objectives of the people, we will be a much better country. “We want the reward system to be actualized. When people do things that contribute to the betterment and achievement of the nation, it should be rewarded and when they do anything that compromises the objective and aspirations of the people, they should be punished and punished timely. “All these extended trials over years and years, when people are standing trial for six years don’t actually have impact. I worked for 15 years in Botswana, when anybody violates the legal standard, within six months you have gone through your trial. You are either pronounced free or put in jail. So people can see a demonstrated consequence of doing things the wrong away. As a result everyone checks himself.” He advised the trainees, who are largely Generals, Maj. Generals and Colonels to expose corrupt practices and remain ethical professionals. “The NIM code enjoins the professional manager to accept the most scrupulous and transparently honest and ethical process of though…and be personally free of any fraudulent or corrupt practices. You therefore must resist corruption, or any gift that may impose an obligation on you in your daily work and decisions or could make you compromise. You see the trial on pages of newspapers and you don’t see people actually go to jail,” he added. According to him, the training became imperative considering vital role of management in resource mobilization and allocation. Earlier, the NDC Commandant, Rear Admiral Adeniyi Osinowo, tasked the officers to be creative and help manage resources considering the limited budgetary allocations to the military. Osinowo, represented by his deputy, Maj. General Peter Bauke lauded the NIM for its gesture and called for intensive self-development of the security personnel.