Nigeria’s ‘highly lucrative’ National Assembly yesterday paled into a peculiar theatre of the absurd. The alleged lead actor in the infamy was an aggrieved and aggressive Ovie Omo-Agege, son of a retired jurist and senator representing Delta Central in the Upper Chamber. There was pandemonium as thugs allegedly instigated by the suspended lawmaker disrupted the Senate plenary, temporarily sacking members and seizing the mace, the symbol of authority. The hallowed chamber was enveloped in confusion and anxiety. For some minutes, lawmakers were at a crossroad. In the absence of the mace, a metre-long metallic rod, usually carried to usher the Senate President while entering and leaving the chamber, laws cannot be passed. Motions and resolutions become a nullity. Without the mace, there is no symbol of authority biding decisions taken on the floor. Threfore, obstruction was the height of contempt for the parliament. It was an attack on popular rule. The incident also brought to the front burner the security of life and property. Are lawmakers safe in the chamber while discharging their legislative duties? News got to Senate President Bukola Saraki in London where he was attending a conference that his house was on fire. His deputy, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided over the proceedings, and other senators were taken aback. Visiting Ghanaian legislators, who witnessed the drama expressed disgust. The thugs exuded confidence as they invaded the chamber and grabbed the mace. All obstacles on the way crashed when it was discovered that the hoodlums were armed. Senate staff who attempted to prevent them got a raw deal. The sponsor of the ridiculous invasion was full of bravado. After the operation which lasted for few minutes, Omo-Agege took his seat in the chamber, despite his suspension. The unruly behaviour further dented the image of the National Assembly. Mace seizure is not new in the parliamentary history of Nigeria. Also, the National Assembly has not been insulated from disruption from the First Republic. In 2000, former Senate President Chuba Okadigbo, the Oyi of Oyi, removed the mace from the chamber and took it to his country in Anambra State, following a dispute with his deputy over the resumption date after recess. The late Okadigbo boasted, saying that he will not surrender it. In the First Republic, the House of Representatives was disrupted by protesting university students over the Anglo Defense Pact. Lawmakers took to their heels. In the defunct Western region, the parliament was also disrupted during the motion on the vote of confidence on Premier Ladoke Akintola. Sensing that majority of legislator were about to remove the premier, his supporters caused commotion in the House of Assembly at Ibadan. The police had to tear gas the chambers. Many legislators were injured. The chain of events led to the declaration of a state of emergency in the region. In 1999, there was commotion in the Lagos State House of Assembly over the choice of House leadership. The contest was between Animasahun from Ikorodu and Dr. Olorunnimbe Mamora from Kosofe. The feud between pro-Governor Bola Tinubu lawmakers and their colleagues loyal to the late Chief Ganiyu Dawodu degenerated. Plenary was disrupted. Later, the rift was settled and the House reconvened. In this dispensation, verbal fighting in the House of Representatives led to chaos. At the centre of the crisis was Senator Dino Melaye, then a House of Representatives member. Clothes of lawmakers were torn. The House closed abruptly. On another occasion, a legislator who was pushed by a colleague during confrontation collapsed and died. However, many believe that yesterday’s uproar in the Senate had its root in the division over the reordering of the 2019 general elections. On April 12, Senator Omo-Agege was suspended for 90 legislative days for allegedly making a “dissenting comment” on the decision of the chamber to adopt the report on the Independence National Electoral Commission (INEC) Act (2010) Amendment Bill. His suspension followed the report of the Senate Committee on Ethics and Privileges and Public Petitions presented at the plenary. What goes up must always come down. Ironically, Omo-Agege was part of the committee, which recommended the suspension of Senator Ali Ndume. Trouble started for the embattled senator when he opposed the Sequence of Election Bill. According to the bill, it was proposed that the presidential election should hold last, contrary to the 2015 arrangement. To some senators, including Omo-Agege and Senator Abdullahi Adamu from Nasarawa State, the bill was targeted against President Muhammadu Buhari, who has not enjoyed cordial relations with the All Progressives Congress (APC)-dominated Senate. According to reports, Omo-Agege said: “There is a perception out there that the target of the proposed amendment is Mr. President.” The senator actually spoke the mind of the members of the Parliamentary Support Group (PSG), which is supporting the re-election bid of the president. Opinion is divided on the suspension. To the Southsouth Caucus of the ruling party, led by Hillard Eta, the punishment was too harsh, considering the fact that Omo-Agege was exercising his legitimate right to freely express his views as the representative of the people of Delta Central. The zonal caucus believes that the senator spoke within the ambit of Section 39 (1) of the 1999 Constitution, which grants the freedom of expression, including freedom to hold opinions and to receive and impart ideas and information without interference. Members of the PSG have also kicked against the suspension. They were infuriated that Omo-Agege was still suspended, despite his apology and repeated pleas for leniency. The senator, while making a spirited effort to convince his colleagues, wept during plenary. The remorse was ignored. However, to those who were bent on his suspension, Omo-Agege’s cup was full as an outspoken Buhari apologist, who has become an obstacle to their election sequence agenda. His opposition to the bill may have frustrated the move to build consensus on a matter that has deepened the gulf between the presidency and the parliament. What is most striking is that only the Delta Central senator was suspended while other senators who opposed the bill were not touched. Many critics have reflected on the punitive measure, drawing out its shortcomings. APC chieftain and legal luminary Dr. Tunji Abayomi said the suspension was slammed on Omo-Agege without considering the interest of his constituency. In the human rights activist’s view, the Delta District has been denied constitutional representation in the Senate for 90 days. Other lawyers have also pointed out that Omo-Agege may have been suspended in error, judging by the subsisting judgment of the court that the Senate can only suspend a member for a period not more than 14 days. Also arising from the ensuing controversy are four core issues. The first is the clamour for the ban on PSG, the status of the suit instituted by Omo-Agege in court against the Senate in relation to his suspension, the failure of the ruling party to drive parliamentary cohesion in a National Assembly where it has a majority control, and Omo-Agege’s return to the chamber that is boiling over his suspension. The ban on the parliamentary group has been suggested by senators who incidentally belong to other partisan groups in the Senate. Does the call for the proscription of the PSG not amount to seizure of the liberty to voluntarily associate, based on ideas and principled position on burning issues? Is it democratic to insist on banning an association canvassing issues that do not constitute a threat to the law, security and national unity? Is the Senate for repression of opinion? Omo-Agege is still in court. If a matter is before a judge, should the Senate proceed to suspend the plaintiff? What is the interpretation of the rule of the Senate over litigation? Why should some senators insist that their colleague should first of all withdraw the case against the Senate as if it is unlawful to seek for protection in the temple of justice? Has the Senate not breached its own rule? Also, was the bone of contention debated at the APC Senate Caucus? Was there a room for harmonisation of diverse views and positions on the contentious issue of election sequencing? The matter may have been debated at that level and majority would have carried the day. But, is the minority not entitled to its opinion thereafter? Does a mere expression of opinion constitute a danger in democracy? The APC, led by Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, is in deep slumber. Where is the party caucus? Why is there a gulf between the APC Senate Caucus and the party leadership? What is the position of the party on the sequence of elections? Does the position of the APC Senate Caucus align with that of the party? It appears there is a recurrent tension between party supremacy and parliamentary supremacy. Where is the meeting point? After his suspension, even in error, should Omo-Agege still insist on attending the plenary when the Senate is still boiling? Having approached the temple of justice, where the regression into an unruly behaviour? Was his attendance and the invasion of the chamber by thugs coincidental? Can he continue to sit in the Senate, unless the logjam is settled in court? Why clinging to law on one hand and employing extra-judicial survival tactics on the other hand? When will the controversy fizzle out? Who laughs last?