“The only difference between ordinary and extraordinary are the actions you decide to take.” – Anonymous Everyone starts out as ordinary. They do the things everyone else seems to do. But then at some point they decide that’s not enough. For whatever reason they decide they are going to take a stand and do things a little, or a lot, differently. It is this decision that turns the ordinary into a living legend. This is the story of Linda Brown who passed away late last month. Who was Linda Brown? Linda Brown was the young girl at the center of the 1954 landmark Brown v. Board of Education Supreme Court case in the United States of America. When her death was announced, Kansas Governor, Jeff Colyer tweeted: “Sixty-four years ago a young girl from Topeka brought a case that ended segregation in public schools in America. Linda Brown’s life reminds us that sometimes the most unlikely people can have an incredible impact and that by serving our community we can truly change the world.” In one of my first courses in the university, I studied American history and I remembered being inspired by the U.S. Supreme Court landmark ruling of 1954. I recall it was Brown’s father, Rev. Oliver Brown, who sued the Topeka school board to allow his daughter the right to attend an all-white school in the Kansas capital city. Four other school segregation cases were combined with Brown’s to be heard by the Supreme Court, but the justices’ unanimous ruling was named for Brown – hence the Brown v. Board of Education case. Brown, who was also known as Linda Carol Thompson after her marriage in the mid-1990s, was forced to attend an all-black school far away from her home even though an all-white school was only blocks away. In an interview she granted MSNBC in 2014, Brown said she remembered the embarrassment of being separated from her neighborhood friends and the long walk to the bus stop. “I remember a couple of times turning around and going back home because I – you know, it was a small town,” she said. “I got really, really cold and would get home and be crying. And mother would, you know, she would try to warm me up and tell me it would be all right and everything.” Seeing the pains his daughter goes through week after week, Rev Brown approached the Supreme Court to seek the de-segregation of schools. The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in favour of Brown. In its decision, the court overturned the 1896 “separate but equal” ruling in Plessy v. Ferguson, marking the case as one of the biggest legal victories of the civil rights era. Even with the U.S. Supreme Court decision, it took years of protest and legal battles before segregation would end. Only three years after the Brown case, nine black students had to be escorted by federal guards in order to safely attend the previously all-white Central High School in Little Rock, Arkansas. The question then follows: do we lack ‘ordinary’ people who can stand for something in Nigeria? Does our unique environment prevent the emergence of ‘ordinary’ people in our society? In searching for answers to these simple questions, I found this quote by the late Indian statesman, Mahatma Gandhi instructive. Gandhi said: “There are seven sins in the world: Wealth without work, Pleasure without conscience, Knowledge without character, Commerce without morality, Science without humanity, Worship without sacrifice and politics without principle.” Gandhi – like Martin Luther King Jnr – condemned violence. When asked about what message he would like to give to the world, Gandhi said, “My life is my message.” And what a life it turned out to be. He wasn’t a great orator, didn’t have a very attractive physique, lived a life of simplicity and avoided limelight as much as he could, but still he is regarded as one of the greatest persons to have ever walked on earth. The reason is he lived a simple and selfless life – in essence, he was an ‘ordinary’ man. It was very tough to lead the Independence movement of a huge country such as India and that too with non-violence and against the violent and cruel British army. With Gandhi, India prevailed in the end. Before the 2015 election, most Nigerians agreed that we were at a crossroad and travelling the same old battered road of the past will definitely lead nowhere. Nigerians made a detour with their votes and elected President Muhammadu Buhari. Then we were dealing with Boko Haram and pockets of farmers/herdsmen clashes. But three years later, we have seen a resurgent Boko Haram and the emergence of an elusive murderous herdsman who have virtually turned Nigeria into a vast killing field. Way back in 2015, I was confident the elections would come and go peacefully despite the “CIA prediction/certainty” that Nigeria would cease to exist after that date. In all honesty, I cannot say I am that confident this time around, there’s a sense of foreboding in me that would simply not go away. This is mainly from the security point of view considering the complexity and multiplicity of our security challenges. In addition to the numerous killings in the middle belt, I watched a two minute news clip from the Nigeria Television Authority (NTA) penultimate week on the killings in Zamfara State which further heightened my fears. With such dire situations would the 2019 election be free and fair? Let’s look at Gandhi’s quote in details and why ‘ordinary’ people seem to be ‘lacking’ in Nigeria. Gandhi’s first sin is wealth without work. We can all relate with this as our society is filled with “wealthy” people – some have never worked all their lives. We’ve heard in the past of how some people “import” petroleum products on paper and collect “subsidy” on what was never imported in the first place. In essence, Nigeria was fleeced twice. What about Pleasure without conscience? Our leaders do not care about the welfare of Nigerians. How many of them have visited our public hospitals, schools, ghettos, etc. to have an ‘on-the-spot’ assessment of how the ordinary citizens live? We know where they live, what they eat, where their children go to school, where they go on holiday, on and on and on. They cherish pleasure without conscience. Knowledge without character is the most baffling. Last Sunday, Eniola Bello wrote an excellent article on the back page of Thisday – Little things that matter – which aptly summarises this point. Some may argue that most of our leaders lack knowledge, but some do. Those that do seem to have left the character part somewhere. But the most surprising thing about our rowdy elites is that they “behave” themselves when they leave the shore of Nigeria. A friend who travelled in the same plane with a serving governor said the governor carried his briefcase when they landed at Heathrow, something that would not have happened in Lagos or Abuja. On commerce without morality, I will refer you to another article written by a Dutch journalist FemkeVan Zeiji titled “Celebrating Mediocrity.” It is a no-hold-barred analysis by a foreigner who has almost seen it all in Nigeria. I will skip the next sin and go to “worship without sacrifice.” There’s hardly any Nigerian who is not familiar with this; if there are, then they are being hypocritical about it. Nigeria is perhaps one of the most religious nations on earth. We love to “worship” God, yet we neglect, or we often ‘forget,’ the “sacrifice” aspect at home. If we all truly “worship” God in spirit and truth we won’t be where we are right now. Politics without principle is the icing on the cake. Do I need to elaborate this? I don’t think so. It is in our faces all the time; it is everywhere, we see and love it. We cherish and admire those who practice the principle; we give them awards, chieftaincy titles, etc. They oppress us but we love them still just like the Dapchi residents hailed the Boko Haram terrorists when they brought their abducted daughters back. Things may look gloomy but I’m confident that we have ‘ordinary’ Nigerians who can stand in the gap. They only have to be bold like the Linda Browns.