CLERICS have urged Nigerians to imbibe the importance and the lessons derivable from Easter for individual spiritual growth and national development.  ‘Imbibe virtue of peace and reconciliation’ In Enugu, A cleric, Rev. Maxwell Onyia of Ascension Anglican Church, Enugu has advised Christians to imbibe the virtue of peace and reconciliation exemplified by Jesus Christ. Onyia said this in his homily with the themed: “I am the Resurrection and the Life” at a Special Easter Service yesterday in Enugu. According to the cleric, the death and resurrection of Christ brought mankind peace coming from true reconciliation with God. “Basically, Christ died to reconcile us, the world, back to God once more and for man to live above the powers of death and hell. “The reconciliation, which the death and resurrection of Christ availed us, had made it possible for man to have peace with God and himself,” he said.  Iorapuu to Nigerians: pray for political revival, economic rejuvenation The Parish Priest of Holy Ghost Catholic Church in Makurdi Rev. Fr. Moses Iorapuu has called on Nigerians to use the opportunity of Easter to pray for the country’s economic and political rejuvenation. Iorapuu gave the advice in his homily to mark the Easter celebration on Sunday. According to him, the answer to Nigeria’s myriads of problems rests with God. Iorapuu urged all Christians to develop the attitude of waiting on him for divine intervention in addressing political, economic, security and spiritual problems confronting the country.  Why unity, love, peace imperative to growth, by Badejo Bishop Emmanuel Badejo of Catholic Diocese of Oyo advised Nigerians to embrace unity, love and peace in order to enhance national growth and growth. Badejo gave this advice when he delivered a sermon at an Easter church service in Ibadan. He urged parents to raise God-fearing children to secure the nation’s future. The cleric made reference to the abducted Dapchi student, Leah Sharibu, who refused to renounce her faith.  ‘Resurrection offers believers hope’ Resident Pastor of Living Faith Church, Lokongoma, Abuja Pastor Isaac Oyedepo said Easter laid solid foundation for Christianity and offered believers hope of eternal life. The cleric spoke during a Special Easter celebration service sermon, entitled: “Unveiling the power of his resurrection” in Abuja. Oyedepo said without the single act of resurrection, Christian faith would have been vain, adding that the act wiped away the transgressions of those who died after Christ and those who died before him. “The Easter celebration is not just to wear clothes. It is the foundation of our Christianity. If Jesus did not rise, we will not have Christianity. “So, Christianity is majorly about Easter because without it, our faith is in vain,” he said. 