Two governorship aspirants of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), in Ekiti State, Senator Biodun Olujimi and Deputy Governor, Olusola Eleka on Friday differed over alleged intimidation of certain aspirants by the Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose. While Senator Olujimi, who represents Ekiti South senatorial district, affirmed that Fayose has been intimidating and harassing aspirants other than Eleka, the latter flatly denied the allegation. Olujimi however said she remained undeterred by what she described as the governor’s antics, adding that she remained the candidate to beat in the party’s primary election billed to hold on May 8. The female aspirant who was at the Abuja secretariat of the PDP to return her nomination papers, said cannot be cowed by the antics of the state governor to withdraw from the race. Olujimi said, “All aspirants, except Prof Eleka, are being intimidated but I can’t be intimidated at all. Many of our people have decamped because of what they are going through. The governor was biased, the party in the state was biased “All other former deputy governors aspiring for the position have left because of high handedness, because they are being harassed, because they are been intimidated. I can’t leave the party because of anybody. I can’t go to any other party party. The SDP is just a gimmick for the PDP to lose focus”. The federal lawmaker said she had no issues with Fayose or Eleka, stressing that the deputy governor is a political neophyte, compared to her track record of having been a commissioner, a deputy governor and a senator. “I know the terrain of Ekiti politics. I know where Ekiti people are coming from. I know where they are going. I know what they want and am ready to give it to them. “I have done a lot for them in the past. I have been there for quite a number of them. I have impacted positively on the people of Ekiti. If there is a level playing ground, I know I will emerge as PDP candidate in the May 8, 2018 primary election”. Eleka, who was also at the party secretariat to return his nomination documents, admitted being Governor Fayose’s anointed candidate, saying he was proud to be so favoured by the governor. He however insisted that he was in the race based on his personal conviction to better the lot of the Ekiti people by building on Fayise’s legacy in the state. According to him, the governor did no wrong by supporting his aspiration, stressing that Fayose reserved the right to support any aspirant of his choice. Eleka said, “To be anointed is not a new thing. God himself anointed Jesus Christ for a purpose. Everyone of us has a destiny to fulfill and it is going to be through certain means and persons. “Governor Fayose has the right to pick interest in someone and I don’t think he should be crucified for that. I have been under his tutelage for over two years now. I have acquired a lot of experience from him. He is my leader, my mentor and my benefactor”. Both Olujimi and Eleka however said they would support any of the aspirants that emerged the candidate of the party if they lost the nomination. They however stressed the need for free and fair exercise in the overall interest of the party. 