 Nigeria born Queens Park Rangers attacking midfielder Ebere Eze has been named among the best 10 players in the English Championship division aged 21 and under. Ebere who joined Queens Park Rangers on one year deal after a two year spell with fellow London side Millwalll is reportedly being watched closely by scouts .Premier League scouts according to fourfourtwo have been flocking to Loftus Road for a glimpse of this dazzling playmaker, and you suspect, like any loose ball he latches on to, Eze is taking it all in his stride. QPR coach Ian Holloway has warned about giving him too much responsibility too soon, but the youngster himself is banging on his door for starts. Raw pace and trickery mark him out as an immediate threat but it’s the awareness of others’ movement and nonchalant distribution that is truly astonishing. After scoring nine goals in fourteen appearances for the U23 side, Eze was rewarded with a new three-and-a-half-year deal in January 2017. A day later, Eze made his professional debut in an FA Cup tie against Blackburn Rovers, featuring for eighteen minutes before being replaced by Yeni N’Gbakoto due to an injury. The game resulted in a 2–1 home defeat for Eze’s side. Recall that Eze has had the opportunity of training with the Super Eagles in London where he impressed Coach Gernot Rohr. Rohr on that occasion was said to have been tickled by the young man’s creativity and subsequently told his scouts to monitor the former Millwall ace. The German tactician currently penciling down names for his 35-man provisional list for the World cup in Russia and there are strong indications that Eberechi Oluchi Eze may make the list. Other young players in the top 10 aged 21 and below in the Championship released Friday include Rueben Neves who plays in the same club with sidelined Super Eagles number one goalkeeper Carl Ikeme (Wolverhampton Wanderers), Ryan Sessegnon (Fulham), James Maddison (Norwich), Diogo Jota (Wolves), David Brooks (Sheffield United), Chris Mepham (Brentford), Jarrod Bowen (Hull),Ronaldo Vieira )Leeds) and Ben Brereton (Nottingham Forest)     