 Reigning African footballer of the year and Liverpool talisman, Mohammed Salah has continued to touch lives in the land of the Pharoahs, Egypt. Salah who spearheaded the defeat of about to be crowned premier league champions Manchester City in the Champions league clash Wednesday, has increased the number of people keying into the ‘Say No To Drugs’ campaign currently on-going in Egypt. Reports emanating from Cairo indicate that the rehabilitation hotline has hit all time 400% increase in calls as most youths targeted by the campaign have show interest because of their strong believe in Salah and the campaign respect they have for him. Salah, who has scored a remarkable 38 goals for Liverpool this season after joining from Roma, recently, appeared in a ‘Say No To Drugs’ campaign video in Egypt. And the football star’s appearance in the video urging young Egyptians to stay away from all sorts of drugs seems to have already had a massive influence on people. The drugs rehabilitation hotline has witnessed a staggering 400% increase in calls after the campaign was fully endorsed by the 25-year-old. An impressed  Social Solidarity Minister, Ghada Waly, revealed Friday, that the hotline number for an addiction cure was very busy across the past three days since Salah featured in the campaign. Waly also confirmed that the campaign’s Facebook video has already been viewed over five million times in just over three days. Waly added: ‘Some 88 percent of the viewers were between 18-35 years. Facebook, Instagram and Youtube videos have been watched for 8 million and 400,000 times, shared for 23,000 times and liked by 359,000 users.’ The video shows Salah keeping active by running before he stumbles across a young boy having to choose between drugs and spending time with his closest friends. After the boy looks at Salah, he chooses to hang out with his friends and enjoy a healthy outdoor lifestyle rather than get lured into the dangerous world of drugs. It appears as if Salah can do no wrong at the moment. The Egyptian has been one of the stand-out players in English football this season, helping put Liverpool on the brink of the Champions League semi-finals. It will be recalled that about one million electorates were reported to have chosen to vote for Salah to be president of Egypt rather than choose between the candidates whose pictures were already on the ballot papers.