The Federal Polytechnic Bauchi, on Wednesday matriculated 4, 990 students admitted into its various programmes for the 2017/2018 session. ‎The Rector of the Polytechnic, Mr Sunusi Gumau who disclosed this at matriculation ceremony of the new students in Bauchi, explained that 8, 409 applicants were admitted into the polytechnic but only 4, 990 registered. According to him, the polytechnic has recorded rapid progress, producing excellent students, in spite of challenges in the areas of infrastructure, funding and governance. Gumau warned the students against engaging in social vices like cultism, drug use and drug abuse, smoking, fighting or stealing. ‎He urged the staff and students of the institution to support management’s efforts to make the institution a model for others. ‎Gumau announced that the institution has established contacts with four prominent Nigerian institutions namely, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University Bauchi, Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, University of Maiduguri and Nigerian Defense Academy with a view to introduce 17 degree programmes in the institution. ‎He explained that the new degree programmes included; degrees in Mass Communication, Agricultural Engineering, Civil Engineering, Electrical  Engineering, Architecture and Estate Management and Evaluation. ‎“Others include, Quantity Surveying, Computer Science, Medical Science Laboratory, Mathematics and Statistics, Accountancy, Banking and Finance, Business Administration and Management and Public Administration,” he said ‎Earlier, Registrar of the Polytechnic, Rakiya Maleka represented by her deputy, Abdullahi Garba said before their matriculation, the students underwent three day orientation programme in the school. ‎“They were enlightened on the rules, regulations and code of conduct of the institution,” she said. ‎Maleka, however cautioned students that relationship between a lecturer and a student should be like that of a father and his child. ‎“No student should offer bribe or sex to a lecturer to obtain better grades. The student, also has a right to report to the school authority any attempt to collect bribe from them. ‎“You should therefore report any sexual harassment to the school authority for prompt action,” she said. NAN