There was standstill yesterday morning on the Third Mainland Bridge as motorists watched in amazement the rescue and evacuation of victims in stage-managed multiple accident scenes. First callers had rushed out of the vehicles in a bid to join in the rescue injured victims, mostly covered in blood, but soon realised that the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and other partners were carrying out a mock exercise to boost their efficiencies during a real life situation. Six vehicles participated in the simulation including a 15-seater commercial bus that plunged into the lagoon by the University of Lagos (UNILAG) waterfront as well as a saloon car that exploded. The simulated accidents were caused by the over-speeding bus, which colluded with a coaster before plunging into the lagoon. Although the bridge was shut down for traffic between 7am and 8am, the gridlock that built-up lingered till about 10am. Codenamed Operation Oko Jasosa, the simulation, according to LASEMA, was aimed at testing the capacity of rescuers and fostering synergy between emergency responders. It said the bridge was chosen because such accidents usually occur there and there was need for emergency preparedness. LASEMA’s General Manager, Adesina Tiamiyu who led the operation, said it was also to reassure residents and investors that emergency responders were prepared and committed to ensure safety of lives and properties. He said: “The exercise was intended to sharpen synergy, foster collaboration, improve level of preparedness and increase the response capability of relevant stakeholders in the management of multiple casualty incidents especially along Third Mainland Bridge, where such cases usually occur. “There is nothing to panic about, this simulation is deliberately planned to prepare all emergency responders for a situation like this. With the operation, Tiamiyu said the equipment and professional skills of the rescuers had been put to test, adding that they could successfully handle real life situations with little or no hitch. He described the exercise as successful, noting that the synergy between participating agencies was perfect. Tiamiyu said: “After this exercise now, LASEMA and other stakeholders involved would go back to the drawing board to reappraise our performance, evaluate the entire rescue operation and design a better way to handle this type of scenario whenever it happens. “It is part of the proactive measures we decided to carry out so that we would not start learning how to combat real accident scenes when very precious lives would be involved.” Speaking to newsmen, Special Duties Commissioner Seye Oladejo, who was represented by the Permanent Secretary, Dr. Jemilade Longe, said that the exercise was a demonstration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode commitment to saving lives, properties. He said the governor had deployed a sizeable amount of the state resources in emergency and disaster management, applauding the capacity and capacity exhibited by the responders. He said: “Disasters and accidents are things that you cannot predict. But for our investors, what the state government is saying is that if for whatever reason there is an accident, they should be rest assured that we have skilled officials, the needed synergy and equipment to combat such situations. The implication of this is that our people can now go to sleep without any fear because there is a government that cares for them.” Among the participating agencies were LASEMA Response Unit (LRU), Lagos State Fire Service, Lagos State Ambulance Service (LASAMBUS) State Environmental Health and Monitoring Unit (SEHMU), Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Lagos State Neighbourhood Safety Corps, Lagos State Waterway Authority (LASWA), Rapid Response Squad (RRS), Marine Police, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) Nigerian Security & Civil Defence Corp and Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC).