His club might be finding it tough in the Italian Serie A but Nigeria’s Simeon Tochukwu Nwankwo has been described as one of the most intelligent strikers with FC Crotone. On his way to Serie A, the 25-year-old Nwankwo, fondly known as Simy in the football world, enjoyed rare reviews in the ProLiga for his proficiency in front of the goal post and ended on the high as the top scorer with an impressive 20 goals. “The 2015/2016 season (with Gil Vicente) was my best so far in terms of numbers goals I scored and coming to Italy for me was a step up in my career; so I had to take the opportunity of achieving my boyhood dream of playing in one of the European top leagues, “Simy told our correspondent after scoring his first goal in Italy against Hella Verona in the Coppa Italia. “But honestly, playing in Italy is a different challenge for me; it’s totally a different environment but I’m working hard to settling down.” Indeed, the goal has been few and far in between for Simy with FC Crotone but he has been attributed with scoring ‘special goals’ on few occasions including his recent goal in the 1-1 draw against SPAL. “Wonderful goal from Simy Nwankwo,” a TV commentator hollered. “What an intelligent goal scored out of what looked like no opportunity; terrific goal.” Simy himself relishes his efforts, adding that it’s a great feeling to always be among the goals in Italy. “It has always been a good experience playing here in Italy,” reckons Nwankwo who is famous for wearing jersey No.99. “I was so thrilled about that goal against SPAL because I was unlucky hitting the post in some recent games; I you remember I’d scored a couple of goals last year before injury took off the team.” Yet, Simy is unruffled that he has yet to be given a chance to prove his worth in the national team with the Super Eagles even in the wake of Coach Gernot Rohr’s search for some deadly strikers ahead of the FIFA World Cup Russia 2018. “No hard feelings at all (not being called up for the Super Eagles),” offered  Simy, a  great admirer of former Super Eagles’ captain, Nwankwo Kanu and Sheyi Adebayor.“ Playing for the Super Eagles is a dream I will love to achieve someday but I’m just focussed on what I’m doing here with FC Crotone; and waiting when the moment arrives to play for the Super Eagles.” Meanwhile, Simy said the Super Eagles can weather the storm at Russia 2018 despite being drawn against Croatia, Iceland and Argentina. “No doubt, it’s a difficult group but I believe the Super Eagles will put in the hard work needed to come out of the group. I’m confident of a great outing for the team in Russia.” 