The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has invited 13 more top officers of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) for questioning over alleged N2.5billion scandal in the agency. The development has made the list of those implicated in the fraud to 20 because the anti-graft commission  had earlier quizzed a former Director-General and six serving directors of the agency. The Board of the NEMA, headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, had suspended the six directors based on an interim report from the EFCC. It was, however, learnt that some of those fingered in the looting of the NEMA accounted for the ongoing ‘war’ against the current DG of the NEMA, Engr. Mustapha Maihaja. The same forces were said to have complained to an Ad Hoc Committee of the House which led to the invitation of the Vice President, the Acting Chairman of the EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, and some government officials. But the EFCC was continuing with a comprehensive investigation of the scandal in the NEMA. A fact-sheet obtained by our correspondent yesterday showed that the 13 officers invited are Deputy Director( Finance);  Assistant Director( Finance); PEO; ACT 1; SEO ACT1; CA; ACT; ACA; SA; another ACT and three others whose ranks were unspecified. Although the list of the officers was obtained by our correspondent, it was not yet made public by the EFCC because it was waiting for the officers to comply with the invitation from the agency. A top source, who spoke in confidence, said: “We are expecting the 13 officers to appear on or before Monday. But if they do not come, we may effect their arrest accordingly. “They were summoned by this agency as part of the ongoing probe of large scale financial impropriety in the NEMA. “We had earlier interrogated some directors who made references to the roles played by these 13 officers.” As at press time, findings confirmed that some of the suspended directors might be arraigned in court soon by the EFCC. Another source added: “We have released our findings on these officers to the Presidency and there are prima facie evidence against them to be put on trial. So, very soon, they may be arraigned in court. “The EFCC specifically recommended their suspension in order to have more access to some documents and unravel fresh evidence of fraud. According to the EFCC, the  investigation bordered on “alleged case of conspiracy, abuse of office, misappropriation and diversion of public funds reported to the Office of the Vice-President, Federal Republic of Nigeria against the former Director General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) Sidi Sani, and others and forwarded to the commission for discreet investigation.” Some of the alleged sharp practices uncovered by the EFCC are:  The report said in part: “From the investigation carried out so far, officials could not account for funds transferred from the NEMA account to their personal accounts. “Moreover, the funds were being withdrawn in cash and in some cases transferred to family members. Also, it was discovered that some of these funds were placed in fixed deposit; while both the principal and interest were withdrawn in cash by the depositor. “Furthermore, the issue of companies incorporated by the officials of the NEMA who are public servants is against the Public Service Rules. This is more so as the companies are active and still receiving funds in some cases from the NEMA. “There were frivolous emolument claims that were wrongly processed by directors and some officials of the agency.” As at press time, there were indications that some of those fingered in the looting of NEMA accounted for the ongoing ‘war’ against the current DG of NEMA, Engr. Mustapha Maihaja. The same forces were said to have complained to an Ad Hoc Committee of the House which led to the invitation of the Vice President, the Acting Chairman of EFCC, Mr. Ibrahim Magu, and some government officials. A presidency  source said: “The findings on the affected officers  will be made available to the House. The Board of NEMA has the statutory right to hire and fire. But in this case, they were suspended pending the conclusion of ongoing investigation by EFCC. “As you can see, more officers have cases to answer and they have been invited. There is no  going back in cleaning up the Augean Stable in NEMA. “When this government came into power, it inherited so much rot in NEMA and it was in the process of cleaning up the system that the massive fraud was uncovered. “But since corruption will always fight back, some of them had taken their battle to the House Ad Hoc Committee. The House will be given the facts and figures so that we can all be on the same page.”