No traditional ruler evokes extremities of criticism and admiration like the current Oluwo of Iwo in Osun State. Some of his online admirers eulogise him as “the funkiest Oba” and his childhood friends describe him as an extreme loyalist. But there are others who simply see him as a being full of theatrics. Observers on opposite ends of the spectrum would readily agree that the Oluwo of Iwo land, Dr Oba Abdulrasheed Adewale Akanbi Ilufemiloye Telu 1, affects a matchless brand of royalty. Crowned on November 9, 2015 as the 16th Oluwo of Iwo land, Oba Akanbi offers a rare approach to monarchy. Unperturbed by criticisms, the Oluwo argues that his era compares to none in the history of Iwo. And he walks his talk; for instance, his self-confessed passion for Islam and modernisation has seen him take on traditional institutions and deity worship in his kingdom. “They say that an Oba is ‘Igbakeji Orisa’ (second in command to the gods) but I am not Igbakeji Orisa, I am above them (the gods). I relocated the Orisa that had been inside my palace for more than  800 years and nothing happened; I am still here, standing,” he once remarked. Recently, he attracted flak over his alleged adoption of the title of an Emir and installation of an Islamic scholar, Yaquob Abdul-Baki Mohammed, as the Waziri of Yoruba land, attracted greater criticisms. By his action, he incited the ire of the League of Imams and Alfas in the South-West, Edo and Delta states. In a letter, the body’s President, Sheikh Jamiu Bello, emphasised that the Oluwo should respect the limit of his domain. “It is our considered hope that your Highness should as a matter of urgency correct the rumours making the round that the organizers of this event are trying to overblow the ceremony to capture the entire Yoruba land. This is not right,” he said. In response, the Oluwo’s Chief Press Secretary, Ali Ibrahim, said his principal had the right to install anybody as the Waziri of the entire Yoruba land, because of the paramount role of Iwo in the South- West region. “Iwo has been installing Oluwo with a turban and not crown for the past 450 years. No town does that in Yoruba land. What the Oluwo is doing is to establish a structure in Islam in the South-West. In the North, the Sultan is the head of all Muslims and Alfas there,” he said. Oba Akanbi reportedly justified his decision, claiming that Islam had always been a significant part of his kingdom’s historical reality. In the wake of his controversial decision, his critics and apologists are divided over its propriety or otherwise. Is he for or against tradition? Many feel confused about the monarch’s somewhat unpredictable disposition on this score. It would be recalled that when his wife gave birth to a baby boy in Canada on November 17, 2016, the monarch named him Oduduwa, after the progenitor of the Yoruba race. Apparently, the same Oba who kicked out deities from the palace has reverence for Oduduwa. And very few people would forget in a hurry, how he lampooned fellow monarchs and eulogised Northern Emirs. He reportedly said that continuing crisis had bedeviled the Council of Obas in Yoruba land and all his efforts to ensure its resolution had failed. “Talking about the emirship, do you know what happens in the North? Do you see emirs fighting each other? Because there is unity among them; they have respect for each other, they have love for each other. “But in Yoruba land, what I met on the ground since I was a youth, I have been hearing the Ooni fighting Alaafin, this one fighting that one, and so on and so forth,” he reportedly said. Reacting to his statement, the National Publicity Secretary of Afenifere Group, Yinka Odumakin, said: “I think the Oluwo of Iwo is not only an embarrassment to himself but to the entire Yoruba nation. For a paramount Yoruba Oba like Oluwo, who occupies a very important stool, to be doing all these shenanigans, is mostly embarrassing. We are not saying he should not become anything he wants, but he cannot desecrate the stool he occupies, to promote things that negate Yoruba culture and tradition for which he was sworn in as an Oba. The Obanla of Iwo, High Chief Abiola Ogundokun, who was a former ally, did not hide his feelings too. “Rasheed is on his own; nobody in Iwo kingdom is supporting him. We are children of Oduduwa, we are Yoruba. He (Oluwo) knows what he wants from the people. I don’t know where he got his own emirate from; Iwo has no emirate. He has no right to change it. Nobody can change our history overnight. We are not bastards. Only Oba Akanbi knows what he’s looking for; we are certainly not with him.” However, in a formal tactical retraction, Oba Akanbi said he didn’t adopt the title of ‘Emir’ but “only disclosed he could also be called an Emir by his Muslim admirers, especially the Hausa, who cannot pronounce Oba correctly. A statement issued by his press secretary, Ibraheem, said the report on his alleged adoption of Emir is a misconception of the media content by readers.