Adeleke University, Ede, has again been nominated as ‘school of the year’ at the biggest and most prestigious inter-university award platform in Nigeria, the Annual Nigerian Universities Crest Awards (ANUCA). No fewer than seventeen of its students, including the President of the Students’ Association, Sanni Christian and Candidate for the position of Attorney General in the postponed election of the University’s branch of the Law Students’ Association of Nigeria (LAWSAN), Tomiwa Fadeyi, got nominated for different awards of ANUCA. Promoter of the annual awards and ace nollywood actor, Antar Laniyan said the awards was aimed at encouraging students to take up challenges and get identified for future roles rather than leaving them to wander for engagement which could lead to infamous conduct among them. “We are of the belief that they could get properly groomed for positive leadership positions instead of being allowed to drift into negativity”. In his response on behalf of nominees, at the event held at Club Heritage, Alakia, Ibadan, President of the Adeleke University Students’ Association (AUSA), Sanni Christian commended the management of ANUCA for deeming it fit to honor deserving young Nigerian students for their immense contributions to their various universities, and to the country at large. He observed that “the fact that Adeleke University has maintained turning out the highest number of nominees since the inception of the school is a clear indication to how much AUSA is trying to make a difference in the society and a justification that its members are actually, a breed apart.” Corroborating Sanni, Tomiwa Fadeyi, who also got nominated as “Political Icon of the Year”, noted that, “plaques are not for show, or mere display, adding that awards are major forms of appreciation and encouragement for jobs well done, and more importantly, a reminder that there is much more to be done to improve the lot of our societies. We cannot relent now.” President of the Eagles’ Graduating Class, Comrade Adams Olayiwola, expressed happiness at the milestone crossed. He said he was pleased, that “our students are being recognized nationwide. It is something to be delighted at”. Apart from individual nominations, the Adeleke University Students’ Association also got a nomination slot as “Best Supporting Student Union Body”.