Alarmed by its rapidly growing population, the government of China, in 1979, took a radical step by introducing the one-child population policy as part of its larger family planning policy. According to the Chinese government, 400 million births were prevented through the policy. However, in November 2013, following the Third Plenum of the 18th Central Committee of the Chinese Communist Party, China announced the decision to relax the one-child policy. In between 1979 and 2013, China had developed and lifted over 500 million people out of poverty. The National Population Commission (NPC) – through its Chairman, Mr. Eze Duruiheoma – recently released Nigeria’s current population estimate which was put at 198 million people with urban population growing at an average annual growth rate of about 6.5 per cent. “Nigeria remains the most populous in Africa, the seventh globally with an estimated population of over 198 million. The recent World Population Prospects report predicts that by 2050, Nigeria will become the third most populated country in the world,” he said. He added that over the last 50 years, the Nigeria’s urban population has grown at an average annual growth rate of more than 6.5 per cent without commensurate increase in social amenities and infrastructure. It grew substantially from 17.3 per cent in 1967 to 49.4 per cent of the country’s total population in 2017. In addition, the 2014 World Urbanisation Prospects report, predicts that by 2050, most Nigerians – 70 per cent – will be residing in cities. In terms of demographics, the class of the population mostly engaged in urbanisation and migration were young people, adolescent girls and boys, women of child bearing age and the working age population. Existing urbanisation trends, coupled with internally displaced persons (IDPs) in cities, pose critical challenges to securing sustainability in Nigerian urban centres, including efforts to make them smart and responsive to the human influx. “The Displacement Tracking Matrix Round XXI of January 2018 identified an estimated 1.7 million IDPs in over 321,580 households across six states of North-east Nigeria with 40 per cent residing in camp-like settings in urban areas plus 1.4 million returnees. The number of IDPs represented a 4.5 per cent increase compared to the 1,702,680 identified in Round XX (Dec. 2017).” Duruiheoma rightly pointed out that Nigerian cities host wide spread poverty, under-employment and unemployment at an average of 18.4 per cent. Add this to the insecurity in the country – which is fueling the upsurge in IDPs – and inadequate and inequitable healthcare services and access to education and you will come to the inevitable conclusion that we are in trouble. It has often been said that “Nigeria’s population is a strength.” But if we look at it critically, is it really a strength? As far as I’m concerned, our population can only be a strength if it is well-educated and healthy and if the economy has the capacity to provide them with employment that sustains households’ income to buy the goods and services produced by several businesses. If we want to be fair on ourselves, we know this is not the case. Today, Nigerians spend billions of naira in education and medical tourism. The reason for this is because our education and health sectors have virtually collapsed. Yet, these are two key sectors vital to the development of any nation. Bill Gates – and lately, the World Bank – have both emphasise the urgent need for the revitalisation of our health facilities and investment in human capital. With over 10 million out-of-school children, and millions others with substandard education, Nigeria is in a bind. But we carry on as if all is well. So, how do we begin to fix this? Government must do unpopular things, such as population control, cutting of costs, enforcement of tax compliances and relinquishment of government control over infrastructure spending. Government can also look at the option of selling some of our oil and gas assets and use the proceeds to improve critical infrastructure such as the ports, railways, roads, schools, hospitals and a robust national grid. I must point out that this can only be carried out in a very transparent way devoid of corruption. Transparent mechanism must be put in place to track every kobo that would be invested on the infrastructure. Prior to this, there must also be a clear-cut roadmap detailing immediate, short, medium and long term goals of what need to be done and the anticipated outcome. The anticipated plan must also include what will be done with the out-of-school children and how to correct the substandard education received by millions of Nigerians. Of course, you cannot move a step without carrying the people along. In essence, a lot of work will go in the area of massive awareness creation. Government will need to convince people -with appropriate data – on the need for population control. People need to know that uncontrolled population growth will ultimately put pressure on critical infrastructure like hospitals and schools. The problem of waste management is also there as being experienced in major cities across the country. During a recent road trip, we passed a convoy of youths wielding various tools – cutlasses, hoes, spears, bows and arrows and what have you. I counted over twenty truck loads. I was visibly shocked about the huge number wondering where they are headed.  Throughout the journey I kept reflecting what would happen if these youths are unleashed on a community. This is the other side of our uncontrolled population growth. The population issue is a ticking time bomb, especially for a country that hardly plans. Beyond investing in infrastructure, how do we intend to provide employment which is the other side of the coin? Mark Zuckerberg and Bill Gates, who built billion-dollar technology companies in two very different areas, see more seismic problems ahead. At his Harvard University commencement speech, Zuckerberg said: “Our generation will have to deal with tens of millions of jobs replaced by automation like self-driving cars and trucks. When our parents graduated, purpose reliably came from your job, your church, your community. But today, technology and automation are eliminating many jobs. Membership in communities is declining. Many people feel disconnected and depressed, and are trying to fill a void.” For us, that “void” has manifested in the increasing cases of kidnapping for ransom, armed robbery, cultist activities, ritual killing, excessive gambling and a plethora of societal problems. Gates, on the other hand, said: “I just want to say one word to you. That word would likely be robots.” What was his point? Robots are already taking jobs meant for humans. It won’t be an overstatement to assert that we’re already feeling the pangs of unemployment. We should all be concerned because population explosion may be considered positive hindrance in the way of economic development of a country because of the pressures it put on infrastructure and other facilities. In a ‘capital poor’ and technologically backward country like Nigeria, growth of population reduces output by lowering the per capita availability of capital. Due to higher birth rate and low expectation, the percentage of dependents is very high. A large part of the population is in the non-productive group which simply consumes and does not produce much. The rapid growth of population thus diminishes the availability of capital per head which reduces the productivity of the labour force. Income is reduced because it caters for the “consumers” thereby curtailing the capacity to save which, in turn, adversely affects capital formation. A rapidly growing population also increases the requirements of demographic investment which at the same time reduces the capacity of the people to save. Beyond corruption, our investment requirements are going beyond our investing capacity. I visited a teaching hospital recently and I was silently weeping. I couldn’t believe what I saw; this use to be a centre of excellence in the past but is now a “mere consulting clinic,” (apologies to Gen. Joshua Dogonyaro). Visit a normal maternity clinic in any of our general hospitals and you’d be amazed by what you’ll see – doctors and facilities are stretched beyond breaking point. The time to act is yesterday.