THE rainy season is here again. It brings dampness, which makes infections to spread faster. Cold, catarrh, flu, cough sore throat, malaria, cholera, diarrhea and fever are common in this season. How do you shield yourself against such diseases? There are some spices that cure the diseases. They contain medicinal properties, which can prevent  these diseases. According to a food coach and  Seaduck Nigeria Limited Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Sam Ayeni, it is the season people mostly fall ill. He explained that this was mainly due to the increase in germs, such as monsoon. “The humid climate increases their content in the air and water and contaminates our food, which when we consume affects our health. So, it is essential to keep a check on what we eat during the rainy season so that we don’t attract an unwanted health hazard,” he said. Ayeni said eating the right food and maintaining proper hygiene are vital during the season. Besides, one should keep warm all day. Ayeni said roots, spices, leaves, cloves, seeds, and seasonings have anti-bacterial properties that improve oxygen levels in the blood and help fight diseases, such as cold and cough during the wet season. He cited the spices to include: Pepper, e.g cayenne, Uda – also known as negro pepper, black pepper, bell pepper. Roots (they are mostly grinded) and shrubs include onion, ginger, turmeric, and garlic. Examples of leaves are- scent leaf, bitter leaf. Cloves are Kanafuru – also known as cloves, seeds include peanuts, and Uziza seeds – also known as pieper guinesse. Ayeni explained: ‘’Uziza seeds are  hot spicies and slightly bitter seeds, which are mostly ground into a fine powder and used to flavour soups and stews such as pepper soup and groundnut soup. It is also a fantastic substitute for recipes that call for black pepper. As with black pepper, you only need a little, otherwise it will become overpowering and bitter. Pepper is a spice to prevent colds. Pepper has expectorant properties. It can break down the mucous and clear the respiratory system. Pepper can reduce nasal congestion, sinusitis, cough and cold. It can be made into fish or beef stew. Turmeric is a spice that contains anti-inflammatory agents. It boosts immunity and prevents monsoon-related diseases. Drink turmeric milk at least once daily during the season. Half spoon of turmeric, a spoon of honey together with a glass of milk efficiently work in preventing fever, cold and flu. Moreover, the antiseptic properties of turmeric enhance the quality of food we take in monsoon. Ginger has gingerol, which has a healing effect. It is anti-inflammatory in nature. It can cure sore throat and can curb viral infections like cold. Ginger improves immunity and enhances digestion. It further boosts your metabolism.A cup of ginger tea with a spoon of honey and lemon juice helps to fight infections like flu, cough and cold during monsoon. Ginger tea is a mood enhancer too. Garlic is a super spice. It can clear lungs and reduce cough too. It also contains antiviral, antibacterial and anti-fungal agents too. The allicin present in it is a powerful medicinal compound. Cinnamon can cure sore throat, cough and even cold that is common during the rainy season. It also helps in keeping your body warm. It is loaded with anti-bacterial agents that can reduce the irritation in your throat. Cloves: Clove is used for enhancing the flavour of the food, but it has medicinal values too. Cloves help in improving digestion and metabolism which is vital during monsoon. Indigestion leads to problems, like stomachaches, diarrhea, constipation, to name a few. This little spice can boost the immune system and helps prevent diseases. “To enjoy a delightful wet season, include the above listed of spices in your diet and stay healthy and active. These spices will boost the immune system and prevent any host disease from entering the body, wreaking havoc,” Ayeni added.