My attention has been drawn to a report on Page 23 of The Nation dated April 19, 2018, which contained unfounded and unjustified allegations against my person and the recently dissolved parliament of the Benue State University Students’ Union Government (SUG). The allegations are totally false; the report is a malicious fabrication, which the reporter clearly knows himself. Let me expressly say that during my tenure as the Speaker of the parliament, I was neither suspended, impeached nor found wanting either as a students’ leader or academic-wise. As a matter of fact, just recently after the union was dissolved after our tenure, the school, on April 9, 2018, extended a letter of appreciation to my person. The letter is duly signed by the Registrar on behalf of the school. The letter appreciated my giant strides while serving as the speaker. It is, therefore, worrisome that the management, which officially wrote to appreciate me would allegedly turn around to indict me. The point is: I am innocent of all the allegations and I can defend myself anywhere. On the substance of the allegations, it is true that I was given N2.29m and I have never denied receiving the said amount. Immediately after receiving the money, I called for a plenary, informing the parliament members about the money. During the plenary, I reminded them of N665,000 which the parliament owed sometimes back when it embarked on an excursion to the National Assembly and N95,000 expended on running of the parliament. It was agreed at the plenary that the debt be repaid and members would be entitled to N50,000 each for constituency development. After the plenary, there was an alleged emergency plenary, a meeting called by Dean of Students’ Affairs, Prof Joseph Terwase Kerker. I was not invited nor informed of this meeting. On that fateful day, I was in school going about my business for the day when a source informed me that a meeting was going on. On getting to the venue of the meeting with some members of parliament, who were also not invited, Prof Kerker accused us of disrupting the meeting and openly made remarks that he was going to ensure I did not graduate. Later I saw unfounded publications stating that I had been suspended by five parliament members out of a total number of 28 members of the parliament. Immediately, I launched a complaint with the security unit whom after making enquiries demanded the publishers of my alleged suspension to withdraw it as if found nothing worthy to embark on such fruitless voyage. We were later dissolved in accordance with the Students’ Union constitution after successfully completing our term of office.