Embattled Senator Ovie Omo-Agege whisked away by the police over his alleged role in the invasion of the Senate Chamber was released later by the police. A statement by his Office confirmed that the Delta Central senator “left the police” after Omo-Agege told the police his “perspective” on the invasion of the senate and removal of the mace. A statement signed by his Senior Legislative Assistant, Lucky Ajos entitled:”Senator Omo-Agege went to work today like other senators; He did not remove the mace of the Senate” said: “On Thursday, April 12, 2018, the Senate purportedly suspended Senator Ovie Omo-Agege. However, based on legal advice and his understanding of the current position of the law, Senator Omo-Agege today resumed work and sitting with his colleagues. “A few champions of the unconstitutional, invalid and tyrannical suspension tried to stop him but those who opposed it welcomed and protected him throughout the sitting. We are grateful to the many distinguished senators who stood by Senator Omo-Agege. “We are aware of several media reports suggesting that Senator Omo-Agege personally removed or encouraged anyone to remove the Mace of the Senate. This weighty allegation is not true at all. “Following the said media reports on the Mace issue, the Police authorities decided to hear from Senator Omo-Agege. He has told the Police his perspective to help them carry out a proper investigation. He has since left the Police. Senator Omo-Agege trusts them to thoroughly investigate this very serious matter.” We are also aware of a statement allegedly issued by the Senate Spokesperson, Senator Abdullahi Sabi. Without any investigation, Senator Sabi willfully, deliberately and unfairly made very serious allegations against Senator Omo-Agege on the Mace incident. We are carefully studying Senator Sabi’s allegations to ascertain their full ramifications. Appropriate responses will follow, as may be necessary.  ‘I can’t be arrested’ The Police yesterday arrested Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (APC-Delta) at the National Assembly Complex. The Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory (FCT), command, Mr Sadiq Bello, led the team of policemen, who arrested the senator and whisked him away in a Hilux van with registration number NPF 840 at about 1.50 p.m. With the operation that led to the removal of the mace over, Senator Omo-Agege comfortably took his seat in the chamber and stayed till the end of the day’s business. The lawmaker walked into the waiting hands of senior police officers at the lobby. His request to ride in his own car was turned down by the police officers. He was driven away, sandwiched between two police officers at the back seat of the van. Before he was taken away, Omo-Agege, according to a News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report, told the police that the court had pronounced that the National Assembly “and specifically the Senate, has no power to suspend a senator for one day. I can’t be under arrest; for what purpose?’’ The Senate on April 12, suspended the lawmaker over an alleged “dissenting comment’’ on decision of the chamber on adoption of conference report on INEC Act (2010) Amendment Bill. The suspension for 90 legislative days, was announced after the report of the Committee on Ethics Privileges and Public Petitions was presented at plenary.