I HELD back my thoughts on this column again for a few hours last Thursday when I heard the news on radio that operatives of the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) had uncovered yet another Indian hemp farm in Gombe State. You may understand why I slowed down on it if you knew I am the son of one of those colonial police detectives who rid Abeokuta, Ogun State, of thriving Indian hemp farms in the 1950s. Almost every day in those days, I heard my father tell my mother how his work day went. The stories had to do with arrests, prosecution, convictions, destruction of Indian hemp farms and surveillance by detectives from the Criminal Investigation Department (CID). The stories made not much sense to me until about three decades ago when Indian hemp smoking became a pastime of young people in Lagos City. In fact, I remember that one of the earliest stories which shot The Guardian newspaper into limelight in 1983 was a story on how the use of cocaine in public places had begun to rival Indian hemp for supremacy among the upper middle class who were graduating from leaf smoking. That culture was damaging many lives. It was amid this scenario that scientific evidence was emerging that hemps oil was medicinal and a terrific healer of many diseases, including the pain of arthritis, tingling pains in fingers and toes, the excruciating pain of shingles, the naughtiness of chronic insomnia, headaches, brain and retinal weakness, promotes healthy skin and intestinal/colon health. Quite naturally, I could not get myself to believe in the medicinal values of hemp oil. Not even after the oil and fat researcher I adore so much, Dr. Udo Erasmos, profoundly eulogised this oil as highly medicinal in his great book, OIL THAT HEALS and OILS THAT KILL. I may have been rigid, given my childhood and young adulthood experiences, or I may have been convinced that nothing good could come out of hemp from the way I see its young users end up sleeping in open gutters or searching for food from refuse dumps, or begging for alms. Their sorry sights remind me of a book I bought and read in the 1980s. It was titled: TRIP INTO ILLUSION. It tracks the history of drug use and abuse in Europe, the damage it inflicted upon the population, how drugs never helps the users achieve their aims of escaping from reality into any utopia, how their lives are merely trips into illusion. This also helped to harden my mind, like that of many people in the Western world, against hemp, whereas in the Eastern world, ”it has a history of long use in Easter culture as a multi-purpose natural remedy; according to Dr. Edward, Group DC, NP, DACBN, DABFM- ”Despite its widespread popularity, prejudice related to its association withcannabis has kept it from common use in the West. While the oil contains virtually no THC, the psycho-active element in cannabis, hemp oil is still considered sketchy to some. Thankfully, education is prevailing and the market for hemp oil is growing in the United State with an increasing number of people seeking it out for its reported health benefits.” My Education Mrs. Naomi Essen unhinged my rigidity. She is the wife of Mr. NsikakEssien a former editor of the National Concord Newspaper at the time I was Editor-In-Chief of the Guardian newspaper. I knew her through her husband and at DuroSoleye Hospital in Ikeja, Lagos, where she was a matron and my last children were born. She would quit her job to go into alternative medicine at market Tianshi products in a large store at Ikeja. We lost touch for more than 10 years until she found me out on the internet last week and called on the telephone to find out how my family and I were faring. It was news to me that she had gone back to the University, taken a first and a second degree in ENGLISH and was close to obtaining a P.h.D. But she had not given up Alternative medicine. Two major health challenges in her life would not let her. One was chronic insomnia. The other was the excruciating pain of shingles, a nerve ending degenerative inflammatory condition, which appeared to respond to no other medication except hemp oil therapies. The news got me thinking about many people who have called me for recipes for similar conditions which I believed magnesium oil could help. But, perhaps because of the state of Nigeria’s economy, it has been almost impossible to find magnesium oil in the country. Magnessium cream is available, alright. But the magnesium comes associated with other substances. Yet hemp products are almost everywhere. I recall that when one of my aunties on this column, Mrs. Veronica Momoh, of Benue, wanted WHEY PROTEIN, which was not readily available, I told her HEMP PROTEIN was available in Lagos but I could not in good conscience, from the fears earlier expressed, advised her to consume it for her protein needs.Mrs. Essien took  me back on a long journey of the history and uses of the hemp plant. Hemp oil does not come from the Indian hemp plant, also known as cannabis or marijuana. It comes, rather from the seed of the hemp plant. Even then, it is not from the seed of marijuana. No brain twisting is intended here. The picture I am struggling to paint is that the hemp family is a big family. One specie of it produces the marijuana which many of us find detestable in whatever use. Yet another specie produces the hemp oil that is considered medicinally useful. The difference between both species can be summarized as CBDand THC.  CBD and THC  CBD stands for Cannabidol, THC for Tetra hydrocarnabidol.Tetrahydrocamabidol. It is the chemical substance in cannabis which is psycho-active and gives the user the sensation of getting high, a sensation associated with Marijuana. CBD is not psycho-active. This is its selling point to doctors and patients alike who search for anti-pain natural remedies since it does not alter the mind or mangle the brain. CBD oil is made from the extract of cannabis plant which is then diluted with any carrier oil such as coconut oil, olive oil or Hemp Seed Oil. Users of CBD or Hemp seed oil must be vigilant, though, for some manufacturers add THC to CBD in anti-pain preparations.  The Body and CBD  Cannabinol  (CBD) may be relevant to human health because the human body operate a system named Endo cannabinoid System (ECS). The system helps to regulate such functions as sleep, appetite, immune system response and pain. The body produces endocannabinoids, which are neuro-transmitters. They bind to cannabinoid receptors in the nervous system. It is possible that CBD impacts on endocannabinoid receptors and trigger their activities, interacting with neuro -tranmitters and reducing inflammation. In animal studies, CBD injections and oral administrations have been found to reduce pain. One of the combination CBD/THS products approved for medical use in some countries is named SATIVEX and may have found its way into Nigeria where its users may not beware of a THC connection. In those countries, SATIVEX has been reported to ease the pain of multiple sclerosis and arthritis.  CBD Profile  Increasingly, the Western world is looking at hemp seed and hemp oil with kinder eyes. Thus, German-American scientist Dr. GeroLeson would say, for example, that hemp seed ”is an excellent source of several critical minerals and vitamins”. He goes on: ”Its oil has an outstanding fatty acid spectrum; its protein is balanced and easily digested. Moreover, well prepared hemp foods are very appetising. I am convinced that hemp seeds have a great food potential. Their nutritional composition and culinary versatility are very much in line with several major trends in the science and marketing of foods. ”’In his 1993 book on fat nutrition, FATS THAT HEAL and FATS THAT KILL, Dr. Udo Erasmus concluded: ‘The best balanced source of essential fatty acids is hemp oil.”’ Dr. Erasmus is the globally respected authority on fats and oil who helped to unify the fat theory in the 1980s. At that time, it was feared that heart attacks and smokes were caused by the consumption of fats. So many people cut fats out of their meals. But it was soon found that those who died more of those conditions and more than those who did not. Dr. Erasmus’s, work showed that some fats were friendly to health, and some were dangerous. Thus, his work became a bridge across a great divide and unified the divergent conceptions. According to the website of the European Industrial Hemp Association, www.eiha.org: ”Today’s hemp oil is typicallya coldpressed gourmet oil from mature well dried seed. Its most unique nutritionalfeacture is the almost perfect balance of the Omega-3 and Omega-6 essential fatty acids plus the presence of two higher Omega-3 and Omega -6 fatty acids, stearidonic acid and Gama Linoleic acid. These offer known health benefit and are found in only a few other vegetable oils…Yet nowhere as balanced and tasty in hemp oil. A gross inbalance in the Omega-3/6 ratio in the Western diet is now considered an important contributor to the high occurrence of inflammatory, cardiovascular, skin and even mental disorders. As a balanced source of these fatty acids, hemp oil and seeds can help reduce their occurrence in good taste”. The website goes on: ”Hemp seeds and the seed cake flour contain a high quality protein. It is easily digestible and contains all essential amino acids in a balanced ration that satisfies the protein needs of adults. Commercially available protein flour and powders are high in protein and dietary fiber. They are used in shakes and smoothies as well as for baking”. What about minerals, vitamins and other micro-nutrients if, as it is claimed, hemp seed is complete food? In the plaza of these nutrients are magnesium, manganese, Iron, Zinc, Potassium, B-complex vitamins, phytosterols and tocopherols  (vitamin E) fractions or complexs. In www. Draxe.com, hemp seed oil has another ally. Draxe says it is good for source of Gama Linolenic Acid (GLA), from which the body produces homone-like substances called prostaglandins. These help muscle tone and health and hormone health and balance. Many researcher believe  the intake of GLA dietarily or as food supplements is why many women who suffer from pre-menstual syndrome (PMS) are able to get over this problem of pain, inflammation and bloating. The website (www.draxe.com) says GLA rich food and GLA supplements have been known to help such conditions as ”ADHD, breast pain, diabetes and diabetic neuropathy, heart disease, high blood pressure, multiple sclerosis, obesity, premenstrual syndrome, thematic arthritis, skin allergies” Arthritis and joint pain is another field of activity for hemp oil says the draxe website. It cites the Sundays of a study published Ethno pharmacologywhich says hemp oil stopped arthritis pain. Draxe then goes on to recommend one tablespoonful of hemp seed oil taken every day with a good Omega-3 fish oil. A good Omega-3 oil would be that oil which does not have mercury residue. That is the problem of many a fish oil sourced from deep sea fish. This challenge has led to the scouting of the Antarctic for fish and fish oil and the search has yielded KRILL fish oil which is expensive. Flat oil has striven to fill this gap. But it has the drawback of having the first, having to be converted  to the structure of fish oil before it becomes readily bio-available. This challenge again, led researcher such as Dr. Udo Erasmus to search new terrain for Omega-3. He came up with what today is known as UDO’s OIL, a balanced form of Omega-3 and Omega-6 oils from the vegetable kingdom. Weight watchers and sugar cravers may profit from taking four tablespoonfuls of hemp oil with breakfast, it is suggested. Draxe says it suppresses appetite and food craving partly because of its high fibercontent. Just these fibers are what makes the oil good for digestion and prevent constipation. Draxe says: ”A study published in the Journal of Gastroenterology and conducted at Hong Kong Baptist University School of Chinese Medicine compressed two parts: A placebo-controlled clinical study and dose determination study. Subjects were studied in a two week run-in  eight week treatment and eight week follow-up plan who had excessive syndrome of constipation and were given hemp seed pills. The researcher found that a dose of 7.5 grms was more effective and therapeutic than doses of 2.5 or 5 grms and that the hemp seed pill treatment was effective foe relieving functional constipation. Women who have the nerves to take the plunge, after all that have been said, may have hemp seed oil good for their hair, skin and nails. It has found its way into skin creams, up balms, soaps and hair lotions. Many researchers report that at opic dermatitis or eczema tread with hemp seed oil improved. This, they say, is because hemp seed oil penetrates inner layers of the skin to promotes a healthy cell growth. Besides, it impacts anti- microbial properties on the disturbing pathogens. Quite naturally, every-one who is reading about the high profile of a therapeutic agent such as this wishes to know if it has any impact on CANCER, a major scourge of our civiliazation. Yes, hemp seed oil is said to have knock-out punches. The fatty acids and GLA arsenal are reported to redress inflammation, a feature of cancer, and improve immune function. Says Draxe: ‘The British Journal of cancer reports that the THC in hemp seed can stop and possibly increase glioblastoma multiforme (a deadly form of brain cancer). The Journal BREAST CANCEL RESEARCH AND TREATMENT confirmed that the THC in hemp seeds improved advanced stage breast cancer. Researchers from the University of Rostock, Germany, disclosed similar evidence that cannabinoids derived from hemp seed can inhibit cancer growth and metastasis, particularly in lung cancer” THC will, quite naturally raise eyebrows as it is psycho-active. Butresearchers give the assurance that, while it may feature in cannabis at between five and ten percent, it appears at below 1.5 percent in hemp seed and oil. High blood pressure – challenged persons, too, are told to go hemp seed oil. It is said to lower blood pressure, lower levelsof bad cholesterol (LDL), improve levels of the good cholesterol (HDL) and normalize triglycerides level. It has taken me ages to give anything hemp a thought for inclusion in the medicine chest. I hope I can erase from my mind all those pictures of the Indian hemp farms in Abeokuta my colonial policeman father help to destroy. When I discussed CBD Oil with a Nigerian doctor last week, he was not surprise about the healing properties ascribed to it. He told me of a new movement inorthodox medicine to employHydrogen, Carbondyhoizeetc in the treatment and cure of cancer. That is alarming, I said. He replied that, if we believe that everything God created is good, there must be some good in even those things we considered of obnosious today.