The proliferation of religious houses in recent times has sent a disturbing wave to Africa’s social hemisphere, especially when we look at the contrasting fortunes such development has brought to us as a people. We have misplaced priorities, and this is evident when considering the poverty level and underdevelopment we have experienced in this part of the world. Africa is home to over 1.2 billion people, and statistically, the continent is blessed with an active population. An active population is a critical factor in the industrialisation process; this population is essential because it means we can pursue an industrious economy and also provide market for goods and services. In return, this translates to a greater Gross Domestic Product (GDP), better standard of living for the people and ability to pursue stronger foreign policy. Indeed, it is pertinent to note that the inability to utilise human resources could lead to low productivity, poor commerce and high level of dependency. Unfortunately, despite the providence by nature in land, mineral resources and man power, we are still heavily dependent on the West, and this cause for the unfavorable balance of payments experienced by most African countries and depleted foreign reserves. The Africa is synonymous with poverty, low GDP and low productivity. Research has shown that over 60 per cent of countries in Africa record high poverty rate. It is imperative to note that the wealth of nations can only be actualised through industrialisation irrespective of whether a country chooses to operate a free market economy or a closed one. Adam Smith, a classical economist, in his work title: An inquiry into the nature and causes of wealth of a nation, published in 1776, posited that, by giving everyone freedom to produce and exchange goods as they please (free trade) and opening the markets up to domestic and foreign competition, people’s natural self-interest would promote greater prosperity. Smith opined that the only way to generate wealth is to embrace industrialisation and also a deregulated economy which would allow the market to be controlled by an invisible hand. Sadly, we are breeding religious competition whilst we have forgotten the market, which is the only true source of a nation’s wealth. Contemporary religious practices are shaped with the intention to accumulate profits through spiritual fraud. In Africa, religion is replacing economic institutions; we have traded labour for faith and this is why our continent is backward and underdeveloped. The Marxist has argued that the economy is the sub-structure on which all other foundation is built, including politics and religion. The religion we practice is adulterated, not according to the Holy Scripture, because even the Bible says faith without work is dead. The problem of labour crisis will not be solved by folding up of industries to establish religious houses; we need to understand that only productivity and commerce can emancipate Africa from the shackles of poverty and underdevelopment. As long as we continue to thrive under religious ordinances and we forsake industrialisation, poverty and dependence will chase us down like a bandit. What is responsible for dangerous migration of Africans to Europe through deadly routes? Or the high crime rate? Our immediate challenge would be solved by availability of social security and making effort to rebuild our economy, not proliferation of religious houses. Until we do so, I say unapologetically that Africa may see no better days. Indeed, Karl Marx has rightly said: “Religion is the sight of the oppressed creature, the heart of the heartless, and the soul of the soulless conditions. It is the opium of the people.” Religion was created to satisfy man’s curiosity but unfortunately man has become alien in his own creation. Joshua Aguaze (2017), a Social Worker at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), said: I say unapologetically that unless religion is redefined in Africa, it will remain more of a societal problem than a solution.” I do not condemn religion, but there is need to balance between religious practice and economic activities. Max Weber, in his classical work, titled The Protestant Ethics and the Spirit of Capitalism, said that religion, in a way, promotes capitalism especially the Calvinist ethos that encourages Christian to save. Many countries have used that as strength not as weakness. An example is the United States of America, which has many churches but today is the most industrialised nation on earth. African countries should learn from this. We need not telling God to do what he has already given us the power to do. Until Africa has more industries than religious houses, until people promote research than vigils, I posit without any fear of doubt that Africa would wind up in poverty and perpetual dependence.  