A 19-year-old boy, Ige Fatoye,  arrested for cult-related violence, yesterday denied the allegations. Fatoye, who lives at Jakande Estate in Ajah, was arrested three weeks ago by operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS),  Ikeja. The teenager, who was paraded with three others, told reporters that some patrolling policemen saw him in front of his house while he was washing clothes and bundled him into their vehicle. The police, he said, came to the neighbourhood to because of a feud among motorcyclists, but on their way back, they picked him up. Fatoye, a carpenter with Formwork Building and Civil Contractor, said his family was not aware of his plight. He appealed that words be sent to Gabriel Posi of Alimosho Local Government Area about his detention. He said: “I was arrested three weeks ago when I was washing in front of my house. The policemen drove past my compound because they said Okada men were fighting. The second time they drove past, they just arrested me. I was shouting and calling for help. “My brother is Hon. Gabriel Posi in Alimosho. He is at Egbeda area. I am yet to reach him on the phone. When I tried to call him the first time, his number did not go through. Since then, I have not been given the chance to call him again.” Others paraded with him were suspected members of Black Axe confraternity whose names were given as Isaac Moses, 27, Tunji Justice, 28 and Jide Araia. Moses, a Mass Communication graduate, who worked as a Chef with Eclipse Lounge in Lekki before his arrest, also denied the allegations against him. According to him, he was a cultist while he was in the university but he had since renounced cultism Moses said he knew none of the suspects he was paraded with, adding that he also knew nothing about the weapons and charms displayed before them. He said: “I was picked up at Salem Bus Stop on my way home. They tortured me so much until I told them I was a cultist before in school. The police found nothing on me. Nothing! The guy who had a gun on him (Emeka Philips) has been bailed. “I am embarrassed and sad to have been dragged into something I know nothing about. I have been detained for about three weeks.” Reacting to the suspects’ allegations, Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said Fatoye was unable to provide the contact of his relatives, adding that the suspects would be profiled. Edgal said a Saw, Aiye confraternity clothes and symbols were recovered from them. “Investigation is ongoing and efforts are on to arrest others at large,” Edgal said.