Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade has concluded plans to send 18 Cross Riverians for technical training in China. The governor spoke in Calabar at the presentation of the certificate of occupancy to Skyrun International of China, manufacturers of home appliances. Ayade described the company as a global firm with indelible footprints in Africa. His words:  “I am  happy that we are partnering Skyrun to breathe life into the park hoping that all the amalgam of projects they have proposed in the state will manifest in no distant time going by the terms of the agreement.” While thanking the electronic giant for their Interest in developing the state,  Ayade said: “This is a typical example of good corporate social responsibility attitude and I want to appreciate Skyrun International for their interest and confident in our administration by taking such unprecedented investment step to investing here.” Ayade announced that  “beyond the presentation of C of O that will give them a free hand to invest massively in our industrial park, there is also a technical agreement for them to train our teeming youth and better equip them with the requisite skills in China to enable us realise our signature projects as well as other industrial constructions across the state.” The National Coordinator, Nigeria-China Business Council,  and focal point for Skyrun,  Chief Matthew Uwaekwe, said the company decided to provide technical support and utilise incentives provided at the park to establish its presence in the manufacturing line. He said:  “As we speak,  we have signed several Memoranda of Understanding (MoUs) with Cross River to partner it in different sectors of the economy and we are committed as one of the reputable companies in China with over N5 billion monthly turn over in Nigeria to expand our business and grow the economy. “We will do all it takes to bring more investors to Cross River,  knowing very well that the state remains one of the safest place for business and leisure in Nigeria and Chinese investors will love to take advantage of this and invest.” “We are starting this partnership with a ‘train the trainers’ program were 18 Cross Riverians will be sent to China to training while arrangement for the establishment of a world class training facility in core technical areas has begun with the acquisition of C of O,”  adding that “Chinese experts are expected in Calabar to man the facility and train the youths in critical areas of need.”   