The Rivers State Government has announced its  readiness to host the International Friendly between the Super Eagles and the  Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) at the  Adokiye Amasiemaka Stadium, Port Harcourt on May 28, 2018. The agreement for the hosting of the Super Eagles and Democratic Republic of Congo in Port Harcourt on May 28, 2018 was reached after a high-profile meeting between the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Ezenwo Wike, President of Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinick and Super Eagles Coach, Gerhard Rohr at the Government House Port Harcourt on Thursday. Addressing journalists after the meeting at the Government House, Rivers State Sports Commissioner, Boma Iyaye said that the state government will do everything possible  to ensure that the Adokiye Amasiemaka Stadium is ready for the International Friendly. The State Government thanked  the Nigeria Football Federation for their collaboration targeted at the  development of football in the country. He said: “Governor Wike has done well in terms of funding national sporting events.  He hosted the African Wrestling Championship on behalf of the Federal Government.  Now he is hosting the Super Eagles and Democratic Republic of Congo on behalf of the Federal Government.  This is something that is worthy of commendation”. Also speaking, President of the Nigeria Football Federation, Amaju Pinnick commended the Rivers State Government and the people of the state for their unflinching support for the Super Eagles. He said that the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) is happy with the state of facilities at the Adokiye Amasiemaka Stadium. “We are playing on the 28th of May, 2018 against the Democratic Republic of Congo. After the match, the Rivers State Governor will host the two teams to a dinner”, he said. He said that the CAF President will watch the International Friendly  in Port Harcourt. “Everywhere is home to the Super Eagles.  Lagos, Port Harcourt, Uyo, Kano, Kaduna or Minna. They are Super Eagles of Nigeria and every part is integral to the development of football “, Pinick said. The NFF President outlined the World Cup preparation programme of the Super Eagles, saying that the target of the team is to lift the World Cup. Super Eagles Coach, Gernot Rohr said that the Super Eagles need three major international friendlies to be prepared for the World Cup. Rohr said that he expects the Adokiye Amasiemaka Stadium to be fully ready for the Congolese  friendly by the next  four weeks. He said that some key players of the team are injured, adding that those on the injury list will be nurtured to fitness ahead of the World Cup.