•Promises training assistance to practitioners The Nigerian Film Corporation (NFC) has described the growth and current state of Nigeria’s film industry, Nollywood, as phenomenal and incredible. Speaking at the opening ceremony of a two-day seminar organised by the Motion Picture Practitioners Association of Nigerian (MOPPAN) with the theme “Film Making: Opportunities & Challenges in Nigeria”, which took place in Kaduna,  on Tuesday, April 17 and Wednesday, April 18, Dr. Chidia Maduekwe, NFC’s Managing Director said that Nollywood has and remains Africa’s most prevalent movie industry with an average production of 50 movies per week and 1500 – 3000 films per year. Delivering a paper titled ‘Developing Quality Content for Television & Cinema in Nigeria’ Maduekwe said that the growth in film production in Nigeria can only be sustained through training and capacity building of practitioners in the film sector. “The film industry has continued to provide content for the cinema and television stations in the country, through the sustained activities of practitioners, who have been able to sustain the narratives as well as the expressions of the depth and breadth of not only Nigeria’s but Africa’s cultural diversity,” he said. Dr. Maduekwe listed measures being put in place to address the challenges of the film industry to include, the introduction of tax breaks for filmmakers; development of co-productions treaties, fast tracking of the implementation of Nigeria’s copyright law; sustenance of a robust Nigerian film industry; through the interventions of the Nigerian Film Corporation, curbing and fight against piracy and copy right infringement; promotion of effective marketing and distribution framework and most importantly, the transformation of the Nigerian Film Corporation to a Film Commission in line with Global, and Continental best practices. The NFC helmsman decried the dearth of skilled manpower for the industry, which has been inundated with thematic obsession and repetitive themes and storylines, poor funding windows, infrastructural deficiencies, poor marketing and distribution framework as well as lack of safety nets for investments in the sector. However, impressed by the objectives of the seminar and the enthusiasm exhibited by participants at the seminar, who were mainly MOPPAN members drawn from the 16 Northern States of the Federation, Dr. Maduekwe announced that the NFC will make the National Film Institute, Jos, available for the next training workshop/ seminar for members of MOPPAN. Earlier, the President of MOPPAN, Alhaji Abdullahi Maikano Usman explained that the objective of the seminar was to shore up the competencies of filmmakers in the pursuit of their profession. He expressed the appreciation of members of MOPPAN to the Federal Government of Nigeria and its agencies, including the NFC, BoI, NFVCB, NeximBank for the support and assistance extended to film practitioners in the country.