The Federal Government has cracked down on meddlesome officers as well as illegal miners, paving the way for unfettered mining in the country, JIDE BABALOLA reports Two thousand new jobs, eight thousand secondary employment, a brand new school and a decent structure to replace a wobbling health centre all constitute a fraction of the bounties that the Federal Government’s Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) is unlocking for a community in Gwagwalada Local Government Area of Abuja. Under the Minister of Budget and National Planning, Senator Udoma Udo Udoma, the Malaysian-style ERGP Focus Labs involve bringing potential and existing investors,  both  foreign and Nigerian, who may be interested in investing in any of the three areas that government is focusing on, to attend the closed -door sessions. President Muhammadu Buhari declared the ERGP Focus Labs open at the Banquet Hall of the Presidential villa two weeks ago and the first major project to be unlocked was the Baba-Tsauni Mines Project, a major step towards actualising plans to boost the mining sector’s current 0.4% to an annual $27billion (about N 9.7 trillion) contribution to the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by2025. The Focus Lab sessions resolve various problems that had remained intractable for years within a few sessions as they grant investors access in one location, to all the officials of government whose support, or approvals, they might need to enable them commit to an investment decision. Briefly put, the focus labs will involve stakeholders from the public and private sectors working together in a single environment to think out practical and workable solutions for delivering the kind of results Nigeria needs. “The central objective of the labs will be to bring in private capital to finance projects across the country. “Our aim is, simply put, to raise the level of productivity in Nigeria; we want more things to be grown in Nigeria, we want more things to be made in Nigeria, we want more opportunities created for Nigerians to be able to work – that is what the focus labs are all about,” Minister Udoma had said. After years of preliminary groundwork involving expenditures of millions of dollars, Wiesbaden, Germany based Julius Berger International officials led by Mr. Achim Becker and Mr. Jide Olukeye, the CEO of Iron Ore Mining Limited who are leading the consortium working on Baba-Tsauni Minning projecthad met optimistic officials of the Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC) led by Mr. Segun Awolowo. All of them had optimistic projections towards actualising government’s Zero Oil Plan whereby non-oil exports can fund the national budget. However, some government officials’ duplicitous dealings with illegal miners and the manipulations that complicate the theoretical respect for sanctity of titles had continued to hold back the project’ s take-off as well as huge additional taxes for government and more developmental projects for its host community in Gwagwalada area. For a long while, a ‘mining mafia’ backed by Asian patrons of illegal mining and a handful of civil servants were able to truncate government’s vision and JBI’s plans to invest some $200 million mining machineries in the project. However, only a few sessions of the ERGP Focus Labs got the challenges under comprehensive analysis, with a final resolution that implies good news for the IOM consortium, the host community and the Federal Government. Finally, the Federal Government’s ERGP and its ‘Roadmap for the Growth and Development of the Nigerian Mining Industry’ are coming close towards yielding tremendous dividends as the Baba-Tsauni Lead, Zinc, Silver and Gold Mine has now overcome obstacles to its take-off. The Mines Police’ new determination to get illegal miners as well as their tax-evading Chinese and Lebanese backers out of Baba-Tsauni implies a firm end for pre-existing intrigues. 