About 20 vehicles were vandalised at Ilori Street in Ire-Akari, Isolo, Lagos Mainland after suspected armed robbers invaded the area. The incident occurred between 2am and 3am on Saturday. It was gathered that the robbers, said to be armed with guns and cutlasses, scaled the street’s fence and tied up the security guard. They were said to have proceeded from compound to compound, vandalising vehicles and carting away valuables. According to a resident, the robbers removed vehicles’ brain boxes, musical sets, dash boards and others. He said: “At least 13 vehicles were vandalised on the street. They carried out the act between 2am and 3am. Most of the vehicles vandalised were Toyota and Lexus. “The criminals took brain boxes, dashboards, stereo and CD sets or reverse cameras. “They also damaged the door handles and took the censors away. We did not know until morning. The robbery surprised us because it is the first time this is happening here. “We went to Ire-Akari Police Station to report. The security man was invited for questioning but he was later released. He said the robbers tied him up when they jumped the fence.” When our correspondent visited the street yesterday, a hairdresser, who refused to be named, said the residents were suspecting insider connivance. She said some believed that the night guard might have connived with the robbers, considering that he did not raise the alarm after the robbers left. “The guard only comes at night. The residents are suspecting he might have worked with the robbers because he did not alert them. It was when they woke up in the morning that people saw their damaged vehicles. Some of the vehicles were parked on the street, others were parked inside compound. I do not know where the vehicles are now. I do not live on the street.” Similarly, a gang of four armed robbers on Saturday morning attacked the General Manager, Island Club, Mr. Olubunmi Fasan, and two of his workers, Funsho Adewuyi and Akeem. It was gathered that the robbers accosted the trio around the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) Zone II headquarters, Onikan. According to Fasan, they were attacked around 4:45am, while on their way home from work. The victims, The Nation gathered, worked late on Friday and resolved to stay in the office till around 4:45am so that they could go home and prepare for the day’s business. But as soon as they made their way to the bus park, the robbers, said to have driven a saloon car, pulled over and surrendered them with a pistol and matchet. Fasan said: “I was coming from the office at about 4:45am accompanied by two other men-Alhaji Funsho Adewuyi, an employee of Island Club and Akeem. We were at Onikan roundabout enroute Obalende when three armed men accosted us. They were inside a car. The driver did not come down. “We were stopped and before we realised what was happening, they brought out guns and matchet popularly known as UTC and we were asked to surrender all our valuables. They took our wristwatches, money, mobile phone, documents and wallets. “They collected all and ran back into the waiting vehicle and zoomed off. Alhaji Adewuyi was injured on the hand by the robbers when he tried to resist the robbers. “We had to return to the office because we were stranded. There should be constant police patrol, coverage of the area from 12am to 6am. This is because people who visit the social clubs around the vicinity leave at wee hours and they could be easy prey for hoodlums and societal miscreants otherwise known as ‘area boys.” Lagos police spokesman Chike Oti, a Superintendent (SP), said the command was investigating a  case of conspiracy between security men attached to gate of Ilori Street and hoodlums who invaded, adding that  some arrests have been and investigation was currently ongoing. He said the Onikan attacked was not reported at the station, but assured that actions would be taken.