The Akwa-Ibom state government has called on high-profile indigenous professionals to lend their knowlege and network resource to the ongoing industrisalisation process. The government said it has modified frameworks to protect investment interests in various. The Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Charles Udoh who led an engagement with the professionals in Lagos said the initiative was to appraise  stakeholders with the state’s efforts at industrialisation and endear them to make their contributions. He said the government had shifted from running industries as public entities to operating as private entities in which it only holds equity participation. “The current administration has facilitated four industries. This industries are not run as government entities, they are built and benchmarked against international best practices run 100 percent as private entities. The state government only has equity participation which in most cases is just the land,” Udoh said. According to the commissioner, the administration is on the brink of kick-starting a deep sea port that will serve central and west African axis. He noted that four industries including a digital metering factory, a syringe manufacturing company, toothpick and pencil industries have been facilitated in the last three years to strengthen local capacity for production, create jobs and cut huge capital flight on importation. Also a retired Admiral Francis Akpan, who is a member of the technical committee on the deep sea port, said the $3 billion project is expected to come alive in the next three years with provision of about 200,000 jobs.The engagement he said has looked into means of building the necessary capacity and skills needed for the quantum of development envisaged. Commending the government for promoting an inclusive economy, former Managing Director, Union Bank, Barth Ebong stressed the need for the to involve the youths in the development process, noting there was much to gain from their ideas and energy.