As a means of filling the gap in the multi-billion naira wedding industry in the country, Call Her Classic Fashion Agency, is set to organise the maiden edition of the Lagos Bridal Fashion Week (LBFW). The three-day holds from May 4, to May 6, 2018 at the Federal Palace Hotel, Victoria Island, Lagos. Speaking at the press conference to announce the event, Ayomide Amosun-Dabiri of Call Her Classic, said LBFW will cater to the needs of weddings, which are a ‘huge part of our culture’ in the country. She also described Nigeria as the hub of weddings in Africa and LBFW will showcase the latest in terms of bridal fashion. “I believe that there is no reason why people from other parts of Africa, at the very least, are not coming into Nigeria to buy stuffs, buy products for their wedding, buy outfits for their wedding,” said Amosun-Dabiri. “So, those are the kind of markets we’re trying to look at, in terms of capturing patronage. We’re kind of the bridal fashion capital within Africa.” The event which is open to the public will feature daily runway shows and a BFW Bridal Boutique for both local and international vendors from other African countries, UK, USA and Dubai. Items such as clothes, shoes and accessories would be sold between 10am and 6pm by expected exhibitors such as Bridals by Ivy, Buwie Fabrics, CLAN, Fuxion Trends, Donna Tyler Jewellery and Duke and Dexter. Others are Perfect Occasion Bridals, Love Tims, Patrick Ayanski and Honey and Cherish. Designers with a daily installation at the venue are Andrea Iyamah, Mai Atafo and April by Kunbi. And from every evening by 6pm, there will be runway shows by invited designers. On the first day, models would display outfits by Elizabeth and Lace, Shadiat Alaasoke, Bibi Lawrence, Elvira Jude and Yemi Shoyemi.On day two, it would be the turn of Mazelle, Otumemine, Patrick Ayanski, Yinka Alli (UK), Alonuko (UK), David Tlale (SA), Kimono Kollection and Brides by Nona (USA). On the last day, Magnetic Elegance, Valerie David, Taryor Gabriels, Toju Foyeh, Hudayya, Ese Azenabor (US) and Kosibah (UK). The event will also feature Master Classes by professionals in the wedding industry where interested designers can learn from just as other attendees can meet them for consultations such as budgets and what to wear. There will also be a make-up being led by official makeup sponsor of the event, Black Opal Nigeria. According to Tolani Aremu from Black Opal, “you can’t have bride and will not have make-up involved.”