The Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) has charged members of the Nigerian Institute of Quantity Surveyors (NIQS) to tackle corruption in the industry. Its Director-General, Mamman Ahmadu, spoke when the institute’s  executives, led by its President, Mr. Femi Onashile,  visited him in Abuja. The BPP chief praised the NIQS for its readiness to partner Federal Government’s agencies to reduce construction costs and ensure compliance with best practices. According to Ahmadu,  corruption cuts across ministries and agencies, saying it was high time professionals, particularly cost experts in construction, did more than talking to check corruption. He urged professional bodies to punish members found guilty of corruption. Onashile canvassed the adoption of stricter project monitoring. He said by limiting BPP’s oversight to due diligence at pre-award stage of projects and not  monitoring the projects, corruption would thrive. “For BPP to make better impact in delivering value-for-money, it must take its oversight influence beyond the pre-award of contracts; even throughout the construction phase of the projects. This is to ensure that approvals are not circumvented through the possible corrupt compromise of either quality standards or the specified sizes of such projects or both to reduce the actual costs without passing the cost reduction to the government,” Onashile said. He implored the BPP to develop an alternative contract form, adding that while the one they are using is working well in civil engineering projects, it is not in building projects. Acknowledging BPP’s effort in fast-tracking due diligence and ensuring faster take off of projects, the NIQS chief called for the engagement of more quantity surveyors in the agency to enable it discharge its oversight effectively. “We believe as experts in cost and procurement management of capital projects from conception to completion, we have vital roles to play in prudent costing of projects, procurement management and project monitoring to ensure better earned value for money,” Onashile added. Meanwhile, BPP has employed a transaction adviser on  contracts. By this, BPP hopes to cut the cost of construction projects.