The Presidency on Thursday denied the media reports claiming that President Muhammadu Buhari   derided Nigerian youths. A statement issued by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, said “At the Commonwealth Business Forum in London on Wednesday, April 18, 2018, President Muhammadu Buhari gave a keynote address on Making Business Easier Between Commonwealth Countries. “The presentation was followed by a discussion and question and answer session. Responding to a question, President Buhari had cause to talk about some Nigerian youths, and he said: “We have a very young population; our population is estimated conservatively to be 180 million. More than 60 per cent of the population is below the age of 30. A lot of them have not been to school and they are claiming that Nigeria has been an oil producing country, therefore they should sit and do nothing and get housing, healthcare and education free.” According to him, the story is typical of the manipulators and twisters of the statements of the President. He said they always lie in wait to make mischief. The presidential spokesman said the reports interpreted the President’s comment to mean that he had taken all Nigerian youths to the cleaners. He added: “But elementary English recognizes a wide gulf between ‘a lot of’ and the word ‘all.’ How can ‘a lot of them,’ suddenly transmogrify to mean ‘all of them?’ Mischievous and unconscionable! “There is no way President Buhari, father of the Nigerian nation in every sense of the word, who equally has biological children of his own in the youths age bracket, pass a vote of no confidence on all youths. It can only exist in the imagination of those who play what the President has described as “irresponsible politics” with everything. “President Buhari has always applauded and celebrated Nigerian youths who excel in different areas of endeavour, from sports, to academia, and other realms. And he will continue to do so, because he values the youths and knows that they are the fulcrum on which the future of the country rests. “Indeed, every country has its share of idle population, and it is the bounden duty of government at all levels, to create an enabling environment for them to actualize their potentials.”  