“When will our king return? Our cultural festivities are suffering. We can no longer celebrate our new yam festival because our king is yet to be enthroned.” These were the lamentations of the Secretary of Uromi Traditional Council, Chief Francis Ozah, the Oza of Uromi Kingdom. Uromi community in Esan North East Local Government Area of Edo State has been without a king since October 2016. Its king, Anslem Odaloghe Eidonojie, was deposed by former Governor Adams Oshiomhole in pursuant to Section 28 (i & ii) of the Traditional Rulers and Chiefs Law, 1979. When the Uromi king was deposed, some political leaders from the locality as well as some palace chiefs thought it was a mere statement and an affront on age long tradition. But they were mistaken as the state government is yet to enthrone the deposed king. Apparently to avoid a possible backlash and revolt from the people of Uromi, the state government did not announce a new ruler because ascendancy to the throne of Uromi is by primogeniture. The absence of a traditional ruler had resulted in low ebb or no celebration of many cultural festivities in Uromi. The Uromi traditional ruler was first suspended in October 2016 for allegedly assaulting one Betty Okoebor during the conduct of the September 28 governorship election and was also alleged to have travelled without permission as well as disregard for constituted authorities by refusing to answer query issued to him. Among conditions given to the monarch during the period of the seven days suspension was to apologise to his victim and to the Edo State government. Rather, photographs emerged where Mrs. Okoebor, the woman who was allegedly assaulted by the Ojuromi of Uromi, was seen begging for forgiveness in the presence of some elders and her relatives. Okoebor told reporters that she was not pressured into the decision to seek for forgiveness as tradition forbids a monarch going to his subject to ask for forgiveness. “I have offended my father and have come to him for forgiveness, and he has forgiven me and also prayed for me,” she stated. The deposed monarch said it was his duty to always forgive whenever there is any disagreement between him and his subject. He said: “Betty is my daughter. She had little disagreement with the palace and she has come to apologise. “As a father, I have forgiven her and have also prayed for her to have good health, prosper and be successful in every of her endeavour.” In an apology letter sent to the state government in November, 2016, the deposed monarch admitted to an “altercation” between him and Mrs Okoebor. “Following the announcement of my suspension for seven days from the throne of the Onojie of Uromi and the accompanying ultimatum, I wish to state that at no time did I intend to disrespect or flaunt (sic) constituted authority. I felt that the altercation on September 28, 2016 between me and one of daughters (sic) which I took to be a family affair, and which has been resolved, sufficed. “Ms Betty Okoebor, has since followed the custom and reconciled herself to the Throne as a daughter. “I sincerely apologise to the State Government for not replying the query within the stipulated time and for not obtaining permission before I travelled outside the country and also for the resolved altercation between me and my daughter, Ms Betty Okoebor. “Let me reiterate, Your Excellency, that I recognise and respect the authority of the Edo State Government with you, Comrade Adams Aliyu Oshiomhole, as the Executive Governor, and I again pledge my unalloyed loyalty.” But the state government rejected the letter of apology and rather deposed HRH Aidonojie after approval was given at the weekly state executive meetings. Several protests trailed the decision of the state government to depose the Aidonojie, even as the opposition Peoples Democratic Party turned it into campaign issue. On the eve of Oshiomhole’s departure from office, the Bishop of the Diocese of Benin, ArchBishop Obiora Akubeze, asked Oshiomhole to forgive those that offended him during a thanksgiving service to mark the end of his tenure. Oshiomhole had replied that those seeking forgiveness must confess their sins and he would not allow a situation where the deposed monarch asked his victim to apologise to him. During its Meet-the-People-tour of the 18 local government areas, the PDP reiterated its stand that the deposition of the Uromi monarch showed that the All Progressives Congress (APC) does not like the people of Uromi. It told the people of Uromi not to support the APC in future elections because their king was yet to be enthroned. State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, urged Governor Godwin Obaseki to restore the traditional institution of Uromi by recalling the deposed monarch. Chief Orbih urged Obaseki to stop playing politics with the traditional institution of Uromi, saying that it was wrong for Uromi indigenes to continue to support the party that deposed their king. He urged the people not to remain in the APC when their monarch’s deposition was yet to  be reversed. A religious leader in the community, Bishop Antony Okosun, described Uromi as the Garden of Eden of the PDP. He said there would be no peace for those that refused to recall their king. But Secretary of the Uromi Traditional Council, Chief Francis Ozah, the Oza of Uromi, warned the leadership of the PDP and other political parties to stop interfering in its traditional affairs. Chief Ozah said the community did not celebrate the new yam festival because of the absence of its monarch. He also said the community leaders have written several letters to Governor Obaseki on the need to forgive their king to enable progress in the community. His words: “We are just like a wife with no husband. Onojie of Uromi would have performed New Yam festival but because of the dethronement, he cannot do it. He is responsible to the government. Whatever the government says is what he will take to and not what a political party says. We are to follow the culture and tradition of Uromi. “There has never been any problem with the palace of the Oba of Benin. When Oba Ovoranmen was deposed and he went to Calabar, the then Onojie of Uromi was the only traditional ruler that was deposed alongside Ovoranmen. The then Onojie fought the British. That will tell you the relationship between the Binis and us. When the heroes and heroines of Benin Kingdom were honoured, I represented the Onojie to receive an award. “Members of the community are not happy that their Onojie is dethroned. We are not happy. There are other festivities in Uromi that are no longer celebrated in an elaborate manner. All the festivals are supposed to be overseen by the Onojie. We are not happy that our king is dethroned. “With what happened, it is our tradition that a father does not beg a son. Rather a son should come to the father to beg for forgiveness. We want the Onojie of Uromi to be forgiven and enthroned no matter what he has done to offend anybody. This has nothing to with politics. “It is not the duty of the PDP to fight the cause of the traditional ruler. As the traditional ruler of Uromi, he is for all political parties. Every humankind has its own cause to champion. The PDP dabbling into the affairs of the dethronement of our king has not solved any matter. “My advice to the PDP is to play their politics and not interfere in the issue of the deposition of our king. We have to follow the government in power. I appealed to the Edo State Governor to pardon the Onojie of Uromi for any mistake he must have made in the past. The PDP should not dabble into traditional affairs neither will the traditional rulers dabble into politics.” Apparently tired that the continued intervention of the opposition PDP in his problems has not yielded the desired results, the deposed monarch issued a statement urging his subjects to ignore the PDP’s call for them not to vote for the party that deposed their king. The monarch, who urged his subjects to vote for any political party of their choice distanced himself from the PDP’s comments and insisted that he is not a member of any political party. He expressed optimism that Governor Godwin Obaseki will revisit the incident that led to his deposal. He said: “l wish to use this medium to state that I was neither privy nor a party to the said statements. I hereby dissociate myself from the said statements and to state in unequivocal terms, that I am neither a member of the said political party nor partisan. “I urge the electorate at Uromi to disregard the said statements and vote for the party of their choice. “I am confident that the governor, given his progressive nature,  in his time will revisit the unfortunate incident that led to my deposal. I promise my unalloyed support and loyalty to Edo State government.” As the 2019 approaches, the people hope that Obaseki will enthrone their monarch to score political points..