Eminent Nigerians have extolled the virtue of one of Africa’s most celebrated Muslim scholars, Sheikh Adam Abdullahi Al-Ilory at the main Auditorium of the University of Lagos (UNILAG), Akoka. Al- Ilory, a widely published Muslim author and founder of the country’s foremost Arabic school, Markaz, was born in 1917 and died in 1992. The event commenced the late scholar’s week-long Centenary Anniversary. Senate President Dr Bukola Saraki, Sultan of Sokoto and President-General, Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) Alhaji Muhammad Sa’ad Abubakar, Emir of Ilorin Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun, his Lagos and Kwara state counterparts Akinwunmi Ambode and AbdulFatah Ahmed, UNILAG Pro-Chancellor and Chairman, Governing Board Dr Wale Babalakin SAN. Saraki said the Senate would continue to make laws that would provide a conducive atmosphere for learning in order to eradicate illiteracy. According to him, the contributions of Sheikh Al- Ilory to the teaching and propagation of Islamic and Arabic knowledge in the country are yielding fruits across the country. Sultan Abubakar canvassed the use of indigenous languages in the teaching and learning in schools. This, the NSCIA leader said, would go a long way in improving education, healthcare delivery, science, and technology. According to him, anyone who has qualitative Islamic education would not engage in the acts capable of inflicting pains on other people. He urged Nigerians to cultivate the habit of praying for country’s leaders so that God will direct them right to deliver the dividends of democracy to the people. Amosun said he aligned with Sultan Abubakar on use of indigenous languages to teach and learn in schools. The Ogun State Governor said Sheikh Al- Ilory laid an indelible mark on human capital development, pointed out that Islam denounces terrorism and encourages learning. Senator Amosu called on Muslim clerics to right the wrong by preaching to their subjects that Islam is not synonymous with terrorism. Governor Ahmed called on religious leaders to promote peaceful co-existence and religious tolerance among Nigerians. He appealed to citizens to provide useful information to the security agents in order to prevent loss of lives and property. Others who spoke at the event include former President, Court of Appeal, Justice Ayo salami (retd), Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB) Registrar Prof Ishaq Oloyede, former Vice-Chancellor of Al-Hikmah University Prof Razaq Abubakre and Alhaji Kola Belgore, who represented Justice Alfa Belgore (retd).