Students of Benue State origin across tertiary institutions in the country have given Federal Government seven days to initiate measure that would stop the invasion of farming communities in the state by killer herdsmen. The students said failure of the government to prevent further killing of innocent would lead to civil disobedience in the state. The students, under the umbrella of the National Association of Benue State Students (NUBESS), issued the ultimatum in a communiqué released after their general assembly at Ministry of Education in Makurdi. The communiqué, signed by all the students present, expressed solidarity to Governor Samuel Ortom for signing into law the Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law, which they described as “a lasting solution” to the menace of herdsmen invasion in the state. The communiqué reads: “Following the negligence of the Federal Government to endorse and effectively support the Benue State Open Grazing Prohibition and Ranches Establishment Law (2017), which is the sure solution to the herders-farmers crisis, Benue students have resolved that a seven-day ultimatum be given to President Muhammadu Buhari and the Federal Government to stop the killings in our state.” The students urged the government to commence the rebuilding of communities destroyed by the herdsmen, and provide relief materials to the displaced victims. Failure to comply with the demands, the students threatened to shut down all tertiary institutions in the state and order youths on self-defence. They vowed to halt commercial activities in the state until “a lasting solution” is brought to the killing by herdsmen. Speaking to CAMPUSLIFE, NUBESS president, Pillah Romans, said the government would be surprised if it underestimated the capability of the body. He said: “I have absolute confidence that the students will cooperate. In fact, we have been receiving calls from several youth organisations, students’ bodies, workers’ unions and civil society groups expressing their support and solidarity with our move. “We have also been receiving calls from the security agencies threatening us with arrest if we carry out our plan in the state. We have received calls from Abuja politicians, but we are not intimidated. We are not shifting ground.” It would be recalled that since the beginning of this year, Benue communities have been under attack by killer herdsmen, leading to loss of lives and property, and displacement of several others.