 The Saudi-German hospital has concluded arrangement to open a referral office in Nigeria. The essence of the office according to the Manager, Business Development (International), Dr. George Davis and Business Development Executive, Dilip Veliyath, of Saudi-German Hospital, Dubai, is to see patients first hand. The duo explained that the office will be equipped fully to carry out test and other diagnosis examination for cancer patients. Meanwhile, the hospital has scheduled medical screening for cancer patients in the country. The screening will be carried out at the office. Besides, the duo informed Journalists that the hospital is considering setting up a world class facility in the country to cater for cancer patients. This they said will help curb medical tourism, which is very high. Though they agreed that it was not possible to fully stop the trend, they however said it was possible to reduce the trend with modern health facilities abound in the country. Veliyath also explained that the hospital is currently looking for a location and discussing with some Nigerian partners to establish a specialized cancer care centre in Nigeria. He said, “Very soon we will be opening a patient referral office. It is like an info centre. We are looking for a good location. By the end of April we will be having a medical screening at the office so that patients can come comfortably and see the doctors for screening. This is the first step.” He also disclosed that the Saudi- German Hospital in Dubai has opened what he described as a one-shop-cancer treatment centre which is one of the best in the world. Speaking on the advantage of the one-shop cancer treatment centre, Dilip Veliyat said: “Our advantage is that we have all the facilities needed for comprehensive cancer care. When we receive a patient, it is not a single doctor that handles the patient. It is a team work. The patients gets the best as a result of a team work,” he explained. Speaking on the activities the Saudi- German Hospital has for Nigeria this year, Dr. Davis revealed that they are working closely with the Nigeria Medical Association ( NMA ) to organize trainings for doctors in Nigeria. He also urged Nigerians to maintain healthy life style including eating balance diet, regular exercises like half an hour everyday, avoid red meat and tobacco so as to prevent the possibility of having cancer.