A firm, Milan Industries Limited, has urged the Lagos High Court to restrain Skye Bank Ltd from levying “illegal” charges on its account. The firm is also seeking a Federal High Court order declaring Mr Kunle Ogunba’s appointment as receiver/manager for the bank following a loan dispute, as illegal. It made its claims in two suits marked FHC/L/CS/463/18 and LD/5014GCMW/2018. The suits follow a loan granted by the bank with which the Milan Group part financed the construction of its five-star Intercontinental Hotels on Victoria Island, which is managed by IHG. According to the firm, it has till 2021 to pay back the facility, but the bank obtained an interim order on March 14, 2017 to take over the management of the hotel. However, the firm averred that Justice Babs Kuewumi of the Federal High Court vacated the order and struck out the bank’s receivership suit “in its entirety” against it last March 20. It stated: “The implication of the order of the court striking out the above action is that the interim order of March 14, 2017 by which Mr. Kunle Ogunba was managing Intercontinental Hotels as receiver/manager is automatically discharged. “…Milan Industries Limited immediately took possession of the hotels as well as the management of the hotels on the said March 20, 2018 at about 4pm.” At the Federal High Court, the firm is challenging “the legality of the appointment and operations of the purported receiver/manager (Mr. Kunle Ogunba) who was allegedly ‘illegally’ appointed prior to the maturity of the subject loan, which was to reach maturity in September, 2021.” At the Lagos High Court, the firm averred that “Skye Bank used the proceeds from the hotel to liquidate all sums the claimant allegedly owed it during the period of its illegal receivership.” It also sought the following reliefs, among others: “A declaration that Skye Bank’s continued ‘illegal’ and excessive charges, fees, interests and deductions being levied or charged to the company’s account amounts to a breach of contract on the assets of the company. “An injunction against continued charges of interest on the account of the company among others.”