 Video Assistant Referees (VAR) will not feature in the 2018/19 premier league season.  This follows unanimous decision by English clubs not to join in the bandwagon of launching the device into competitive football, voting rather to subject it to further test run. The Premier league clubs approved for the test run to be continued using the FA cup and the Carabao cup within the season. The decision is not unconnected with complaints over delays in reaching a decision, which many say reduces the tempo of the match and removes the spontenous fun that comes with strikes and goals. Already World soccer ruling body FIFA has hinted that the device will be in use at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. The 2017-18 campaign has seen the on-field referee consult with a colleague regarding key decisions in FA Cup games and the EFL Cup final, with mixed results. Liverpool’s FA Cup fourth-round defeat at home to West Brom in January saw a number of long delays as the officials made their rulings and Reds boss Jurgen Klopp believes the process needs to be perfected before it can be introduced full-time. “The only experience I had was the West Brom game and it was very interesting. We all agreed it took a little bit long for the decisions,” said the German. “In Germany, it’s settled. It needed time and it will need time when we start within England. I don’t know if it’s a perfect solution or not. “In a lot of moments, you would love to have it, and sometimes you suffer because of no VAR. I really would prefer we have the right decisions, but it needs to be fixed before that. It’s not perfect at the moment. “I think it’s important to help the ref in these situations, not to make life more difficult for them. If smart people think it’s not the time for that, we wait for another year.” Premier League Clubs have agreed to continue advanced testing of Video Assistant Referees (VAR) throughout Season 2018/19: VAR has been used across all matches in Serie A and the Bundesliga, but England’s top-flight clubs have decided not to follow suit just yet, and the system will continue to be tested in 2018-19. “Premier League clubs have today agreed to continue advanced testing of Video Assistant Referees (VAR) throughout the 2018-19 season,” read a Premier League statement. “The decision came after comprehensive discussions regarding the progress made in VAR trials in English football and key learning from the many competitions elsewhere using it. “The Premier League will also be asking for VAR to be used more extensively in the FA Cup and Carabao Cup in season 2018-19.”