Every 22nd of April, people come together to celebrate EARTH DAY. Earth Day is celebrated to shed more light into a wide range of environmental issues and problems and to inspire people to take personal action and responsibilities to address them. Gaylord Nelson founded the day to make the people aware about the day to day increasing rate of the industrialization as well as the careless attitude of the people living on the earth. The step was taken by him to promote the idea of natural balance among people as well as encourage them for respecting the assets of the planet. It is very necessary to take care of the environmental issues to stay healthy and alive as cruel people have mercilessly utilized its resources and depleted its life supporting resources over the centuries. Following the Earth Day celebration inspired by Nelson, which demonstrated widespread grassroots support for the environmental legislation, Congress passed many important environmental laws, including the Clean Air ACT, Clean Water Act, Safe Drinking Water Act, as well as laws to protect wilderness areas. The Environmental Protection Agency was created within three years after Earth Day 1970. In 1995, Nelson received the Presidential Medal of Freedom from President Bill Clinton for his role in founding Earth Day, raising awareness of environmental issues, and promoting environmental action. Earth Day celebration makes millions of people worldwide celebrate and renew their personal commitment to environmental stewardship.  Earth Day also share message about the personal responsibility we all share to “think globally and act locally” as environmental stewards of planet Earth has never been more timely or important. As for the theme of this event, it has always been based on the procurement, safety, and betterment of the environment. Now it depends upon your creativity whether how good you are at celebrating these and carry the message out to the other people. The goal this year will be educating citizens about the climate issues. We face environmental issues every day and there is need of increasing the values for building up sustainable communities for everyone. According to the theme of the day, we need to start campaigns leading to the mobilization of people all around the world about the truth of change in climate. These campaigns should lead to practical steps by all who want to see this world a better place. This literacy means enhancing the engagement of public and private organization for working in collaboration. It will also be the day of remembering the campaign which started in 2015 and will end in 2020 which emphasize on building projects on environmental projects. Literacy produces results so this year we all should expect from ourselves that we would be able to take action which would support safety to our environment. It is also a hope that we would start more creative and collaborative approach to combat the issues that exist today in our environment. One of the main objectives of Earth Day is to promote recycling as a means of reducing waste and conserving energy. The more waste there is to dispose of, the more strain is placed on energy and natural resources, all the while causing more pollution. As such, reducing waste is important in combating pollution and preventing the depletion of energy and natural resources. Recycling is an important aspect of environmental awareness because it employs both used and refuse materials in the manufacturing process. For instance, instead of manufacturing new plastic from scratch, plastic items can instead be recycled into new products. In this way, fewer natural resources will be used, while also resulting in less waste and less pollution.