As writer, I have the responsibility to be creative, break bounds, be innovative in ideas. Intellectual Property ( IP ) is my exclusive preserve. I stay awake at night to make this happen. I work hard to put in creativity into writing and eventually come up with ingenious write ups that not only stand the test of time but also improve the social, political and economic aesthetics of my country. Often times, the challenge is getting a publisher with the right set of skills and attitude to birth the brainchildren to reality. The arduous processes of writing, editing, proofreading and other publishing processes are a few of the brain and hand work a typical writer experiences. There is nothing as disappoint and heart-rendering like someone else reaping the reward of your hard work by plagiarising it. According to dictionary.com, Plagiarism is an act or instance of using or closely imitating the language and thoughts of another author without authorization and the representation of that author’s work as one’s own, as by not crediting the original author. To curb the menace of plagiarism, legislations in the form of Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks were created by the World Intellectual Property Organization ( WIPO ) which was established in the year 2,000. It protects the intellectual property of the creative. WIPO creates awareness to how patent, copyright, trademarks and industrial designs operate. WIPO saw a need to protect intellectual property and came up with the global celebration called World Intellectual Property Day celebrated yearly on the 26th of April to promote creativity, innovation and intelligence. Intellectual property ( IP ) refers to creativity in minds such as inventions, literary and artistic works, industrial design and symbol names and images used in commercial. IP aims to foster an environment in which creativity and innovation can flourish. The theme of this year is Powering Change: Women in Innovation and Creativity. This day celebrates the brilliance, intelligence and courage of women who are driving change in our world and shaping our common future. Usually women have to work extra hard and be extra creative, influential and energetic so that their works and ideas are not swept under the carpet. One very quintessential example of such women is Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie; she is one of the frontiers of the new generation of Nigerian authors. Chimamanda has won the Common Wealth Writer Prize for the best first book “Purple Hibiscus”. She created an intellectual property around her works and has swiftly grown  her reputation and shaping the future. Another is Nike Davies Okundaye,  a professional textiles artist and a painter. She is known for colourful batiks and paintings. The founder and director of Nike Arts Gallery and she offers training to young artist in visual, musical and the performing arts. However, intellectual property has been an important prerequisite for development of advanced goods and services. It entails patent , copyright and trademarks. Patent is a government authority or licence conferring a right or title for a set period especially the sole right to exclude others from making, using or selling invention. While copyright is a form of intellectual property protection provided by the law. Trademark is recognizable signs, design or symbol which identifies products and services of a particular source from others. Nevertheless, WIPO is poised to protect our intellectual property from being plagiarized and the protection is available for the original works of inventors that are fixed in  tangible forms, whether published or unpublished.