The Senator representing the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) in the National Assembly, Phillip Aduda has lauded the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello, over his passion and energy to complete the Korean Model School, being built via counterpart funding between the FCT Administration and the Korean Government. Aduda who spoke during a tour of the project of the school with FCT Minister, expressed delight at the landmark school project, saying it will provide a platform and foundation for people of the FCT and other Nigerians who reside in Abuja to get qualitative education. Senator Aduda while describing the project as the way forward in the FCT, urged the Minister to continue to make provisions for education to ensure that such facilities are replicated in the other five Area Councils of the FCT. According to him, “Hon. Minister, you have done very well. Education is the bedrock of any society and the best you can do is to provide a platform and foundation for people of the FCT and for Nigerians who reside here so that they can get qualitative and meaningful education.” Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello in his response, thanked the government and people of Korea for their contribution to human development in Nigeria. He praised the Country Director, Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), Mrs Sook Hun Park, on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari, for her energy and commitments to see to the actualisation of the project. He said the project is a mark of the very close and cordial relationship between Nigeria and Korea. The Minister added “We will use this model to serve as a transformation of the education system in Nigeria. Many years ago, Korea was just like Nigeria but they transformed using education. We are trying to see how we can get the benefit of their experiences to transform our education. “Korea government decided to build the Korea Model School in Nigeria and chose Abuja as a pilot place for it. We hope that this is something that with time can be replicated all over the country. That will be revolution that we are waiting for in education.” In apparent reference to the road construction and public utility works leading to the school premises, which is being undertaken by the FCT Administration, Bello assured that all the remaining aspects will be completed in good time for the project to be commissioned in June this year. Also speaking at the occasion, the Korean Ambassador to Nigeria, Noh Kyu-duk said the school has set a standard for the education of the Nigerian students as well as teachers.