The Governor Seriake Dickson-led National Reconciliatory Committee of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which was set up to resolve the party’s post-convention crisis, has submitted its report to National Chairman Uche Secondus. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN examines the report of the committee and the party’s chances in 2019. THE Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) reconciliatory committee headed by Governor Seriake Dickson of Bayelsa State has submitted its report to the party’s National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus. The committee was set up to resolve the dispute over Secondus’ emergence as the National Chairman. According to Dickson, the committee recommended that the PDP should return the party to the people, constitute all its standing committees, deliberately carve responsibilities for women and youths, give a sense of belonging to South-west leaders in the party, woo those who left the PDP to return to its fold and above all, lead a coalition of all other parties to win more states and form the government at the centre. The committee also advised the PDP National Working Committee and its leaders to forgive erring members and promote peace in the fold, not to take issues with ourselves and even those who have left the party. Against all expectations that the committee will restore peace and unity among members some PDP chieftains have dumped the party. For instance a leading aspirant for the position of National Chairman of the party, Professor Tunde Adeniran and a founding member of the PDP, Professor Jerry Gana had defected to the Social Democratic Party (SDP) before the committee submitted its report. It appears the reconciliation was an exercise in futility. Initially, the Dickson-led committee had raised hope of restoring peace in the PDP giving the warm reception accorded it by the aggrieved members and the promise that they would not to leave the party. Adeniran who lost to Secondus gave some words of inspiration to the committee when they visited him. He advised Dickson to reach out to all candidates and as many members of the party in the bid to reconcile. He said it was important to also reach out to as many members of the PDP who did not contest for any position but fought gallantly to ensure the preservation of the party. “We should try to interact with various players; I will suggest that we should not leave any stone unturned to reach out as much as possible. There are those of us who carried the flag, but there are some others who are key players in this party, who may not even contest for positions but they are no less concerned about the party.” On his part, Gana said he would never leave the PDP for whatever reason and promised to play a role in salvaging the party. Analysts believe there must have been some negative developments that provoked these chieftains to change their minds and turn their back against the PDP. Another reason to suggest that the reconciliatory efforts did not succeed was the statement credited to a chieftain of the PDP and the former Minister of Niger Delta, Godsday Orubebe that the party had nothing more to offer Nigerians. Orubebe who attempted to disrupt the collation of 2015 presidential election results at the national collation centre and confronted the former Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said “the PDP is still lost in depression and suffering from a post-traumatic stress disorder”. He also referred to the PDP as a party of shame, receding into the abyss of political reality. Former Deputy Senate President, Senator Ibrahim Mantu took many unaware when he revealed how he hadrigged elections for the PDP by providing financial inducements to officials involved in the conduct of polls. Though Mantu has not defected from the party but he is already eyeing another political platform. Analysts had expected that the PDP would come out stronger and united after the reconciliation. A political scientist, Professor Ayo Olukotun, said: “We cannot determine the success or failure of the PDP reconciliatory committee on those that have dumped the party. He explained that if the PDP still have critical mass with them, the committee can claim relative success; if not we can say they have failed. The relative importance of those who remain and those who left the party will determine the success or failure of the reconciliation committee.” Olukotun who teaches political science at the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU) Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State however said “the gale of defection suffered by the PDP in recent time is a pointer that the party still has a lot to do to appease the minds of the aggrieved members. According to him, it is a fall out of the convention; the disaffection is coming from that angle. You can see that the convention went against the Southwest, the zone that was initially agreed on to produce the national chairman of the PDP. Many PDP chieftains from the South-West have kept silence and distanced themselves from the party because their candidate, Professor Adeniran was defeated. Unless the PDP leadership appease their minds, the party will lose them”. He faulted the PDP’s approach towards regaining power. His words: “PDP lacks a platform. Apology is an attempt to rebrand but it is not enough. They are banking on relatively poor performance of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to bounce back to power. PDP is thinking people are completely disenchanted with the APC performance and that the PDP is the alternative. PDP knows what it is against but it does not know what it stands for. They have not told us what they have in stock for the electorate, their programme. It is not enough to tell us APC is a failure but let us know your programme; how you intend to perform better than the ruling party if given the mandate”. On whether PDP can regain power in 2019, Olukotun said “we can’t determine that without conducting opinion poll. But the odds are too many for PDP: the party is bedevilled with internal crisis, there is the narrative that it is the most corrupt party in the world, it has been blacklisted in the minds of the people. They have to move from the binge of negative stereotyping before they can gain the confidence of Nigerians.” He said each political party has its advantage and weakness. According to him, “the APC has the advantage of incumbency and weak performance as its disadvantage. But the PDP is perceived as immensely corrupt and seen as the underdog. There are people that are yet to decide which party to vote for in 2019, they are watching the direction of victory before making up their minds. However, the odds for now favour APC.” A youth activist and PDP member, Malam Shehu Ibrahim said he had written off the Seriake Dickson-led reconciliation committee even before it started work.  According to him, the Niger Delta people have destroyed the party. Governor Nyesom Wike has taken over the party. He dictates the tune. You can see all the presidential aspirants rushing to Port Harcourt to seek his blessing. “If the reconciliation was successful why is the PDP losing members to the APC and other parties? Things are not normal with the PDP anymore. The northern PDP leaders have kept silence since the end of the convention because they felt betrayed with the way and manner Wike deployed a huge sum of money to truncate the party arrangement. Prior to the convention, the PDP leaders in the North had agreed that the position of National Chairman should go to the South-West and they endorsed Professor Tunde Adeniran for the job. But the new power broker from the South-South changed that deciosion. It is not only South-West that was hurt by the outcome of the convention, the north was also offended. “You can’t expect PDP Yoruba leaders to forget how they were treated before and during the convention. Wike referred to them as liability, saying that they didn’t contribute anything to the party. The truth of the matter is that PDP is now a regional party. I don’t know how PDP will get out of this self inflicted problem.” Lawyer and human right activist, Monday Ubani has ruled out the possibility of PDP winning election in the South-West in 2019. He said with the gale of defection from the PDP to the APC, it will be very difficult for the opposition to turn the table against the ruling party. He said the defection was a fall out of the convention. The outcome of the convention is taking its toll on the popularity of the PDP and its chances in 2019. He described the PDP reconciliation as an after-thought that will not yield any positive result. I don’t think PDP big wigs in Yoruba land will easily forget how they were schemed out by the power brokers at the convention; I don’t think they would be persuaded by the reconciliation overtures after denying them the chairmanship of the party. Ubani said “no amount of reconciliation will assuage the feelings of the people of South-West. Nigerians will prefer the APC to continue the rescue mission, rather than allow the PDP to come and destroy the new foundation being laid by the ruling party. It will be very difficult for the PDP to win election in 2019 because Nigerians have not forgotten the havoc it wreaked on the economy which had resulted in economic hardship that Nigerians are still battling with”. A legal scholar, Dr Israel Adeogun has advised the leadership of the PDP not to take things for granted that all is well with the party. He said the antics of Wike and his clique would continue to destabilise the former ruling party. “As long as there are aggrieved party members whose grievances have not been resolved by the reconciliatory committee, the party would remain vulnerable. Though the committee visited aggrieved party leaders in the Southwest but there was no commitment from them. “The convention had created so much distrust in the PDP that party members view one another with suspicion. I don’t think the PDP is ready to regain power in 2019. How can an opposition party dislodge the ruling party when it has not put its house in order. The task before Uche Secondus now is to rebuild the party by bringing every group on board. This is not the time for PDP to engage in chest beating or discriminating against any group for it to regain its lost glory.”