THE House of Representatives Committee on National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) has said it would not be intimidated into abandoning its investigations into alleged N23 billion infractions in the agency. Briefing reporters yesterday, a member of the committee, Johnson Agbonayinma, said the investigation was not based on any petition before the House. “For the records, the investigation is on the following releases from January to December, 2017: “Release of N5.9 billion food intervention in the Northeast, release of N3.1 billion food intervention in Northeast, release of N1.6 billion for Libya returnees, release of N1.6 billion on flood intervention for 16 states, donation of 6,779 metric tonnes of rice by Chinese Government.” He said others include:  “Payment of about N800 million demurrage on the donated Chinese rice and the unaccounted N10 billion released from Ecological Funds.” The lawmaker said there was no hidden motive in the House investigation. Agbonayinma said the committee observed “with dismay, the campaign of calumny sponsored to pitch the House against the Presidency, especially the Vice President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo SAN”. “The VP’s only involvement is because he is the Governing council’s chairman and we want to know if he chaired the sitting where the action was taken,” the lawmaker said. According to him, the committee was acting in line with its constitutional powers, insisting that anyone could be summoned. The committee, Agbonayinma said, made it clear that the VP could send anyone, if he so wishes. “We will not shield anyone no matter how high placed. No amount of campaign of calumny will deter the investigation”, he added. Agbonayinma denied that members obtained documents surreptitiously from NEMA, saying documents used by the committee were officially brought forward by the DG. Answering questions on allegations against members of the committee, he said anyone with such claims should  come forward with names of those who made demands on the agency for investigation and sanction. 