The Battle of Old Trafford, Pizzagate and that FA Cup replay are recalled in a riveting documentary about the feud between Arsenal’s and Manchester United’s managers The Premier League is the richest league in the world but money cannot buy hate. English football is crying out for an immense, sprawling rivalry between two great teams. There have been some interesting conflicts in recent times but nothing close to the epic nine-year war between Arsenal and Manchester United from 1996 to 2005. It’s the rift that keeps on giving. The rivalry ached with such importance, from the football field to the school playground, as to make a pacifist throw the first punch. It included everything from allegations of racism by Ian Wright against Peter Schmeichel to a pizza fight. There was also the Battle of Old Trafford, when Arsenal’s players manhandled Ruud van Nistelrooy after the final whistle; Roy Keane literally offering Patrick Vieira outside during a legendary row in the Highbury tunnel; and Jaap Stam being restrained by half of Highbury as he rumbled towards Vieira with extreme prejudice. “It’s funny,” Paul Scholes says. “In team talks against Arsenal, the ball was rarely mentioned.” That does not mean it was rarely used. The quality of football was through the roof, even if that is sometimes obscured by memories of the rucks and rows. There had never been such technical quality in English football, and the FA Cup semi-final replay of 1999, featured in depth in the programme, has an outstanding case for being the greatest game ever played in England. There are forgotten classics too, such as a primal 1-1 draw at Old Trafford on a filthy Wednesday night in 1999 and United’s 2-1 win at Highbury later that year, when both teams created an endless stream of chances in a first half that flowed like basketball. Some of the matches will never be forgotten. Arsenal won the league at Old Trafford in 2002 (and, effectively, in 1998). United beat Arsenal 6-1 in 2001, when Arsène Wenger went postal in the dressing room at half-time, and ended their 49-game unbeaten run in a bitterly controversial match in 2004 – a savage injustice from which Arsenal never truly recovered. “If you don’t feel pain when you’re being conned,” Sol Campbell says, “when are you gonna feel pain?” Both teams frequently took the moral high ground, often at the same time. With United and Arsenal the only teams to win the league from 1996 to 2004, the rivalry had a chance to develop and intensify. There were some monumental losses of temper from both managers and a set of characters on both sides – winners bursting with personality – any scriptwriter would kill for. The Feud neatly conveys the mass of contradictions in a rivalry that simultaneously bred hate and respect (when United won that immense FA Cup semi-final in 1999, Lee Dixon and Tony Adams dragged themselves into the tunnel to shake the hand of all their opponents and wish them well in the final). The players on both sides get on well these days, the experience of sharing punditry studios helping them realise how much they have in common. Yet this documentary dredges up plenty of competitive fire. Scholes, a superb Phil Neville and Martin Keown get in plenty of digs, and Keown is magnificently unrepentant about the incident with Van Nistelrooy.