The Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP), a new grassroots political party recently approved by INEC to salvage Nigeria from its present crisis by empowering Youths participation in politics to drive quality leadership in the Country. The party envisages a political process that throws up a new set of leaders by developing and renewing the minds, skills and capabilities of people towards positive solutions to the various socio-economic and political problems in the Country. The party believes that the secret of change is to focus all our energies not on fighting the OLD but building the NEW set of leaders who have the requisite skills and qualities to investigate and understand the real problems of Nigeria and providing solutions devoid of sentiments. The Party held a remarkable State Congress for its Osun State Chapter at the Party Secretariat situated beside Badamus filling Station, Obelawo, Oshogbo, Osun State on the 7th April, 2018 where State Executives were elected into key offices. Engr. Fawumi, the newly elected Chairman for the state said in his acceptance speech that “he is sure that the Congress is not for merrymaking or social events rather its due to a strong desire to see a shift in governance approach in Osun State. Based on this understandable desire, we are from today starting to put structures in place that will enable ANRP to get to the grassroots in Osun State.” We intend to get to every home in all wards and local government in this state talking one on one to every citizen or resident about ANRP plans, manifesto, goals and objectives and we are prepared to implement them in the state once we get the mandate of the people to govern the state. We will orientate the developmental direction to ensure the economic, social and infrastructural benefit goes to majority whom unfortunately are getting the least abundance God has blessed this state with. We have both short-term and long-term objectives to get to where we desired. We shall run an open and transparent State Chapter of ANRP and provide detail account status periodically, raise funds to finance party programs and be accountable/accessible to all members without partial or special favour to none. “Equal treatment to all is guaranteed”. The difference here is that we are not just seeking power for merry making but we promise to be responsible with the mandate/power for the benefit of Osun State Residents. Focus will be on qualitative Education, industrial development in Agriculture, Information Technology, Health, Power Supply, Finance and processing of Agriculture products for export. Higher priorities will be for ANRP to govern Osun State in such a way that the party and an ANRP Governor will strive to generate the income to run the State without waiting for external support, provide jobs for teeming population and enabling environment for enterprise to blossom. This will involve radical change from current approach used in running the affairs of the state. The Spokesman of Osun ANRP – Ayo Adelu, addressed the Press where he further expressed the intention of the party to bring positive change to Osun State by creative innovations and skills development to the people of Osun State. He said the party is not an antagonising party but a viable solution provider platform to people of Osun State. The party will always conduct investigations on societal problems and provide solutions on governance because the development of Osun State should be a priority to all stakeholders. We must not focus all of our energy on wrestling power, we are not power hungry. We believe that our programs will endear us to the good people of the state. The welfarism of our people is first, it’s an obligation we are resolute to take care of. We shall put people of Osun State first in every dealings.