 FULL TIME: It’s all over at the Etihad and Liverpool are into the Champions League semi-finals, winning 2-1 on the evening but with an impressive 5-1 win on aggregate. Man City were at their glittering best in the first half, but they could only manage one goal in the second minute from Gabriel Jesus, wasting a number of other chances. Liverpool were much improved after the break and Mohamed Salah equalised on the night in the 56th minute before Roberto Firmino rounded off the scoring for the visitors with 13 minutes of regular time to play. It sends the Reds into the last four and their first Champions League semi-final under Jurgen Klopp. Text of Live Commentaries Below 90: Two minutes of added time. 89: Another change for Liverpool as Salah is replaced by Ings. A few boos and jeers from the home fans as he goes off. He gets a big hug from Jurgen Klopp on the sidelines after his equalising goal. 88: Man City are seeing plenty of the ball in the last few minutes, but their attacking prowess from the first half has fizzled out it seems. Liverpool are looking much more comfortable now, as you would expect. Elsewhere in the quarter-finals this evening, Roma are 3-0 ahead against Barcelona, which means it is a 4-4 aggregate score – with Roma currently going through on away goals. 85: Free kick to Liverpool as Clyne is judged to have been fouled by Jesus. It’s taken long though and little comes from it. 82: Double changes for Liverpool as Klavan and Clyne come on for Firmino and Alexander-Arnold 81: OFFSIDE! Another offside goal from Man City after they have the ball in the back of the net. Jesus slides in Sane down the left of the box, and he in turn flashes the ball across the face of goal for Gundogan who nets, but the offside flag is raised and it won’t count. Pep Guardiola has his head in his hands as Liverpool surely seal their place in the semi-finals. Nicolás Otamendi fails to clear his line and Roberto Firmino nips in before calming sidefooting home to complete a very impressive second half display by Liverpool. Manchester City have 13 minutes left to produce a miracle.  76: A tough ask for Aguero to score from that angle as another superb De Bruyne pass is flicked into the path of Sane on the left by Wijnaldum. He tries to pick out the striker at the back post, but it’s too tight for him to nod home 74: Here comes that change with Gundogan replacing Bernardo Silva. No substitutions for Liverpool yet.  73: Gundogan is being prepared for Man City as they hunt for the five goals they need in the next 17 minutes to make it to the Champions League semi-finals.  70: A very close effort from Laporte as he goes for goal from the top of the area, but a deflection off the head of Lovren sends it just skimming over the crossbar. Sane stays down as the referee stops play, but he is soon back on his feet.  66: A first change of the game and it’s for Man City with Aguero coming on for David Silva.  65: A great bit of play from Mane there as he gets away from Sane down the right hand side, before cutting the ball back into the box but it goes past both Salah and Firmino who are too far forward. Van Dijk then goes into the book for a challenge on Sterling. The fourth for Liverpool this evening. 64: A corner for Man City, which Sane delivers but it flies way past everyone in the box. Fernandinho then whips in a better effort from the right flank with the ball still in play, but Karius is there to collect. 62: A half effort from De Bruyne as Man City look to get a foothold back in this game, but Karius collects the shot from distance.  It’s a crucial, crucial away goal for Liverpool and we will not have any extra time this evening now. It’s the first time the Reds have strung together a decent passage of play, and it works. Salah picks out Mane who powers into the box, tussling with Fernandinho before Ederson comes way off his line to try and take the ball out from his feet. It sends Mane to the ground with some shouts for a penalty, but the referee does not agree as Salah gets onto the loose ball and slots home into the empty net. Man City now need FIVE goals if they are to qualify. 54: Some good defending from Sane as Liverpool attempt to get forward with Alexander-Arnold being slid in down the right of the box, but the German does superbly well to get ahead of his and set Man City on the break.  52: Man City have ridden the early ‘wave’ from Liverpool, who briefly had their spell of possession, and are back to passing it around nicely. 49: Good collection from Karius as De Bruyne lofts a superb ball into the area, searching for the head of Sane who has made his way into he six yard box, but it just goes past the German and allows the Liverpool goalkeeper to collect. 46: Back up and running, with Pep watching on from the stands…  Half Time: There are boos as the half-time whistle is blown with no added time added on, and the Man City players surround the referee to ask why. Pep Guardiola then comes on to usher them off, but not before having a few words with the official himself. In terms of the game, it was a breathless first half at the Etihad Stadium, and Man City get an early goal thanks to Gabriel Jesus’ tap home to set them up for a superb first half performance. However, despite seeing the large majority of the attacking play and a number of other chances to score, they have not been able to make it count. Yet. They need another two goals to level things up on aggregate and send the game to extra time, but will need a few more if Liverpool nab that away goal. First Half Match Commentaries Below 45: SHOT!! First real effort of the game from Liverpool as Oxlade-Chamberlain and Salah play a lovely one-two, before the former is pushed out wide – skipping over Ederson in the process – before attempting to shoot but it’s on the angle and flies across the face of goal.  43: OFFSIDE!! Man City are at it again and they have the ball in the back of the net, but the linesman’s flag is raised. 42: OFF THE CROSSBAR!! What a superb shot from Bernanrdo Silva but it hits the post! 41: Ederson gets his hands on the ball everyone!! Liverpool come forward again and it’s Oxlade-Chamberlain with the shot but the Man City stopper collects easily. 40: A few more signs of life from the Liverpool attack as Salah attempts to cross into the area, but Walker makes a leaping header away. 39: Not a bad shot at all from Bernardo Silva as De Bruyne pings a mind-boggling ball across the box for his team-mate. Bernardo Silva twists and turns around Robertson before getting his shot away, and it just fizzes past the far post. It was not far away at all. 37: A very inviting cross indeed from David Silva after he is slipped down the left of the box by Fernandinho, but the ball just goes behind Jesus and allows Liverpool to clear. Fernandinho latches onto the loose ball and tries his luck, but it whistles past the post. 35: Booking number five, with Firmino the next to see yellow after a tackle on the racing De Bruyne. 34: A second penalty of the game for Liverpool who have a rare attacking opportunity. Salah takes, but it is headed away by a Man City defender at the near post. 33: Two penalty shouts from Sterling now, once after a high challenge with Robertson and it’s the Liverpool defender involved again as they tussle near the baseline. Sterling is given a talking to by the referee afterwards as neither were deserving of a spot kick. 31: CHANCES! Another save from Karius as David Silva whips in the ball from the left flank, but the Liverpool goalkeeper leaps to palm it away. However, the loose ball lands at the feet of Bernardo Silva who has two bites of the cherry to score, but the body of Milner is in his way before the referee blows his whistle for a Liverpool free kick. Bernardo Silva is then booked for remonstrating with the referee. 29: Another yellow card out as Alexander-Arnold fouls Sane over on the left hand side. 27: SAVE! Some superb play from De Bruyne there as his cross field pass picks out Bernardo Silva on the right hand side before darting towards the top of the box. De Bruyne then receives the ball back and tries to sweep home, but it’s low down and Karius makes a good save. 25: A great ball into the box from De Bruyne at the top right corner of the box, seeking out Sane at the back post but as he tussles with a Liverpool defender, the linesman has his offside flag correctly raised. 24: Man City are dominating this game at the moment, in terms of attacking play and possession, with Liverpool struggling to string more than a few passes together. 21: CHANCES! Man City are really pressing for another goal now, and it’s Sterling and Jesus who link up again but the latter cannot tap home this time as the ball ricochets off his chest. Karius is called into action not long after as Sane crosses from the left of the box, aiming for Bernardo Silva, but Karius is there to make a leaping save 17: De Bruyne takes and pulls it back for Sane at the top of the area with the German going for goal, but it is deflected out for a corner. David Silva and De Bruyne link up again for a short corner this time, but the linesman’s flag is soon raised for offside. 16: Free kick to Man City as Lovren flies into a challenge on Sterling on the right baseline. Perfect position for City with David Silva and De Bruyne over it… 15: HANDBAGS!! Otamendi is in a heap on the floor after a challenge from Mane, although it didn’t look like he meant it as he slides in for the ball and catches the defender in the stomach. Ederson is incensed by the challenge and runs up to Mane before pushing him around, although the Liverpool man does well not to react back. The referee is over to delivers yellow cards for both players and Otamendi is soon back on his feet. Tensions brewing, you feel. 13: An excellent ball from Bernardo Silva there as he switches the play to the left flank, picking out Sane, who hasn’t done too much yet. The move ends with David Silva firing a cross into the area, but Liverpool manage to clear. 10: Liverpool have the first corner of the evening, which Salah takes shorts to Firmino, who in turn finds Alexander-Arnold. The young defender whips a cross into the area and it’s a superb effort, but no red shirt can get into the end of it as it runs wide. 8: A half effort from De Bruyne as he tries his luck from around 25 yards after a lay off from David Silva, but it goes high over Karius’ crossbar. 6: First eyes on attack for Liverpool but it’s not the best as Salah tries a diagonal pass forward from the right flank for Mane, but it runs too wide. GOAL! MAN CITY 1-0 LIVERPOOL (Jesus, 2; agg 1-3) That is the start Man City were looking for!! It’s a wonderful goal too, far too easy for the home side. It starts when Van Dijk believes he has been fouled by Sterling over on the left touchline and while he is calling for it, Man City get on with the game as Fernandinho slides the loose ball forward from the middle of the park. It finds Sterling down the right of the area who then cuts back for the waiting Jesus in the middle of the box and it is easy as you like for him to sweep home with little in terms of defenders around him. Two more goals and we’re on level peggings but an away goal from Liverpool could change it all… 1: Here we go ladies and gents, Man City get us underway in the Champions League quarter-final second leg. Pre-Match Report Below  Battle of Britain: Will Liverpool edge out Manchester City in tonight Champions League clash? kick off: 7;45pm (local time) After the 3-0 hammering by Liverpool in the first leg, Manchester City make two changes for the return meeting as Raheem Sterling and Bernardo Silva come into the side at the expense of Vincent Kompany and Ilkay Gundogan. Liverpool make one alteration from the Anfield clash as Georginio Wijnaldum replaces Jordan Henderson. See Line Ups Below. Mo Salah starts for Liverpool, while Manchester City are playing what looks like a back three. Manchester City (possible 3-1-3-3) Ederson; Walker, Otamendi, Laporte; Fernandinho; B Silva, De Bruyne, D Silva; Sterling, Jesus, Sane. Liverpool (4-3-3) Karius; Alexander-Arnold, Lovren, Van Dijk, Robertson; Oxlade-Chamberlain, Wijnaldum, Milner; Salah, Firmino, Mane.  Mo Salah and Andy Robertson start for Liverpool. Vincent Kompany has been dropped by Manchester City, who are playing Nicolas Otamendi in a back one. Sergio Aguero is only on the bench, but it’s still a seriously attacking line-up. It’s a very selfless selection from Guardiola, because if it goes wrong he will receive far more criticism than if he had stuck with the usual 4-3-3. Manchester City (possible 3-5-1-1) Ederson; Walker, Otamendi, Laporte; B Silva, De Bruyne, Fernandinho, D Silva, Sane; Sterling; Jesus.
Substitutes: Bravo, Kompany, Gundogan, Aguero, Delph, Zinchenko, Foden. Liverpool (4-3-3) Karius; Alexander-Arnold, Lovren, Van Dijk, Robertson; Oxlade-Chamberlain, Wijnaldum, Milner; Salah, Firmino, Mane.
Substitutes: Mignolet, Clyne, Klavan, Moreno, Ings, Solanke, Woodburn. Referee Antonio Mateu Lahoz (Spain)