The campus of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto is a world of different structure and atmosphere to different inhabitants of the school. For many students, life on the campus can be fun and fair and for many others, the environment seems a paradise. But for Jemimah Dauda, Saliat Salahudeen and her elder sister (who pleaded that her identity should not be unveiled in this story), the academic hustle and bustle are dreadful and scornful. For them, it is a world full of pains, agonies, loneliness and negligence. By Ibrahim Adeyemi   While able bodied students are privileged to wake up in the morning, rush down to pray, visit the loo, swiftly run straight to the tap to fetch water, say hello to friends, quickly run to catch up with morning lectures, go to the library at will, and return to the hostel after having fun enough to retire in bed, all these, the special students do with difficulties, due to the environment of the school which is not friendly to students with disability. Though beaming with a smile, Saliat’s eyes became reddened by the sudden tears that took over her, while speaking to the reporter. She spoke about her travails in life, despite her academic achievement as one of the best students in her department. Now 18-year-old, she was seized by muscular dystrophy when she was nine, while in junior secondary school. Muscular dystrophy is a group of disorders that involve a progressive loss of muscle mass and consequent loss of strength. Apart from her lame sibling and her mother, Saliat has no bosom friend, playmate or reading mate. As peopled as the campus is, she and her sister are unfrequented by fellow students. She does everything solely and lonely. Asked how she feels being unaccompanied by friends, she said: ” I don’t feel sad, because my parents do not allow me to feel sad. I feel normal, I feel free.” Interestingly, despite the odds against her, she is a high achieving academic student. With a Grade Point (GP) of 4.12, Saliat is leading a number of able bodied students who are hale and healthy in her department. A second-year student of Adult Education, she majors in the Sciences and has special flair for Chemistry. She further disclosed that the motivation to be a graduate is motivated by her desire to make impact. “My aim is to be someone that will be remembered in the society. I want to build my society,” she said. When Saliat was asked whether she has a boyfriend, she grinned heavily, cleared her throat and said: “I have no boyfriend, but I will like to marry a man of God.” SALIAT’S SISTER The tragedy that befell Saliat appears simpler than her sister’s. She is not only crippled, she also has deficiency in her fingers, which makes her a slow illegible writer. She appears fragile, timid and shy. Our correspondent met with one of her lecturers, Dr Muftau Olarinde of the Department of Economics, Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto. Despite her disabilities, Dr Olarinde attested to her seriousness and eagerness to learn. “I don’t know much about her younger sister, but for her (the elder), her performance is okay. She’s average in her performance but compared to other students, she’s above average. She has a big disadvantage in term of writing fast,” he affirmed. “She has never sought help from anybody in exams. Even if she scores ‘D’ in exam, I still give kudos to her because those that score more than her may have had the opportunity of copying answers from others,” Olarinde added. Apart from the normal hectic academic routine, she still struggles despite her condition to engage in some beneficial extra-curriculum activities. “I believe there is something that most students of her mate cannot do which she does. She has been coming to learn about a software called ‘strata’ in my office. ‘Stata is a software that is used in running data analysis’,” he (the lecturer) noted. He emphasised on her deficiency is in term of writing. “Her handwriting is not that legible and I’m sure that may be a disadvantage in term of marking because some lecturers may not be patient enough to read her writing,” he said. The lecturer however commended the efforts of the lame student, remarking that she comes early to classes despite being physically challenged. AGONY OF A PARENT The kneeling of motherhood could not allow Saliat’s mother to abandon her two lame children. She lives with them in the hostel; keeping their company and doing domestic works in the hostel. A source revealed that, apart from the mother, two other female aids are employed and are being paid monthly by Saliat’s father who is a civil servant. Efforts to speak to the mother did not yield result as she was always busy taking care of her two physically challenged daughters. HELP, I’M LAME, I NEED HOSTEL ACCOMMODATION! Jemimah Dauda is a beautiful 21-year- old student who faces tragedy on daily basis. The brilliant chap would always have to be pushed on wheel chair from a very far miles to her lecture halls in Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto.  “I love reading novels and art works right from my secondary school. That is why I choose to study Literature-in-English,” the 200-level student said.
Prior to the calamitous trauma that resulted in the sudden lameness, Jemeemah could walk around like any other person. Her lameness stopped her from schooling for two years while in Secondary School. “I wasn’t born crippled; the problem began when I was 6-year-old. I had to stay at home for two years without going anywhere,” she narrated. Revealing her ordeal, she pored over how stressful and saddened she feels whenever it is time to go to school. “I encounter lots of problem before getting here (the campus) every day. You know, I live in the town, which is far from the school premises. Coming from the town to school every day is always a battle,” she lamented sorrowfully. Jemimah is always aided by a young girl, Aisha, who takes her everywhere around the school, from classes to cafeteria and to the ladies. “I would have loved to be in the hostel which is closer to the school premises, I have applied so many times, but I was not given accommodation,” she said. ” I seriously need help, I’m lame and I don’t have hostel accommodation. It is really not easy,” she cried out. Although she hails from Kebbi, a state where there is low interest in girl child education, Jemimah built the courage of being educated despite her condition.
“I already made up my mind that I will go to school,” she said, adding that, reading motivated her to go to school. She told our correspondent of her vision to become a broadcaster. “I believe I can do it, for, I’d one time watched a broadcaster on TV, whom I was told is also lame,” she said wearing a warm smile. NGO SPEAKS ON DISABILITY RIGHTS In a bid to eradicate discrimination against children with disabilities, a disability activist, David Anyaele, who works with the Centre for Citizens with Disabilities (CCD) has urged the legislative arm of the government to pass a bill on disability rights. While surveying the aims and objectives of the organisation for students with disabilities, he said: “What we’re doing is to work and lobby at the National Assembly to secure students with disabilities from discrimination and marginalization in Nigeria.” Mr Anyaele however, emphasized on the need to pass the bill of Disability Rights in Nigeria. “If the bill is passed into law, what that means is that no institution will conduct the affairs of the school in a manner that will discriminate or isolate students with disabilities,” he remarked.