The sixth edition of the annual Nigerian Entertainment Conference, organised by Nigeria Entertainment Today (NET.ng) has held at the Landmark Event Centre, Oniru. The one-day event, styled NEClive6, got off to a good start with a scintillating rendition of the Nigerian national anthem by Singer, Aramide. Tagged ‘Understanding Trends and Emerging Markets’, the first set of panelists, made up of Snapchat comedian, Nosa Afolabi, popularly known as  Lasisi Elenu, The Koko Master himself, D’Banj, founder of Iroko TV, Jason Njoku and others. Speaking on his experience in establishing his brand online, Elenu said that it took persistence and determination. “In some cases, I feel, the new media gives hope to a lot of the up and coming, and that is why today, people like me can sit here and give a speech on a platform like this. A lot of us didn’t have to go through the process the old hands had to go through. We didn’t need to come up under any comedian,” he said. Giving his own view, Dbanj stated that although the digital media in Nigeria is off to a good start, there is still a lot to be done, especially as regards capacity building. Using his experience as an example, he said that less than two years after the launch of his digital music platform, CREAM, it has grown to over two million subscribers. “In December last year, we shot a video for an artiste whom I’ve never met and today, as a result of that, he has been signed on to Sony Music. That is the power of new media. I don’t have to see you. Just go to the platform, upload your music and if your head follow you, dem go sign you,” he said. Speaking further, he enjoined artistes to have a level head as, in his opinion, popularity does not translate to financial benefits. A follow up session titled ‘Opportunities and Prospects in Entertainment and Technology’ had two panelists; Obi Asika, the CEO of Storm 360 and celebrated music producer, Cobhams Asuquo. Asuquo held the opinion that with the advent of social media, opportunities are beginning to unfold in the Nigerian entertainment industry. In his views, such opportunities abound from production to distribution to consumption. “Our focus has been how to figure out ways to use technology to galvanise all of these opportunities. Weighing in on the structural deficit the Nigerian entertainment industry is bogged down with, Asika opined that it is not the place of the government to fix them. According to the convener of the annual ‘Social Media Week’, government should not be in business, especially in this era where most businesses are being privatized. “The role of the government is to provide a policy direction. If we don’t do something about piracy and licensing, we won’t get anywhere. Social media for me is really about discovery. There are no guarantees,” he said. The event also featured a talk by Martin Mabutho of DSTV while other panelists were Brymo, Simi, Darey Art Alade and a host of others.