Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday said his administration will not waver in making water transportation and tourism safer. He spoke at the annual Lagos Boat Regatta at the Lagoon Waterfront in Oyinkan Abayomi Drive, Ikoyi. Government, he said, would continue to make further investments and partnerships in the channelisation of the water routes, as well as provision of more standard jetties and ferries. Represented by the Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, Ambode noted that the last boat regatta organised simultaneously in four locations to mark the Lagos at 50 last year, was a success and has brought the treasure of the waterways to the fore. According to him, “We have made a modest investment in a few luxury boats that are meant to target tourism promotion. The Lagos lagoon boasts of perhaps the busiest water route in West Africa. There is a vibrant boat club with members’ boat collection that is astonishing; there is a growing interest in surfing and our waterways are acknowledged as one of the best for scuba diving in the world. “This is why our determination will not waver in making our waterways cleaner and safer with further investments and partnerships in the channelisation of the water routes, in the provision of more standard jetties and ferries.” he said. The event featured traditional Boat Regatta parade and display competition by 20 qualified boats from Badagry, Ikorodu, Epe and Lagos Island, out of which five boats were eventually selected, while Agbowa Ikosi emerged overall winner. It also featured search and rescue demonstration, water safety tips, entertainment boat parade and cultural performances. Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture Steve Ayorinde said the event was a cultural and entertainment funfair meant to showcase part of the state’s rich aquatic cultural asset. Ayorinde explained that what had been displayed was a festival that is common to the traditional coastline communities. Lagos State Water Authority (LASWA) General Manager Daramola Emmanuel said the state government was serious about promoting water transportation as an alternative to other means of transportation. He advised participants to wear life jackets and avoid drinking before driving. Dignitaries who graced the event included members of the Lagos State Executive Council; former Deputy Governors – Femi Pedro and Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu; Oba of Lagos Oba Rilwan Akiolu; former Secretary to the State Government, Princess Adeniran Ogunsanya; Senators Muniru Muse, Musiliu Obanikoro, among others.