Students of the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) have endorsed Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos for a second term in office. The students led by the President of the Students’ Union Government (SUG), Jubril Adewale, in a statement made available to The Nation on the launch of the “Direct Campaign & Enlightenment (DiCE)’’ initiative in Ikorodu, said endorsing the governor for a second term was borne out of the need to ensure he continued his education improvement drive in the state. The union also said the initiative will sensitise residents and students on the need to register and collect Permanent Voters Card,(PVCs).  He said the DiCE initiative was aimed at engaging students on a one on one basis, convincing, persuading and arming them with information on the governor’s achievements in the education sector, to enable them in turn engage their parents. “We are here today representing the 25,000 students of this great citadel of learning and excellence to say that Gov. Ambode should continue with his good work and determination to make education in the state the hallmark of excellence in Nigeria”. “The Governor has proven beyond reasonable doubts, his concern for the sustenance of qualitative educational system in Lagos State”. “LASPOTECH has benefited immensely from the administration in the area of the ‘Ready-Set-Work’ initiative, an education value added scheme for tertiary institutions in Lagos”. “He has also completed the construction of Block ‘A’ of the School of Technology Complex as well as approved the construction of drainages and car parks for the complex, all of which are ongoing.’’  He added that other abandoned projects set for completion by the governor included the construction of a High Capacity Auditorium, Construction of an Administrative Block and Sports Complex. He therefore solicited the support of students and residents in the state to ensure they register and collect their Permanent Voters’ Card to enable them cast their votes during the 2019 General Elections. Also speaking on the DiCE initiative, Semiu Balogun, the Union’s Public Relations Officer said the initiative is hinged on the institution’s 25,000 student population to achieve its goal to have the governor re-elected. “We are practically preparing our 25,000 students (part time and full time), to convince at least two parents each with the direct campaign and enlightenment; you can not underestimate the multiplier effects of this initiative. “In addition to canvassing for votes, we would monitor and sensitise the student populace on the need to register and collect their PVC because a vote canvassed without a PVC is sheer waste of time and resources. “We shall sensitise the public on registration and collection of PVC and consolidate it with canvassing for votes using the DiCE initiative, which is neither a hired nor an accidental idea. “It is the Union’s ingenuity, passion to support the re-election bid of Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode and our strategy goes beyond rhetorics and showmanship; but a complete practical approach to winning election,’’ he said. (NAN)