The Lagos State Police Command has arrested a 30-year-old woman, Ayo Sheriff, for allegedly burning her daughter, Aishat Sheriff, 16, with a pressing iron. The incident occurred at Ijora-Badia. It was gathered that the mother was furious after she realised her daughter had lied she was keeping N250 that was meant for Aishat’s boss. According to the police, Aishat, an apprentice auxiliary nurse, was given N500 by her boss to give someone N200 on her way home, use N50 as transport fare and return N250 the following day. The teenager, who’s also a secondary school pupil, failed to handover the balance to her boss and when asked, she lied that her mother was with the money. Unknown to Aishat, her boss called her mother and the latter was shocked and denied having the money. She was said to have plugged an electric iron on her daughter’s right limbs as soon as she got home for disgracing the family. The Nation gathered that the victim’s Guardian and Counsellor in school noticed the burnt injuries on her body the following day in school, questioned her and she opened up. Thereafter, the counsellor, it was learnt notified the orphanage and the police, who moved to the woman’s house and took the victim and her siblings away. According to police spokesman, Chike Oti, a Superintendent (SP), the victim and her younger sisters have been taken to Chosen Orphanage Home, at Gastya Estate, Ijora-Badia. He said: “The incident happened on April 24. The girl and her two younger siblings are being sheltered in Chosen Child Orphanage Home. “The Commissioner of Police (CP) was miffed at the sight of the horrible wounds inflicted on a child by her mother. He therefore called on parents to correct their children in love. He said the rate at which cases of domestic violence was increasing was a source of concern to the command. “The Gender Section of the Command, headed by Mrs Adejoke Cole, a Superintendent (SP) had concluded investigation into the case and would charge the suspect to Ikeja Magistrates’ Court today.”