The Speaker, Lagos State Assembly, Mr Mudashiru Obasa, says the staff in the legislative house need to be trained, to add value to what is being done there. “Without training the workers, we are harming the society,” Obasa, represented by Mr Olumuyiwa Jimoh, the Deputy Majority Leader of the House, said on Wednesday. He made the remark as the house of assembly began a three-day capacity building workshop for its staff, tagged: “Effective Capturing, Report Writing, Documentation and Presentation of Parliamentary Proceedings”, to enhance their performance in legislative business. Obasa said that such training would be regular, to sustain the Assembly’s motto of “above the common standards of excellence’’. “The only methodology that we can use to develop ourselves is to train the trainers and educate the educators. “These staff needs to be educated for them to even add value to whatever we are doing. “It is the bureaucratic system that determines direction and dimension of whatever the political and economic system are doing,” he said. The speaker said the development of bureaucratic system should be in geometric progression instead of arithmetic progression, hence the need to do more. According to him, the development and growth of any country lies in the capacity of the civil service. Also speaking, the Clerk of the House, Mr Azeez Sanni, said that the workshop was another decisive and epoch-making stride by the House to raise the performance of the staff. Sanni, who commended the leadership and management of the House, said that the workshop would improve parliamentary reporting and legislative practices. “This training is borne out of an urgent need by the leadership of the House to address certain areas of inadequate performance by some of the staffers, and which has been a source of growing concern. “This programme has been packaged to deepen the skills and proficiency of staff in the three core directorates of the House — the Legislative Matters, Legislative Drafting and Legal Services, and Publications — in the art of writing and indeed other areas peculiar to their duties and practices. “This is with a view to ensuring improved productivity,’’ he said. The clerk said that the staff had been commended and respected within and outside for their commanding display of knowledge, experience and understanding. He said that the workshop, among other issues, would review the current reporting and documentation process in the House with a view to improving the standards. NAN