Months after having issues with their foremost artiste, Kiss Daniel, which had both party going their separate ways, Nigerian record label G-Worldwide Entertainment, has announce the signing of two new signings, Ajura and Easy Jay. According to the record label, both artistes were signed after proving themselves as confirmed leaders in the music space, with a track record of success. “We are thrilled to welcome Ajura and Easy Jay to the G-Worldwide family,” said Head of Artist Management, Louiza Williams. “They have all it takes to develop and become superstars in the African music scene, and will be game-changers in dominating and bringing African music to the world. We are extremely excited to have them as a part of the team and are eager for the journey ahead.” Ajura started out as a dancer.  Born Daniel Alaba Ojamomi, in Ondo State, Nigeria, he is the last child of a family of 8. He attended Kabe College, Ilogbo, where he picked up dancing and also was a member of the school football team, picking up the nickname, ‘Ojams 10’. After discovering his love for music, he dived into music production. In 2013, Daniel got admitted to Federal college of Education (Technical), Akoka, where he honed his craft, polishing his talents amassing fans via releasing and performing music. He graduated in 2016. “I see music as a tool and agent of change, both physically and mentally,” he says. “I want to use my music to speak for the dumb, my lifestyle to influence the deaf and my sound to open the inner eyes (minds) of the blind” As for Easy Jay, the first child in a family of three, he was born Oluwashola Raymond Oyekan, in Mushin, Lagos State. Music came to him in middle school. At 13, he was already trying his hands at songwriting, and would use school free periods as mime sessions, getting him the nickname, ‘Sholi Akon’. His first recording experience came in 2015, where he impressed in the studio, snagging an instant management deal with the producer. That same year, he got into the Federal University of Technology, Akure, where he is studying for a degree in Project Management. Easy Jay operates across genres, blending elements from Alt-R&B, Highlife and Afro Pop. “In few years, I want to inspire a young boy somewhere in Africa or anywhere around the world watching me on TV to say “I want to be just like Easy Jay,” he says.