Atechnology giant, Tek Experts yesterday said it chose to begin its African operation by opening shop in Nigeria because of the pool of talented tech savvy youngsters. Its  Founder, Yaniv Natan, who spoke during the official opening of its office at Ozumba Mbadiwe Street, Victoria Island, Lagos, said having worked with about 20 young Nigerians in Malta, he had no doubt about the ability of Nigerians to deliver. The firm which partnered Microsoft  opened a Customer Service and Support Centre (CSSC) which the firms said will create jobs and help deepen the information communications technology (ICT) ecosytem in the country. Natan said: “We are delighted to collaborate with Microsoft in developing talent that will improve the technology landscape in Nigeria and leverage the skills and expertise of Nigerians to provide great levels of service to customers as we have done in other locations around the world. We are committed to investing in the region and the people, and to raising the profile of Nigeria as an exceptional location for technical talent. “This is the first phase in what we want to be a long and fruitful future in Nigeria. We are investing in state of the art offices, in providing best-in-class training programmes and in developing the infrastructure that will provide exceptional services to our clients and exceptional careers for our employees.” Also , Corporate Vice President, Customer Service and Support, Microsoft, Aileen Allkins, said Microsoft is committed to investing in the talented workforce Nigeria has to offer through the partnership with Tek Experts. “I expect that this relationship will continue to grow and provide additional career opportunities for the local market,” she said.  By expanding our global support model to Nigeria through Tek Experts, we are able to enhance the support we offer Microsoft’s customers across multiple time zones in EMEA and the east coast of the United States.”  Country General Manager, Microsoft Nigeria, Akin Banuso said it is very significant that Nigeria will be the first country in Africa to host a global operation for Microsoft through the strategic partnership with Tek Experts. “This is a unique opportunity for Nigeria’s youth to realise their potential and pursue a world class technical career locally. This is in line with our mission of empowering every individual and organisation on the planet to achieve more,” he said. According to the firms, the opportunities the centre holds for Lagos, Nigeria and Africa is huge and Tek Experts and Microsoft are happy to be the first to bring this to Nigeria. With an unemployment rate in double digits in Nigeria, the centre comes at a good time, as it will not only impact positively on technical skills development in Nigeria, it will also prove to be the first of many opportunities to bring technical jobs, with career growth, to the continent of Africa; a great transformation project Tek Experts and Microsoft are proud to pioneer. Tek Experts has a strong track record helping companies manage their business operations and has built a reputation for developing local talent. Through its operations in Costa Rica, U.S, Malta, Bulgaria, China and Vietnam, the company has created more than 5000 jobs and helped thousands of people to build long and rewarding careers. Tek Experts plans to employ hundreds of young people in its operation in Nigeria. These individuals will become ambassadors for bespoke IT services and you can be sure they will excel. “We are optimistic and look forward to a rewarding operation in Nigeria. The response we have had from the community, the support we have had from our partners and the interest we have had from people wanting to join us has been amazing,” Carol McCarthy, CHRO, Tek Experts said.   