A  nursery school, Little Me Preschool based in Abuja, has launched a book written by its pupils with help from their minders to celebrate the World Book Day. The 16-page fairy-tale titled: ‘Oceans Adventure of Captain Jolly’, was inspired by the school’s Proprietress, Samira Atiku  who allowed the little authors aged one to five to express their creativity exploring the life of a sailor – Captain Jolly and his ship in a make believe world filled with colourful sea creatures. Though the book was based on the creative imagination of the three to five-year olds, the younger kids between one and two years’age brackets were not left out as they coloured in most of the images drawn by the older pupils. Speaking on the inspiration behind the book, Atiku said the theme for this term is ‘Under the Sea’ combined with  inculcating in them knowledge about sea creatures resulted in ther (kids) passion for story time; hence her decision to combine the two and watch what the kids would come up with. “Oceans Adventure of Captain Jolly is a Little Me Preschool team work composition, for children, by children to celebrate World Book Day 2018. It was inspired by the drive to bring life to children’s ideas by opening their minds to the world of prints and all of its unendingpossibilities.The Knowledge that information can be relayed in the form of prints is the bedrock of reading for any child,” he explained. The school’s Administrative Manager Mrs Muleh Atta, who spoke on the importance of World Book Day said setting out a day to show the kids that books are special will go a long way in establishing a reading culture within the children and sharpening their imagination. “World Book Day is very important to children because books are simply magical. They are the door way through which children enjoy various experiences using their thoughts and imaginations to build new frontiers of their own”. As the children’s involvement in the production of the book, they also visited the Charvid Printing Press where they watched their imaginations transform into a book. Three-year-old Aminu Sadiq, one of the book’s contributors, explained that it was fun and exciting creating a story from his imagination and seeing it come to life in a book. “The best part for me was when I saw Captain Jolly and my drawing being printed out from the big machine. “We saw our book on a monitor,” four-year-old Mahmoud Imam said, adding: “There was a ship and the picture of our story. There was also a mouse but not the type that squeaks.”