How time flies for Yakubu Dogara. Now that he is the Speaker of the almighty Federal House of Representativeness, he is now a “god” that hand down decrees, and what have you on people he perceives as political enemies. While it is ok to play politics at the highest level, we should be careful not to burn bridges because we might not know when we might need the same bridge to cross over to safety.
Let me give a background, before the election that produces Yakubu Dogara as the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the governor of Bauchi State, directed Bauchi lawmakers to vote for the party’s candidate at the time who was Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, as against Yakubu Dogara who wasn’t the party’s candidate. If we all recall that the elections that produced the Senate President and the Speaker almost disintegrated the party.
Having emerged as Speaker without “home support” Yakubu Dogara consequently felt that he must take his pound of flesh from the governor who denied him “home support” and as they say, the rest is history with various versions of the rift between the governor of Bauchi state and the Speaker. In some quarters it is alleged that the speaker is nursing a gubernatorial ambition. And if that is true, I don’t see how that can be actualized with his disposition to issues in Bauchi state, and by extension people, he has labelled his enemies.
One of such people is the Director General of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) Engr. Mustapha Maihaja, who happens to be a close friend of the Bauchi State governor. Even though from Yobe state, his sin before Yakubu Dogara is that since he is a friend to his enemy, so, therefore, he is also an enemy.
And that is the point of departure for me. I say this concerning ongoing probe into the activities of NEMA by the House of Reps Committee on Emergency and Disaster. While it is commendable, however, the bone of contention is that everything smacks of a witch-hunt and a mockery of democracy.  The position of the House of Reps committee is somewhat questionable for asking that the suspended directors be reinstated despite the myriads of evidence against them. Also, the shifting the focus of the probe to between January to December 2017 also gives out the motives and the brain behind the whole episode.
The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission ( EFFC) investigated the activities of NEMA and found the former director general and the suspended directors culpable on acts of economic crimes and even went ahead to release a preliminary report, consequently leading to the suspension of the indicted directors pending final investigations. I see nothing wrong with such activities. But I see everything wrong for the House of Reps Committee to ask for their reinstatement stating that the process of their suspension did not follow due process.
Wait for this. They also brought up the issue of the award of contracts and what have you. And interestingly, contracts that were awarded by the previous administration were heaped on the present administration. And even if you want to do that, would it not be common sense to at least invite the former director general?  But all of these doesn’t make sense to the honorable members of the committee because there is a standing order from Speaker Yakubu Dogara, which is “Mustapha Maihaja must go down” if this is not a political vendetta, I don’t know what else to call it. I must also add that it is even belittling for an individual like the speaker to be involved in such illegality.
I must also add that if this is how high ranking public officials abuse their office, Yakubu Dogara should not be seen to be one of such unless he wants to stretch his luck too thin. As the speaker of the house, he should be able to rise to the occasion instead of encouraging abnormalities. In my opinion, the rational thing to do is for the speaker to rise above primordial sentiments and instruct the committee to do the right thing or suspend the investigations completely. When I heard the acting Chairman of the committee, Hon. Ali Isa said the ongoing public hearing was not targeted at anybody and that there was no vested interest by the National Assembly, I smiled. I smiled again when he said; the committee was explicitly vested with the mandate to investigative the violation of public trust in NEMA for the last one year.
And I said to myself? Why the last one year? Who gave the mandate? And what is the objective? These are questions only the speaker can answer because from what I gathered, what we see in the probe is the voice of Jacob and the hands of Esau. At sundry times, some people have asked this question – “why do some people in spite of their religious assertions, affiliations, titles, and positions are involved in some shady dealings?” I would like to say here, that people do such things because there is a missing factor, that is, “the knowledge of God” If you don’t know your God, you will do anything. The history of Nigeria is replete tales of high raking public officials that misused their positions for pecuniary gains or ulterior motives. And they ended up in the hall of shame. I am not sure that is where Yakubu Dogora belongs. That is if he retraces his steps and does the right thing. From experience, two things might likely be the case. Its either he succeeds now and fails woefully tomorrow, or he maintains decorum and succeeds tomorrow. In whatever we do in life, the choices we make either make or mar us. A word is enough for the wise. Adamu, a political scientist 