IN  the past, the craze for white collar jobs was the trend for young graduates all over the country. Unfortunately, unemployment and casualisation of the workforce have reduced the opportunities in the public and private sectors. Many have therefore opted for the short cuts, going into vices that ultimately get them into trouble. However, there are still a number of young people who decided to look inwards and today are making the country proud with Made-in-Nigeria products. One of such entrepreneurs is Oluwatobi Oreoluwa, CEO of Alaga Collections; a furniture company that is making waves with a variety of unique Nigerian designs. In a highly competitive sector, he tells you the secret of his success and the things that set him apart from others. “We are dedicated to telling African stories with furniture and other elements of space. At Alaga Collections, we not only provide comfort and aesthetic value to customers, we also try to make them inquisitive about what they are sitting on or what is in their space. We have worked with brands like Orange Academy and Labule.” The dream is big and the picture for the future is to place the country on the international map. However, there are a few challenges that slow down the process. “Easy access to funding is one of the major setbacks for entrepreneurs in Nigeria as well as building a client base as people believe more in imported pieces due to the typical ostentatious nature of Nigerians. It is also tough building a team of people who understand the core value of the brand, but so far we have been able to steady the ship.” Interestingly, Alaga did not start as a perfectly formed idea. “It was conceived as a photocopy. I worked as an intern architect in a construction firm in 2012. The firm often imported furniture at a cheap rate. At first, I wanted a franchise for Nigeria but I didn’t get a response from the company. I noticed that they were only in North of Africa. So, I gave up on chasing and decided to create.” Doubra Eponwei is the brain behind Zivanora, a brand that specialises in the production of specially handcrafted fashion and fine jewellery crafted from start to finish in their studio in Lagos, Nigeria. “Our products are designed with clean and minimalist design flair, and we believe jewellery should be worn and enjoyed no matter the occasion or location.” She goes down memory lane to tell you how it all started and some of the challenges encountered: “My journey into jewellery-making started while I was in college, and over the years the interest and love grew even deeper. A challenge we face is having to deal with high exchange rates. Our high rates make the costs of purchasing necessary equipment as well as equipment that would enable us to expand our product offerings and increase work efficiency very high.” This jewellery-making equipment, she explained, are those that can enable local production stand shoulder to shoulder with international offerings. “Another challenge we face is finding very budget friendly shipping rates for international clients. The complaint we get from international customers is the cost of international shipping even within Africa.” To stand out and continue to carve a niche for her outfit, she would like to see some changes in the sector. “A change I would like to see is a better appreciation for locally handmade goods in Nigeria, especially with all the hurdles SMEs have to overcome just to get a product to market. There are so many amazing local businesses producing beautiful and well-finished products all across Nigeria but there is still an air of mistrust and feeling that Nigerian made goods aren’t good or they aren’t worth their price.” She added: “We have all got accustomed to buying cheaply mass produced items and so a lot of times, it’s difficult for people to appreciate the work, time and resources that go into making a product from start to finish by hand. I am very glad Bellafricana is leading the way in helping to change this mindset and showcasing local brands doing a good job with the products they offer.” For the entrepreneur, one of the greatest influences on the business has been the fact that she is someone who is open to exploring other cultures and appreciating their point of view when it comes to design. “It has really helped influence how I think and approach my designs. It helps with thinking outside the box. I would say that government can make things better by creating an environment that makes it easier for small businesses to grow and expand.” Her advice for government and other stakeholders is to make Nigeria a friendly place for mass manufacturing. “This will enable local brands who are interested in mass manufacturing to produce their products more cost effectively and boost our economy. All the money that goes out to China or other of such countries could be kept here and used to improve our economy. They say our greatest asset in Nigeria is human capital but what are we doing with it?” she asked rhetorically. One sector that is hard hit by the influx from other parts of the world is the textile industry. A lot of the indigenous textile companies have closed down and a lot of the textiles used are imported from other parts of the world. In the early 20th century, the industry was really thriving, with factories in Kaduna, Lagos and Kano; all employing an average of 70% of the total workforce in Nigeria. Today, the industry is a shadow of itself, accounting for less than 2% of the employed in the Nigerian workforce. However, a few Nigerian brands have started to break the jinx in the sector and one of such companies is Mimiremi Textiles, a brand under Pattern Design Limited. The CEO of the company, Aderonke Jaiyeola, goes down memory lane to tell you what motivated her to go into the sector. “The company was created out of a need to solve the problem of access for fashion designers in Lagos State, Nigeria, to bespoke and quality fabrics that are uniquely theirs. I noticed this gap in the industry in 2012, when I was contacted by a top Nigerian designer, whom I used to work for, to recommend someone that could design her fabrics for her. Since I studied textile design for my first degree, I decided to create the designs for her even though I had never worked on a full digital print before, though most times I draw and create patterns manually.” That experience was a learning curve and it opened her eyes to the potential in the sector. “After many days and weeks learning via YouTube and tutorials, I was able to create my first set of four digital textile prints which the designer showcased at the Mercedes Benz Fashion Week in New York.  After this experience, I decided to practice fully as a textile designer and make a shift from my fashion design business after seven years.” Interestingly, leaving her seven-year career as a fashion designer wasn’t easy, it took her another four years before she finally settled in as a textile designer. The first challenge encountered was how to transit from fashion to textile design, but again this did not deter her; instead she was determined to carve a niche for herself.  “In 2012, my mentor in Business School advised me to concentrate fully on textile design after she saw my designs but I was sceptical about it and was not willing to leave my comfort zone.” In addition, Jaiyeola was also faced with the challenge of transferring her designs on fabrics such that they will not bleach/wash off, will be durable and beautiful. Her efforts finally paid off and the turning point came when she went for the Mandela Washington Fellowship in the US last year. “At Dartmouth College where I was posted to, I took a course by Professor Rob and Professor Peter on human-centred design, which basically talks about building businesses around solving human needs. We were taught about design-driven entrepreneurship that focuses on developing solutions in the service of people. The question that got stuck on my mind after the class was; how do I build my textile company around this principle?” Driven by this passion and a desire to find answers that will address human needs in this regard, Jaiyeola decided to do an exhaustive research into the textile design industry in Nigeria. “From my research work, I discovered that the textile industry in Nigeria is a secret gold reserve that is yet to be fully mined. Looking back in time to one of our class sessions at Dartmouth, I remember we were also asked not to restrict our business goals because of finances but to dream as big as we could, then we can work on getting the finance to execute it. From that day, I had confidence to dream bigger than usual and now the dream is beginning to come alive.” 