The Nigerian Shippers Council (NSC) is committed to ensuring efficiency at the ports to enable them compete with those in neighbouring countries, its Executive Secretary, Hassan Bello, has said. Speaking during his visit to three shipping companies, Maersk Line, Grimaldi Shipping Line, and CMA-CGM, in Lagos, Bello said the government would ensure that the ports remained attractive and competitive. He said importers and clearing agents had petitioned his office, accusing shipping firms of not refunding their container deposits within the days stipulated by the government. Bello said automation of the ports’ services was necessary to drive the change to reform the sector to attract more cargoes into the country. He said ports automation and the establishment of the Truck Transit Parks would increase efficiency and decrease waste, adding that openness would facilitate cargo clearance. He said:  “If it is five days in port A and it is one day in port B, I will rather go to port B because it is the economies of scale that determines which port is used. We have made it possible for us to make that comparison within the sub-consciousness of the national discourse on the economy. “It is important for our ports to be efficient and our ports are picking up now. Corruption is what we have been talking about and there are many ways to kill corruption and one of them is automation because the moment you have automation, corruption will just disappear. With the introduction of their electronic payment platform, what took place in six days then, now takes place in six seconds. “Some of the delays have been eliminated by NPA and the agency is also trying to introduce other electronic system of doing things, the same thing with Customs.’’ The NSC boss urged the government to take a deliberate action to address many challenges confronting the port system through consistent and predictable policies. He said that investors needed certainty and ease of doing business in Nigeria which could be brought about by government intervention, especially in the gridlock at Apapa. According to him, no matter how efficient a terminal is, if you don’t have the road to evacuate cargos, how can you do it? So, there must be some level of intervention, he added. “The ideas are to have an electronic passage to ensure that a truck is only in Apapa when it is needed to pick or drop cargo. Then the tank farms, we don’t need trailers tanker to go to tank farms because we have the pipeline which is also a means of transportation. “The moment we have these pipelines pumping to Mosimi and other flow stations, then we don’t need tankers in Apapa. “We cannot rely only on one access like road; port should be accessible by road, rail, inland water ways and pipelines because the port is not a storage place for cargo at all,’’ he added. Bello also said NSC was also establishing Truck Transit Parks along major highways to help address the challenges of trucks parking on major road. He said the project was Public-Private Partnership (PPP) aimed at reducing incidences of road congestion and loss of cargos due to indiscriminate parking by truck drivers. The executive secretary explained that the council, in partnership with state governments, would build modern parks that would have hotels, restaurants, filing stations and garages for repair and maintenance of vehicles.