 Manchester City  Coach Pep Guardiola and Liverpool will know the type of hammer that will fall on them come May 31 after they were charged for improper conduct during the two legged Champions League clash that saw city fall by the way side while Liverpool progressed to the semi finals. Liverpool emerged victorious both home and away to progress but the conduct of their fans during the first leg at Artfield resulting in the damage of Manchester City bus among other things was consider unacceptable by UEFA which has vowed to investigate and decide on what to do. Guardiola on the other hand was giving the marching orders after confronting centre referee Antonio Mateu Lahoz during the second leg tie that ended 2-1 in favour of the Reds who had enjoyed a 3-0 victory in the first leg. Guardiola’s UEFA rap sheet includes two breaches of the organisation’s disciplinary regulations – “dismissal from the bench” and “improper conduct of the coach”. While the appointed date remains about 50 days away the former Barcelona and Bayern Munich coach insists that his reaction after what he considered zenith of poor officiating does not amount to misconduct adding that he was polite in his complaint to his country man referee chose to do the unacceptable describing the referee as one who has a way of seeing the opposite of glaring facts. Speaking to BT Sport after the match, the City manager spoke witheringly of Mateu Lahoz’s officiating. “I said it [Sane’s effort] was a goal. I didn’t insult him; I was polite, I was correct. But Mateu Lahoz is a special guy, he likes to be different, he likes to be special,” he said. “I know what happened in Monaco last season, at 1-1, with an incredible penalty [not given to] Sergio Aguero. “He’s special. When everybody sees things, he likes to decide the opposite. I didn’t say any wrong word.” Liverpool whose fans claim the possibility of winning the Champions league is high have been charged under article 16 (2) of the UEFA regulations in relation to fans setting off fireworks and throwing objects.