Vice President  Yemi Osinbajo yesterday urged Nigerians not to fall for empty promises being made by desperate politicians ahead of the 2019 general elections. He said such politicians would promise heaven on earth to get the votes. Osinbajo, who spoke yesterday at the palace of the Hausa Community leader (Sarkin Hausawa) of Agege, Alhaji Musa Muhammadu Dogonkadai, noted that there are two type of politicians – those that would like to take power by force, and those who would seek the peoples’ mandate through the ballot. He said President Muhammadu Buhari belongs to the type that would make promises and fulfil them. “Whatever he wants to do, he will do. Nobody can push him,” the vice president said. He reassured Nigerians that the Federal Government will not relenting on addressing issues of poverty and unemployment. The vice president said Nigerians should rather focus on critical issues of development which the incumbent administration has been tackling in the last three and a half years, urging them to hold on to the foundation being laid by the Buhari administration. He promised: “We are going to build on it”. Replying  the demand by the Sarkin Hausawa for employment opportunities and scholarship for his subjects, Osinbajo said: “The government is not only cognisant of the challenges; we are doing everything necessary to address the issue. Poverty is not a good thing. We are trying our best to alleviate it. The TraderMoni scheme, among other steps taken by the Buhari-led administration, are targeted towards addressing poverty. He said the TraderMoni  programme was not politically motivated,  promising that it will get to everybody. The Sarkin Hausawa, who doubled as Chairman, Chieftaincy Council of Arewa Chiefs in Lagos State, received the vice president in the company of his chiefs in his palace. Osinbajo, who arrived at the palace with his entourage, was received by a large crowd of people who chanted his name  and that of President Buhari as they escorted him into the palace. For as long as his visit lasted, the crowd was chanting 4+4 , Sai Baba (meaning that Buhari will spend another four years. Speaking to reporters, Treasurer of the Arewa Community, Alhaji AbdulKarim Abubakar, said they felt highly honoured by the vice president’s visit to their leader in Agege. He said, the Hausa Community in Lagos has resolved to vote massively for the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the 2019 elections. He said: “We want continuity of good governance in Lagos State and in Nigeria at large. We are very happy with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo’s visit to Arewa Community leaders in Agege. We are excited to see the vice president. “We are enjoying this government. We don’t want money; what we want is peace, which we are enjoying from this government. We are enjoying this government in Agege and Lagos State and we want it to continue. Because we want continuity of thing and peace , we are going to vote for Buhari, Osinbajo,  Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Mudasiru Obasa and other APC candidates. On the vice president’s entourage were Special Adviser to President on Political Matters, Senator Babafemi Ojudu; Executive Secretary for Transportation, Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Kayode Opiefa and Chairman, Agege Local Government Area Chairman Ganiyu Egunjobi.