Donald Sharibu, Leah’s younger brother to Leah, told Joel Duku about her dreams before her abduction and how the incident has affected the family’s faith. an you remember the last moment you shared with your sister? My last moment with her was the time that she was going back to school and she asked me to go and get her Keke NAPEP. My mother visited her in school and called and so we spoke on phone. This was just two days before the abduction took place. That was our last communication. What do you normally do with your sister when she was around? We used to play together, go to school together, and eat together, sit down and chat. We do a lot of things together with my sister. Did you ever discuss your dreams of what you two wanted to become in life? Both of us have always said that we want to be medical doctors when we grow up. That has been our dream. Why did you want to become doctors? Our intention is just to help humanity in our work like medical doctors used to do. What kind of support have you given you mother since your sister was abducted? I used to tell her to be strong … that anything that happens will always happen for a purpose. I also tell her everything that happens in this world is designed by God, so she should not kill herself but be strong so that we can pray together for the release of my sister. Do you feel bad that your sister did not renounce her faith and today she is still in the hands of Boko Haram? No. I do not feel bad because she did not deny Jesus because she has faith in Him. I am not sad because of that. I know that Jesus will eventually save her. Between not seeing you sister and knowing for certain that she is dead, which do your prefer? I prefer to see her alive. I want to see her come back alive so that we can play again; so that we can do the things we used to do together again. I feel so lonely without my sister around. This is the first Christmas that I will face without my sister. I can’t imagine Christmas without my sister. But I am confident God will bring her back to us in Jesus name (He began to cry). Has Leah’s case affected your faith in God as a family? It has made us to be closer to our God. Because of what has happened, our faith in God has grown stronger as a family. We are always praying together for the safe return of my sister and I believe that God will do it for us. If you don’t see your sister again, will that affect your dreams in life or will it make you stronger to fulfil the dreams that you shared together? Yes, it will affect me somehow but I am going to work hard again to do what we used to think together. Anytime I sit, I used to think about her and that is the way it is affecting me. How do you relate with your friends now? Do you discuss your sister with them when they visit you? Yes, sometimes we discuss about my sister when they visit. What do you discuss? They encourage me to be strong and keep praying that my sister will return safely to us.