The Cathedral Administ-rator of Mater Dei Catholic Church, Umuahia, the Abia State capital, Rev. Fr. David Aguleri has warned politicians in the state against playing bloody politics as the 2019 general election approaches. The Nation gathered that following the lifting of the ban on campaigns by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), the political atmosphere is gradually charging up as political parties begin to woo voters. Fr. Aguleri, who is worried about the way the polity is being heated up by politicians, urged every candidate in 2019 to let fair play and the will of God prevail. In his homily with the theme “He brings honesty and integrity”, the priest lamented the level of dishonesty among the leaders and the led in the society. He also warned that people who collect money before voting any politician to power do not have the moral right to demand for good governance. Speaking to journalists at the end of the service the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) candidate Dr. Alex Otti said the theme of his campaign is “Enough is Enough”, noting that the state has gone through a lot of rot over the years especially in the last 16 years. Otti said, “It is coincidental that the campaign is being flagged off on a Sunday. As a Christian I can worship anywhere. Today, I have chosen to worship in Catholic Church. My wife is a Catholic, so it is in keeping with the tradition of listening to our wives and that is why I am here at the Catholic Church to worship with them. “We are telling Abia people that it is time we end all manner of ills that is going on in the state. We have gone through a lot of rot in this state and this time to bring the change and liberate our people from the bondage the bad leadership. “We must do it this time around. Every hand must be on deck because we cannot continue like this. We are the worst state in Nigeria. There is nothing to show for the noise the present government in the state is making on the so-called projects that they have embarked on. “Go through Abia, the roads are not [passable] and we have money. So, it is not about money, but because the monies that come to that state are not being used for the purpose that it was intended. “My message to Abia people is that we must all rise up and break this chain and say that enough is enough. If you have followed what happened in the last elections, you will know that the process of writing results cannot happen anymore. The issue of securing votes is also a collective responsibility. People are wiser now. What happened in 2015 cannot happen again. “They (PDP) used impunity at that time to rig the election because they were at the centre. Thank God that they are not at the centre today, so I believe that it will not happen and people’s votes will be protected. We will do everything possible to ensure that the results that come from the polling units are the results that are declared. “I was never afraid and will never be afraid. Our party not being at the centre doesn’t matter. Our party wasn’t at the center when we won in Anambra. Our party wasn’t at the center when a couple of other parties won. What I believe is that with the process that has improved and with everybody’s eyes shining now, I believe that the things that happened in 2015 will not happen again. “Abians should be vigilant, they shouldn’t be docile. They all come out and vote and stand there to ensure that votes are counted and results announced because at the end of the day, they will be the ultimate beneficiaries of our government. “The government that we have had in the past was for godfathers and godsons. We are coming with a government that will be for the people. So, people should come out and vote massively for us and ensure that voting process in their various polling units is concluded.”Empowered Workshop in Enugu recently.