All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole has prayed that God almighty will not allow People’s Democratic Party’s (PDP) return to power in 2019 for looting the nation dry during its 16 years in power. He explained that only President Muhammadu Buhari can salvage the country and bring it back to prosperity. Oshiomhole urged the people of Nasarawa State to vote massively for Buhari and other APC candidates in the 2019 general elections. The APC chairman stated this yesterday in Lafia, when he  flagged off the APC 2019 statewide campaign and presentation of party’s flags to the party’s governorship candidate Abdullahi Sule and APC Senate, Reps and state Assembly candidates. Oshiomhole explained that God healed the President from sickness to shame the PDP, who wished him death, adding that Buhari would win the 2019 general elections in landslide. The APC chairman hailed the giant strides of Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura in the state and his policy of inclusiveness, urged the APC governorship candidate to follow his footsteps, when elected. He explained that he has painstakingly followed the developmental achievements of the governor in sectors of the state and appealed to the people of Nasarawa south to reward Al-Makura by voting him to represent them at the Senate in 2019. Al-Makura urged the people to return Buhari back in 2019 as well as other APC candidates. He said the President has done a lot for the state by providing 33kva electricity and award of contract for the dualisation of Keffi, Makurdi, Abuja road among many other achievements. He thanked party’s governorship aspirants for agreeing to work tirelessly for the party’s victory. The governorship candidate assured the people that he would use his experience in the private sector to bring growth to the state. He noted that he would continue from where Al-Makura stopped and take the state to the next level, adding that he would hit the ground running immediately he take over from Al-Makura because he has already set the template. Other speakers at the event include ex-governor Senator Abdullahi Adamu, the chairman of the campaign council Ahmed Wadada, state party chairman Philip Schekwo. 