The Vice Chancellor of Plateau State University, Bokkos Professor Yohana Daniel Izam has vowed to make the state university the best among its peers in the country. He also assured the Staff, parents, students and the entire people of the State of bequeathing a legacy of an enduring State University. Professor Izam gave the assurance when he led members of Management and other staff of the University on an inspection of various projects undertaken by his 8 month old tenure as the Vice Chancellor of the Institution. The projects include the installation of a 50 solar panel lighting system, the ongoing construction of a sculpture garden and the reticulation of portable drinking water in the students hostel. Conducting the the Vice Chancellor round the power installations spanning from the administrative block to the hostel area and down to the Library complex,  the University,’s electrician Engr. David Agwom who represented the Director of Works during the inspection explained that the solar lighting plan which cost the University sixteen point Six Million Naira is the most modern solar installation in the market as at today and is embedded with a censor and three years warranty in the event of any damage. At the sculpture Garden where work has reached 95% completion, the Head of maintenance in the University Mr. Johnson Maren told the Vice Chancellor that what they are waiting for now is the delivery of the Sculpture to be mounted at the middle of the garden stating that hopefully before this week runs out the university will take delivery of the statue so that the project can be made ready for commissioning. In the same vein, at the water reticulation site where water was seen to be rushing, the Vice Chancellor instructed the Head of maintenance to clear the grasses around the water collection point and create a concrete walk way that will connect the hostel to the water point. In his remarks after the inspection, the VC said, “I inherited a relatively new university and I am desirous of making it the best in the country by providing it with necessary infrastructures that will make learning so simple and easy. “I have seen what is happening in other state universities across the country, and very soon, my university will catch up with them in terms of academic standard and even surpass them” The VC who applauded the state governor Simon Lalong for making tertiary education a priority said the state government is also committed to raising the Standard of infrastructures in the university. In recognition of the efforts of the VC towards the welfare of students, the National Association of Building Students (NAOBS) conferred an award of Excellence on the VC While presenting the award, the National President of the Association Comrade Shaibu Anthony who was accompanied by his Vice President and Secretary together with the Chapter President of the Association in University of Jo’s Comrade Omale Attayi said the choice of Professor Izam was borne out of his sterling contributions to the Country’s building environment. Comrade Shaibu added that Professor Izam who also doubles as the second Vice President of the Nigeria Institute of Building has made notable contributions in the Nation’s building space spanning from the provision of academic leadership as a university Don to his dogged disposition on standardization and above all the mentoring of younger professionals. He commended Professor Izam for the significant role he played in the successful hosting of the 2019 Students Annual General Meeting of the Association held at Akure recently. 