The four surviving staff of the Osun State College of Technology (OSCOTEC), Esa Oke, who were abducted by gun men last Tuesday, have regained their freedom. The captives were reportedly released following the intervention of the state governor, Gboyega Oyetola, who material and moral support helped secure the release of the college staff. It was gathered, that, immediately after the incident on Tuesday evening, the governor summoned top officers of the security agencies, including the Police, the Army, the Nigerian Security and Cvil Defence Corps (NSDC) among others, to strategize on how to secure the release of the victims. Further investigation revealed that the logistic support given by the state government to the security agents boosted their morale and they swung into action immediately. Subsequently, they secured the victims’ release within 72 hours. Governor Oyetola reportedly ordered that medical support should be given to the victims as they were being re-united with their families. Six workers of the college were kidnapped after closing hour on Tuesday evening between Agric and Onibonje area along Ijebu-Jesa road. The gun men shot one of the captives, Olaniyi Temitope Emmanuel, who allegedly tried to escape, dead. The State Police Command’s spokesperson, Folasade Odoro, confirmed that the culprits released one of the victims, Adenreti Chukwu – (Secretary of Civil Engineering Department), earlier on Wednesday, and later released on Friday morning, the remaining four: Olaleye Olalekan – (Business Administration Department), Engr. Adeyeoluwa Bankole – (Head of Department) – Civil Engineering), Dr. Jesuola Ajibola – (Director, OSCOTECH Ventures) and Rachael Onyinocha Akinboboye – (OSCOTECH Microfinance Bank). Although the terms of the victims’ release were unobtainable, it was gathered that, a day after the kidnap, the gun men demanded N2 million ransom for each abducted worker. Further findings revealed, that, Olaniyi, who was shot dead by the gun men, was recently promoted to the position of Senior Assistant Registrar, and he was listed among the 410 candidates to be conferred with a doctoral degree next week, at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ife. The Head of Educational Management in the Faculty of Education (OAU), Ife, Dr. Yemi Adediwura, described the deceased, who completed his degree in the 2015/2016 academic session, as a dedicated student. Funeral plans for Olaniyi have begun in his home town, Ipetumodu, headquarters of Ife North Local Government Area of Osun State.