Twenty-eight students of the Vocational Training Centre for the Blind in Oshodi, Lagos, have graduated with the hope of re-entering the society with their new-found skills. But, they have challenges they need support to overcome. JANE CHIJIOKE and EBUNOLUWA ADENIJI report. For Patrick Okon, the ability to cope with the pains of losing his sight and the hope that one day he will become a lawyer, are his earnest desires. Okon dropped out of school when he realised that he could no longer see.  He was about to sit for his first term examination in Senior School, SS2 when he noticed he was having blurred vision. He could neither see his answer script nor the chalkboard. So, he could not sit for his examinations. When he went for check-up he found that he was suffering from Glaucoma, an increased pressure on the eyeballs that leads to blindness.  But his father, a motorcyclist, could do little to remedy the situation until Okon lost his sight. He lived with the stigma, losing hope of being somebody in life.  But when he was admitted two years ago into the Vocational Training Centre for the Blind, Oshodi, his hope was restored. He was among the 28 graduates of the centre last week. The centre runs two programmes – one year for those, who got blind in their adulthood and two years for those who lost their sight as teenagers. The students are taught Braille reading and writing, computer, typing, mobility orientation,  daily living skills, art and craft and others. Filled with a renewed spirit, the 27-year-old exclaimed: “Today, I can boldly say that I am proud to be blind. This place has given me inspiration to be a better person despite my challenges. Before now, I had lived a life of shame and pain, but when I came here, I saw people like me filled with life and hope that boosted my confidence, and I decided to change my mentality.  My coming here has boosted my profile as a human being,” he said. Another graduate, Mr Peter Olanrewaju, also shared his renewed hope.  The 41-year-old father of two was a caterer of six years’ standing when he lost his sight in October last year. After his rehabilitative training at the centre, Olanrewaju’s hope of continuing his catering business and  offering indoor and outdoor services  once again, has been reborn. “It is a great joy for me to see myself going back to life; going back to what I love and know how to do best. I was into catering when I got blind.  I am a family man with kids in schools.  So, I did not want to stay at home.  I was able to apply to this place through a friend. “When I got blind I almost died. I could not just bring myself to the reality.  I just wanted to die. But still, I summoned courage to live above it. This is me today; I am living a new life. Moving ahead, doing great things even without my eyes,” he said. Olanrewaju credited the centre for the skills he now has to forge ahead; the teachers, and the new friends he made, who he said have shaped his life. However, while many of the graduates are confident about their newfound skills, living their new live may not be so easy because of various challenges, particularly finance. Mr Abiodun Oyeniran has learnt to read and write, use the computer, as well as art and crafts at the centre.  But he does not know how he will fulfil his desires, which include studying Mass Communication at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), because of funds. “We need a lot of help from people. We need people to help us achieve our dreams, give us work and opportunities to showcase our talents. With these, we will be able to function well in the society,” he said. Mr Alex Obama, a native of Edo State, used to write poems before he became blind.  Since he got into the centre, he has been able to write seven more and even rendered one at his graduation. His poems are reflections of his zeal and motivation to see beyond his predicament. He was into small- scale business before he got blind and now wants to do business online.  However, he lamented his challenges of insufficient fund to take care of his family and societal rejection and stigma against visually-impaired people. The Principal of the centre, Mr Nicholas Obot, said the centre needed support to deliver more value to people with visual impairment. He said the cost of training a visually-impaired student was N700,000, including feeding, accommodation and tuition. Yet, he said many visually impaired people could not afford to attend the centre, despite charging only N100,000 per student. The centre, which can accommodate 100 students, has only 52, 28 of whom graduated. Obot called for more sponsorship from the public, saying the centre survives on donations from the public as it is a nonprofit organisation. “We need people to come out and give a helping hand so that these people can learn skills so that they would be useful to themselves,” he said. Some support came during the event.  The Australian High Commission, in partnership with Kehinde Damole Foundation, donated 20 typewriters, 10 Braille machines and 10 laptops worth 33,000 Australian Dollars. The Deputy High Commissioner, Cleo Wilson, said the donation was to support people with disabilities to achieve their potential, noting that Australia would always give its support to people with disabilities. He praised the centre for remaining focused on inclusion and equality of people with disabilities in the society. He advised the graduates to see beyond their disabilities to achieve their dreams. With the donation, founder,  Kehinde Damole Foundation, Kehinde Damole,  said the students would be provided with the equipment they needed in learning. Jandor Foundation Chairman Olajide Adediran lived up to his pledge by donating 50 guide canes to students of the centre.  They were presented at the event. Chairman, Nigeria Society for the Blind, which runs the centre, Mrs Folashade Adefisayo, said from next year it would run a three-month course for executive trainees, adding that admission for the programme was ongoing. She also said the centre would begin day programmes for the elderly with visual impairment and those who do not want to stay in the hostel.