Yobe State Governor Ibrahim Gaidam  on Thursday endorsed ‘HeForShe’,  a  global campaign for gender equality and campaign against women and girls. Governor Ibrahim Gaidam  was represented at the occasion which was held at the amusement park of Open University of Nigeria, Damaturu. The event was organized  by the Yobe State Ministry of Women Affairs and UN Women, in partnership with Search for Common Ground, and with funding support from the Government of Japan. While pledging his commitment, the governor said apart from the previous support for women, his administration will not relent in the course of supporting women. Governor Gaidam was later decorated as a HeForShe, making history as the 4th governor and the state government to sign up for the HeForShe camapaign  after Adamawa, Gombe and Plateau States. In her remarks, Mrs Comfort Lamtey,  the Country Director, United Nations Women represented by Mrs  Lillian Unaegbu  announced that Yobe is the forth state after Plateau, Adamawa and Gombe, stressing that the campaign was  meant to mobilize men and boys to be advocates  by creating awareness on gender-base violence that results to physical, sexual or psychological harm to women and girls She noted that  “At least one in every five of the world’s female population has been physically or sexually abused at some time” and this calls for concern.  UN Women  thanked Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam for allowing women to hold positions in his government and for the campaign to hold in Yobe. The HeForShe lunch in Yobe attracted   over 150 stakeholders drawn from different sectors including Traditional Leaders, the  Police,  Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps, Media and other men commit to be Gender Champions by promoting gender equality and women empowerment, at all levels. the Police Commissioner, Abdulmaliki Sumonu at the event  disclosed that  the signing of State Penal Code Amendment Law 2018 which prescribed  punishment for rape, kidnapping and unnatural offenses has led to the drop of rape cases drastically in the state. Most of the invited dignitaries were   recognized and decorated as HeForShe advocates in the State with Gov. Ibrahim Gaidam as the number one HeForShe advocate in the state.