President Muhammadu Buhari would have been in breach of the ECOWAS Protocol on Democracy and Good Governance if he had signed the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill , according to  Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (Delta Central). Omo-Agege told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that Article 2 of the protocol forbids member countries from making ‘substantial modification’ to their electoral laws less than six months to elections “except with the consent of a majority of political actors.” The senator argued with the elections less than three months away, signing the bill would violate the ECOWAS instrument. The presidential and National Assembly elections are slated for Feb. 16, 2019 while those for governorship and State Houses of Assembly elections are scheduled for March 2. ”I have yet to see the president’s letter to the Senate, but this bill means so much to Mr President. On a good day he would want to sign it,” Omo-Agege said. He added: “However, without even seeing the reasons he has advanced so far, I am aware of the challenges posed by the ECOWAS protocol. “I don’t know if that is part of the reasons he has advanced, but with the bill coming two months or thereabout before the election, assenting to it will breach the protocol.” Buhari did not mention the ECOWAS instrument as part of his reasons for declining assent to the bill for the fourth time. The president’s latest decision came in a letter dated Dec. 6, 2018 and addressed to both chambers of the National Assembly. He said signing the amendment bill with elections close by could “create some uncertainty about the legislation to govern the process”. “Any real or apparent change to the rules this close to the elections may provide an opportunity for disruption and confusion in respect of which law governs the electoral process.” Buhari asked the National Assembly to specifically state in the bill that the amended Electoral Act would come into effect after the 2019 general elections. Reacting to the development, Sen. Peter Nwaoboshi, who represents Delta North on the platform of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), said the reasons given by the president were “untenable”. His words: “It is not a good reason for him not to sign the bill because the Senate worked with INEC (Independent National Electoral Commission) in preparing that bill. “If INEC felt otherwise, they would have advised us when we were working on it. “You are aware of the controversy that this issue of amendment of the act has generated, with people accusing the Senate of not wanting to amend the act. “We amended it, but he declined assent the first, second and third time; he made certain observations, which we agreed with.”    