•’No more payment until we get meters’ For allegedly breaching an agreement to give them pre-paid meters, residents of Jakande Estate and Oke-Afa in Ejigbo, Lagos, have asked the Ikeja Electric (IE) Plc to stop bringing them bills. The power distributor, they said, was cheating them through estimated billing, adding: “This is why they do not want to give us meters, in line with our agreement with them.” Under the pact, the residents said IE was to have metered them within six months, which lapsed on November 24. The Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), they said, gave the IE the ultimatum to meter over 3,000 residents. During a protest on Sunday, the residents, under the aegis of Estate Youth Parliament (EYP), carried placards with inscriptions such as: “No more estimated billing”, “We are overdue for prepaid meter”, “Bring us prepaid meters now”, “We are sick and tired of estimated billing methodology”. They said they could be forced to sue IE if their grievances were not addressed. Addressing reporters, EYP leader Yusuf Adeyemi said NERC on May 24 ordered it to   meter every customer in the estate within six months. Instead of heeding the order, the firm, he said, wrote the community that it could not  meter the community until the fourth quarter of 2019. In its letter, the firm blamed  inadequate power supply to the community on limited allocation from Transmission Company of Nigeria. It claimed that its unmetered customers were billed based on supply availability in line with NERC’s approved estimated billing system. The letter reads: “In response to your complaint, permit us to state that NERC’s approved system ensures that all accounts on the same starting and distribution transformer metered and unmetered are billed as closely as possible to ensure fairness and as much as possible eliminate outrageous billing. “Please note that as a result of peculiarity of the business and attendant industry challenges, we are constrained to meter your community between now and November 2018, but the vicinity has been scheduled for the exercise in the fourth quarter of 2019. The community can as well engage the services of meter asset provider vendors when full operation begins.” Reacting, the residents claimed that they were over billed under the said system, saying they would no longer pay for electricity until they have meters. “For more than three years now, we have been cheated by Ikeja Electric. We are not going to take that any longer. “We are shorting down payment as from today until they bring prepaid IE meters for us,” Adeyemi said. The community’s Electricity Committee Chairman, Mr. Tajudeen Gbolahan Lawal, said he had been talking with IE on the matter for more than three years. He urged the firm to remove its wires from the community if it would not give them meters. Lawal said communities “with pre-paid meters pay less, “but we are charged more than what we consume.”