The Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) in Ondo has arrested one, Mrs. Semore. T. suspected to be the owner and manager of Wumi Filing Station, Ore, Odigbo local government area of Ondo state. Mrs. Semore and one Mr. Omolala T,(filing station attendant) were arrested in Ore town on Monday through intelligence information received from Weights and Measures department, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Akure, Ondo state. Wumi Filing Station was sealed by the department for not paying federal government statutory fees, and other sharp practices that contravene government regulations on filing stations operations in Nigeria. The filing station was said to have disregarded the sealed order to continue with sales of petroleum products. The state commandant, Commandant Pedro Awili Ideba, while parading the suspects before  in Akure, the state capital said, Wumi Filing Station contravene Section 16(8) of Weights and Measures act, cap W3 LFN 2004, by breaking government Sealed order. He said the manager and attendants of Wumi filing station also obstructed officials of the ministry from carrying out their statutory functions, offence which contravene Section 17 of the act. The state coordinator, Weights and Measures department, Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Emmanuel Ebukanson confirmed that Wumi Filing Station have broken government Seal on several occasions. He said Wumi Filing Station contravene Section 30(a) and (b) by shortchanging unsuspecting customers to the error ranging from 2.0 to 4.0 litres on every 20 litres delivery meaning that for every 20 litres of fuel sold, the filing station is actually giving out 16 litres instead of the said 20 litres. Ebukanso said the manager refused the payment for statutory fees on several requests, claiming to be above the law. He said” All these offences are serious and must not be allowed to continue”. The state commandant warned those filing stations that are still involve in sharp practices to desist from it, as surveillance is mounted on filing stations across the state. He said the suspects would be charge to court upon completion of investigation of the case. 