The colour was green and a touch of yellow. The fabric was local but had great appeal on fair and black skins. Though the yellow sun shone harshly, the programme of events cooled its temperament. It was the farmers’ day. The Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) was the host. Agip, an Italian oil company has been at the vanguard of developing agriculture in the Niger Delta. In all the states hosting its facilities, Agip has ensured that food growing exists alongside oil exploration and production. So, the company has made farming attractive in Bayelsa, Imo, Delta and Rivers states. Every year for over 31 years, the company’s Green River Project (GRP) brings farmers from the four states in the region together. It is a day Agip dedicates to celebrating farmers. Such attention given to agriculture restores the hope and confidence of farmers. It gives the food producers a pride of place and makes them appreciate the importance of their occupation. Besides, Agip’s GRP has also proved that agriculture can blossom in land of oil and gas. It has demonstrated that oil exploration is not an enemy of agricultural production. With GRP, stakeholders have observed that it is not necessarily true that food cannot grow in areas where multinational companies explore and extract crude oil. The two can exist side by side and complement each other. Recently, NAOC celebrated farmers under its GRP. The celebration was the 22nd edition. The event was held at NAOC-GRP Farms, Igbogene, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State capital. Farmers from the four states trooped to the massive farm. They came with their yields. Their yields were fresh and massive. It was obvious that the GRP has helped their success stories. To underscore the importance of the programme, the governments of the four states were represented. All members of management staff and critical employees of NAOC were in attendance. Traditional rulers from the four states came with their paraphernalia of office. Most of them came with their wives. The King of Twon Brass, King Alfred Diete-Spiff and his Queen Josephine were there. Representatives of other oil companies were there in solidarity. Contractors, politicians and captains of industry were also in attendance. It was a day to celebrate traditional dancers. People, especially the managers of NAOC were thrilled by the performances of the young Amassoma traditional dancers and Bayelsa State Art and Culture and other entertainers. The “Port Harcourt Boy” crooner, Duncan Mighty thrilled the crowd. Obviously, the organisers of the programme did not want any security breach. They took proactive measures to avoid unpleasant surprises. The area was surrounded by stern-looking security operatives. People that attended the event were thoroughly screened. No-tag-no-admittance was the policy. The event was for farmers. Their exhibition stands were encouraging. Big sets of fish, healthy fruits, massive birds, pigs, cassava, mushrooms, honey and other agricultural products were on display. Most people expressed disbelief that such products came from the Niger Delta soil. Outstanding farmers were also rewarded by NAOC. The Chief Executive Officer of Nwana Farms, Dr. Victor Akuju, won the overall best farmer.  Akuju, whose farm is located at Ahoada in Rivers State, said he never knew he was going to win the award. He commended the GRP and said the technical assistance he got from NAOC helped him develop his farm. He said: “We never knew we were going to win any award. We were just doing our thing and getting technical support from Agip’s extension officers. We’re grateful. “We have our exhibition stand and we have fish, pigs, crops, and many other things. It was an opportunity we didn’t want to miss. Unfortunately, many youths think that everybody must be in the oil industry. I am an academic. I teach in the university. “But I have decided that agriculture is the mainstay of any nation. We have to come home and concentrate on farming. Those who cannot work in oil industry will find agriculture a source of employment.” Another farmer, Seimon Oseke, said her small farm of cucumber, vegetable and pepper was also doing well following assistance from NAOC GRP. She said she was able to make money to train her children. Akuju, Oseke and other farmers were further encouraged by the presence of President Muhammadu Buhari at their programme. As customary to him, Buhari sent his message of encouragement to the farmers. Everybody in attendance quietly focused on the screen as the President delivered his recorded message. The President’s message restored their hope. They cheered him when they heard that his administration had concluded plans to compensate farmers for their losses during the devastating floods. Buhari regretted the floods that impacted negatively on farmers and fishermen across the country. The President described the flood as a natural disaster and assured farmers affected by the flood that his administration was with them in their time of need. He commended NAOC for its commitment to the development of agriculture in the Niger Delta region, saying its 2018 theme, “Youths: Agents for Agricultural Development in the Niger Delta”, was apt. He said youths remained the future of agriculture in the country, adding that the country could no longer afford to remain a mono-economy. The President, who said Nigeria would no longer continue to import foods and enrich other countries, expressed delight that importation of rice and maize had significantly reduced. He said: “The 2016 and 2017 farming seasons were very successful. The rains were good and our farmers had good yields from their endeavours but we must plan to increase our yields, which is why we are working to revive our river basin authorities. “For example, this year, the excessive rains affected our farms badly. Many of you were impacted negatively. Floods are a natural phenomenon that men cannot control. I want to appeal to you all not to be dispirited but to try to be strong in the face of your challenges. “The National Food Security Council met and we approved a compensation package for all flood impacted farmers and fishermen. I want to assure all flood affected farmers and fishermen that this government is with you in your time of need.” In his remarks, the Chairman, NAOC Limited, Guido Brusco, expressed his gratitude to Buhari for supporting the company’s GRP since he assumed office in 2015. “It is my joy to see that the little seed we sowed 31 years ago has grown into an annual programme that brings stakeholders from all walks of life in an atmosphere of friendship and celebration. “This shows that the objective of establishing the scheme, which was to introduce and expose our communities to modern techniques of farming has been realised”, he said. Brusco commended the governments of Rivers, Bayelsa, Delta and Imo states for supporting the initiative. Also the NAOC’s General Manager, District,  Tiani Alessandro, said the theme of this year’s celebration was extremely important because it epitomised the company’s drive to sensitise and empower a critical sector of the populace. He said: “Our focus with the GRP has always been to make farming very attractive and accessible to our women, the youth and children particularly those in secondary schools. “This is done through formation of co-operative societies, exposure to techniques of modern farming, provision of the necessary support and tools as well as various schemes. “This has led to the training and endowment of 275 youths this year and further proposed training and endowment of 350 youths from our host communities next year in various agro-entrepreneurial schemes to make them self-employed. “Our investment in agriculture will continue to be given great attention. I use this opportunity to encourage our youths and women to embrace agriculture, which has so much potential yet to be fully appropriated.” Further speaking, NAOC Vice-Chairman/Managing Director, Lorenzo Fiorillio, said the celebration afforded the farmers opportunities to showcase their products; network with other stakeholders and the company to reward outstanding farmers. He, however, said: “It is sad to note that this year has been particularly difficult for our farmers following flood that ravaged most of the communities in the Niger Delta. “As a company, we believe that this event will energise farmers all over our areas of operation to put every required effort towards a bountiful harvest next year.” In his keynote address, the Vice-Chancellor Federal University, Otuoke, Prof. Seth Accra Jaja, observed that the Federal Government had shown serious concern on the need to develop agriculture. He reeled off some of the agricultural incentives of the government as risk-sharing system for agricultural lending; growth enhancement support scheme designed to encourage critical access in the fertiliser value chain and agricultural resilience scheme, among others. He said though the initiatives were laudable, they were being affected by weak traditional management framework, migration of youth talents, poor output, extensive poverty, poor funding and increasing threats to life and property. He added: “The NAOC, through its GRP and within its challenging limits, has provided a bridge for the Niger Delta youths towards this beckoning opportunity. “The track record of the GRP is a clear testimony that the NAOC is standing with the willing Niger Delta youths in this drive towards the creation of new global age billionaire. The NAOC, through the GRP, is developing the people who develop the nation.”