Love-struck former youth international, Alfa Abdullahi, shares enchanting details about his wife, Safiya Usman, after the couple’s recent wedding ceremony in Kaduna, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. He is fondly called Goma (figure ten in Hausa language) for possessing velvet skills while playing in his preferred midfield position, yet Alfa Abdullahi has admitted more than dexterity was needed to win the heart of his wife, Safiya Usman. The lovebirds sealed their love with pomp and ceremony at a Nikai (wedding ceremony) held in Kaduna on 24th November as Goma relived the pleasure of the occasion. “The major highlights of 2018 for me was finishing second in the league and winning the Latvia Cup and importantly, my wedding with the woman of my dream,” says the skilful midfielder currently with FK Ventspils in an interview with The Nation. Though the journey with Safiya began a few years ago, Goma said he knew from their first encounter that she was going to be the ‘queen of my heart’, as he shared some of the qualities that stood her out. “My wife has a strong personality,” explains the soft spoken Goma. “I already made up my mind she was going to be my wife the first day I met her. “We met at a family get-together and I told her straight away that I was in love with her. “Of course, at the beginning, because it was strange to her that I said I was in love with her the very first day I met her, she proved difficult for a very long time. But I never gave up and kept on trying and trying, before she finally accepted me.” Goma said he knew he had found a diadem in the choice of Safiya as wife with some outstanding qualities. “She is special to me in the way she handles things; and she advises and encourages me a lot about doing things. She is very understanding, an easy going person and, apart from these, she is very religious; which I like. “It was therefore not difficult for me to propose to her. I told her I wanted to see her parents but her dad told me he needed  to hear from her first and it was after that she said ‘yes’ (to my marriage proposal). “Of course, I knew her father wouldn’t have said no because he would have asked about my background but I would have accepted the fate she was not meant for me if he’d said no.” Speaking further, Goma reckons that their marriage is made in heaven because they both share so many things in common despite differing backgrounds. “We have so much in common, especially a mutual agreement about loyalty. She was born and brought up in Kaduna State like me. She graduated from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU) in Zaria where she got a Bachelor’s Degree in English Literature. “Her favourite food is rice and she likes the pink colour, but she doesn’t like music,” reveals Goma who is a great fan of popular Nigerian street music singer, Adekunle Temitope, aka Small Doctor. Goma, a former youth international, has seen some good days in his football career, being an influential member of the Golden Eaglets’ class of 2013 that won the FIFA U-17 World Cup in the UAE and the Flying Eagles’ class of 2015 that won the U-20 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Senegal. But he surmised the wedding ceremony of 24th November 2018 would forever remain a red letter day. “I don’t know the exact words to use in expressing how to describe our wedding ceremony,” Goma waxed lyrical as he chose honesty, sincerity and true love as his wedding gifts for Safiya. “Actually, it is a feeling of fulfilment. We had a vision when we started and Alhamdulilah (by the grace of God) everything is working exactly as planned,” says Goma and squealing the couple will soon jet out for their honeymoon in the city of love – Paris.