The Nigeria Olympic Committee (NOC) and Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) have endorsed the setting up of Football CV (FCV) International Football Academy in Nigeria, which is meant to combine football alongside education. The NOC through its Secretary General, Tunde Popoola, described the academy as the right platform for footballers to combine sports and education which is the ideal of the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Popoola, a former Nigeria captain to the African Games commended the UK-based academy for deciding to set up its academy in Nigeria which he said would help Nigerian athletes to fulfil their potentials in sports and education. “We are so happy that FCV Football Academy has considered Nigeria as its base in Africa and we believe this will surely help our athletes to combine sports with education which has been lacking in the past. As a product of school sports, i am confidence that this kind of platform will surely help us to produce educated sports stars. We at NOC will be willing to support this kind of initiative as it is in tandem with the IOC ideals of marrying sports and education,” the NOC scribe said. The Vice President of NFF, Seyi Akinwunmi, however, re-echoed NOC’s stance saying that this would surely help to mould and produce educated footballers that would be useful to themselves and to the society after their retirement from active service. “I must commend FCV for bringing the unique products to Nigeria where football and education can be combined. This for us is a good development for school football and we hope our athletes will avail themselves the opportunity to cue into this and get better mentoring to get better lives. We will support this kind of idea and we hope it has come to stay in Nigeria,” the NFF helmsman said. For the Academy Director of FCV, Martin Harris, FCV International Football Academy was the UK’s first private football academy, providing football courses alongside academic studies for aspiring footballers who are aged 14 or older. Harris said FCV would stage two camps in Lagos and Abuja in 2019 come April with two players from each camp getting scholarships to attend the FCV Academy for two weeks in the summer of 2019.