The newly inaugurated boards of sports associations in Lagos State have been charged to focus on the development of sports from grassroot. The Boards of 40 Sports Associations in Lagos State and their media attaché were inaugurated at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Indoor Sports Hall, Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere on Monday. Executive Chairman Lagos State Sports Commission, Dr. Kweku Adedayo Tandoh urged them to build on the sports template laid down by the past administrations. “The templates of sports development are already there. We are handling it over to you (new boards) to go down to the grassroot level, community clubs, schools and begin to develop sports in your own various area. There are three levels when we talk about grassroot development. The first one is creating awareness for the sport, the second is talent identification and the third is nurturing those identified and possibly nurturing them from that level to podium level. Those are the responsibilities of the sports association. “The inauguration for us marked the new step, a new direction in putting everything in place in terms of the frame work for sports development and sports administration in Lagos State. It is a vital aspect becaue now we have people that have come in with new ideas, new vision, new direction and so you will be able to see fluid motion in the various sports rather than everything coming from the sports commission alone as it has been in the last year or so. We expect that things will be moving faster, expect the pace of development in the state to move forward in terms of sports and at the end of the day Nigeria will be the biggest beneficiary.” In his address, the Director General of the Lagos State Sports Commission, Mr Babatunde Bank-Anthony urged new Boards to reach out to corporate world in injecting funds into their various associations. “While the Government is pleased to take the lead role in support of sports, I wish to encourage you all to engage Corporate Nigeria in your efforts to promote your sport. Sports all over the world is private sector driven, and as Lagos is the commercial nerve centre of West Africa, we expect to leverage on this and successfully incorporate the private sector into sports.” While congratulating the new leadership of the sports association, Head of Service (HOS), Lagos State, Mrs. Folashade Sidikatu Adesoye (FCA) express optimism in the board taking sports in the state to another level. “My joy is not only because of the giant strides being made by the leadership of this State Sports Commission which will not surprise anyone given the caliber of the commission members in terms of experience but also giving the potential of sports to return our dear country to be part of international recognition and greatness ones again. It is therefore against this backdrop that I wish to congratulate the new leadership of the state sports associations. “In a state that the its population is above 20 million, I am very sure that the enormity of the responsibilities you have accepted today as well as the very high expectation of medal-hungry Lagosians are not just for you. However I have been well assured that you are all eminently qualified to discharge the duties and responsibilities involved in this enormous task,” Adesoye said. The Associations whose Boards and media attaché were inaugurated are Athletics, Badminton, Baseball, Boxing, Cricket, Cycling, Chess and Darts. Other are Fives, Football, Gymnastics, Handball, Hockey, Judo, Karate, Kick-boxing, Kung fu, Para Soccer, Para Sports, Tennis, Rugby, Rowing and Yachting, Scrabble and Shooting, Squash, Swimming, Table Tennis, Taekwondo, Tug of War, Weightlifting, Wrestling,  Volleyball, Golf, Deaf Sports, Traditional Sports, Triathlon, Archery and Sports Medicine. The inauguration ceremony also witnessed presentation of awards to some past chairmen of some sports associations.