Almost one year after it crashed into national and global consciousness following the school girls’ abduction saga, the mood in Dapchi, a sleepy town in Yobe State, northeastern Nigeria, swings between despair and hope, as the community awaits the return of Leah Sharibu. Joel Duku reports. DAPCHI in Yobe State has clearly recovered from its darkest day – February 19, 2018, when Boko Haram insurgents invaded the town and carted away over one hundred school girls at the Government Science Technical College. Most of them were returned after one month in captivity; five reportedly died. Leah, the only Christian girl in the group was held back by the insurgents for refusing to renounce her Christian faith and embrace Islam. Leah’s continued stay in the hands of Boko Haram remains the worry for many residents of Dapchi, if not the entire community. Many have engaged in fervent prayers asking God to touch the hearts of her captors to release the innocent girl. Other residents are unimpressed that the promises of the Federal Government have not translated into concrete action leading to the release of Leah. Their fear is that time may be running out for the freedom of the girl. The Secretary, Association of Dapchi Abducted School Girls’ Parents (ADASGP), Bukar Kachalla, said some of them cannot behave like normal human beings with Leah Sharibu still in the hands of Boko Haram. “You know, when we formed this association, our clear mandate was that we will not rest until all the girls regained freedom from the hands of the Boko Haram insurgents. Thank God that some of our daughters were returned and we jubilated over that. “But today, we are still faced with the problem of Leah Sharibu still held by Boko Haram.  We cannot behave like normal human beings because Leah is still in the custody of Boko Haram. This is our greatest problem today,” Kachalla stated. Kachalla’s worst fear for Leah is the kind of trauma, she may be undergoing and the influence the insurgents could be having on her. He is equally disturbed by the traumatic and psychological torture that Leah’s parents have been subjected to since her abduction. He said: “What worries me is that whosoever spends those number of days with the militants is dangerous because somehow you will be influenced. Our leaders and those negotiating Leah’s release should know this. Every minute, second and day spent in the negotiation is a delay and it’s not good for that little girl. “We are always going to her parents and they are not okay. The mother is not eating. She is always crying. She does not even eat food again. What is happening? We are in a dark room. We don’t know what government is doing. They should come out and tell us what is happing because they keep coming and going, making promises. We need to know what is happening. We don’t want Leah to spend a year in the hands of those insurgents. We want her released now without delay.” Adamu Abubakar is a trader in Dapchi who witnessed the emotions that heralded the return of the Dapchi girls by Boko Haram on March 31, 2018. He is always imagining what the Leah’s family are going through having fixed their minds on what he described as an “uncertain hope”. “With the government’s empty promises about Leah’s release from unstable people like Boko Haram, I see Leah’s parents holding unto an unsure hope. But for us as a community, it is very sad that the little girl is still in the hands of Boko Haram. I saw how parents were crying in tears even when their children were brought back. You can imagine a parent that his or her child is still held by Boko Haram for this long. As a community, we need to give this family the support they require but government has a big role to play to secure the freedom of Leah,” Abubakar said. Alhaji Bashi Manzo, chairman of ADASGP wants the Federal Government to intensify efforts to free Leah irrespective of the girl’s social status or family background. “I think the Federal Government is not doing enough to rescue this girl. If she was the daughter of a governor or any minister, the government would have done anything to bring her back,” he argued. “Some ministers came here and assured that the girl will be brought back. From their statement it was as if Leah will be back in less than one week but up till now we have not heard any positive news. “Rather, just a few days after their visit, Hauwa Liman was killed.  It is sad that this girl is still in the hands of dangerous people. It looks like the government is just fooling us. If the thing is beyond them, they should come out and tell the world the truth and stop hiding under this pretext. “Let the Federal government tell us the truth. If they should tell us that they cannot do it, then we the parents can gather and see whether we can go to Sambisa Forest and have talks with Boko Haram concerning Leah,” Manzo said Manzo also took a swipe at the Federal and Yobe State Governments for neglecting the parents of the girls that died during abduction, regretting that, “both the Federal Government and the government of Yobe State don’t care about the parents of the girls that died in the custody of Boko Haram when they were abducted. “Nobody has sent a condolence message or paid any sympathy visit to any parents. They have just been left at their mercies. Some of the parents cannot no longer maintain their families because of the trauma they underwent. We are grateful to UNICEF who came and visited the parents that lost their children, but no thanks to government of Yobe and the Federal Government”. The bid to understand Leah’s spiritual life that produced such strong will to resist the proposal of the insurgents, thus earning herself an elongated captivity, led this reporter to her church, Evangelical Church Winning All (ECWA) located almost opposite, GGSTC, the school where Leah was kidnapped along with other girls about ten months ago. Her pastor, Rev. Daniel Auta, informed this reporter that Leah is sorely missed in her ECWA Church where she had been a very active member – particularly at the Sunday School and in the choir. Auta, who said that hope for Leah’s release was hinged on prayers by the Christian and Muslim communities and good people in the town, added that the church, made up of about 80 worshippers, was missing Leah’s commitment to their youth programmes as well. “She is a great source of encouragement and inspiration to the choir and the youth in the church. Her absence has even weakened the entire choir as well as affected the morale of the church in Dapchi. But we remain strong, praying for her safe return from the hands of the insurgents,” he said. “We have been fasting and praying since the day she was abducted, and we will not stop until she returns. He added: “Leah was a very good girl. She was very dedicated to the church. She doesn’t come late to the church. She was a girl that gives out everything that she has to this church at her own level. Very quiet and calm girl with the fear of God and respect for elders. She was like a shining example for the other little ones and her peers in the church. We appreciate her activities here in the church and the Sunday School”. Auta also confirmed Leah’s spiritual development, stressing that there was no way she would have renounced her faith even in the face of adversity. He stated: “Leah’s spiritually growth was very rapid and steady. She was firm and committed in her activities in the church and everything she does around here. She was such a serious girl that listens to things around her to make meaning out of them. That even attests to the fact that she is still being held by Boko Haram. She was very strong in her faith”. Her Sunday School teacher, Godwin Moses Godsday, also testified about Leah Sharibu’s deep spiritual life, respect for elders and commitment to whatever she does. “Leah was very good at Sunday School. She does all her homework. She will recite all the memory verses that are given to her perfectly. I never found any fault with her not doing her work at the Sunday School,” he revealed. “I taught her for more than two years with her brother Donald at the Sunday school and the rest of the students. She has been wonderful. Leah is a quiet type but a deep thinker, full of respect.  She doesn’t talk too much. She cannot look an elder in the face when talking. She is quite respectful. She does not play during Sunday School or on the street.” Though the ordeal of Leah does appear like the storyline in Samuel Beckett’s play, ‘Waiting for Godot’, the family still feel like the two characters, ‘Didi’ and ‘Gogo’ who never saw Godot, yet remained optimistic that he will surely arrive. Leah’s Pastor, Rev. Auta sums up their attitude this way: “As the Scriptures say, “He that is in Leah is greater than he that is in the world.”.