Ahead of 2019 election,a group within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo state has urged Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu to summon a meeting with leaders of various factional groups within the ruling party to mend fences. The group consist of members of the 2016 Aketi gubernatorial campaign team chaired by the former Chairman, Ondo State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission, (OSOPADEC) Chief Adewale Omojuwa. At a meeting held in Oba-ile, Akure North local government,the group also called on the governor to warn members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW)in the state against attacking innocent people at any event. The politicians decried the alleged disruption of the proceedings at the State Assembly recently where many people including journalists were allegedly injured by NURTW members. It expressed displeasure over  the use of thugs and external militia to cause pandemonium during political party programmes such as congress and stakeholders meetings. In a communique jointly signed by Omojuwa and General Secretary, Teniola Oladele, the group expressed the need for Akeredolu to devise a means of bringing all aggrieved groups in the party together as one united and indivisible political family. On the post-primary crisis in the state, it  advised the governor to direct APC State Working Committee(SWC) to refund money paid for nomination of forms by the councillor and chairmanship aspirants since the candidates had been picked. ” We implore the SWC to ensure refund of various sums of money to members who were deprived from participating in the party primaries,such as N 200,000 for House of Assembly aspirants and N 300,000 for Representatives. “We also plead with the governor to consider and approve a meeting of all state leaders and various interest groups with him to iron out all differences and contentious issues ahead of February 2019 election with a view to ensure remarkable success at the polls” the communique stressed. It expressed unflinching support for President Muhammadu Buhari as the party’s flag bearer,and the National Working Committee(NWC) led by Adams Oshiomhole.