Lagos businesswoman and philanthropist, Tessy Owolabi, has thrown her hat into the ring of political contest. The former student union leader, who is currently the House of Representatives candidate of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) for the 2019 national assembly elections in Eti-Osa federal constituency of Lagos State, says her party will surprise Nigerians with the performance it will record across the country in the forthcoming elections. In this interview with Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, the University of Ibadan graduate says her decision to contest the election is premised on a burning desire to give the people of her constituency better representation at the national assembly. She spoke on other pressing issues. Excerpts. The final lap of the 2019 general election is on; how will you describe the participation of female politicians? Is it better than what we had before? The participation of female politicians is slightly better than what it used to be before now. But let me quickly add that it can still be better than what we are seeing now. There is a growing need for women to throw their hats into the ring like some of us have done. The task of changing the current situation in our country must not be left in the hands of men alone. It was when I got involved in politics that I got to understand why we women need to come forward and play our roles as mothers and home builders in the herculean task of nation building. There is so much to be done. There is so much to be changed and there is so much women can do better. Even men understand why more women should be allowed to participate in politics at decision making stage. It is not enough for women to be used as party members and supporters. The call for 30% affirmative action in support of women participation in politics is yielding fruits but it must be sustained so that more political parties and political leaders will hearken to the call and give more women the opportunity to come forward, like I have done, and offer themselves for leadership roles. So you think the big parties have done enough as it is to encourage women in politics, or not? The big parties have not done enough to encourage women in politics. They can do more. The few women that are out now are only able to come out because the new parties encouraged and provided enabling ground for women politicians which l am a beneficiary of. For this, I am grateful to my party, the Social Democratic Party (SDP). I am, however, not surprised because one of the core values of the party is equity and fairness. I can only urge other political parties, especially the big parties, to do more to encourage women to participate in politics. The country, as I said, needs the women to bring their motherly touch to bear on the governance of Nigeria. Let’s even see what we can do differently with more women involved. We cannot keep guessing when we can simply provide the enabling environment to see for ourselves by electing more women into positions across the country. Talking about your aspiration, what motivated your interest in politics and how did you start? I have always been an activist since my university days at the University of Ibadan, where l contested for the position of Hall Chairperson and Students Representative Council (SRC) member. My politics started from that time. My interest in politics has to do with seeing an end to the total decadence we suffer, such as poor leadership and mismanagement of the national wealth without regard for peoples welfare. I have always been moved by the injustice and oppression of the masses by people put in position of authority. Successive administrations in the country have impoverished the people. I have been saying enough is enough as an activist and now I want to try my best as a politician to help improve the quality of governance in my dear country. If the men fail us, we the women should come out. The future of our children should not be mortgaged. We have no other country. Youths unemployment, insecurity of lives and properties, hunger, poor social amenities, senseless killings, corruption, lack of transparency and accountability; the list is endless. All these require attention and we must all support the fight against these things especially now. Why are you seeking a seat in the House of Representatives? I am seeking a seat in the House of Representatives so as to make my own contributions to the total development of my country. I want to touch the lives of the good people of my ETI OSA community. l have lived here for 27 years. I want to help make a Eti-Osa a better place for our children and the generation yet unborn. The motherly instinct of seeing youth roaming the streets helplessly pushed me into the race. I am a woman. I interact with women and children every day. I can tell you nobody can know them better than a mother. Our women are helplessly hungry. We see insecurity and violence everywhere. All these cannot allow me sit back while all these are going on in my community. I am concerned about my constituency and the people there. We need to get a better deal. That is what I am offering. You want to touch the lives of your people better. In specific terms, how do you intend to do this if elected? I want to touch the lives of my people and give them a better deal by giving them quality representation. I want to do this by representing them with accountability and commitment as my watchwords. They need someone who feels their pains and I feel their pains. They desire a representative who will manage the affairs of the constituency with transparency. How well do you know Eti-Osa and its communities and people for you to think you can give them a better representation at the national assembly? Remember, l said earlier that I have lived at Eti Osa for 27years. My children schooled here. And we are all working here at Eti Osa. Most of the people here, l know them one on one. We all did school runs together as parents. We were all members of the various school parent associations together. We were part of Ikoyi Club. And my church, Ikoyi Baptist Church, is also another meeting platform for many of us. So I am an ETI OSA person prim and proper. Each area in ETI OSA has peculiar problems that are distinct from those of another area. lkoyi. Victoria lsland. Lekki. Ajah. They all have their own issues. Some are ecological problem, insecurity and multi taxation. Others are youth restlessness, violence and environmental issues. You will remember last year, the lsland was submerged by flood. Imagine the loss suffered by our people. Insecurity is also another very serious issue. l was almost kidnapped three years ago on the bridge during my workout. The work is enormous. I will come all out and sit down with my people one on one if elected and together, we will have the Eti Osa of our dream. We will work to put in place a safe and secure environment for our children and the generation yet unborn. Before venturing into politics, what were you doing in terms of community participation and how did that prepare you for your current pursuit? I am a businesswoman. I am a member of various women organisations where issues of community welfare are major issues. We give to prisons and motherless homes. We raise funds for youths development and skill acquisition efforts. Recently, we started promoting women participation in politics. This was after we noticed that women’s participation in politic is rather poor and not encouraging. In my private life too, I have been doing the best I can to help my people surmount some of their problems. I have been giving assistance especially in the areas of youth engagement and women support. As someone who lives and relates with all forms of people from the high to the low, I have been a source of encouragement and support even before going into politics. Why did you choose the SDP as the party to use and do you think your party can go far? I couldn’t have chosen a better party. The social Democratic Party (SDP) is the party to beat and you just can’t imagine how widespread it is. It is a party of democrats that captures the true essence of good governance. And the party is ready to win across the country. SDP will shock many politicians in 2019. We have the support of the people and we are hoping to win across the country. Take a look at the party’s manifestoes. Total welfarism, accountability and transparency. SDP will go very far. Just watch out when the election results start coming in. We are capturing the national assembly. We will also do well at the states level across the country. We have seasoned, tested and trusted members that are well grounded in their various communities. We are in tune with the people and the people have trusted them to represent them. No questions about that, SDP will do well. What’s your plea to INEC and your fellow contestants as the election draw nearer? My plea to INEC is to create a level playing field; to be fair and just to all. There should be no favouritism. The electoral body must know that the entire world is watching its activities and as such, avoid the temptations coming its way. I also appeal to my fellow contestants to be objective in their campaign.  We must avoid violence. Insults and abuse during campaigns shouldn’t be encouraged. Above all, we must put the interest of the people we want to govern above personal interests and ambi