The Managing Director of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) and a chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State, Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, has described President Muhammadu Buharias the best since Nigeria returned to civil rule in 1999. Gwamna who made this known to Reporters in Kano, said the anti-corruption campaign of the current administration was an indication to the fact that the president was committed to building a better Nigeria. He said President Buhari’s efforts in addressing the key challenges hindering the growth of the country were commendable, especially at a time when the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had plundered Nigeria’s economy, making governance difficult to run. The APC chieftain noted that the administration has addressed the fundamental challenges, adding that the previous administration had entrenched corruption into the Nigerian system. Gwamna said: “The government has done well in key areas such as fighting corruption, addressing the power sector challenges and empowering the youth and elderly in our society through social investments programmes. “The gains of this administration within the last nearly four years by President Buhari is commendable and I award it as the best administration, Nigerians ever had, since we returned to democracy in 1999. “The major challenge that if ignored will continue to hamper the growth and development of Nigeria, is corruption. Fighting corruption is a landmark achievement because it ensures that money meant for governance is not diverted. “Good governance is difficult in a society where there is corruption this is why the president has made it a priority issue to be addressed unlike the previous PDP-led administration that entrenched corruption into our society. “Corruption has been our major challenge and by fighting it, the current administration is protecting the future that is why our external reserve has risen to nearly 43 billion dollars. “An administration that has empowered over 500,000 youths with N30, 000 monthly, given thousands of old persons N5,000 monthly stipends, paid pensions arrears to those who were abandoned by the PDP government, deserves commendations.” Gwamna said the reforms in the power sector in the last three years, which has added 3000MW to the national grid is encouraging, adding that Nigeria would have resolved the challenge of power if the PDP administration had done what the APC is doing which would have given 16,000MW in their 16 years. The APC chieftain advised youths to vote APC in Gombe State, to give good governance a definition in the state, against the abysmally poor performance of the PDP in the last seven years. He said Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya is credible and qualified enough to deliver the goods. He charged Nigerians to vote based on the dividends of democracy as delivered by the current administration, adding, ‘‘If we return the APC into power, President Buhari will consolidate on the gains on ground. “I also advise voters to vote their conscience as many politicians from opposition parties have earmarked money to buy votes before and during elections,” he added.