The National Agency for Food and Drug Administration (NAFDAC) has warned cereal, nuts, legume and other dry grains sellers across the Nigerian markets, and general public to disengage from the use of insecticides to preserve such commodities. To underscore the effects on human consumers, NAFDAC through its Directorate of Food Safety Applied Nutrition (FSAN) held a one day ‘Food Safety Stakeholders Workshop’, to enlighten, educate, and provide information to all relevant stakeholders in the Food Chain of ‘From farm to table’. The program proffered solutions to the causes of food poisoning in Nigeria. These include- food borne ailment, physical, chemical, and biological contaminants in food and other related health risk. NAFDAC described Food poisoning, also called foodborne illness, as illness caused by eating contaminated food. Infectious organisms including bacteria, viruses and parasites are the most common causes of food poisoning. According to reports, 4.5 billion pounds chemicals are bought per year, 890 active ingredients while 30,000 were formulations. 75 percent of these chemicals are uses for agricultural process with 25 percent are used for home, and garden structural. In safeguarding the health of the nation, Director, FSAN, Sherif Olagunju spoke on ‘Food safety issues in our environment’, noted that inappropriate use of antibiotics, containers and contaminated packaging are some of the challenges affecting our food in Nigeria. “Farmers should take note that there are specified periods that must be mandatorily observed between application of veterinary drugs and processing or consumption of such animals for food and it is important. This is because cooking does not eliminate the dangers or risks posed by these agents of health. “Rats are the source of Lassa fever because they carry a huge load of pathogenic bacteria hence it is very important keep items covered and protected from any form of contamination,” he said. Olagunju however, appealed to all participants in the value chain of all NAFDAC regulated products to be alive to their responsibilities and ensure that they operate strictly within guidelines of approvals given by the agency. “NAFDAC cannot do everything alone; we are appealing to you all to join in safeguard the public health. Those selling calcium carbide for instance, know that it was not approved for them for use in food, so why should you sell or allow access by fruit sellers? “The same applies to formalin used for embalming. Why should someone selling frozen chicken, meat, or fish have access to it? Why same also applies to the various pesticides and agrochemicals,” he question. Also commenting, the Director General, NAFDAC, Prof. Christiana Mojisola Adeye represented by Mrs Aribeana Olubunmi said the workshop is organised to educate, correct and straighten those things we are not doing right out of ignorance. “Using carbide to preserves or ripens fruits can lead to cancers, kidney and liver failure because all the things you eat today will have effects on you, might not be instantly but in the forthcoming years. If you are doing this out of ignorance or greediness, if you decided not to eat from the carbide fruit, your families might eat from eat. Olubunmi, however, urged everyone to act as change agents to disseminate this message to everybody in home, market and even on social media. Speaking from expert view, Dr. Tunde Sigbeku explained that  a person may be exposed to the associated risk of Dichlorovinyl Dimethyl Phosphate Compound (DDVP) commonly known as Sniper. It is a very toxic chemical which reacts very easily with the lungs and kidney just by inhaling them which is a major cause of cancer. “A person may be exposed to the associated risk of DDVP through inhalation, absorption via the skin, ingestion, and eye contact,” he stated. NAFDAC assured that it will continue to ensure that food manufactured, imported, exported, distributed, sold, advertised and used in Nigeria meet the highest standard of Food Safety. And reasonably achievable too.