Cross River State Governor Ben Ayade has expressed gratitude for the contributions made by Lafarge Cement Company towards the reduction of unemployment and poverty among youths in the state. Ayade expressed this during the 2018 Community Day celebration organized by Lafarge Africa, a member of Lafarge/Holcim, which took place at Mfamosing Primary School Field, Akamkpa local government area of of Cross River State. The governor, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Administration, Mark Obi, said, “As a government, we are happy with what the cement giant is doing towards unemployment reduction/ poverty eradication in the state. “Because we are happy with your stride, Government is ready to do everything within the limit of its powers to support the company in its quest to succeed in its good works”. “Infact, Lafarge is a true example of a company that understands the meaning of corporate social responsibility.  We assure the company of our support. What the company is doing is in tandem with the government policy of industrialisation.” Plant Manager, Peter Robson, stated that the company invested a lot in the provision of health/safety, education, economic empowerment and infrastructural development which according to him would provide succor to the host communities. He said in the company’s quest to gainfully engage youths in host communities where Lafarge Africa is operating its cement business, often youths from Ogun,Gombe and Cross River State  are currently undergoing the maiden edition of the cement professional technician programme(CPTP) which involves the training of youths in the cement manufacturing process. He said that the three-year training programme is aimed at increasing local content of Lafarge operations in Nigeria and bridging the skills gap in the cement industry. “The first batch of he trainees has completed their stay in Ewekoro and have just arrived Mfamosing for another one year phase before they move to Ashaka in June 2019. “The programme is in partnership with the National Board for Technical Education (NBTE), Industrial Training Fund (ITF) and National Consultative Assembly (NECA),” he said. Highpoints of the occasion was the commissioning of a 400-capacity multi-purpose ultra-modern town hall by the cement company, presentation of cheques of three million naira as bursary award to 30 indigent students of host communities in public tertiary institutions. Other category of individuals from the host communities who also got a bursary awards were 100 indigent secondary school students who got N25,000 each. He said besides the bursary awards, the company had under the education empowerment scheme renovated and completed block of six (4) classroom blocks in Ekong Anaku community among others.