The Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Owo branch, has urged Ondo State and the Federal Governments to declare a state of emergency on kidnapping on roads in Owo and across the country. Its Chairman, Mr. Tajudeen Olutope Ahmed, said its members were worried about insecurity in Owo. Ahmed, who stated this in a statement made available to The Nation, said the branch had vowed not to defend kidnap suspects. He said the news of “armed gangs, gun running and kidnapping are now ubiquitous in every nook and cranny of the ancient city”. According to him, all the major roads that lead to Owo “are infested with all forms of criminally minded men”. Ahmed said: “We call on the Government of Ondo State and that of the Federal Government to complement the efforts of the police authorities in securing the roads. “It is not in contention that security is a key component of the fundamental objectives and Directive Principles of State Policy of Government as enshrined in Section 14 (2) (b) of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as altered). “By the provisions of the above quoted section of the constitution, ‘the security and welfare of the people shall be the primary purpose of government’. “On our part, we hereby declare that no lawyer from our branch shall henceforth, defend anybody that is accused of kidnapping a fellow citizen. Kidnapping is a heinous crime. It is a horrendous offence in all ramifications. It is a grievous wrong against humanity. “It is on this note that we hereby invite the government of Ondo State and that of the Federal Government to declare a state of emergency on kidnapping on Owo roads and that of the entire federation.” The lawyer noted further that men of the underworld, regularly masquerade as “pseudo policemen, pseudo soldiers or Fulani herdsmen”, to kidnap people “from all the roads that lead to Owo.” He added: “A recent case of kidnapping was the one carried out on Owo–Akure expressway at Amurin Village. The commando-like operation, which led to the abduction of five citizens, including a heavily pregnant woman, was executed by some unknown men at about the closing hours of the day when civil servants were returning to Akure. “NBA Owo is worried and disturbed that the police could not give a correct account of the citizens that were kidnapped on the Owo-Akure express way. While eye witnesses said the victims were five, – three Federal Medical Centre Owo  staffers and two Rufus Giwa Polytechnic workers “  the Ondo State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO) was reported in a newspaper  to have put the number of the kidnapped victims at two individuals. “As much as possible, the police are required under the law to investigate crime and prosecute felons. How can the police that is lacking in the needed skill to investigate crime be able to nib crimes in the bud? “As lawyers and advocates of justice, rule of law and human rights; we view  the incessant kidnap of citizens in Owo axis as violation of human rights of citizens to freedom of movement, personal liberty and respect for the dignity of human persons as guaranteed by Sections 41, 35 and 34 of the 1999 Constitution of Nigeria (as altered).” The NBA chief noted that one of the branch’s members was once abducted and that “the kidnappings ad ifinitum in Owo and her environs”, indicated a total collapse of security in Owo and the triumph of kidnapping and armed gangsters. Ahmed said: “As social engineers fighting against all societal problems, we as lawyers cannot keep silent when the security situation of our society is at its lowest ebb. “What is more? We now carry out our duties as ministers in the Temple of Justice with apprehension. Travelling from one court to another by lawyers and judges has now become an uphill task.” He urged the police to “wake up to the present security challenge in Owo. “This is not the time to slumber. It is not the time to be supine as well. Police must, as a matter of necessity, be at alert to the security situation in Owo and her environs. To this end, we suggest that the idea of mounting police check points, which are nothing but avenues to take bribes from commuters, should be reviewed. “Constant police patrol of the roads should be embarked on. In this way police will be able to foil any attempt by the men of underworld from showcasing their dare-devil skills on the roads.”