•120,000 litres of petrol recovered Thirty-eight suspected pipeline vandals and cultists have been arrested since October by the operatives attached to Operation AWATSE, the Defence Headquarters (DHQ) said yesterday. It said the Joint Task Force (JTF) operating in Lagos and Ogun states recovered 120,000 litres of Premium Motor Spirit (petrol), three tankers, a trailer and seven vehicles used by vandals to siphon petroleum products. Spokesman Brig.-Gen. John Agim, who briefed reporters in Lagos on the gains recorded, attributed the success to the rejigging of operations. Agim, who said 12 of the 38 suspects were vandals, added that the task force destroyed nine wooden boats within the period. He said: “Since the beginning of Operation 777 on October 8 to rejig our operations, Operation AWATSE activities have been intensified through patrols to ensure that troops dominate the Joint Operations Area (JOA). Operation AWATSE troops have dominated FESTAC, Ijeododo, Ijagemo, Isawo, Majidun, Arepo, Elepete and Imagbon. Regular patrols are being conducted in other areas left uncovered due to shortage of manpower. “Operational activities are aimed at denying criminals freedom of action and migration, and making arrests where possible. The activities include patrols, ground and air reconnaissance, anti-bunkering and anti-cultism operations, including show of force. “These operations have suppressed the activities of miscreants and led to the arrest of suspected pipeline vandals, cultists, robbers and others. Large volumes of petroleum products and other items have been recovered from vandals and oil thieves in areas such as Atlas Cove, Magboro, Ogijo, Akute-Odo, Isashi Akute and Akute Waterside. The intention is to maintain the current tempo of operations in the JOA to ensure the activities of miscreants are mitigated. “Most of the suspects have been handed over to relevant prosecuting agencies for further investigation and possible prosecution, while the Headquarters 81 Division Provost is investigating some cases. “It is pertinent to state that some of the achievements recorded by Operation AWATSE were made possible by the support of indigenes. This is no doubt an indication of the willingness on the part of the good residents of Lagos and Ogun states to live in a society devoid of crime.” On what the military intended to do with seized vehicles and properties, Agim said the Federal Government would take a decision on them, adding that they had been documented and sent to the government for action. He said most of the vehicles were abandoned by the vandals, who fled upon sighting security operatives, noting that they neither had number plates nor vehicle papers. Agim assured residents that security operatives were on ground to protect them from militants. He urged them to give information to the ground commanders. On the allegations that soldiers were fleeing the Northeast, Agim said the military was not aware of such, adding that it would handle the case in its traditional way, should this occur. He urged journalists to support the troops by ensuring that their stories were not tailored to support the terrorists. Agim said: “People do not want this war to end. The hotels in Borno have been booked mostly by non-governmental organisations (NGOs) for 10 years. Some people are benefiting from the war and they do not want it to end. “It is possible that some soldiers may run, but so far, we have not seen anyone fleeing. In the military, we have a way of dealing with cowardice. We do not talk about it because we don’t want to create fear in those to be deployed there. This is our country; we do not have another place to go.”   