George W. Bush brokes down in tears as he paid farewell to ‘the best father a son or daughter could have’ in a moving eulogy at a state funeral which united presidents, politics and a nation in tribute to United States (U.S.) 41st president yesterday. The body of President George H.W. Bush was taken from the Rotunda to the National Cathedral shortly before 11am His five children and their spouses escorted his casket to the cathedral after a 21-gun salute at the Capitol Around 3,000 people attended the funeral at the National Cathedral and more than 50,000 lined the streets Former presidents, including Jimmy Carter, Barack Obama and Bill Clinton attended the service along with their spouses President Donald Trump attended with First Lady Melania Trump – they sat in the front row next to Barack and Michelle Obama and the Clintons The former president died at 94 at his family’s home in Houston, Texas, last Friday. After delivering a moving tribute to his father at his memorial service in Washington, Bush  broke down in tears at the end as he spoke lovingly of the 41st president as a caring father, loyal friend and formidable president. He said “through our tears let us know the blessings of knowing and loving you, a great and noble man,” Bush said of his father and namesake, George H.W. Bush, as he spoke at the end of a two-hour long service at the National Cathedral in Washington DC. His was the fourth speech and most emotional tribute to the late president. For most of his eulogy, the president maintained his composure as he described how much his father was looking forward to reuniting with his late mother Barbara and their toddler daughter Robin, who died in 1953 aged three from leukemia. It was at the end of his remarks, as he eulogised him as ‘the best father a son or daughter can have’ that George W. buckled with emotion. He said: “We’re going to miss you, your decency, sincerity and your kind soul will stay with us forever. “In our grief, I just smile knowing that dad is hugging Robin and holding mom’s hand again,” before stepping down from the pulpit to rapturous applause from the congregation. Earlier in his remarks, the 43rd president recalled calling his father during the final minutes of his life. ‘I called him. I said dad, I love you you’ve been a wonderful father. And the last words he would ever say on earth were, “I love you too,” he said. Bush, the first president since John Quincy Adams to follow his father to the nation’s highest office, also spoke of some of the values his father displayed in office. ‘He showed me what it means to be a president who serves with integrity, leads with courage and acts with love in his heart for the citizens of our country,’ he said, adding: ‘They will say that George H.W. Bush was a great president of the United States. ‘A diplomat of unmatched skill. ‘A commander-in-chief of formidable accomplishment,’ his son said. He wove back and forth during his remarks from the personal to the national and political, referencing his father’s war service and service to the nation as well as the family that was central to his life, particularly his wife-of-74 years, Barbara. ‘He laughed and cried with her. He was dedicated to her totally,’ he said. Late in life, they would watch police show reruns, with ‘the volume on high. All the while holding mom’s hand.’ After she died in April, ‘all he really wanted to do was hold mom’s hand again,’ George W. said. He also told how his father prayed ‘every day’ for his late sister Robin which demonstrated to the rest of the family ‘how setbacks can strengthen.’ There were some lighter moments which included jokes about his ‘lousy short game’ and notorious dislike of broccoli. ‘He wasn’t exactly Fred Astaire on the dance floor….the man couldn’t stomach vegetables, especially broccoli…and by the way, he passed these genetic defects on to us,’ he joked. As he made his way back to his seat, he placed a tender hand on his father’s casket then took his seat in his pew where he was comforted by his wife Laura and brother Jeb. He sobbed into a tissue then broke out into laughs, clutching his brother’s hand then planting a kiss on his wife’s cheek. George W. entered the cathedral last, taking his place with other family members in the front pew across a well-worn aisle from President Donald Trump and every living former president. He was seen fighting back tears at the Capitol as his father’s body left the building. A 21-gun salute, the week’s fourth, had rung out an hour earlier, booming over a quiet, damp Washington morning at the Capitol as his body was removed from the Rotunda where it had been visited by tens of thousands of mourners over the last two days.