The Lagos State chapter of the Nigerian Institution of Civil Engineers (NICE) has proffered solution to incessant building collapse across the country. It said there is need for a resident civil engineer to be stationed at every construction site for proper monitoring. The civil engineers spoke at the weekend during a “Walk for Fitness” with the theme: Walk for Stability of Structures. The walk began from the Lagos State Fire Service office at Alausa in Ikeja, the state capital, through Oregun. The walkers turned at Ikeja Under Bridge to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Toyin Street, Allen Avenue and back to the fire service. NICE Chairperson Lola Adetona said the walk was meant to sensitise the public on the need for structural stability in buildings. She said: “We are not happy with the incessant collapse of structures. We are saying ‘stop the use of quacks and patronise registered engineers’. Let the professionals be in charge of building construction.” Mrs Adetona said workers on site, who are the less privileged, are mostly affected when buildings collapse. “We are saying no more collapse of structures. People should patronise registered engineers. We, the civil engineers, are available for public service. Reach out to us via our social media platforms,” she said. The chairman urged the government to legislate “that for every building being erected, a registered civil engineer must be resident there for supervision”. With the legislation in place, she said, building collapse would reduce. NICE former National Chairman Robbie James Owivry urged the public to patronise registered civil engineers. The government, he said, must check the activities of quacks through enabling laws. Owivry said: “The government must enact laws that will put quacks in their place. If there is a law that prevents quacks from venturing into building construction, you can be assured that building collapse will reduce. “The public must know that civil engineers are trained to handle construction projects. When somebody is ill, he won’t run to a barber for treatment. It is unfortunate that the public is not engaging registered civil engineers for advice and supervision of their projects. Rather, they just engage artisans, who have little knowledge about the mechanism of construction. The fact that they work with registered engineers does not make them engineers.” Founding member and past President of Association of Professional Women Engineers of Nigeria (APWEN) Mrs. Idiat Amusu said building collapse would become story if Nigerians could refrain from patronising quacks. She called for collaboration between the government and operators for a liveable environment. Mrs Amusu noted that building developers should be made to comply with approved building regulations. “Currently, building collapse has reduced to a great extent, but the engineers will not relent in advocacy and efforts toward attaining a zero per cent building collapse. “Let the authority responsible for granting building plan approval review and reduce the requirements and costs of obtaining the document to make it more affordable. Most people fail to obtain building plans because of the cost implications,” she said. Lagos State Safety Commission (LSSC) Director-General Mr. Hakeem Dickson urged the public to always engage professionals to build their structures. “Our concern is to ensure that safety is maintained at all times at work places. “It is not until a building collapses we start shedding tears. We need to sit up and continuously push for proactive measures to ensure a safety environment at all times,” he said.