It was excitement galore for 10  students when they received N1 million worth of bursaries at the maiden edition of Bosun Falore Bursary Awards, which held at the Roots Club House, Ilesa, Osun State. The 10 recipients were presented with cheques of N100,000 each by  Mrs Falore. Speaking on behalf of the recipients, Aderoju Ogunmokun, an Agricultural Economics student of OAU, said he was surprised to receive the award because of his belief that such things come only through personal network. He prayed for more success and long life for the sponsor. The award was preceded by a lecture titled: “Developing attitude of gratitude”by Mr Ayodeji Oni, a past president of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN). Oni praised Mr Falore for choosing to celebrate his 65th birthday by providing succour to 10 indigent Ijesa undergraduates of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU), Ile-Ife, University of Ibadan, Ibadan (UI) and Osun State College of Technology, Esa Oke. “Our host has chosen the establishment of a bursary award to express his gratitude to God for showering His grace on him. By his action, he is supporting God’s work by ensuring that the prayers of the needy are answered,” he said. In his opening remarks, Chief Akin Akinola, The Saawe of Ijesaland and first Managing Director of International Breweries Plc, called for more Ijesa philanthropist to assist indigent students in their quest for higher education so that such beneficiaries can in future years pay back the community in same manner in order to be part of the development of Ijesaland. Dignitaries at the event included: Dr Adetayo Haastrup, Lumobi of Imobi Ijesa; the Alaa of Ila Ijesa, Oba Adewale Ojarotade; Chairman, Horizon Group, Gbenga Onigbogi; Bobajiro of Ijesaland, Chief Dideolu Fajobi; and MD/CEO Kresta Laurel Limited, Banji Akinloye; President, Roots Club of Ijesaland, Mr. Tayo Tiwo; Prof Kolawole Kazeem; Provost, Osun State College of Education; and Dr Biodun Oginni, Medical Director of Holy Trinity Hospital, Ilesa.