Ndigbo have said there seems to be a scheme to exclude them from the Nigeria political equation, but they also stressed the need to negotiate with other interest groups, ethnic nationalities to create an enabling political structure, if they will remain relevant in the country. The group made the submission at the Igbo National Stakeholders Assembly (INSA) Summit and Prestigious Awards 2018 in Lagos with the theme, “Ositadinma”. Chief John Uche, INSA Convener and first president of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Lagos, said the time had come for Ndigbo to make conscious effort to ensure that they are not undermined politically. He said, “Election is around the corner, a lot of people are jostling for political offices, making coalitions for political relevance. But Ndigbo appear to be complacent about the issue of the moment. “We are here to tell them that we have suffered in the last four years and the next four years, we do not want to suffer again. Our businesses collapsed, we were excluded from the scheme of things, no key appointments by the government of President Muhammadu Buhari.” Uche maintained that there would be need for Ndigbo to negotiate their votes, adding that any political party that would ask for the Igbo votes must negotiate with them appropriately, pointing out that the condition would also include assent to call for restructuring Nigeria, even as he agreed that they had not entered into any agreement yet with any political party. The keynote speaker Mr James Ezike, a lawyer, who was represented by Okey Onuakalusi, lamented that it was 40 years ago that an Igbo man, Dr. Alex Ekwueme, attained the highest political office of vice president, while further attempt by him (Ekwueme) in 1999 at the Presidency failed because of political conspiracy. He said there seemed to be a political conspiracy to exclude an Igbo man in the nation’s political equation, stressing that power is never donated or given, but asserted, adding that if Ndigbo want any political position, they must prepare for it. He maintained that the task before Ndigbo would be to raise their political consciousness, where the interest of the people would be promoted above personal and egoistic interest. Speaking through the vice president of Ohaneze Ndigbo in Lagos, Vitus Uzoh, the socio-cultural organisation made its position on 2019 election clear, saying that candidates that were not credible should withdraw from the elections. It pointed out that the body had been able to sensitise its members adequately on the need for full participation in the elections by obtaining their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs), vote for only credible candidates of their choice, even as it appealed for a peaceful general elections.