At a posh event in the nation’s capital, Akwa Ibom State Governor Emmanuel Udom renders account to his people in the North. ONYEDI OJIABOR reports Indigenes of Akwa Ibom in the 19 northern states and Abuja thronged the imposing Women Development Center, Abuja to listen to their governor, Udom Gabriel Emmanuel. The unmistakable rich dress culture of the people of Akwa Ibom State ignited the main bowel of the Centre. Cultural dances were not left out. Conviviality enveloped the event venue. The hall literally exploded when the governor arrived in grandeur. Expectedly, the governor did not come alone. Apparently for effect, Udom practically relocated the state government to the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja. Speaker of the State House of Assembly, commissioners and cabinet members as well as members of the National Assembly from the state, were on hand to support the governor. “This is a full house,” one of the indigenes intoned from the swarming crowd. After some protocols, Governor Udom moved promptly to the business of the day. It turned out to be the presentation of his scorecard to the state indigenes in the northern states and Abuja. The governor seized the opportunity offered by the meeting with both hands. He reeled out what he has been able to achieve since he came on board as the first citizen of the state about three years ago. The people appeared not to have been disappointed in their governor. They did not hesitate to chorus that Udom was the first sitting governor of Akwa Ibom State to honour their invitation for an interactive session. The disposition of the attendees showed they were prepared to grab every minute the governor stayed with them with both hands. Requests and questions came in torrents. “Udom is at home with his people in the diaspora,” a member of Akwa Ibom indigenes in Abuja jokingly chanted. “Diaspora?” Another asked, “Yes, we’re in diaspora in Abuja far away from Akwa Ibom.” They laughed and ended the discussion. The governor was not short of answers and explanations to satisfy the curiosity of the people. Udom meandered through his exploits in education, health services, agriculture, road infrastructure, industrialisation, job creation, construction of deep seaport, sports. He did not forget the international airport. The list appeared endless. The governor punctuated his narrative with intermittent sonorous songs in praise of God to the delight of the cheering attendees. Before he called it a day, Udom reminded those allegedly plotting to unleash mayhem in the state during the 2019 election to fear God. For him, power belongs to God, and He gives power to who He desires. “This is the first time in the history of our dear state that we are hearing how Warsaw will see war and war will see Warsaw. Satan shame unto you because all power belong to God. God alone decides the leader He gives to the people He loves,” he told the people. Udom professed his love for the people of the state “and I’m showing my love through selfless service to the people.” He was sure that with airport of international standard and a deep seaport, the state would be ready to go. Udom told the people that the state was set to commission one of the best plywood processing plants in the country in December. What appeared to be the essence of the meeting emerged when Udom promised that given a second term, more than 80 percent of the food consumed by the people would be produced in the state. A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain in the state, Hon. Nduese Essien, who also graced the event said the governor was fully on the ground after some initial setbacks. Essien listed huge debts the governor had to settle and suit cases instituted by those who lost to him in 2015 as part of the draw backs Udom had to contend with. The high point of the event was when the crowd overwhelmingly endorsed Udom for a second term in office.