Executive Director of the National Film and Video Censors Board (NFVCB), Alhaji Adedayo Thomas has been appointed to the Advisory Board of Pavilion Afriques/ African Film Forum, Director of Operations – Prudence Kolong, announced in a press statement issued in France on December 2, 2018. According to Prudence, “Thomas has strongly put Nollywood further in the map of world film market which can no longer be ignore in the West. He has championed the need for Africa’s content, harmonization and exposure.” The NFVCB boss, he said, was unanimously chosen among 25 others, for his effort in the film industry within a very short period. “We therefore congratulate Nigeria for this and looking forward to working with Mr. Thomas and his team at NFVCB in the drive for a more viable African market and development,” he said. Recall that recently, Thomas was among representatives of three African countries that started an alliance meant to push the creative endeavors of filmmakers on the continent. Tagged the African Film Forum, the countries – Nigeria, South Africa and Namibia were presented by leaderships of film agencies in their respective countries, including Adedayo Thomas of NFVCB, Philip Molefe of National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) and Marinda Stein of Namibia Film Commission respectively who last converged at this year’s edition of Toronto International Film Festival. In a similar vein the rationale behind the Pavilion Afriques is to create a unique venue for movie trade and promotion that, at the same time, outlines the diversity of African cinema to film professionals across the globe. Located in one of the famed white tents of the Festival de Cannes and
nested within the Marche du Film section, the Pavilion Afriques is to
become an exclusive promotional venue where film industry stakeholders meet, discuss, trade, make deals and take advantage of the unique atmosphere of the Festival de Cannes.
By showcasing and promoting organizations vested in the African film
industry, The Pavilion Afriques proposes a unique insight into the potential for growth and project development across the continent and within the diaspora.
The Pavilion Afriques is designed as a unique networking platform aimed at providing stakeholders with an unprecedented access to the African film industry resources and professionals.  Photo: Thomas, flanked by Molefe of National Film and Video Foundation (NFVF) and Marinda Stein of Namibia at Toronto International Film Festival in September