Christmas usually comes with lot of expectations and happenings. For many, it is a period to share, show love and lots more. And so, for the Transportation Minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, the Christmas season will not be complete if majority of Nigerian public does not enjoy fully the results expected from him in the discharge of his duty as Minister of Transportation. With so much achievements already recorded in the transportation sector under him, one would not hesitate to concur that Amaechi has proved his mettle. How Amaechi is providing desired development in the position he occupies is a case study that every potential leader who desire success should emulate. Amaechi is tireless about bringing the overall change needed in the transportation sector with the privileges at his disposal. One of those efforts and sleepless nights of Amaechi is the result of the almost completion of the Lagos-Ibadan Railway project by February 2019 with the expectation that  passengers will be conveyed from Lagos to Abeokuta and possibly to Ibadan. The construction of the Lagos-Ibadan rail project commenced one and half years ago and already it has recorded over fifty percent completion considering the entire components of this project up to the laying of tracks which has already stretched to 90 kilometres and that is about 80 percent completion of the 157 kilometres Rail Line. Amaechi has achieved a considerable milestone in this regard and with the expectation that the stations are to be completed between Lagos and Ibadan in the New Year. In addition, partners have also been identified for the much talked about Port Harcourt -Maiduguri rail line which has the capacity to integrate the new Port and the new train park in Port Harcourt. Accordingly, when the North-Western route becomes operational , the inter-connectivity with other West African States will be achieved. The present administration has consistently pursued the realization of efficient and effective rail transportation for the country in line with the strategic vision for railway transport revival and development approved in year 2002. Amaechi is pursuing vigorously completing and building new railway lines aimed at ensuring provision of an efficient and affordable transportation that could serve as backbone to industrial development of the various sectors and contribute to non-oil sector to diversify the economy. Speaking recently while briefing journalists at Paplanto in Ogun State immediately after the inspection of the rail line and monthly meeting of the Project Monitoring Steering Committee of the Lagos-Ibadan rail line, Amaechi said, he had directed the CCECC to ensure that train run on the track by February 2019. Amaechi further reiterated that the pace of work on the railway project is progressing given that there are minimal challenges that could hinder construction work. He said the challenge of constant rainfall was no longer there and the contractor has few bridges to be built. Amaechi also advised the contractors to temporarily suspend work on the construction of stations along the corridor of Lagos-Ibadan rail line and focus on the laying of tracks being the major work at the moment. In the 2019 year ahead the stations will be completed with a brand new double track between Lagos and Ibadan. In addition to this giant stride, Amaechi is also embarking on the North western route which connects Katsina, Kano, Gibiya and others. Also, the coastal line which had been stalled for a very long time is not left out as well. Government has opened up discussion for financiers pertaining to this very important coastal line project which connects Lagos, Benin, Onitsha and continues from there to Warri, Port Harcourt and Calabar and passes through the South Eastern states which is about a thousand four hundred kilometres with a link to all the state capitals. Corroborating Amaechi’s assertions is Engineer Fidet Okhira, Managing Director, Nigeria Railway Corporation (NRC) that the ministry has achieved much in 2018. “2018 has been so good. In 2017 budget we got some capital and we were able to do massive projects like never before. We have procured two shutters that we use in loading at our various loading points. Since I joined the Ministry this is the first time we are buying brand new wheels”. “We bought about twenty four and that will serve four Locomotives and we bought Sixty four Coaches and that will cover about fifteen Coaches. We also acquired some traction motors without which the Locomotives will not work. These are major spare parts required for Locomotives to come back to life and with good Locomotives you can guarantee smooth operation”. Engr. Okhira further explained that “We are also adding about eighteen container wagons and we have also treated our tracks especially in the flood affected areas”. For the Abuja-Kaduna train service, the Managing Director said, patronage had increased and the Corporation has been able to meet up with operational standard. He also confirmed that more Coaches had been procured to meet passengers demand. “The Kaduna-Abuja train service has witness tremendous patronage and we are able to meet up with standard of maintenance. We have acquired more Coaches to accommodate more passengers and we have a target of ensuring that there should be train service every hour for Abuja-Kaduna, Itakpe-Warri and Lagos-Maiduguri train services”. “As we approach the 2019 year, we intend to do more, we are hoping  that all our dream projects come to reality particularly the Port Harcourt-Maiduguri line, Calabar-Lagos line and the Kano project which is linking Maradi as well as the Central Rail line which is the Itakpe linking Lokoja and then to Abuja. We are also discussing with investors to link Itakpe to the Kaduna Rail line so as to ease people’s movement from the South-South to the North”, he explained. For M.T. Babakobi, Director, Rail Transport Services in the Ministry, the success story is not different as the Lagos-Ibadan Railway project has achieved over 50 percent completion. According to him “If you consider the entire components of this project in terms of track, it is 80 percent completed. We are hoping that in the New Year we should be able to have a train ride from Agege district of Lagos to Abeokuta. That’s a major feat in just barely a year and half of commencement of the construction work”. ”What it means is that the track lane has achieved almost 90 kilometres out of 157 kilometres. In the New Year, the stations will be completed and there will be new double track between Lagos and Ibadan. You will agree with me, we have achieved a great feat in the sense that we have been able to identify partners or financiers that are ready to go into the development of the new Port Harcourt-Maiduguri Railway line and that again has integrated the new port and the new park in Port Harcourt”. Babakobi also maintained that the Itakpe-Warri rail line has also received much attention by the Minister and his team. He recalled that the project which was abandoned since 1987 got revitalised upon coming on board of the present Administration even though it was originally designed to convey Iron Ore. As part of government efforts to improve on local capacity for railways, government had propose to the contractors handling the rail way projects to as part of their social responsibility establish a transportation University for Nigeria. The university will have a particular emphasis on railway both in terms of planning, construction, maintenance, operation and management. Currently, majority of Nigerians, who were working on the railway construction sites, are in China benefiting from the Scholarship programme, an initiative by the Contractor. Government has also brought in new Locomotives and Coaches to accommodate the increasing number of passengers on the Abuja-Kaduna train service. Amaechi is determined to see all ongoing projects by his ministry completed at the stipulated time frame. Going by these plans and achievements of the transportation Minister, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi and his team, there is no doubt, that in the nearest future, if successive government should key into this laudable initiative of the Minister, Nigeria would have been connected by affordable and modern rail system which will in turn boost economic activities in all parts of the Country. Already, there are high hopes that in 2019 the Lagos-Ibadan Railway will be fully completed and the rest of the segment from Ibadan to Kano would have commenced even as plans are rife to also commence work in full force on the Warri port, Bonny Island Deep Sea port and the Railway Industrial Park in Port Harcourt. Amaechi’s resolve is to pursue with vigour railway development in Nigeria through the implementation of the 25 year strategic railway master plan in order to bridge the huge gap that exists in Nigeria’s infrastructures. Amaechi is also committed to linking all major commercial and production centres in the country by rail for rapid Social Economic Development and improving the quality of life of the citizens. Amaechi wishes all Nigerians a Merry Christmas and Happy New year in advance.