Four governorship aspirants–Dapo Abiodun All Progressives Congress (APC), Adekunle Akinlade (Allied Peoples Movement), Gboyega Isiaka (African Democratic Congress and Ladi Adebutu (Peoples Democratic Party)–are struggling to succeed Governor Ibikunle Amosun. Who gets the crown? Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the succession battle. President Muhammadu Buhari the Ogun State. The ruling party All Progressives Congress (APC) is polarised, having failed to resolve its post-primary crisis. Ogun APC has maintained that Dapo Abiodun, a businessman, is its authentic candidate. In protest, a governorship aspirant, Adekunle Akinlade, a member of the House of Representatives, has defected from the party to seek refuge in the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Beside the split in the APC, which may affect its chances at the poll, the party will still have to contend with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)candidate, who may either be Senator Buruji Kashamu or Ladi Adebutu. Also, Gboyega Isiaka from Yewa is running on the platform of the African Democratic Congress (ADC). History is repeating itself in the Gateway State. Four years ago, APC leaders, including Aremo Olusegun Osoba, Segun Adesegun, Gbenga Kaka, Akin Odunsi and other chieftains, called it quit with the platform. They supported candidates on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP). Amosun was accused of high handedness and undue influence. Despite the crisis, the governor secured a second term. But, the governor has been in the eye of the storm in recent times. The bone of contention is succession. Amosun is supporting power shift to Yewa, old Egbado Division, which has not enjoyed the slot before. But, some people do not share his sentiments. To them, if there is zoning, it is between Ijebu/Remo and Egba/Yewa. The governor has disagreed, saying it is the turn of the allegedly marginalised zone. As the party broke into two, the National Working Committee (NWC) waded into the imbroglio and pronounced Abiodun as the candidate. The reconciliation mooted by the party has failed. Last week, there was a final parting of ways between supporters of Abiodun and Akinlade. As a huge crowd of APM converged on the MKO Stadium, Abeokuta, the capital, for the kick of the governorship campaign by Akinlade, some APC elders were locked in sober reflection. Can Akinlade win without the support of the other camp? Can Abiodun beat his PDP rival, unless the two camps put efforts together? Around 12.10 pm, Akinlade rode into the venue, accompanied by his running mate, Mrs. Adepeju Adebajo. Shouts of the party slogan: ‘Triple A, sustaining the mission,’ filed the air as he alighted from his long campaign vehicle. Smiles lit up his face as he was cheered by the crowd. In that mood of excitement, he moved round the pavilion, waving at the supporters. Receiving the flag from the party’s national chairman, Mamman Yusuf, Akinlade, who hails from Yewa Division, Ogun West Senatorial District, promised to build on the achievements of Governor Ibikunle Amosun, if elected in next year’s election. A party chieftain, Jide Ojuko, justified Akinlade’s ambition, saying that, since the state was created 42 years ago, Yewa has not produced any governor. He urged the people to troop out to endorse him at the poll in the spirit of equity, justice and fairplay. However, Yusuf and Mamman emphasised that the party has resolved to adopt President Muhammadu Buhari of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as presidential candidate and Governor Ibikunle Amosun as senatorial candidate for Ogun West. Also, the APM chieftains said the party has adopted Lekan Mustapha as senatorial candidate for the Ogun East District. But, they urged members to vote for the party’s lone senatorial candidate for Ogun West, Olusegun Gbeleyi. Party supporters came from the three senatorial districts, holding cassava tuber, the party symbol. Royal fathers under the aegis of the ‘Progressives Obas Forun,’ led by the Olunla of Itori, Oba Fatai Akama, also endorsed Akinlade, urging the people to vote for him so that he can take the the state to the promised land. According to observers, the commencement of the campaigns may have further dimmed any hope of reconciliation in the APC, which Akinlade dumped for the APM, following the post-primary crisi that engulfed the ruling party. Akinlade is believed to be enjoying the tacit support of Amosun, who has been at loggerheads with the party leadership over the choice of Dapo Abiodun as the APC candidate. Although the governor was not present at the venue, his majority of his commissioners, special advisers, aides and other big wigs accompanied Akinlade and vowed to mobilise for his victory. The Director General of Akinlade Campaign Organisation and former Steel Minister Sarafadeen Isola, and his deputy, Dr. Babatunde Ipaye, were in a happy mood. Welcoming the party faithful, Isola described the APM as a movement necessitated by the collective desire to resist injustice and inequality. In his view, the movement is beyond party affiliations. He said: “The people of Ogun State have decided to put take their destiny in their hands. That is why we are supporting Akinlade. Akinlade was given the mandate. The mandate was manipulated. The people have decided to use fairness to fight unfairness, justice to fight injustice and equity to fight inequality.” Isola added: “The crowd is a testimony that the people will vote for Akinlade, who will set up a government of continuity to sustain the vision of Governor Amosun. That continuity and orderly succession is residing with Akinlade.” To Ojuko, the people of Yewa should not miss the chance to produce the next governor. He said: “Let our people prepare and get their PVCs to vote for Akinlade.” Echoing him, a former APC Women Leader said: “Let us come out from the East, West and Central to vote for Akinlade.” Her colleague, Mrs Ogunanwo, said: “This is a movement against injustice and unfairness.” In apparent criticism of APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole’s position on the Ogun APC crisis, she added: “Tell them in Abuja that labour law cannot work for us in Ogun.” A leader of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS), Olawale balogun, lauded Akinlade’s zeal for youth development, adding that students will mobilise to ensure that he becomes the governor. A chieftain, Dipo Ogunwole, who spoke on behalf of Ogun East, said: “The unity of Ogun us being demonstrated here today. This is a movement to victory.” Oba Akama, who led other royal fathers, said: “The king of heaven who installs earthly kings will lead us to the promised land. Amosun has tried for Ogun. We cannot afford to be stagnant. We want continuity, which can be guaranteed by the APM. Amosun has performed. Akinlade will perform better.” Akinlade, who was accompanied by his wife, promised to set up a government of continuity in post-Amosun era so that he can build on the governor’s legacies. “The journey has been a long and tortuous one,” he said, urging party followers to sustain the tempo to the end. The flag bearer lauded Amosun for raining the bar of governance, adding that, with the right steps and determination, Ogun will rise to its potentials. Akinlade said the state needed a right successor, who has been part of the administration in the last seven and half years, to succeed the governor. He noted that Amosun attracted 128 companies to the Gateway State because he provided a conducive atmosphere germane to business growth, stressing that the strides in infrastructural development led to the inflow of investment. He said: ‘Ogun has become one of the largest producers of rice in Nigeria. Human capital development is rising. The least we can do is to ensure an orderly succession to a government that can build on the successes.” He also reflected on the struggle for the ticket, describing it as a fight for freedom. “The people of Ogun has inalienable right to choose their leader and resist imposition. Akinlade maintained that he is the best for Ogun, if the state is to consolidate the current achievements in education, health and agriculture. He also promised to address the challenge of youth unemployment through skill acquisition programme. Akinlade commended President Buhari for his good leadership, fight against corruption and agricultural revolution.  Peeping into next year, he said: “Our victory is assured. You the people have resolved to stand with us and vote for APM. Our people have tested us and found us to be trustworthy.”  