Former Osun State Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice Dr Ajibola Basiru is the All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate for Osun Central. He served as Commissioner for Regional Integration and Special Duties in the first term of former Governor Rauf Aregbesola. In this interview by LEKE SALAUDEEN, he speaks on his programme for the district. Why do you want to represent Osun Central District in the Seanate? The reason basically is about using God endowed knowledge and experience in governance over the years into the service of the people of Osun Central Senatorial District. I believe the position of a senator is critical to the success of executive arm of government at the federal level. I believe by contesting and winning the senatorial election, I will be in a position to support and ensure the implementation of the noble and progressive policies of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. What is your agenda for the people of Osun Central? I have clearly formulated and articulated my agenda which has been published in a document titled ‘My pact with the people of Osun Central’. There is Yoruba version also. The document enlightened our people as to the responsibilities of senator by law so that there will be no confusion over what is expected of an elected senator. The document highlighted three principal roles. As a senator, the  primary responsibilities are lawmaking to ensure good governance and welfare of the people; oversight function of the executive arm to ensure judicious, expeditious and transparent use of public resources and lastly to scrutinise and where applicable confirm the appointees of the Federal Government of Nigeria as stipulated by the Nigerian Constitution and other enabling laws. Beyond this, we promised continuous consultation with our constituents; sponsorship of beneficial bills, establishment of skills/vocational training centres across Osun Central Senatorial District; annual employability/career training/Job Fair for graduates in the Senatorial District to ensure that our graduates are not just qualified but employable and facilitation of a Tech/ICT Hub for youth in the District. Our promise also include annual medical outreach/ health awareness programmes; creation of Senator Ajibola Basiru Food bank for Osun Central Senatorial District; Quarterly Town Hall meetings with constituents; Ajibola Basiru’s water project; sponsoring of bill to establish a Federal Medical Centre in Osun Central Senatorial District and an all inclusive qualitative representation at the Senate. The flag-off of your campaign was witnessed by a mammoth crowd but the opposition said it won’t translate into victory for you at the poll. What is your reaction? We thank God for the overwhelming support demonstrated by the mass of our people who turned up at the flag-off of our campaign in Osogbo. It is not the size of the crowd that excited me but the enthusiasm shown by our people. It was more of carnival. It is crystal clear from election results since 2007 that Osun Central Senatorial District is the bastion of progressive politics in the state. In the last governorship election, the margin between the APC and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was more than 13,000. We believe it will be more in 2019. We are coasting home to victory with other candidates in 2019. Our people are with us. We are the pivotal of the policy and programme of former Governor Aregbesola’s administration on welfare of the people. Our score card is rated high by international agencies and National Bureau of Statistics (NBS). Human beings and human capital development was the focus of Aregbesola’s administration. What steps is Osun APC taking to bring back those who defected during the governorship primaries? It is not our business to chase them. If they want to come back, they are welcome. In politics there is free entry and free exit. Some of them have returned and they were embraced. It is in their own interest to re-trace their steps if they want to remain relevant in the politics of Osun State. Will the alliance between APC and the Social Democratic (SDP) formed during the governorship election play out in 2019? If you were at the rally, you would have noticed the presence of SDP members. They turned up in large number. They are giving us massive support. The collaboration between APC and SDP is on course. I had a meeting with Bolorunduro Local Government chapter of SDP before the rally was held. I’m impressed by SDP attitude towards governance. They place a lot of premium on improving governance which is in line with APC policy. We treat them as collaborators. Many APC senators would not return in 2019 including the senator representing your senatorial district. What do you think is responsible for this? Democracy is not monarchy. Democracy is about generating fresh ideas, limited tenure and periodic elections to chose leaders. It is true that Professor Sola Adeyeye who is representing my senatorial district will not return in 2019. By the grace of God, I will take over from him. I will bring fresh ideas and ensure qualitative representation. Going to the Senate, I should also be looking to when I will not be there again. The incumbent senator (Prof. Adeyeye) has been giving me a lot of support for my ambition. I appreciate him for that. Let me also express my profound gratitude to the former governor of Osun State, Chief Bisi Akande and the National Leader of APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for their unflinching support. You were in the legal team that fought for the retrieval of Aregbesola’s mandate. How would you reflect on the legal battle? It was the longest in the history of electoral petition handled by electoral tribunal. It was novel of its kind in terms of legal requirement of proofs and In terms of legal reference. The outcome of the case had led to a review of electoral law in Nigeria. The Aregbesola’s case lasted three and a half years. It was thereafter that a timeline of six months was set for the conclusion of electoral petition by the tribunal. The issue of subpoena that compels witnesses to appear was also addressed. Since that historic judgment was delivered, there has been reluctant of the courts to reject experts’ evidence. I have written a comment on this which was published in the Nigeria Bar journal. Who are your mentors in politics? Different people impacted on me in politics. First I got to know Aregbesola through Dr Muiz Banire, former National Legal Adviser of APC. I followed their style and moved very close to them. The APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu is also my mentor. Locally in Osun, I have people like Pa Wale Lasisi, Pa Idowu Esuleke (a.k.a. the Boy) and several others. I have learned one or two things from them especially on how to approach political issues and direct mobilisation of people. What are the unique qualities that you admire in Aregbesola? Former Governor Aregbesola is a case study in contradiction between simplicity and complexity. He combined both. The key words to explain him are: He’s a teacher- he explains his rationale, thinking and policies to many of us who are his mentees. He’s passionate about the development of the black people. He always lament on poverty, hunger, destitution and hopelessness of black people. He always asks why it was so with black. He’s committed to the development of not only Nigeria but the black people. Aregbesola is very soft and strong in principle. He wouldn’t like people to be hurt even his adversaries. He’s compassionate. He’s a good family man. I learnt a lot from him on how to deal with my family. He’s not attracted by worldly things; he lives a life of an ordinary man despite the aura of office. Discussing with people is his hobby. 