THE Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has filed a motion for interim forfeiture of the $2.8 million intercepted at the Akanu Ibiam International Airport in Enugu. Besides, the agency has initiated moves to secure a warrant to detain two suspects arrested in connection with the cash haul. Union Bank and Bankers Warehouse Limited have admitted links with the cash. The bank claimed that it owns the cash. Bankers Warehouse was only offering a Cash-In-Transit  service. But the EFCC, which intercepted the cash last Thursday, said its detectives had been ordered to  investigate the true owners of the cash. Pending the completion of investigation, the EFCC filed the application before a Federal High Court, Enugu State for the interim forfeiture of the cash. A statement by the EFCC Acting Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Tony Orilade, said the “Enugu Zonal Office of the commission also filed an affidavit of urgency for the matter to be heard on December 27th 2018, before a vacation judge sitting in Port Harcourt”. The statement said: “Recall that the commission had on Thursday, December 20, 2018, intercepted the said money based on intelligence report from two persons: Ighoh Augustine and Ezekwe Emmanuel, suspected to be money launderers, at Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu. “The suspects had confessed during interrogation that they have been in the business of moving cash for ‘some notable banks’ for over six years and were in the process of doing same for Union Bank Plc, located at New Market, Onitsha, Anambra State, before their arrest. “They allegedly worked for a company: Bankers Warehouse. “At the time of filing this report, the alleged owner of the money (Union Bank) had not made any physical presence in any of the commission’s offices, including the Enugu office, to establish their claim. “Efforts are being made to secure warrant for the detention of the suspects pending when they will be charged to court. “The warrant is consequent upon the refusal of the bank or any of the relatives to come for the release of the suspects.” Sections 28 and 34 of the EFCC (Establishment Act) 2004 and Section 13(1) of the Federal High Court Act, 2004  empower the anti-graft agency to apply the Interim Assets Forfeiture Clause. “Section 28 of the EFCC Act reads: “Where a person is arrested for an offence under this Act, the commission shall immediately trace and attach all the assets and properties of the person acquired as a result of such economic or financial crime and shall thereafter cause to be obtained an interim attachment order from the court.” Bankers Warehouse Limited insisted that the cash was not for money laundering. The firm, in a letter to a CBN Deputy Governor, said its staff were on a legal mission.