GOVERNING Council Chairman, Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo, RUGIPO, Banji Alabi, has condemned the killing of a lecturer, Mr Taiwo Akinyemi by kidnappers. It was gathered that four persons, including the deceased,were kidnapped by suspected armed men in Amurin village on the Akure-Owo Express way in Owo Local Government Area of the state. The three other victims, who were  staff members of the Federal Medical Centre, Owo, were released after a ransom was paid to the abductors. However, it was gathered that the delay in payment of ransom for 52-year-old Akinyemi, led to his murder. Akinyemi’s body was said to have been found in the bush tied to a tree. Alabi, who condemned the killing when Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu paid a condolence visit to the institution, said everyone was filled with grief. Represented by the institution’s Acting Rector, Mr Gani Ogundahunsi, he said the act of lawlessness, robbery, kidnapping and murder were intended to frighten Ondo State into chaos and retreat. “But they have failed; our state is strong; a great people under a great leadership; we shall overcome. I ask for your prayers for the family of our departed colleague, his wife and children whose hopes have been shattered,” he said. He continued: “This sad event serves as a painful reminder that we live in a world of wickedness, a world that needs healing. For that reason, our work here is more meaningful than ever. We are committed to equipping and inspiring every of our employees and students to be a leader, a force for good, an agent of hope and a steward of justice throughout the world.” On his part, the governor explained that the state government and security operatives made attempts to rescue the deceased. “It is unfortunate that the man could not return home alive. The incident happened some five minutes after I passed through the place and I had to deploy some security men in my convoy to the place to rescue the victims. “These kidnappers have become more daring and desperate; this is because we are moving towards the festive period. But the state police command has assured us that they will not limit their operation to stop and search only, but that they will also increase road patrol,” he said. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Mr Femi Joseph, said the police was on the trail of the kidnappers, but noted that no arrest had been made yet. Addressing reporters on Akinyemi’s death, the Chairman, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Polytechnics, RUGIPO chapter, Mr Chris Olowolade , described the incident as sad and unfortunate. He explained that the union had entered into negotiation with the kidnappers to secure Akinyem’s release, adding: “We lost him to the kidnappers and we received his corpse when we were expecting his freedom.” He continued: “The kidnappers placed a ransom of N100million on him, which nobody could afford, but they reduced it to N7million after two days, and later grudgingly asked us to come up with N500, 000. “The money was taken to them, and the person who took it to them was directed by the kidnappers to where he should drop the money. They asked him to stop, reverse and move, just to confirm that he was the actual person bringing the money. “But after some hours, they called that the man bringing the money should come back that they did not see it; only for us to be called by the Acting Rector to go and identify a corpse. “We rushed to the morgue and discovered that it was his (Akinyemi’s) corpse. He was tied to a tree with his clothes, and his remains were left in the bush. The body was recovered by the police and deposited in the morgue; he was treated badly before he was killed.” Chairman, Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP) Rufus Giwa Polytechnic chapter, Mr Rafiu Ijawoye, who expressed sadness over the ugly incident, thanked the governor for identifying with the polytechnic in their   grief. Following the development, lecturers and students of the polytechnic have held a possession to honour the deceased as the polytechnic community suspended all academic activities for two days to mourn him.