It is indecent to have sex in a car in public, Lagos State Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal warned yesterday. He was refuting a statement by the officer-in-charge, Police Complaint Rapid Response Unit (PCRRU), Abayomi Shogunle, on social media that the act is legal. Answering a question by a Twitter user on whether sex in a car is a crime, Shogunle wrote: “Sex in a car in a public place is not a crime in Nigeria, provided the location is not a place of worship, parties are 18 years and above, the act is consensual and parties are of opposite sex. If threatened with arrest over the above, please contact @POLICENG_PCRRU.” Puncturing the claim, Edgal said sections 134 (a) and 136 of the Criminal Law of Lagos, 2015 prohibited indecent act in any public place. In a statement by his spokesman, Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), the commissioner said anyone found guilty was liable to two or three years in prison. The statement reads: “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, has been advised by the Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP), Ministry of Justice and the Legal department of the command with relevant sections of the law as follows: “Section 134(a) of Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 prohibits any indecent act in any public place without lawful excuse. The law holds that such person is liable on conviction to two years’ imprisonment. “Section 136 of the Criminal Law of Lagos State, 2015 provides that any person who commits any act of gross indecency with another person in the public commits an offence and is liable on conviction to three years’ imprisonment. “It must be noted that Section 134, which deals with offences against morality, particularly Section 134(a), has it that indecent act in a public place makes both parties engaging in the act liable to imprisonment for two years. “In the same vein, Section 231 of the Criminal Code Act, which is a federal law and applicable in states other than the northern states where Penal Code is applicable, also makes indecent acts punishable. “The Lagos State Police Command hereby declares that the assertion that sex in a car in a public place is not a crime in Nigeria is misplaced, as the provisions of the Criminal Law of Lagos State prohibit such acts in public, even if it is done with the consent of the other party. “Police Commissioner Edgal wants Lagosians to be guided by relevant sections of the law against such acts.”