Hinged on the virtues of ethno-religious cum socio-cultural mutual tolerance, as the foundation for national peace, unity, and prosperity, the Arewa community in Lagos has instituted an initiative tagged Arewa Festival and Awards. With the maiden edition slated for this December, in Lagos, the project is a celebration of the Arewa community in Lagos State, the settlement, socio-economic successes, and peaceful co-existence with her host. Organisers say the festival is going to be a yearly event to celebrate the history and cultures of the Arewa people in Nigeria. They noted that, more importantly; it is an exhibition of sustained loyalty to the Lagos State Government. The Dinner and Award is set to hold on December 28, 2018, while the Festival and Exhibition is to hold on the December 30, 2018 at TBS Lagos. History has it that, over two centuries ago, the Hausas made their first contact with the Yorubas of the South-West. The story behind the migration of the Arewa community to Lagos, cum the name ‘AGEGE’ justifies the history of the socio-economic ties between the Hausas and the Yorubas.
The Arewa community migrated to Lagos basically for trade. This was aided by the railway line which bridged the gap between the North and South-West. The trains brought cattle from the North, and conveyed Kola nuts up north from the South-West. The Arewa Community in Lagos in general have all established socio-economic communities contributing immeasurably to the growth of the state. It is altogether pleasant to mention the political structure of the Arewa community and its political loyalty to her wonderful host, the Yorubas. His Royal Highness Alhaji Mohammed Dogon Kada, the seventh Sarkin Hausawa of Agege confirmed that His emirate inherited a fantastic relationship with the host community and he has continued the tradition of mutual respect and inter-relationship between the Hausas and Yorubas in Lagos. On a visit to the Sarki Fulani His Royal Highness Alhaji Mohammed A. Bambado, Led by Director Ethnic Affairs BOS-ICG, the Central Organising Committee of Arewa Festival and the Project Consultant; Xmedia Group, His Royal Highness equally confirmed a great history of migration to Lagos and a wonderful relationship with the *Photo: L-R; Arewa Chairman For Lagos, Alhaji Muhammad Dandama, Serki Hausawa Agege, Alhaji Muhammad Dogon Kadai, Wokili Nupe Of Lagos, Alhaji Mogaji Jubril, Turaki Of Agege, Ahhaji Salisu Abdulsalam Darosha, Dan-Iyan Of Agege, Alhaji Danjuma Yakubu, General Secretary Of Hausa Community Of Agege, Alhaji Ali Abubarkar, Assistant Media Director BOS-ICG Campaign, Saint Brown, Coordinator Of Arewa South West, Alhaji Sulaiman Shafiu Topa, ChairWoman Of Arewa Community For Award, Barrister Hajia Fatima Bako, Chairman Arewa Event and Planning, Alhaji Sheu Sampam.