Rising substance and drugs abuse in the country last week Monday engaged the attention of the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration. Substance and drugs abuse, which has been described as a social ill, involves the use of psychoactic hard drugs among many young Nigerians. Such substance abuse include the use of whitish end of lizard dung, hydrogen sulphide gas (sewer gas), seed of Zakami, petrol, glue or rubber solutions, nail polish cleaners, codeine, pawpaw leaves and seed, Moringa (Zogale) leaves, tear gas, gun powder, benylin, shisha, mandara (Kafra) and gutter from toilet for nonconventional purpose.Also having adverse consequences in the lives of young Nigerians are cigarettes, alcohol, marijuana, coffee, colanut, cocaine, heroin, amphetamine, morphine, ephedrine, madras, caffeine, barbiturates and methamphetamine. Such abuse is said to have the power to reduce the quality of lives of the users and resulting in depreciation of their social interaction and societal relevance over time. Irrespective of the social status of the user, whether a university professor or state governor, abuse of substance or hard drugs can bring them down to the level of a carpenter or mechanic who is also on drugs. Such substance will reduce them to such low level until they become a scum to the society. Professionals have also said that such abuses rewires circuitry of the brain in a semi-permanent way, especially at the frontal lobe, which is the part of the brain responsible for planning, judgment and other higher executive decisions. Rather than engaging in positive thinking, everything the brain will be thinking about after drug abuse will be how to obtain more psychoactive drugs in order to continuously get the ‘high’ feelings. The consequences of such substance and drug abuse may vary from one person to the other. According to experts in the field, it is not everybody who takes such substance or drug for the first time become addicted, not every user who gets addicted requires hospitalisation, and not every user who gets hospitalised recovers from it. Besides several physical and mental health consequences of such abuse, the social economic and economic impact are enormous. A very common behaviour of drugs and substance abusers is that such a person won’t do well in school or may find it difficult to hold down a job. He or she may start stealing, keeping bad company and also end up having a forensic case. At the end of the day, such substance user who was destined to be a goal getter, will end up becoming a nuisance and fail in his or her life goals. Substance and drugs abuse in Nigeria is believed to be majorly due to lack of awareness of the inherent dangers of drug abuse. Today, more young Nigerians are deploying their energies to unveiling new sources of getting high. Many studies have shown the alarming incidence of drug abuse among secondary school students in Nigeria, which in most cases have led to confrontation between students and school administrators. According to a 2014 report by the Nigerian Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA), Kano was ahead of the remaining 35 states and the FCT in terms of drug convictions. The National Baseline Youth Survey report of the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in 2012 surveyed 46,836 young people with criminal convictions and found that 75.5% were male and the remaining 24.5% were female. Among the 32 different crimes committed, marijuana (Indian hemp) smoking had the highest figure, representing 15.7% of the convictions. The survey also put Kano top of the country in terms of the number of drug abusers – 37% of the population. But over five years after that report, the use of nonconventional substances is said to have increased exponentially and threatening the social fabric of the society. It is now estimated that more than 500,000 bottles of codeine are consumed by young Nigerians across the country on a daily basis. The same estimate goes for the intake of tramadol, rohypnol, marijuana and other opioids, which is alarmingly destroying families. Worried by the ugly trend, especially in the North, the wife of the President, Dr. (Mrs.) Aisha Muhammadu Buhari during a visit to Kano, declared that many Northern youths, including women, were wasting away their lives due to drug abuse. Also Kaduna State Governor, Nasir el-Rufai, seized more than five tons of Benilyn and traced the item origination to be Onitsha Market in Anambra State. Further studies have also shown that drugs and substance abuse is no longer the exclusive preserve of the northern part of the country. In Abuja, the nation’s capital, the drugs of choice according to reports are heroin, methamphetamine (crystal meth), cocaine, Rohypnol (also known as the ‘date rape pill’) and Viagra (‘the blue pill’). Reports showed that there is now significant increase in the use of substance and drugs by young Niger Deltans between the ages of 14 and 30. They also showed that the South West and the South East, like other parts of the country, have had worrisome dimensions of substance and drug abuse. To suppress or eliminate drugs and substance abuse in the country, the Federal Government in 1989 established the NDLEA. But funding challenges among other factors are said to have worked against the agency from attaining the goal. With the risk of the abuses becoming an epidemic, the Buhari administration could no longer fold its arms but take a decisive step. The President last week Monday inaugurated a two-tier intervention structure consists of the High Level Steering Committee and the Presidential Advisory Committee. Buhari said: “It is our collective national prayer that the labours of heroes past shall never be in vain in our time and in the foreseeable future. The need for collective action to help those enslaved by drug abuse to have a new life and the view to reduce the demand for drugs by reducing its abuse and addiction is more urgent now than ever before. “The use and abuse of drugs by adolescents have become one of the most disturbing health phenomena in Nigeria and other parts of the world. Many schools, growing adolescents experience mental health issues, either temporarily or for a long period of time. Some become insane, cannot remain in school and they eventually drop out. “Drug and alcohol abuse are also major occupational hazards among Nigerian workers, professional, notably, drivers, which contribute to making Nigerian particularly dangerous. “The social consequences are equally numerous, including school drop outs, cultism, violence, armed robbery and general lawlessness. This is a situation of emergency and we face and address it as such,” he stated. Only time will really tell if the new committees and the current efforts will really make any meaningful impact towards changing the ugly trend of drug and substance abuse in the country. But it is also expected that the concerned government agencies like NDLEA will be properly funded to carry out their statutory roles. It’s also time for faith-based organizations and other bodies to be fully brought into the fight against substance and drugs abuse in the country.