Events in Akwa Ibom State in the last few months have shown a common resolve by its people to preserve the prosperity and growth Governor Udom Emmanuel’s administration has tried to foster since 2015. This is evident in the unspoken but loud statement the people have made to the effect that the state is not for sale to the highest bidder, especially as the 2019 general elections approach. Perhaps, in no other area has this resolve been practically demonstrated than in the political scene, where a lot has happened to make the people see the need to stay united, in order to prevent the state from becoming a property to be owned by an individual. From the days of its founding fathers, Akwa Ibom had been a study in love, unity and consensus–until 2007. Before the celebrated defection of former governor and former Senate Minority Leader, Godswill Akpabio, from the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in August, there had been stories of friction between him and the incumbent governor over control of the levers of power in the state. The constant frictions reportedly arose from refusal by the governor to be the puppet his predecessor wanted to make him. And when the former governor defected from the party that brought him from obscurity to limelight and prosperity, he found to his chagrin that his larger-than-life image was but a creation of the propaganda machine that sustained him during his eight-year tenure. That was when the resolve of the people to unite against hegemony by an individual began to manifest. Incidentally, it started with those that were thought to be his executioners in his bid to govern the state by proxy. All those he was touted to have brought to political relevance, who were supposed to have been his surrogates in the administration of Governor Udom Emmanuel, refused to join him in his new venture. They resolved to stick with the governor, because they know he means well for the state, as opposed to an individual that sees the state from the narrow point of view of his own personal interests. Akpabio is alleged to be wealthier than the state he governed for eight years, despite the fact that it is the state with the highest monthly revenue allocation from Abuja (A higher percentage of the state’s allocation goes into settling the debts he piled up during his tenure). The source of his stupendous wealth is difficult to fathom and is a subject of speculation. It is the reason he was under investigation by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFFC), following a petition an indigene of the sate wrote against him, which bordered on allegations of fraud, embezzlement and money-laundering to the tune of N108 billion while in office. The feeling of resentment among the people of Akwa Ibom State towards the former governor is not unconnected with the allegation that he used his wealth to place himself in a position that would make him some sort of Alpha and Omega in the state likened in a manner of someone that owns the state. He tried to demonstrate this with attempt to control both the executive and legislative arms of government in the state – the most strategic arms for someone with uncontrollable appetite for power. But there was a general resistance to any attempt by him to have the state in his pocket. A school of thought in Akwa Ibom believes that Akpabio is being accommodated in APC for two main reasons. One, those that have not opposed his entry into the party have done so in order not to confirm his perception of himself as someone whose presence anywhere scares off those opposed to him. Second, those that have welcomed him with open arms are dealing with him using a long pole, because his real intention for joining the party is known to everybody, which is the fact that having failed in his bid to make Udom a puppet, he wants to position himself in his new party in the hope that it will come to power next year, so he can realise his ambition of being the emperor he could not be while in PDP. While they welcome his entry, believing he will use his well-known strategies of intimidation and violence to win elections for the party in 2019, they will be careful to ensure he does not overstretch his relevance, in the manner of trying to control government machinery the way he attempted unsuccessfully to do while in PDP, should his new party come to power. Analysts say Nsima Ekere, the APC governorship candidate in the 2019 election and one-time Akpabio deputy, has not forgotten how the former governor tried to have him impeached in order to obliterate him from the political scene. Thus a further resolve by the people of the state to make Akpabio understand, through words and actions, that Akwa Ibom is not a commodity he can acquire. On November 27, five lawmakers of the state house of assembly on the platform of APC who defected from PDP and had their seats declared vacant by the Speaker on the orders of a court surreptitiously sat for the purpose of removing the Speaker and the state governor. There was a general belief that while the hand was that of Esau, the voice was unquestionably Jacob’s. In a swift reaction, angry youths in Uyo swamped the premises of the assembly and attempted to lynch the fleeing lawmakers who were suspected to have been sponsored from outside the state capital. It was a clear evidence of the common resolve to ensure Akwa Ibom under Udom Emmanuel has no place for brigandage that was commonplace in the Akpabio era. Among political watchers in the state, there is a feeling that rather than be an asset, Akpabio’s entry into APC may turn out to be a liability to the party. Obong Victor Attah, under whom Akpabio served as Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, said shortly after his defection that the action would hurt APC’s chances in the 2019 elections in the state. He said if the party won the elections, it would be in spite of Akpabio, not because of him. Political watchers say Attah’s statement may have to do with Akpabio’s negative tendencies, which were prominent characteristics of his tenure, which have culminated in his efforts to practically own the state –a move that is being stoutly resisted by the people.