Last week, we examined the root causes of why our children die in their infancy. We also took a detailed look at what kills these children. Similarly, we referred to the fact that these deaths  in childhood are preventable. In this article, we will discuss the measures that parents can take to reduce the chances of children dying early on in their lives. These are few but not all the steps that may be taken to prevent the death of the newborn and other growing children in our family. Children are adults in the making. There are some protections that children who are also defendless should have. Parents should seriously consider removing hazards at home and in any place where young people may play and roam. Electrical sockets should be plucked so that children are not able to insert metals into electrical outlets. Children should not go near hot water, hot iron or into the kitchen on their own without the guidance and security of adults. Accidents may happen that may kill or harm the child if not well protected. Children are curious beings and they dream wild too. Young people are not often conscious of risks. Thus, they may want to jump out of a window in their innocent ways. Parents and guardians should consider window guards to prevent accidents. In a similar manner, car seats for children are good steps that may prevent injuries during road traffic accidents. Still on roads, let the children use helmets even for bicycle and motorcycle rides. Abuse of children is not rare in our country. Abuse includes economic, physical, mental and sexual abuses. Abuse diminish the value of children. Abuse could also stunt the growth of children. Parents will need to be very vigilant against all the forms of abuses that I have mentioned above. In sum, the well-being or death of children depends on the environment of their development. The wellbeing of the mother or child starts even before the birth of the child as we have seen and continues into the child’s adulthood. Prevention is better than cure. Vaccination against diseases, early detection and treatment of illness, prevention against accidents and injuries along with sound nutrition with protection against child abuses will ensure our children live safely and grow in a healthy manner.