Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday launched the State Health Insurance Scheme (LSHS). It is designed to give the residents easy access to affordable and quality healthcare services. The scheme is mandatory for all Lagosians. The launching took place at the Civic Centre on Victoria Island, Lagos, where stakeholders and technical partners – local and international – witnessed the registration for the scheme’s immediate take-off. Dignitaries at the event included PharmAccess Foundation; the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS); Government of Netherlands, represented by its Ambassador; World Bank representative, Dr. Olumide Okunola; All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; former Health Commissioner Dr. Leke Pitan; Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu and his white cap chiefs, as well as the Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotubi and others. Ambode said the scheme was mooted in 1999 under the former administration of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu and established by Law No. 4 of May 2015. The governor noted that though providing a health insurance scheme for all residents of Lagos State was a tough task, but his administration was committed to executing it. He added: “We were committed to implementing this programme because the welfare of all Lagosians is of paramount interest to us and we came into office with a promise to make Lagos work for all. “I am delighted that we have fulfilled that promise and are gathered at this historic and momentous occasion today for the formal launch of the Lagos State Insurance Health Scheme. It is historic because it marks a distinct milestone in the state government’s effort to ensure the sustained provision of a critical social service to our teeming Lagos population. “The overall goal of this scheme is to ensure that all residents of the state have unhindered access to sustainable, quality and affordable healthcare services with financial risk protection, including subsidy from government subsidy.” 