If there are key indices to determine whether a government had really met the governed expectations, Roads, undoubtedly, come top most in consideration. Since this dire social amenity runs through the length and breadth of the community and populace, it didn’t even need a blind disabled being led by a helping hand, to discern that the path he had just bumped into is perhaps not motor able  and a nightmare for passerby. It was therefore a profound delight to watch the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure,Enugu State, Engineer Greg Nnaji, reel out the achievements of the ministry especially on Road Construction, Designs, Maintenance, which he attributes to the magic wand  and unprecedented vision of the Governor of Enugu State, Dr Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi. Engineer Greg Nnaji during an interview session in his office, had a magnificent score sheet which he brandished as ‘Legacy Projects of the present Administration of Governor Ugwuanyi. The ministry in addition sticks to its cardinal role of urban renewal, urban development, public building planning and maintenance, which the Nike Enugu trained civil  structural engineer who had been in private sector for 28years before the call to serve, says are some of the many innovations of the state Governor. The beauty of this unique construction of roads, is that it has a universal spread in all the nooks and crannies of the state. The litany runs thus:-Enugu East Abakpa Nike, Rehabilitation of Edward Nnaji Street, Ogwuagor road Abakpa Nike. Rehabilitation of Amaetiti Street Ugboye and Rehabilitation of Abakpa Nike Market Section of Amauri road Amesi Convent Oraukwu and Isieke Streets all in Abakpa. Enugu North LGA; GRA -Enugu State Medical Centre, Old Trade Fair Site, and construction of 10 Executive Guest Chalets at Old Government Lodge all at the GRA. Independence Layout-Renovation of the official Quarters of the Chief Judge on Biasala road. Iva Valley- Rehabilitation of New Market Camp 1 and extension of the road to St Patrick’s Parish, Iva Valley Pottery 2. Enugu South LGA; Awkunanaw Reconstruction/Rehabilitation of Amechi Uwani road. Nkanu East LGA- Construction of Amaechi Idodo-Amuzam Amagunze, Nkanu East Local Government area headquarters section. Isi-Uzo LGA- Completion of the construction of the Ebonyi Bridge and the road approaching of Ugwoge -Neke-Ikem road on asphalt overlay. Nkanu West LGA; Construction of Agbani -Afor Amuri road in Nkanu West Local Government area, Construction of Ogonogoeji Ndiagu Apugo road Atavu Bailey bridge -Afor Onovo. Construction of Omuoha-Obuoffia-Awkunanaw road and Construction of Fire Service Station at Ozalla. Aninri LGA- Relocation/Reconstruction of Bailey Bridge over Ivo River, Okpanku. Awgu LGA; Construction of Ituku Road. Oji River LGA- Construction of Fire Service Station. Extension of Nkwo Inyi-Akpugo Eze on the border town of Anambra State. Igbo Eze North LGA; Construction of Ogurute-Mkpamute-Igogoro-Ikpamodo-Okpo-Amaja road Phase 1. Construction of Ogurute -Umuogbo Ulo- Isiugwu-Umuokpu-Ette road Phase 1. Udenu LGA; Construction of Ohom Orba Junction-Imilike ANI Ezimo Uno (Udenu Ring Road). Construction of Fire Services Station at Orba. Treasures in the kitty for emphasis as the Commissioner dubs Governor Ugwuanyi’s strong legacies include:- *First Class Dual Carriage road from Opi- Nsukka- University Town of Nsukka and beyond, which for decades remained impassable. The illumination of street lights so uniquely placed. * First Class Underground Drainage at the Nguru road , the ambiance of the road had beaten hollow past interventions but the Ministry has cracked the nut, taking cognisance of the soil and other critical defects, metal debris and all technical measures were taken to solve what  had posed challenge in the past. * New Market stretch through curvy ageless risky Miliken Hills to Ngwo Town emptying at Ekochin Hospital road. *Governor does not consent to award of any contract, there is no corresponding funds to pay for jobs executed. Till date, no single contractor is being owed and the ministry does not delay processing of contractors as all papers are cleared in less than 48hours. *Have begun the Harmony Road leading to Emene. The Emene axis is on going just left with 8 kilometres joining the Harmony road proper to the major road near Nike Lake Hotel. *State of the Art Construction work on going of sixteen Magistrate Courts scattered all over Nsukka, Ikem, Obollo Afor,  Uzo Uwani, Awgu and Agbani respectively. *Eha Amufu Federal College road abandoned for several decades now, being constructed including the portion that borders at the Ebonyi State with Eha-Amufu. *Of course the last but not the least the Ogui Fire Service not attended to for several decades now, but we have not only upgraded and equipped but built a totally brand new Fire Station at Ituku Ozala near Enugu. As this essay was being concluded, came an announcement of award of multiple road projects in Igbo-Etiti Lgas and a host of development projects worth 1Billion naira. The essence is to deepen the most noble vision to develop the rural areas in line with government’s four points agenda. They include the extension and construction of Ogurute-Mkpamute-Igogoro-Ikpamodo Okpo-Amaja and the Ogurute-Umuogno-Umuokpa-Ette road both in Igbo Exe North lga. Earlier, government had constructed the phase one of the roads as the ongoing ones are phase 11. Of course government had not left out the perennial ever busy 9th Mile -Makurdi Expressway, a gate way to the northern part of the country especially this festival seasons of Christmas and New Year. The community secondary school road Ozalla, Akaibute-Ohebe Dim -Aku road and the St Mary’s Catholic Church Ezi-Ukehe -Afa Four – Umurushi roads classified as full construction with sure preparation, earth work, drainages, pavement and surfacing. At Nkanu East, second phase  of the rehabilitation and construction of the Ugbawka -Nara -Nkerefi road. The rehabilitation of Amechi Uwani road, Awkunanaw  Enugu South LG and the completion work on the Bailey Bridge across Nyama river connecting Amechi Uni/ Obeagu communities. Of course the icing on the cake for the Governor on rural development, is perhaps the award of a high octane laurels by one of Nigeria’s influential newspapers as an awardee for the ceremony coming up mid January, 2019 in Lagos.