As the world took stock of the progress made in the fight against HIV on World AIDS Day, the Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LASACA) has assured it will do its best to attain the Vision 90:90:90. According to  LASACA CEO,  Dr Oluseyi Temowo, the state is unrelenting in ensuring that all people get screened, all that turns positive get treatment, and HIV transmission in any positive person remains insignificant across the state. He stated this at the conclusion of an HIV/ AIDS Awareness Walk organised by LASACA.It is in demonstration of its commitment towards public enlightenment and other things that can help in eradicating HIV/AIDs that LSACA held a walk from the Ikeja  Local  Government  through Awolowo Way under Bridge, and terminated at the Old Secretariat. Staff and other participants used the event to distribute male and female condoms, IEC (information, education and communication) materials, and campaign for all and sundry to screen for the virus, and if negative stay safe, and if positive to access free treatment. And if on treatment, they are advised not to disrupt same. At the event, the United States disclosed that Nigeria may be closer to achieving HIV epidemic control than previously thought.Citing data from the National AIDS Indicator and Impact Survey released last week, Public Affairs Officer at the U.S. Consulate  General, Lagos, Mr. RussellBrooks, said the survey indicates that the majority of Nigerians who report being on HIV treatment have suppressed their viral replication, allowing them to thrive and not transmit the virus. “PEPFAR,  the U.S.  President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief, in partnership with the government and people of Nigeria, has prevented millions of Nigerians from being infected by and dying from HIV. In Nigeria alone, we have invested more than $5 billion in the national HIV/AIDS response,” Brooks stated. “In 2018, PEPFAR provided life-saving HIV treatment to over 800,000 Nigerian men, women, and children living with HIV. Approximately 7.4 million Nigerians have received HIV counseling and testing services; more than 1.6 million pregnant Nigerian women were tested for HIV; and more than 1.2 million orphans  and vulnerable children received care and support services” he added. PEPFAR was established in 2003 and this year marks the 15th anniversary. It supports Nigeria in the critical areas of policy development, human capacity development and the improvement of health infrastructure, including the provision of state-of-the art laboratories and pharmaceutical warehouses. Over the last three decades, the U. S Government, through PEPFAR and other interventions, has contributed to bringing the HIV/AIDS pandemic from crisis toward control, with AIDS-related deaths falling globally by 50 percent since 2005 and the number of new HIV infections being reduced by 47 percent since 1996.