Coaches from FC Barcelona Lagos Academy will be on ground to train participants at the Oshoala School Girls Football Clinic organised by current CAF Women’s Player of the Year, Asisat Oshoala from 17th to 20th December at the Campos Mini Stadium, Lagos. Technical Director, FC BESCOLA Bernet Villa will lead other coaching officials to the intensive 3-day coaching clinic for aspiring women footballers, from which exceptional talents will stand a chance of playing in China and the UK as well as further their education. About 5,000 girls from different secondary schools in Lagos are expected to take part in the clinic with balls, pair of boots, jerseys, school bags and other educational and sports equipment to be distributed to all participants. The clinic is endorsed by the Nigeria Football Federation, NFF and the Lagos State Football Association, LSFA and supported by Rev. Mother Esther Ajayi, the General Overseer of the Love of Christ Generation Church, United Kingdom and promoter of Esther Ajayi Foundation. The 2018 African Women’s Cup of Nations winner had hosted over 2,500 girls at her #Football4Girls Seminar on girl child education and sports held at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Indoor Sports Hall of the Teslim Balogun Stadium Lagos, last Friday. The seminar had speakers including Wife of the Governor of Lagos State, Mrs. Bolanle Ambode ably represented by Mrs Modupe Ogunleye; Nigerian media entrepreneur, talk show host, speaker, TV presenter and philanthropist, Agatha Amata;  Rev. Mother Esther Ajayi; President-General, Nigeria Football Supporters Club, Rafiu Ladipo and Lagos Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Dolapo Badmus. “It’s all about the girl child education and sports , that’s the motto of my foundation and it’s part of my plans to give back to the society which raised me to let everyone know that they can be their own star. “For me I will tell every girl child, be yourself, make sure you make good friends, go out with right people, make good choices at every point in time. Make sure you don’t do what will go against your ambition,” Oshoala told NationSport.