Champions Nigeria will throw in their aces from the referee’s blast of the whistle in today’s Women Africa Cup of Nations final against South Africa at the Accra Sports Stadium. Coach Thomas Dennerby and Captain Onome Ebi have spoken of high level of motivation and determination in the team to retain the Women AFCON trophy and continue Nigeria’s near-absolute domination of the continental championship. In 20 years of its existence, reigning champions Nigeria have dominated the Women AFCON to an embarrassing degree, with only Equatorial Guinea breaking their clean sweep on only two occasions, with Mercy Akide, Perpetua Nkwocha (on four occasions), Desire Oparanozie and Asisat Oshoala emerging top scorers at different championships. The latter two – Oparanozie and Oshoala – are still in the mix, and in fact constitute the dreaded duo that the Banyana Banyana will do well to keep at bay throughout the 90 minutes. Nigeria and South Africa have been in the final together once – in 2000, when the South Africans hosted but the Nigerians successfully retained the trophy after a 2-0 defeat of the hosts in Johannesburg. While the whole team worked together for the hard-fought win over Cameroon in the semi-finals, special credit must go to Goalkeeper Tochukwu Oluehi for her calmness and confidence throughout, including stopping two penalty kicks in the shoot-out, which lifted the Nigerians’ confidence. Today, Oluehi would as usual, be protected by the quartet of Josephine Chukwunonye, Onome Ebi, Osinachi Ohale and Ngozi Ebere, with Rita Chikwelu, Halimatu Ayinde and Ngozi Okobi likely to star in the middle, behind Ordega, Oparanozie and Oshoala. The Nigerian side has a lot of experience, but it would not be an easy afternoon against a skillful, creative, energetic and technically-savvy Banyana Banyana side boosted by their 1-0 defeat of the Cup holders in the opening match of Group B in Cape Town on November 18. Some other positives have put the South African camp in buoyant mood. Victory over Mali in Cape Coast on Tuesday meant the Banyana will make a first –ever appearance at the FIFA World Cup next year, and players like Thembi Kgatlana (whose goal put Nigeria to the sword) and Lebohang Ramalepe (sumptuous effort against Mali) are fired up for the final.