Lagos State Alliance for Democracy (AD) governorship candidate Owolabi Salis has said he will channel state’s resources towards making life better for the ordinary people.

Salis who made the promise at the graduation ceremony of a free empowerment training scheme in Alimosho area of the state when 550 trainees, added that Lagos commonwealth belongs to the people.

He noted that over 60, 000 Lagosians has benefited  from the empowerment training in different parts of the state, stressing youths were picked in the different parts of state.

Sails said the foundation had trained beneficiaries in hair dressing, barbing , building , electrical, plumbing , fashion designing , beauticology , shoe making , soap, balm making , among others .

He said plans was in place to assist the graduands financially through grants, loan and other facilities that would assist them to become independent.

“There are monies from Bank of Industries (BOI) and even the Trades Money as well as other programmes meant for poverty alleviation but it doesn’t get to the people but we are presently looking into it and very soon.

“We are going to be having a seminar whereby we gather all the graduants together and we are going to train them on how to access the funds and also to supervise and make sure it gets to them .

“Beneficiaries of the empowerment program is not based on party, most of the people that have benefited from the empowerment programs are not from my party  because the program is not political. 

“It is a social event and if I emerged as the governor, it will be ungodly for me to discriminate those who are not in my party, I am not  just the candidates of AD members but I am the candidate of the oppressed people in APC, PDP and other parties.

“The Alliance for Democracy, AD is made up of credible people from APC, PDP and about 24 other parties. We have just only one objective, and that is to take Lagos State Commonwealth resources and return it to the people and we are going to achieve it,” he said.