New cases of depression abound in Nigeria every day. Soon after the publication of this column last Thursday, another strange case hit the headlines … a 20-year-old youth beheaded his father, aged 65. Many radio stations would appear to have recognised that depression and mental illness cases deserve more attention than they had previously received. Presenters now suggest that whoever finds his or her neighbour behaving subnormally should try to straighten him or her up with pep talk, or call the social services for help. Last week, in the introduction of this series which is concluded today, this column said: … Early this months, an 18-year-old Nigerian killed his mother in their home, had canal knowledge of her corpse, ripped her body open in several places with a knife and then removed some vital organs which he sold to ritualists. In police detention, he broke down, saying he did not know how it all happened.  A few days later, the news emerged of yet another successful suicide on the Third Mainland Bridge in Lagos. Lately, the bridge had become a place from which suicide -prone people, one of them a medical doctor, plunge into the Lagos Lagoon below. The police had been keeping 24-hour watch over this bridge for some time. But in this last suicide, a Radio Nigeria employee beat the system and jumped to his death in the Lagoon below. We have been shocked as well by the story of a teenage girl who lived in a multi-tenancy apartment. She concealed her pregnancy for nine months from her co-tenants. When the baby came, they were startled by the cries of a new born baby. By the time they arrived in her room, she had broken the baby’s neck and swirled the face backwards. They called the police immediately. These are just a few of the new faces of depression which have popped up in Nigeria, since this column last visited this subject. Only last week 100 containers of Tramadol and Codeine illegally imported into the country were seized by the Customs Service at the Lagos ports. Tramadol and Codeine are leading causes of depression and mental health questions in Nigeria. So are diabetes and many other factors which have not been contained. As factors which cause depression multiply in Nigeria, growing even in magnitude, and more people go down, this column tries from time to time to remind its readers that there is yet no serious handle on it in this country, and that every-one should be doubly watchful not to inwardly cave in to predisposing factors and to eat and adopt healthy lifestyles which support mental health. The last such column was read on-line by one of the editors of JEN REVIEWS, Jen Miller, who was researching DEPRESSION. Jenne informed me of a newer study on this subject and such findings as were thought helpful to help a depression patient bounce back to life. A report on that study was presented from last Thursdayin a two-part series which is concluded today. It was originally published on-line under the title A BLUE PRINT WHEN FELLING BLUE and the Subtite HOW A MENTAL HEALTH DIAGNOSIS CAN BE EMPOWERING. I believe it will be helpful for people with mental health challenges and the doctors, neurologists, psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers and nurses who look after them. So should it for the parents of depressed people, their other family members (husbands, wives and children, siblings and friends). Thanks, Jenne Miller … The article which follows below can be found in https://www.jenreviews.com/mental-health-diagnosis. I have noticed that people have different reactions to mental health diagnoses than they do to medical ones. For example, when I was diagnosed with panic disorder it felt different from when I was diagnosed with allergic rhinitis. It was difficult for me not to view my diagnosis of panic disorder as some kind of moral shortcoming. Throughout the years, I have learned that viewing my diagnosis as a personality flaw would make it harder for me to come to peace with it and have the willingness to explore treatment options. It is not useful, and not at all accurate, to attach guilt and to such conditions. I did not engage in any actions that resulted in me developing panic disorder. A combination of genetic predispositions in my DNA and social experiences I had early in life have influenced my brain to develop in such a way that I sometimes respond to situations with a disproportionate amount of fear and terror – often over a very short period of time. This is not a moral shortcoming, it is a combination science and learned behavior.  I can learn to manage it though and work with therapists or peer groups to take steps to “unlearn” the behavior. Now, let’s go back to that doctor’s visit we discussed earlier. Imagine how we might feel at the end of each of these visits. I can attest that after I receive a medical diagnosis, I am often relieved. Most of the time, I am informed of what the problem is, what medication to take, and what lifestyle choices I can make to relieve the symptoms of the condition. Even though the steps to treat it might be a nuisance, at least I leave knowing what to do and feeling a bit more empowered. When treating mental illness, it is often difficult to make a diagnosis after one visit. Providers have to identify a diagnosis for insurance billing purposes, but after just one visit with a client that diagnosis is preliminary. It is inaccurate to stay that you will leave your first appointment with an explanation of how to vastly improve our symptoms, but the point that I am trying to make is that once an explanation is provided it can arm you with additional knowledge about how to manage your situation and put you in a position where you can make a choice. Any time I needed to seek help for my mental health symptoms, I tried to view it as a learning opportunity. I would ask about the known causes, any research that has been done on it and what has been successful for others who have been living with it. I would also reflect on how the information that I obtained applied to my own situation and determined (sometimes with a provider and sometimes on my own) what the best next steps would be in my action plan. For me, it was empowering and validating to be reminded that I was not alone. As I said earlier, 40 million adults in the United States have a mental health condition. And there are forums on the internet, and sometimes in-person support groups, for many different mental health conditions where you can connect with other who are finding solutions. The more you know about the root of your distress, the more power you will have to manage the symptoms and make your own choice about the best next step. Mental health professionals can help with the evidence based guidance – but we are not experts on you – you are!  Challenges with this process and how to stay empowered through them  Mental health treatment isn’t always linear. If you need a medication to improve your mental health, you may need to try a few different drugs or different dosages before you find the right prescription that works for you. If you need to seek a therapist or support group, you may need to try different groups or providers before you find the right match. And you may go through mental health treatment, get better, and find that a month or a year or five years down the line, you need treatment again. There may not be a quick fix. It is true that sometimes the dynamic between a therapist or psychiatrist and a help seeker can feel disempowering to the client. When working with clients, I have always tried the best I can to use the strengths perspective which focuses on a person’s assets and resilience, rather than their pathologies. It is important for practitioners to know that our communication style and view of the client as a non-expert of their own life can contribute to their feelings of disempowerment. Speaking from the experience of being on the consumer end of mental health treatment, I have always felt much more empowered when I saw providers who used the strengths perspective. Whenever I have felt disempowered, it has helped me to focus on what was immediately in front of me. When I have gone through episodes of worry and doomsday forecasts in my mind about things “never getting better,” I was able to get through it by putting thoughts of the future aside and engaging in a useful task that would give me an immediate sense of gratification. Enter…cleaning! It sounds a little silly, doesn’t it? Never in a million years did my feminist inspired brain think that domestic tasks would help me feel empowered. But in certain moments, they really did. I even tried some DIY cleaning ingredients which made it fun for me. It was kind of like a creative project. I would make something, use it to change the environment and feel a sense of accomplishment afterwards. Of course, recovery and wellness as a whole are not that simplistic. But there have been several times where a night of giving some TLC to my apartment helped ground me and remind me that my mind did not always have to be in the future and that I could enjoy simple tasks in front of me in the meantime.  Let’s talk more about empowerment  OK, so you were informed of your different treatment options and have made a decision about what you would like to do. How can the sense of empowerment you felt when you made that choice stick with you as you go through the process of recovery? A Canadian study that was facilitated in 2001 explored factors in the lives of adults with a mental illness that influenced the degree of empowerment felt in their lives. Every participant was in some kind of mental health treatment (either therapy, medication management, a peer support group, or a combination of more than one treatment method). The study revealed that the two factors below had a significant influence on empowerment: I have actually witnessed the peer support models become increasingly common in the past decade and know of individuals who have discovered a sense of purpose once they become involved in peer support. These kinds of groups and relationships have the potential to offer mental health consumers a sense of connection that may be difficult to find elsewhere. Another way that having a mental health diagnosis can result in empowerment is through resilience. Those of us who have lived with a mental illness have often been placed in positions where we have had to struggle to find new or different ways to cope with life’s stressors. It has been my experience that surviving through the moments where the mental illness is at its worst forces us to learn skills to help us persevere. Even though I felt hopeless and vulnerable in the midst of my worst mental health crises, I always came out of each of them feeling a little stronger and a bit more confident in my capacity to grow through adversity. And some coping skills I have learned as a result of struggling with anxiety have resulted in positive changes in my life that I otherwise may never have experienced. For example, I had no interest whatsoever in meditation before my anxiety hit its peak in my early twenties. I tried meditation, with some skepticism, after some peers and providers had recommended it to me. Meditation ended up benefiting me so much that I continued to practise for long after my symptoms improved. As a result of practising meditation, I have become more patient, more present, and more appreciative. Had struggling with mental illness not given me the motivation to try new coping skills, I may have never discovered this practice that has enriched my life. I have heard others share similar feedback about exercise. Several of my peers specifically mentioned running as an activity that helped them with things such as “clearing their head” or “setting their perspective for the day”. One challenge with exercise though, is that it can be hard to start particularly when you are having symptoms of depression. These symptoms can suck away your energy level and motivation. When discussing the benefits of early morning exercise, Jen mentions a visualisation activity  that can help counteract some of the self-deprecating thoughts and beliefs that come with depression. Our thoughts can sometimes trap us into believing that certain things are not options. I have certainly gone through this before. It sounded a little bit like this “There is no way I can get up at six to hit the treadmill tomorrow. I’m not going to have the energy.” And then I literally pictured myself hitting the snooze button until 7:15. Changing our narrative, and the way we visually see the narrative playing out, can be useful. Psychologists have found that the self-fulfilling prophecies that occur during depression can create a cycle that is difficult to get out of. Visualising yourself overcoming challenges has the potential to break this cycle.  The takeaway  We are all familiar with the stereotypes of mental illness. Advocates, consumers, and providers across North America have been fighting to challenge these stereotypes and provide correct information about mental health. Stigma against mental illness can often deter people from seeking treatment and may cause them to view mental illness as a personal weakness rather than a treatable condition. This perspective can be reframed by viewing a mental health diagnosis as a framework for establishing a treatment plan. Some mental health consumers may be able to shift this perspective on their own, but providers and the public need to also take accountability. Stigma is created by public opinion. If the public could have more empowering and empathetic views toward people who have a mental illness, it could lead to a paradigm shift that could help more people see diagnosis as a blueprint rather than a bombshell.