In contemporary times, privately-owned universities, especially the popular ones, carry more prestige in their names than most public-owned schools. This is as a result of their stable academic calendar, student-lecturer relationship, committed teaching staff, conducive learning environment and the use of Information Communication Technology (ICT) to impart knowledge on students. Also, the reccurring lecturers’ strikes that have crippled government-owned schools and poor standard in public universities are major contributors to this prestige that private universities have today. Little wonder why, in spite of the high fees, parents still send their children to private universities because they want quality and uninterrupted education for them. Presently, some private universities, such as the Benson Idahosa University (BIU), Covenant University (CU), Afe Babablola University, Ado Ekiti (ABUAD) and Babcock University (BABCOCK), are among the leading ivory towers, dishing out quality education to students, thereby churning out world-class graduates. BIU, for instance, has produced scholars that are performing exceedingly well in their respective fields of endeavours. The institution happens to be one of the many private universities that are leading the change by producing world-class graduates. The university aspires to be model for academic excellence, professional development and entrepreneurship promoter; its graduates are trained to be effective as disciples for Christ by excelling in their professional fields. No doubt, the institution can boast of the fact that it has produced graduates that are competing globally. Some of them are employees, who are living their dreams in corporate environment, while some are full time entrepreneurs, who have decided to give their passion a voice while creating a niche for themselves in the market. This is made possible because, in private universities, every student is exposed to training by some of the world most renowned leadership experts and knowledgeable people with great achievements. By this, they are inspired and their perspective broadened on spiritual growth, leadership, wealth creation, politics, entertainment and many more. A popular aphorism says: “The quality of education determines the development of any nation.” How can a nation develop when the public-owned institutions have performed below expectations in teaching and broadening students’ perspectives on leadership, wealth creation, and self-development? Universities should play frontal roles in shaping people’s self-development and nation building. It is also noteworthy that while the graduates of private universities have high employment turnover, universities, such as Covenant University, also take a broader step by equipping their students with entrepreneurial skills that make them self-reliant. Covenant University is, unarguably, one of the world-class universities that prepare students for all-round success post-graduation. Benson Idahosa University believes in the power of entrepreneurship to drive national economic growth and prosperity through innovation. That is why the school, from the outset, equips its students with skills that open their eyes to free enterprise. During the 2017 convocation ceremony, the BIU president affirmed that graduates of the institution were doing well professionally and academically after leaving the school. His words: “We have graduates that have done so well that they are now at the tops of their various fields, thus making the vision of our university a reality. They are showing up in fields like Nollywood, where Blossom Chukwujekwu carries the title of renowned actor. In the ICT sector, John Obidi carries the title of social media expert.” A BIU alumnus, Alex Osagie, usually described graduates of the school as galaxy of stars shining forth for the entire world to see. Recently, four of the BIU alumni, Mrs Osayuki Aiyanyo, Mrs. Osarunwese Irabor, Ms. Imoedemhe Tessy and Ms. Ivie Akhere were appointed into the Edo State Judiciary as judges. Every student is given equal opportunity to gain invaluable practical experience through special programmes organised by the Life Success Centre Department of the university. Adekunle Ajasin University is part of the public-owned school training students to stand shoulder to shoulder with graduates from any university around the world. Students gain practical field exposure through entrepreneurship attachments and internships with top-notch companies in their fields of interest to get them equipped for life after school. In private universities, students, irrespective of course of study, receive hands-on training in entrepreneurship, administration, management, personal branding, proposal development, resume writing and communication, negotiation, and project management. This is one of the reasons why graduates of private schools are having an edge over their peers, who finished from the public-owned school.