Frontline credit agency, CRC Credit Bureau Limited (CRC) has emerged the Credit Bureau Provider of the Year. The company was named the winner of the coveted award at the fourth Nigeria Finance Innovation Awards 2018. Now in its fifth year, the Nigeria Finance Innovation recognises the accomplishments of financial executives and organisations for their financial leadership and contributions to their companies’ growth. CRC has provided consistent superior performance and leadership in the industry via technology driven platform that allows lenders and credit granters, automate their credit processes and access over 15 products and services. The launching of the CRC USSD code *565*8#, the first of its kind in Nigeria, allows individuals access their credit report on the go using their mobile phones. The annual awards also rewards success, growth and innovations of finance executives and their teams’ efforts towards its organisations sustainability, while showcasing excellent work that has been rendered by firms that provided them with the services, support and technology which enabled their success. The awards categories included Credit Bureau Provider of the Year; Financial Technology Solutions Provider of the Year; Investment Bank of the Year, Mortgage and Home Loans Company of the Year; Leasing and Financing Company of the Year; Credit Bureau CEO of the Year etc. Finalists were selected by a diverse group of experienced judges and, from that group of finalists, one winner from each category was awarded. CRC creditably won in the two categories it was nominated. Besides, the Managing Director/CEO Mr ‘Tunde Popoola also won the Credit Bureau CEO of the Year 2018 for his numerous contributions in the growth of the Nigerian economy through innovative products and services that enhance access to credit for strategic development. Earlier in the year, CRC Credit Bureau engaged stakeholders on the need to open the space for consumer lending as a means for stimulating the growth of the economy. Some of these fora included the “Growth & Innovation in Retail Banking: Building Sustainable Business Models: which held on 2 August 2018 that provided the platform for introducing the most widely used global Credit Score powered by Fair Isaac Corporation, FICO; and the “Quarterly RIMAN Roundtable” on 28 March 2018 which CRC hosted with over 100 risk managers and institutions in attendance. The two platforms attracted attendance from all sectors of the Nigerian economy with over 400 participants.