Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole has said that the issue of healthcare is beyond building facilities, saying the critical things that make up health system are human resources, commodities , drugs and vaccines. Adewole however noted that funding was critical to quality health system. The minister spoke recently at a medical conference and exhibition Organised by Media Trust in Abuja. To address the funding gap, the minister said  one of  the things that government has done to improve the country’s health  system is putting in place the Basic Health Care Provision Fund and appropriating N55 billion in the 2018 budget. He further noted that government targets improving primary healthcare services in the country and is putting measures in place so that for the first time, primary healthcare centres will get money  directly. According to him, 45% of the healthcare fund will be channelled  through the National Primary Healthcare Development Agency (NPHCDA), 20% to vaccine commodities  , 15 % for repairing facilities, water and electricity, and  10% for human resources. While enumerating the federal government’s achievements in repositioning cancer care and reducing maternal mortality among others, he said the Federal Ministry of Health under his watch was laying the foundation for an upgraded responsive healthcare delivery system. “We are very confident that within the shortest possible time, we will begin to reap the fruits,” he added. Also, in his remark, the Former Minister of State for Health, Prof. Muhammad Ali Pate, advised healthcare workers to always give their best to patients in order to earn their trust and confidence to access treatment in the country. He stressed that  patients should be given quality from diagnosis , to treatment and should receive it  based on evidence. Pate who is also a Professor at the  Duke University’s Global Health Institute, United States of America, explained that trust was vital in the production of health and that users should have confidence that the system respects their rights. “There is need to engage the patients in the production of health. Health workers should not focus on themselves but on their clients,” he said. The former minister was of the opinion that when the patients experience competent care, it  would in turn lead to improved health outcomes, adding that it would also enable the populace to have confidence in the system and not travel out  for care. Chief  Operating Officer of Media Trust Limited , Abhay  Desai  said Nigeria has garnered quality facilities and medical personnel over the years that the citizenry can harness instead of  engaging in medical tourism. While saying that medical doctors in Nigeria are as good as anywhere else in the world , he said it was important for the country to celebrate its indigenous services and personnel. He said Media Trust organised the conference in collaboration with Prompt Health and other partners to create, a platform where stakeholders  could address the future of medical problems, issues in Nigeria and plan towards giving the country a 21stcentury healthcare service delivery. “To my understanding, what this means  is making health care available for all. Daily Trust is committed to making sure that we spread and let people know what is available in this country. We should start with Nigeria first and if required in worst cases, go to other places,” he added. 