As more and more women continue to make significant impact in the male-dominated motion picture industry in Nigeria, there are indications their potentials are boundless if limitations are eschewed. This was the position of discussants during a ‘Women in Film’ panel, on Monday, at the ongoing ZUMA Film Festival in Abuja. The forum with the theme, ‘African Women Telling Their Stories: The Challenges and Prospects’ was one of the most interactive sessions at the festival, as young and older women shared experiences on how their beauty is either placed above their brains, or how they are considered too weak a sex to take the front seat. Sponsored by the Spanish Embassy in Nigeria, the session had Spanish filmmaker Carbelleira Arantxa Aguirre as Keynote Speaker, and Dcns. Grace Gekpe, Permanent Secretary, Federal Ministry of Information and Culture as Special Guest of Honour. The panelists include notable broadcaster, Moji Makanjuola, filmmakers Edima Otuokon and Hajiya Fatima Ahmed Ibrahim, Cameroonian actress Kocabelle mini, and actress Augusta Isaac. According to the Guest Speaker who represented former Vice President of Spain at the event: “I want to know more about African women in the film industry and their challenges,” she said, adding that, “Women are often seen in second positions which always puts them at a disadvantage.” Following the enthusiastic discussions thereafter, Aguirre asserted that the stories of gender bias are not peculiar to Africa, as women in the creative industry in Spain are faced with similar challenges. She urged women to ignore the limitations and focus on their goals in life, believing that consistency and ability to ignore distractions is key. Relating her experiences, Hajiya Fatima who said she developed interest in film right from secondary school, disclosed that, coming off her challenges, she had focused on lifting other women in the Kannywood film industry. She recalled that it was difficult in the past to get women to feature in her movies because actresses were either regarded as outcasts or prostitutes. The dreams of Kocabelle of becoming an actress was achieved in Nigeria, having faced difficulties with the male folks in Cameroon. The ‘The Johnsons’ actress disclosed that she left Cameroon in 2012 where she was creative director in an advertising agency. She attempted being a writer in the Cameroon film industry, but said whenever she entered any of the offices, especially where men were the bosses, the conversations usually shifted to romance.
She expressed regrets that men she met were unable to look beyond her physical attributes as a woman, and see what could come out of her intellect.
While in Nigeria, she decided to embrace acting, attended series of auditions and got her break in ‘Hotel Majestic’, purely on merit. Makanjuola also changed the narrative for herself as the only woman in the newsroom in her days as a young journalist. “Often times we speak to the limitations that women in film, broadcasting face. But i think we should dwell more on the strength and capabilities of women.” She recalled that back in the day, as the only woman in the newsroom, she used to be given women stories to write until she declined, saying she wanted to report politics, business, etc like her male counterparts. “As a result of this, I had been on donkeys, on my feet, in canoes to report events and places like other men. Women must find a way to showcase their capabilities. Until we start crossing the bridge for investment, we may not have women in the scheme of things. Until we begin to put out money where our mouth is, we may not move forward,” said Makanjuola who advocated for a consortium of women in the film industry to start up businesses and support other women. Makanjuola who partook in FESTAC 77 performances said, it is the strength, by women, to move forward that can salvage the gender imbalance. “There must be a deliberate move where people can invest voluntarily in women career interests,” she said. Emina spoke about the shortage of films by women at film festivals and the need to train more women creatives and invest in filmmaking. “Being the only woman in the room is an embarrassment in the 21st century,” she posited. “Women don’t want to trigger the change. As women, we need to see ourselves in other people by saying I can do what he has done or even better,” she said, adding that her group is in talks with the Nigerian Film Corporation over an academy that is strictly focused on women, with a curriculum developed at the international level in areas of production, cinematography, animation etcetera. An actress, Augusta Isaac brought a fresh dimension to the discussion, when she noted that men are equally sexually harassed by women. She said some women throw themselves cheaply to the men, seeking undue favour, as most actresses now want to have it easy instead of working hard. Despite the criticism against men, there are indications that some male folks are working to correct the seeming imbalance. Reacting to the discussion, Chike Nwoffiah who runs the Silicon Valley African Film Festival in the US, disclosed that 66 percent of films in his festival are by African women. “African renaissance is being spearheaded by women, and we must not continue to do things the same way,” he said.