…Why we removed PDP, others’ posters, billboards- LASAA  Lagos Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal Wednesday warned members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) that the police was ready to battle any group that was out to disrupt electioneering processes. Edgal gave the warning following allegations that some politicians were arming NURTW members to cause chaos should their candidates not emerge victorious in next year’s election. He spoke at a meeting with chairmen of 64 political parties and their candidates as well as other security agencies held at the Police Officers’ Mess Ikeja. He said: “There is allegation that people are arming NURTW members to cause problem during the election. I warn that we will meet force with force, fire with fire.” The Nation reports that the meeting was triggered by allegations by Peoples Democratic Party’s (PDP) Jimi Agbaje that his campaign posters, billboards were removed by unknown persons. Advising participants to engage the Lagos State Signage and Advertisement Agency (LASAA), Edgal said: “Lagos State is politically mature. The removal of the billboards and poster could not have been an intentional act and that is why I have invited the LASAA MD to be here today in order to clear the air on the issue.” However, LASAA explained that posters and billboards were removed from some roads because the parties concerned did not obtain permission. According to Managing Director LASAA Mobolaji Sanusi said it was only the All Progressives Congress (APC) that sought and obtained permission before placing their campaign posters. He said there were rules and regulations guiding the pasting of bills in the state which must be adhered to, adding that the agency usually undertook weekly clean-up to take out unapproved pasted bills. Resident Electoral Commissioner Sam Olumekun advised politicians to focus on issues-based campaign instead of things that could result to violence. Olumakun noted that INEC would ensure a free, fair and credible election which he said can only be achieved in a peaceful atmosphere. At the meeting were all candidates of the 64 registered political parties except Agbaje who was represented  by his deputy Mrs. Haleemat Busari.