*Babachir Lawal in Aso Rock  President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday night promised that party men and women who work hard for the party towards 2019 general elections will be rewarded adequately. He gave the assurance during the launch of the TogetherNigeria group at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja. The group is supporting the reelection of President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 election. The President regretted that not all those that worked for the party in 2015 were rewarded. He also thanked the Nigerian celebrities for laundering Nigeria’s image globally. He said “Tonight’s event once again reminds me of our political struggles over the years and the support I enjoyed from many support structures such as The Buhari Organization (TBO) and Buhari Support Organization (BSO). I am happy that today we are not only celebrating our election victory but our numerous land mark achievements. “I have listened and I acknowledge with delight the story of Buhari Support Organization (BSO) past, present and future from previous speakers. In particular, I commend the plan to reorganize and reposition the organization towards the forth coming election and beyond. This has once again given me further encouragement, hope and optimism in our political journey. “At this point, I would like to acknowledge the over whelming support I enjoyed from individuals and organizations across the country over the years. I say thank you to all those who contributed to our successes in one way or the other. “Some of you, individuals and organizations, may be feeling disappointed because we have not been able to please everyone. I would like to assure you that this time hard work and loyalty will be rewarded adequately. “Finally, I wish to thank the TOGETHER NIGERIA Group for educating the world about our good work and achievements. I will like to also thank our celebrities for projecting the image of Nigeria globally and for your contributions to the development of our entertainment industries. “To our teeming supporters across the country and beyond I say thank you for your continuing and unrelenting support.” he said Those who attended the ceremony included the Wife of the President, Dr Aisha Buhari, Wife of the Vice President, Dolapo Osinbajo. Also at the occasion were the Nasarawa State Governor, Tanko Almakura and the Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun. The former Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Babachir David Lawal was also among dignitaries that graced the occasion.