The newly elected traditional ruler of Ogbogidi/Ozara in Nsukka Local Government Area of Enugu State, High Chief Samuel Ikechukwu Asadu is building a 20-bed cottage hospital for his community. Asadu until his elevation to the traditional stool was a nurse in Dallas Texas for over 24 years before the community bestowed on him the traditional authority of Ogbogidi/Ozara autonomous community. Laying the foundation stone of the hospital in the community, the chairman of Nsukka Local Government Area Chief Patrick Omeje represented by Mr. Chinedu Aniche administrator Nsukka West Development centre said that the cottage hospital embarked by the Igwe-elect of Ogbogidi/Ozara community was a restoration of human dignity, adding that sacred human life is centred on healthy situation and environment. Omeje said that the cottage hospital will be of immense assistance to the community and beyond, noting that the singular act of the traditional ruler elect was to complement the state governor, Ifeannyi Ugwuanyi’s developmental strides across the three geo-political zones of the state. “For a traditional ruler-elect to embark on a hospital project for his community to ameliorate health challenges shows commitment and care for the community. The project will save the cost travelling long distances for medical attention. Communities in the state should not wait for government to do everything for them. This was the reason why High Chief Asadu embarked on the cottage hospital to augment the state government efforts in the communities. “Recently the state government disbursed N5 million to every community in the state to embark on any project of their choice to bring governance closer to the grass root. The new autonomous communities are yet to benefit from the state government gesture while High Chief Asadu did not wait for the state government gesture and took the bull by the horn erecting 20-bed space cottage hospital for his community,” he noted. Omeje called on donor agencies, philanthropists, and NGOs, among others, to emulate the kind gesture of Asadu and embark on any project in their various communities and change the type face of the community to assist government efforts on infrastructural development Speaking at the occasion, the donor said the project ýwas a divine call from God to put a permanent structure for the community than the annual merriment of food, drinks and gift items. The traditional ruler-elect said that the hospital project was part of the burning desire in him to tackle the health challenges in the community and beyond, explaining that it was not healthy for pregnant women and sick ones of the community to travel long distances for medical attention as he can afford to build a cottage hospital for the community. Asadu explained that he was mostly touched to embark on ýthe cottage hospital having paid hospital bills for people of the community for over 20 years, adding that the cottage hospital when completed hopefully on or before August 2019 will be free medical services to the community. The traditional ruler elect noted that he would employ and pay both ýdoctors and nurses, equip the hospital with drugs at all times to ensure that nothing lacks for the health of people of the community. He said that the hospital was meant to contain 14 beds for adults and six beds for children with pharmacy department and outpatient bay, pointing out that Ogbogidi/Ozara community raised him and it is time to give back to the community what it bestowed on him. Asadu said that the community meant a lot to him as he provided electricity, water and just recently built a bungalow for indigent widow of the community, adding that people should not wait for government to do everything. Philanthropists have to play a role in development. “It is better for me to die in charity than having fat bank accounts while people wallow in abject poverty and penury. I will not pack money for my children in banks, they have to make their own money and perform more than me. If I am installed by the state government it will give me more access to issues of the community than calling on government assistance. I made my money in nursing and know what it is for people to be healthy,’’ he said. Also speaking Nsukka local government supervisory councillor for health, Hon. Florence Chinonye Ugwu expressed gratitude for singular gesture of the Igwe elect embarking on 20 bed cottage ýhospital for Ogbogidi/Ozara community which remains second to none in the history of the entire Edem Ani ancient kingdom of Nsukka Local Government extraction and Enugu State in general. Ugwu noted that both the state governor, Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi and the local government chairman of Nsukka Chief Patrick Omeje have achieved a lot in the health sector on areas of child delivery system, extension of district hospitals in the three geo-political zoes of the state. She noted that Chief Omeje recently donated his monthly salary for medical services in the locality, supporting the health sector of the council in immunisations and other health facilities and creating more health centres at various communities in the area.