The governorship candidate of the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), Malam Salihu Sagir Takai, yesterday advocated for issue-based campaign among political parties devoid of hate-speech, fake news and negative tendencies. Takai who stated this at Kano NUJ Press Centre during the launching of a website by Takai 2019 New Media Team, urged his teeming supporters to always uphold truth, honesty and sincerity of purpose. The former Commissioner for Local Government Affairs and governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in 2015, derscribe PRPas a party to beat in Kano, judging by its people-oriented principles. He said: “We decided to use the social media as a tool to reach out to the people in propagating our ideology and manifesto because of its wide acceptance. We have come to understand that the world is now a global village.  This is why I am appealing to our social media team to propagate the truth and nothing but the truth. Takai adeed: “We don’t believe that politics is a do-or-die affair. We will not be out to attack personalities. We will not be out to engage in hate-speeches of undue propaganda. We will reach out to the people of the state and tell them how we are going to transform Kano, because we believe that Kano is in dire need of redemption.” He further stated that arrangements have been concluded by his media team to launch a door-to-door campaign, “we will go to the people. We will reach out to the people one-on-one and tell them how prepared we are to transform Kano and put our great state on the part of progress.”  Also speaking, the state chairman of the party, Comrade Sammani Sharif Bashir advised the social media team and website handlers of the party not to derail from the principles and ideology of the party which is based on truth and equality for all.  He added that, “PRP as a party is in support of the website and every other move that will give our elective candidates victory and bring about development in the state. I appeal to our social media team to disseminate accurate information that will sell out our manifesto and endear to the minds of the electorate.”   