Niger state government has deployed security teams to curtail the activities of armed bandits terrorizing Munya local government area of the state. The armed bandits were said to have been chased out of Zamfara state by security operatives for acts ranging from kidnapping and armed robbery. The residents of the community had complained over the excessive attacks of the bandits in recent times which had resulted to kidnappings to the government. The leader of the Vigilante in Sariki Pawa, Saliah Mohammed, who spoke to a team of journalists said the joint effort of the security agencies provided by the state government have reduced bandits operations in Munya and its environs. According to him, the security challenge is being caused by the porous boundaries of Kaduna, Zamfara and other neighboring states,  stating that more needs to be done in the part of the government to put an end to the activities of the bandits. The Leader of Vigilante however commanded the effort of Governor Abubakar Sani Bello, for his quick intervention in providing security whenever it is needed. The Secretary of Munya Council, Aliyu Dogo said there had been peace for sometime in the local government council until the bandits chased from  other states decided to use the forest as their home. “The bandits chased from Zamfara have been terrorising villages situated along Sarikin Pawa – Kaduna road. When we got the information that they are around, we alerted the state government and they responded promptly by deploying security operatives comprises of military, police and vigilante to deal with it. “The state government intervention has helped a lot to reduce the menace as the security personnel deployed in the affected areas does not give them a breathing space to perform their act”, he said. The Village Head of Sarikin Pawa, Mallam Musa Mohammed who also commended government intervention called for more security personnel to battle the bandits that have vowed to make life unbearable for the unsuspected citizens of the area. “We need the government to send more soldiers and police to protect us from the hands of Zamfara bandits, they are robbing our people on daily basis. They are hiding in the bush with dangerous weapons. “Bandits and kidnappers who were dislodged from Zamfara had shifted their base to Sarikin Pawa,  wreaking havoc on the part of the state, come to our aid urgently. “