The General Overseer of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, has warned people using his pictures and those of his wife for various souvenirs being sold across the country to kindly desist from such act as he is not God. Adeboye said this on Friday at the ongoing annual Holy Ghost Congress of the church holding at the Redemption Camp, Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The event brought together Christian faithful from 197 countries. “It has been brought to my notice that people are using my picture and that of my wife on key holders, calendars, books and other souvenirs.  This is wrong and anyone found with such materials should be arrested and reported to the police. I am not God. I did not send them. I have nothing to do with those materials. I am an ordinary man of God. God will never share his glory with any man. I am not ready to die. Devil, I am not ready to go,” Adeboye declared. He noted that what they are doing can lead to serious trouble, not for them, but for him. “If at any time, God is sensing that a man is trying to share his glory, the man is dead,” Adeboye said, adding that whether the devil likes it or not, he is not going anywhere yet. He added that “if you find anyone selling  anything whatsoever with my picture or my wife’s, report them to the police immediately.” He noted that recently a woman bought a key holder with his picture and his wife’s inscribed on it and gave it to her child and the child began to eat the key holder and in no time, the picture pasted on the key holder removed and surprisingly what they found was the picture of another tele evangelist, Prophet T. B Joshua. “I know you all know what that means. Please stop and cooperate,” he pleaded. He challenged the worshipers to continue to live their lives in accordance with God’s word. During the prayer session, wife of the General Overseer of RCCG, Pastor Folu Adeboye, lamented the spate of killings, occultism and wickedness being perpetuated by today’s youth, saying it calls for national repentance and a conscious appeal to God for forgiveness, if Nigeria will ever be great again. 