•Senate, House seek investigation THE Air Force said last night that progress has been made on the circumstances surrounding the killing of former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh. According to the Air Force Director of Information and Public Relations, Air Commodore Ibikunle Daramola, details of the development would be made public soon. Air Commodore Daramola, in a statement, however, cautioned against spreading of false information regarding the killing by yet to be identified gunmen. He said: “The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has noted, with dismay, some erroneous reports and comments in the media regarding the unfortunate incident that led to the death of former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) on December 18, 2018. “Some of these reports erroneously state that the driver of the late former CDS, who was also shot during the incident, is dead. Other reports allege that adequate security was not provided for the deceased Air Chief Marshal. “The NAF wishes to state categorically that nothing could be further from the truth.  Firstly, all are please requested to note that the driver is alive and recuperating extremely well at one of our NAF Hospitals. “Secondly, Air Chief Marshal Badeh has always been provided with the full-compliment of personal staff and security personnel commensurate with his status as a former Chief of the Air Staff (CAS), CDS and a four-star general in the Armed Forces.” The statement added: “As mentioned by the CAS, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, on December 19, 2018, the NAF is working closely with other relevant security agencies to determine the circumstances surrounding the death of the former CDS with a view to ensuring that the perpetrators of the heinous act are brought to justice. “Substantial progress has already been made in the ongoing investigation and details would be communicated at the appropriate time.” But, the Senate and the House of Representatives yesterday asked the Federal Government to investigate the circumstances surrounding the assassination of former Chief of Defence Staff, Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh (retd). The upper chamber also asked security agencies to search and rescue Badeh’s personal staff abducted and held hostage by his assailants. The resolutions followed the unanimous adoption of a motion on “the demise of Alex Badeh, Chief of Defence Staff retired”. The motion was sponsored by Senators Binta Masi Garba (Adamawa North) and Bala Ibn Na’Alla (Kebbi South). The House urged the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and Director General (DG)  of Department of State Services (DSS)  to investigate and uncover those behind the killing of former Chief of Defence Staff (CDS) Air Chief Marshal Alex Badeh. Condemning the dastardly act in its totality, Bashir Babale (APC, Kano) advised everyone in position of authority to be mindful of the purpose of the responsibilities assigned to them, while others expressed suspicion over the killing. This followed the adoption of a motion by Abdulrahman Abubakar (APC, Adamawa), who regretted that a worthy son of Adamawa State that served the country meritoriously was gruesomely murdered by unknown gunmen.