Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) president, Amaju Pinnick has hinted that the Super Falcons will receive a rain of rewards for winning the 11th Africa Women Cup of Nations but added that all willing givers are waiting for President Muhammadu Buhari to lead the way. Although Pinnick did not put any date to the expected hosting of the Falcons by President Buhari, footballlive.ng gathered that those willing to reward the team have put their gestures on hold. This much was revealed by Pinnick in another congratulatory message to the Falcons, which he praised for showing the true Nigerian spirit in how they held out to defeat South Africa via penalties in last weekend’s AWCON 2018 final at the Accra Sports Stadium, Ghana. Pinnick said he could not stop praising the players and, while he hinted that the Falcons will soon get several rewards from various quarters, he said the benefactors are all waiting for President Buhari to have the first honour. While describing the Falcons as one of the most accomplished teams in world football, Pinnick stated that many of those who wish to reward the squad are cautious not to jump the gun ahead of Buhari. Pinnick, who is also first vice-president of Confederation of African Football (CAF), further disclosed that some NFF partners and sponsors, as well as state governors also wish to host the champions. He further promised that the NFF will support Falcons’ coach, Thomas Dennerby to ensure that the team is well prepared for the 2019 World Cup in France, where he believes they can get their best outing ever. The NFF boss stated as much when he visited the team at Starview Hotel, Abuja in the company of the NFF general-secretary, Dr Sanusi Mohammed and Head of Women Football, Ruth David. Pinnick added: “I want to congratulate and also thank you once again for what you did on Saturday, making us all proud. You displayed the quintessential Nigerian Spirit. You showed that the Nigerian flag strengthened you and that is why, even during the extra time, you were not tired. “We can’t thank our father, President Buhari enough for his immense support to Nigerian Football. The President is really happy with what you have done which had never been done by any women national team. Germany and America have dominated their respective confederation championships, winning eight titles each. However, no country had ever won nine times. That is why President Buhari wants to meet you as soon as possible. “Our sponsors are also lining up to host and honour you, as well as some state governors, who have indicated their interest in hosting you, but all that will be after the President hosts you. We are already working with the coach who has submitted his plans for the World Cup to us. “I am talking to some European Federation presidents and president of the European Union Football Association, Aleksander Ceferin to secure friendly matches for the team in preparation for the World Cup.”