In a move to further enlighten investors and the general public on the process and benefits of e-Dividend, multiple subscription, e-processes and other contemporary issues in the Nigerian Capital Market, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), will be holding a Town Hall meeting with stakeholders and the general public in Enugu. The event which has as its Theme: “Current Initiatives by the Securities and Exchange Commission, SEC Nigeria to Enhance Investor Value”, is expected to draw participants from various segments of the society. The meeting is scheduled for Thursday December 6, 2018 at Hotel Sylvia, No. 66 Ezillo Avenue, Independence Layout, Enugu State. Registration of participants starts by 9:00 am while the main event starts at 10:00 am. The event will create an avenue for the Apex capital market regulator to educate and enlighten the public on the above subject and also for operators, stakeholders and various investors to interact and discuss other issues surrounding the activities of the capital market. Recall that the SEC in January 2015 commenced the e-dividend registration campaign in Abuja with a road show culminating in a town hall meeting. The event will also provide an opportunity to throw more highlights on investment opportunities available in Nigerian Capital market and how retail investors can benefit therein. The Commission had announced that the e-dividend registration would continue seamlessly in spite of the expiration of free registration deadline and also enjoined investors yet to enroll, to continue with the registration at a cost of N150 only. “Investors should continue to approach their banks or registrars, as usual, to seamlessly mandate their bank accounts for the collection of their dividends electronically, including unclaimed dividends, not exceeding 12 years of issue; as the N150 would not be demanded from them at the point of registration. “Also, the Commission recently extended the forbearance period for regularization of multiple share subscription to another one year after the expiration on 31st December 2018.” Acting Director General of the Commission, Mary Uduk disclosed this in her address at the 3rd and final Capital Market Committee(CMC) meeting held for the year 2018 in Lagos. “I am delighted to report that on the lingering issue of multiple subscriptions and forbearance for shareholders with multiple accounts, the CMC agreed that the forbearance window should be extended by another year from the December 31,2018 deadline previously communicated”, she said. The SEC boss called on investors to take advantage of this opportunity to claim their unclaimed dividends and bonuses before the expiration of forbearance period.