Environmental Activists under the aegis of National Coalition on Gas Flaring and Oil Spill in the Niger Delta (NACGOND) have advised Nigerians in general and people of Niger Delta in particular to engage in activities that will ensure protection of the environment from the effects of climate change. The group gave the advice during a one-day workshop on the Niger Delta Environmental protection Summit and official launch of State Climate Change Policy Framework and Action Plan. The theme of the workshop was “Safeguarding the Niger Delta Environment through State Climate Change Polices and Action Plans”. The event held in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital. NACGOND is a civil society organisation whose interest is on oil spill and the environment. The group engages in research and evidence-based advocacy to ensure that issues of oil spills and gas flaring are quickly addressed. It also advocates that techniques and procedures used by international oil companies (IOCs) for oil exploration activities, clean-up and remediation of despoiled soils and water meet international best practices. Speaking at the event, the National Coordinator of NACGOND, Rev. Fr Edward Obi said: “It is our responsibility, the elites of our society; it is about you acting from your own house, within your family, within your community, local government, your state and then the region. It is we who can change the tide of this climate change.” According to him, the impact of the climate change is already severe in the Niger Delta because within the last six years, the region has experienced two major floods which indicate that the sea levels are rising. This means that there is more water than the region can handle. He said: “We have to change the old ways of doing things. When you drink your sachet water, do not throw it on the ground to block the drainage; put it in the trash can. That way, we can save ourselves of the waves that come with climate change. “We are our Environment and our environment is us”, he said. He accused government of not being supportive on the issue of curtailing climate change in the country, especially the Niger Delta. He stated that the region do not have to wait for a major catastrophe before reacting or preparing for climate change. Rivers State Commissioner for Energy and Natural Resources, Damiette Minna who was represented by Henry Ashiri said: “It is an indisputable fact that the Niger Delta region maintains the nation’s economy and Rivers State as a major stakeholder in the oil and gas sectorial activity bears the sectorial bunch of the devastation, environmental impact, neglect and total abandonment in association with oil and gas activities.” Contributing, the Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Environment represented by Mrs. Comfort Tom Asuquo, Director, Climate Change and Awareness, Ministry of Environment and Mineral Resources, urged everyone to preach the gospel of the Niger Delta Climate Change in the pulpits because it will go a long way in saving the unborn generation from calamities emanating from Climate Change. Also speaking, Abia State Director of Pollution Control and Environmental Health, Ikechukwu Ukaegbu reeled off loss of land to the sea, loss of livelihoods, increased frequency and risk of water borne diseases, loss of physical infrastructure, among others, as some of the  effects of climate change, even as he called for effective collaboration in finding lasting solutions to them.