Five occupants of a Toyota Sienna SUV with registration number MH 630 UWN Enugu were reportedly feared dead when their car rammed into a stationary truck. The incident, our reporter gathered occurred at Umunka village along the Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway. When our reporter contacted the Aba Unit of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) through their official line, they said that they were yet-to-be informed about the incident. A staff of the government agency who pleaded not to be mentioned at the time of this report said that they have dispatched a patrol team on the Aba-Port Harcourt axis of the expressway to investigate the incident. Sources who witnessed the incident confirmed that the passengers in the Sienna SUV numbering five died on the spot. Narrating the incident, one of the eye witnesses who gave his name simply as Fred said “we were all here and the next thing we heard was a loud bang. “By the time we got there, we saw the light Green coloured Sienna trapped under the truck which has been stationary for some time now. From the way it happened, it looks like either that the driver lost control of his vehicle or that his mind was not where is driving to. It could also be that he is not familiar with the road. “But like every driver who is not familiar with a road, the person should not be driving recklessly as could be the case of this driver. The incident happened in the afternoon and that makes us wonder why the accident should happen. “Though a lot of people said that the driver may have noticed that the truck was stationary very late, others suggested that it could be as a result of brake failure. “The question is if the truck owner failed to indicate that the truck broke down with the usual green leave that they drop on the road, how did the driver ram into the truck to have such impact on the car and the passengers if he was not on top of speed? “The car stuck deep into the stationary truck that we had to call for the assistance of another truck to pull the Sienna out of the other truck to see if there are people that could be saved, but when that finally happened, no passenger of the Sienna was alive.” Another eyewitness who couldn’t hide her emotions lamented the death of the accident victims, stating that it was high time the federal government through the ministry of works becomes alive to their responsibilities; by making sure that Nigerian roads were safe for use. However, some motorists who spoke to our reporter over the incident lamented the poor and deplorable state of Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway. This is even as they stated that it was long overdue for rehabilitation especially because of the economic importance of the road to the economy of the South-South and Southeast and the nation at large. One of the motorists who gave his name as Gilbert Ndudim lamented the rate of robbery on the expressway adding that a journey of less than 30mins from Port Harcourt to Aba, Abia State now takes over two hours. Ndudim who also bemoaned federal, Abia and River State governments for allowing the road to deteriorate badly called for urgent palliative work on some of the bad spots now that the rains have subsided pending when a comprehensive work would be done on the road going by the increase in vehicular movement on the road expected within the festive period.