The O Trafford Squash Club headed by Aderemi Adeseun has decided to host their First Professional Squash Association (PSA) national satellite tournament in conjunction with the National Squash Federation from the 19-22 December 2018 at the 81 Division Army Officers Mess, Outer Marina, Lagos which will feature two gold medalists at the recent National Sport Festival held in Abuja. The tourney which is said to earn ranking points for the players and also for visibility purpose will be a 16 draws event having 48-players for the senior male category and 27 for the female category, also the star prize for the tournament is not in an equal form as the male side is to receive the sum of $1,000 and $500 for the female side. Speaking in a press briefing at the O Trafford squash club, the President of the Nigeria Squash Federation, Boye Oyerinde said, “ This championship will be the first PSA national tournament which we are inviting other squash clubs like the Ikoyi club and others, we have brought this initiative to boost the growth of squash game in Nigeria. The grand prize for the event will not be equal due to some reasons best known to the organisers but next year we will try to make it equal,” he said. “We are going to invite two gold medalists at the National Sport Festival for the competition. We made this tournament a senior event because every other squash championship always involve the age grade category, so we decided to make our in a different dimension. I see squash game in the next five years competing with football,” he added. Captain of the club, Biyi Mabadeje also lauded the effort of the chairman of the club and other members. ”We are delighted to have this competition because this club has been in existence for a while without nothing to show for it, so I appreciate the chairman and every other organisers of the event.” The O Trafford Squash Club, which is said to be the only registered and surviving squash clubs in the country, was formerly inaugurated in the year 2013 and got the name ‘O Trafford’ through the erstwhile chairman, Larry Ettah, a Manchester United fan who decided to modernise the name ‘Old Trafford’ which he finally came out with the ‘O Trafford’ for the club.