The governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has said the party will defeat the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate, Mr. Jimi Agbaje, in next year’s general elections. Speaking to a large crowd of party leaders and members during a stakeholders’ meeting at the party’s secretariat on Acme Road in Ogba, Ikeja, the state capital, the APC candidate maintained that it would be foolhardy for anyone who thinks Lagosians “who are in bondage” will vote from them. “How can someone be talking about freedom in Lagos?” Sanwo-Olu asked. He added: “Are we in the 18th or 19th century when slavery was the order of the day? Lagos has always been free. The state is the fifth largest economy in Africa, the cynosure and envy of all other states across Nigeria. It is the bedrock of the nation’s economy, where everyone who is enterprising records success without any form of hindrance. “It is obvious that Jimi Agbaje and indeed the PDP do not have anything to say; so, they had to resort to freedom. This won’t fly; it won’t sell. Lagosians will not buy it.” Amidst cheers from the teeming APC supporters, Sanwo-Olu queried the role of Agbaje as a candidate and PDP as a party had played in the development of Lagos State. He said it was the same freedom that Agbaje clamoured for that had made him run for governorship three times in a row. Sanwo-Olu said: “We have freedom here in Lagos and that is why someone like Jimi Agbaje can aspire to govern the state three consecutive times. Although he has failed in all two attempts, I can guarantee you that he will fail this time around because Lagosians don’t trust him or his party, the PDP. “Where were they several years ago when our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, in concert with other members of the State Executive Council (Exco), toiled day and night to revamp Lagos economy from paltry N600 million monthly Internally Generated Revenue (IGR), which could not pay Lagos State workers’ salary, to over N30 billion.”