Her goal was to graduate with first class.  But becoming the Overall Best graduating student was not part of the plan.  However, achieving it came as a pleasant surprise for Miss Oluwatobiloba Oyindamola Akinyele who graduated from the Department of Nutrition and Dietitics of the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.91 – the best result for the 2016/2017 academic session. The 23-year-old said of the feat: “Eight years ago, if someone had told me a day like this would come, I would have laughed in the person’s face just because I never thought I could reach this academic height.” Tobiloba dedicated her feat to her mother, who she said took the role of both father and mother and constantly strove to make her who she is today. “I knew from the start that it was not going to be easy, considering the fact that I crossed from Agricultural Technology to Nutrition and Dietetics through Direct Entry. But through hard work, consistent learning and most of all, God, I was able to achieve the feat,” she said. Tobiloba also expressed gratitude to Dr Adeyinka Sanda of the Department of Animal Breeding and Genetics for his mentorship which changed her orientation and goal. She also expressed appreciation to the Chancellor, Vice-Chancellor and other Principal Officers of FUNAAB for the smooth running of the University. She praised FUNAAB lecturers for not engaging in sex for marks, disclosing that, she was not disturbed by her lecturers throughout her study. “I was not disturbed by the lecturers and I thank God for that.  I am happy God answered my prayers,” she said. Expressing her displeasure at the poor quality of education in Nigeria, Tobiloba said, “Our educational system is not encouraging”, and challenged government to focus more attention on the sector. Regarding her career ambitions, Tobiloba hopes to become a lecturer; and if the opportunity arises work with the World Health Organisation (WHO).  She said she believes that prayer can open doors to greater heights.