BACK home in Lagos from a 2002 Accra, Ghana, conference on natural medicine, I headed straight for my village, Odole-Isonyin, Ogun State, in search of a Chinese cash herb tree said to grow luxuriantly in southwestern Nigeria and named by the pharmacopea of western Nigeria as Igi Alukoko (r-d-d-d.). Oil from the seed was selling like hot cake in the United States, where it was helping many patients of depression, and the Chinese, trust them, were exporting more and more of this oil to the U.S. It had no capacity to make oil from the seeds. All I wanted to do was pick some of the leaves of this tree, dry and then pulversise them to powder, and use this in kitchen experiments to confirm or debunk the claims made at the conference that the oil and leaf extracts calmed trait nerves and make insomniac and depressed people sleep better than many pharmaceutical drugs do. I was roundly disappointed wherever I went. It so happened that, in the decade before then, many ”bush” areas in Ijebuland where tree grew had given way to modern houses in the quest to turn bushes into towns. I remembered Igi Alukoko again last week when a gentleman who was recovering from depression encouraged me to address this subject for the benefit of readers of this column who may have cases of depression on their hands. I could not resist the thought for depression because I have friends and acquaintances among readers of this column who are themselves close to states of clinical depression on account of their children who are depressed. I mentioned one such case in passing recently, in the column on Codeine and Tramadol. Another that I could not mention because of space constraints was that of a gentleman who has three of four children going in and out of hospital from time to time on account of drugs use related to depression. Many people are in one stage of depression or the other without knowing that they are. When friends indulge in group drinking, feeling happy when they slough alcohol, they may be on the way to full blown depression. I have a carpenter friend who has disappeared from circulation on account of depression. Any time I visited him at his workshop and I found him spraying furniture with polish without a nose guard and I told him he was killing himself installmentally, he replied that his body was used to the fumes. Soon after, he bagan to behave abnormally. He would wear a native dress and knot a tie on it and wear tennis canvas shoes. Later, he began to speak of Jesus visiting him in his dream and telling him that a Heavenly Host had anointed him the successor to then President Olusegun Obasanjo. One day, he won N500, 000 on Lagos Lottery. All advice on how he could wisely invest the money fell on deaf ears. He bought drinks freely for everyone, and went after women without caution. He bought four of the latest big screen cell phones, one for a different sim card. Everywhere he went, phones rang about him. His customers could be calling. So could be his women or fair weather people who wanted to enjoy his largesse. In the end, he crashed financially and emotionally. Till this day, no one at Ilupeju Model Market, on Town Planning Way, Ilupeju, Lagos, where he was the lead carpenter, can say where he is, or what has befallen him. Unfortunately for depressed people in Nigeria, many of them are mistaken for mad or insane people, many of whose condition I described in an earlier column as likely cases of possession. In possession, a departed but earth-bound soul is trying to take over the brain, partially or wholly, of a person still in the flesh, with a view to using the body, because the blood radiations of the affected person have become so weak or dull to permit this.  Depression  A simple picture I see before me is that every one of us is a bundle of energy. This ”energy” is a spark which is meant to burst into flame, flowering and fruiting in this great and wonderful Creation. It is the highest gradation of Spirit from the Spirit world or Paradise. As editor of the CROSS CORPER, the magazine of youth corps members in Cross River State in 1977/1978, I was shocked in the course of my research of a subject for publication to learn that the great scientist Dalton, who propounded the atomic theory of his days, believed that spirit is the energy which binds all sub-atomic particles together in the nucleus of the atom. It is this energy that is released for bombs, electricity etc. when the atom is broken into its primeval component. As on earth, where the finest gradation of matter forms the human body, including its brains and lesser gradations of matter forms waters, trees, rocks, sand etc, the highest gradation of spirit in the spiritual world, paradise, forms the human spirit while lesser gradations form the environment of Paradise.The world of matter is lifeless. Certain gradations of spirit or spirit mode hold material components together and animate them, that gives them seeming life. Doesn’t our physical bodies not similarly come to life with the fist kicks of pregnancy the foetus mid-way though pregnancy when the soul enters into or incarnates in this growing body and does it not fall apart in so-called earthly death when the soul departs? We have heard of black holes, dead stars. They are nothing but stars from which light, that is the binding spirit energy, has departed and which, gravitationally has consequently collapsed imploded upon itself. There is nowhere this energy is not present … in the suns and in the stars, in the raging fire in the bowels of the earth, and in the core of man, spirit. The bundle of energy within everyone of us, spirit, that is man himself, is expected to maintain a homeostatic balance against all other forces of energy in its environment. If it cannot maintain equilibrium, it would cave in and collapse, and the physical body it is meant to animate for its use on earth would become derelict and sick. That why knowing physicians that is, physicians knowing in these matters, do not treat only the body which has been made sick by the sick animating core, Spirit, within, and fail to treat the ”mind” along with it. I used the term ”mind” advisedly here, because that is the level at which many people recognise and appreciate the spirit, especially when the talk about mind – over matter diseases. Some even call diseases of spiritual origin ”emotional” diseases.  Signs of depression  Many parents of depressed children miss the first signs or early warning signals. These may include withdrawal or hibernation, insomnia, irritability, ingratitude, aloofness, compulsive eating or appetite loss, lethargy or lack of interest in anything, fatigue,  mood swings, guilt feelings, feelings of worthlessness, helplessness or hopelessness, crying without apparent cause, insomnia or oversleeping, body aches, digestive, and other problems, attention deficit problems, inability to make sound decisions or any decision, decreased libido and lack of interest in the opposite gender, growing anxiety, fear which may degenerate into schizophrenia, evasion of social situations, suicidal thoughts, negative thoughts, excessive drinking, euphoric or free spending. These conditions may degenerate into worse forms of depression which may witness soliloquising, violence, memory impairment, hallucination e.t.c. At the stage of hallucination, a depressed person may do what he or she would ordinarily not do in a normal situation. In this stage, the person may come under ethereal influences. I once witnessed a young woman try to strip herself nude and fight her mother who tried to stop her. I have heard of lonesome, absent-minded people who made cemeteries their homes. We know of people who prefer uncompleted or abandoned buildings to the splendor and comfort of air-conditioned luxury homes. They eat anything they see. They do not mind if they wear the same clothes for weeks or if they do not bathe for months. I heard the story of a university undergraduate who was talked into abortion by her boyfriend and jilted after. For about two years, she was a source of depression to her parents and siblings at home. They hid all dangerous objects from her, and locked her in-door whenever they went to work. She may not eat for one or two weeks, or eat too little for comfort. She menstruated on her body and clothes in bed and on the sitting-room couch. She spoke to no-one. Then, one day, she overheard a conversation among her siblings. A younger sibling was getting married. She spoke, expressing surprise. She learned how much time had elapsed, beg and began to think of and see herself as a woman who should make herself desirable for a man to talk to. I advised that the household subtly keep up the momentum. No harsh words. No references to the past, except she longed for illumination. Positive, up-building words are healing words. Her healing had begun. Today, she works and hopes to go back to school and …. to get married someday. She is lucky. Her family is loving and supportive. In such families, such children are cast out or even eliminated. I stood with this family and share in their joy.  Some causes of depression There are too many possible causes that they cannot all be mentioned here. But remember that we are all bundles of energy raring to grow from a spark into a flame. As a bundle of energy, you are in danger everyday of losing some energy to the environment when you should be gaining from it. We lose energy through leaks at home, in offices, during bus rides, everywhere. In www.olufemikusa.com I posted a much, much older column of Stanley Redfield’s four human dramas which steal energy from us, as published in his great book, CELESTINE PROPHESY. Energy theft, which may plunge one into depression, usually begins with one’s parents. Depression sets in when the energy within cannot withstand the energy force of the energy from outside acting upon it, and it caves in and collapses. I will mention only two of those four traits or drama of a parent which may plunge a child into depression. Husbands may plunge their wives into depression with their life dramas. Wives may do so to their husbands, as well. Anyone who is an intimidator seeks steal energy from another. They bellow, utter negative words and impact negative thoughts, always seeking to cow the other party into submission. There are interrogators also. These see nothing good in whatever you do, are fault finders and see to make you go only their own way. As an extension of the habit, these parents try to push their own children through their own world. It does not occur to them that their children are mere guests in their lives who must go their own ways at the appointed time, and whose path, parents, especially mothers, are meant to be faithful guardians of. Some of these parents present perfectionist models. They fail to recognise that, in a family of five children for example, all children will be different, and that one model of upbringing will not bring out the best in all. By removing a child from his or her natural tracts and pressing them into ours, and then casting them out of our lives when they trip and fall and become depressed, we stand before God like Lucifer. Many children are in Psychiatric hospitals today who should not have been there. They may have been so verbally abused, compared with ”success” children so often that their feeling of self-worth is destroyed by the same parents who think they love them. Feeling cast out, they withdraw to themselves, become fearful, apathetic, no longer believing in themselves, finds respite in drugs to high-up and square up, finds solace in similar souls maltreated likewise by parents and society, and may become violent towards the ”irritants” in their lives. From my experiences, their frame of mind is easy to deconstruct with love therapies. As mentioned earlier, there are many possible causes of depression. In their PRESCIPTIONS FOR NATURAL CURES, Dr. James F. Balch and Mark Stengler N. D., advise us: “(Root causes: Tension and Stress, unresolved emotional issues, chronic illness or pain, neuro – transmitter imbalance, hormonal imbalance especially after child birth or as a result of oral contraceptives and other synthetic hormone medications commonly occurs with PMS and menopause. PRE-EXISTING CONDITIONS: most commonly hypoglycemia, anaemia, sleep apnea, low adrenal function and thyroid gland malfunction, alcoholic and recreational drug use, poor diet, food allergies, nutritional deficiencies (particularly of B12, Folic acid, B6, B1 and Tryptophan), lack of sunlight, medications, including corticosteroids, anti-histamine, blood pressure medications, anti-inflammatory drugs, narcotics and some pharmaceutical anti-depressants, heavy metal toxicity, candidiasis, sleep disturbances)”.  Some helpful therapies  Dr. Balch and Dr Stengler have covered wide terrain. Unfortunately, in our environment, many psychiatrists think largely of narcotic drugs. But, I must state that they are rendering an indispensable service with the boxing up of the patient in a controlled environment where he or she can be stabilised. I believe it will be helping their work if they include nutrition in their therapy after the patient has stabilised, to prevent a relapse, which often occurs because the roots or underlying causes may not have been addressed. The naturopath begins his own therapy by checking on the patient’s tongues. If it is overly grayish, this may suggest systemic candidiasis. I  have seen ”hay wire” people normalise on tissue salts for candidiasis, Zinc, Amazon A-F and detoxifying herbs such as Chlorella, Spirulina and Cilantro all of which help the body to excrete disturbing heavy metals. L- Tyrosine aid vitamin B complete are regulars in the prescriptions of Dr. Pri-scilla Slagle, according to THE DOCTORS BOOKS OF HOME REMEDIES. Dr. Balch and Dr. Slengler prescribe them, too. The Doctors Book of Home Remedies say of Dr. Slagle: Nutrition – more than anything else – control your state of mind, claims Priscilla Slagle M.D., an associate clinical professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, UCLA School of Medicine. The most beneficial nutrients for battling depression. Above all, she says its B vitamins and certain Amino acids. Here is her formula: ”If you are feeling down, try 1,000 to 3,000mg of the amino acid L-tyrosine fist thing in the morning (on an empty stomach) followed by a B-Complex vitamin Supplement 30 minutes later, with breakfast, suggest Dr. Slage.” ” L-tyrosine converts in the brain to Nor epinephrine, a chemical that promotes positive mood and gives us motivation and drive”, she says. Dr. Balch and Dr. Stengler suggest that B vitamins at 50mg dosage be taken two times a day because they are important in the manufacture of neurotransmitter. These are chemical substances which help the brain to stay ”cool” and function properly. They suggest, also the amino acid DL-Phenylalanine which the brain all uses to make neurotransmitter. But they contra-indicate in conditions of insomnia, high blood pressure and anxiety. Their star prescription would appear to be S- adenosylmethionine (SAME) which they say ”increases the concentration of brain neurotransmitters which are responsible for your mood”. They do not forget 5-hydroxyltriptophan (5-HT P), from which the brain makes the neurotransmitter serotonin. The oil of the seed of Igi Alukoko provides the U.S market with 5- HTP. Serotonin which keeps us awake and at the alert during the day, and to melatonin which helps us to sleep soundly at night. These doctors also suggest inclusion of complex carbohydrates in the diet, saying they are rich sources of serotonin. Unfortunately, most, if not all patients of depression, live on simple carbohydrates or even junk foods. I have witnessed some depressed people heal whatever disturbances in the brain caused their condition when they began to eat for their brains, literally speaking Ginkgo biloba increases blood supply to the brain and improves micro circulation inside it. Alpha Lipoic Acid (ALA), an antioxidant, protects the brain against free radicals which may seek to damage it or hamper its works. Lecithin increases the concentration of choline and Inositol in the neurons of the brain, thereby improving brain energy. Omega-3 oils improve memory and improve attention span.