Samuel Oniyitan works as a marketing specialist but his passion – acting, film making and modeling – defines him with over 15 works to his credit in 21 years. In this interview with JOE AGBRO JR, Oniyitan, who is set to storm Nollywood with his latest film, ‘Abeke’, speaks more of his film making career. Excerpts What are you up to? We just finished shooting a movie about a month ago. It’s a Yoruba movie called ‘Ase’. And now, we’re filming the movie called ‘Abeke’. And the target for ‘Abeke’, it’s going to cinema but cinema is not the baseline. Our main target is Netflix. And we’re shooting with Red camera at the Rock city, Abeokuta. What caused your hibernation from the movie circuit? Entertainment generally is my passion. But, basically, I love acting. I think it started from when I was age five when we used to watch Yoruba movies featuring Abija, Arelu. So, any incantation they recite on the TV on Sunday, getting to school on Monday, I was still in primary school then, we’d start doing our own. Me, I would say I’m Abija, another person would tell me he is Fadeyi and we would start reciting it then. And later I realised that when I got to primary six, they started involving me in drama. Then when I got to secondary school, we had a drama group and I was a member. And when I got to SS 2, I became the president. So, after leaving secondary school, I went into it. I featured in Super Story. It was not really a major role. But later I now realised that I need to go to school. As a young filmmaker, what do you think you’ll offer to penetrate the movie industry and be a success? I have been somebody that doesn’t negotiate quality right from my childhood. What is worth doing is worth doing well. There was a time we wanted to shoot Yoruba movie and I was asking my co-ordinator, he was giving me a budget of N600, 000. But when I looked at the content, I now told him that I don’t want a messy job, that if he can’t do this, let’s take it out. On the long run, we ended up spending N1.6m because I want a quality job. People have done series of things. But there are lots of improvement that I believe we can do. Like for ‘Abeke,’ we’re using some of the best hands Mainframe always use on their work. We even go the extent and do something a little bit above what people are doing. I’ve only been seeing Creative Directors when I watch American movies. But we went to the extent to bring a Creative Director on our movie that’s going to be shot. Which of your work would stand out for you? This one (‘Abeke’) we’re about to shoot. Why? Because it was a dream. I was listening to a Yoruba song and they were playing something about Abeke and I slept off. When I woke up, I just remembered I was seeing this, I was seeing that. So, I started writing them down. The first person I called was my coordinator. When I told him, he said ‘call the writer and explain to him.’ When I called the writer, the writer called him back that he’s seeing a lot of sense in it. Then, after putting the script down, everyone we showed it to took it as their personal project. The DOP saw it. He was telling us so many things – that this is unique, this is strange, this is an award-winning script. So, it has really been inspiring. What’s going to sell ‘Abeke’? Most people in cinema want to see Rotimi Raji or Tunde Olaoye or Kunle Afolayan directing their movie. We’re using Rotimi Raji. Then, the camera they’re looking at – we’re using Red Dragon of the highest quality. Then the DOP is number one DOP, not even in Nigeria, as far as I’m concerned, in Africa, Lukman Abdulrahman. Then, let’s now talk about the cast. We have Wole Ojo on this cast. We have seven major cast – we have Wole Ojo, Kehinde Bankole, Toyin Abraham, Akin Lewis. Then for the Ifa, we’re making use of Peter Fatomilola. Is it Yoruba? It’s 20 per cent Yoruba, 80 per cent English. You said you got the inspiration of ‘Abeke’ from your dream. What’s the story all about? It’s a love story and it’s like we’re going back in time. We’re going back to late 70s. There is a lady called Abeke. You have two guys, one is Fayele, the other is Aderoju. One is young, handsome, wealthy and arrogant. The other one too is young, handsome, no money, is educated but he is a primary school teacher and he is from the Ifa. But Abeke chose to go for Fayele, the humble and responsible guy. What’s the budget of the movie? On paper, it’s N10m but there are some things that we’re doing that we didn’t account for. We’re close to N15m based on what we have spent now. They’re even some we did not even record. How do you manage to combine working as a consultant and also as a filmmaker? Combining the work and movie together has not been easy, I must be factual about that. But God is helping me. Seriously, one is already killing one because these days, I get busy more on movies. Like now, the reason why I’m not on set this week is that I’m preparing for my own movie too. So, I decided not to take any job this week. But immediately after this job, my calendar is fixed till end of February (2019). And how do I consult? Honestly, though I have other team that we work together, so, they have been doing that on my behalf. But all things being equal, I’ve been coping and I’ve been getting more jobs. And you know the face is not common. At times, some people would just see me when I go to locations like, ‘when did you join this industry? I like you, the way you look.’ They would collect my number. The next two, three days, they might just give me a call, ‘they want somebody that looks like you. At least, somebody invited me because of my head. He said most of the black guys that are tall, it’s either they don’t have full hair and the one that has full hair would be short. Acting or producing, which is your strength? Acting. Then why did you cross over to producing? If you’re an actor, you still have to be a producer. It goes side by side. The fact must be said, the economy is not really encouraging people to stick to one particular thing. But my own is a different case. I came into the industry to be a producer and an actor, a model. Are you married? I always want to avoid that. I’m sorry, I have my reasons because it’s complicated. But people would find out as time goes on. You’re a handsome man and the ladies would be attracted to you. Has there been any shocking incident so far? I receive a lot of that every day. I don’t know but I observed some things right from the time when I was in secondary school. Ladies do everything to get along with me. I’ve been able to manage myself, discipline myself. That’s just the watchword because I know where I’m going, I know where I want to get to. What’s like a shocking message you’ve received. If you go on my page (Instagram), you’ll see some messages when I post some pictures. Some people would write it publicly, ‘can you be the father of my children?’ ‘Can I have your babies?’. And how do you respond to that? This morning, somebody was telling me, are you still single or an album? My response is I would just laugh it off. Nollywood now and then. Now, the technicality has changed, the equipment, the lightning, even trainings. People go to film school. But acting is not a matter of film school. It’s in you, it’s just a talent. I know most people that went to film schools but you will not even hear their names today. Even if you see them on TV, you’ll be wondering, did these ones go to film school? But it’s something that’s in you. You just have to build it. I remember the first day I came back into his Nollywood industry. I was on set with Jide Kosoko. That day, he was looking at me, with eye contact, telling me that ‘I like you. You’re messing up.’ He would tell director, ‘let him repeat what he is doing.’ That day, I felt he was witch-hunting me. That was my thought. It was later, anytime I’m on set, I always remember what he told me and I always put it into practice. And the last set I met him on ‘Impulse’, there. That day, he reminded me of what he said the first day. And I also remembered immediately I saw him. He shook me and he said ‘you’re just getting there.’ That ‘I knew right from the first day I met you that the sky is your beginning.’