The Comptroller-General of Immigration (CGI), Alhaji Mohammed Babandede, yesterday  said the issue of porous borders remained the major challenge facing Immigration officers at the moment. According to him, the numerous porous borders is militating against the ability of the officers to have control of the entire borders of the country. Babandede, who spoke while taking delivery of two class room blocks and two boreholes, executed for the Immigration training School in Kano by Bristow Helicopters, said:” No country in the world that is not facing border challenges,” adding that it has an Herculean task controlling the 140  borders, across the entire country. For effective border control, Babandede, while thanking Bristow Helicopters for the good gesture, stressed the need to have spread at the borders, adding that the recent establishment of Immigration Technology Building by President Muhammadu Buhari, is to serve as a data and Command centre for Nigeria. By the establishing the Technology building, the CGI, said the training centre is an everlasting legacy that will enhance learning and capacity building, as well as, expressed confidence that entire concept of border security has been revolutionized, which means we will be able to patrol, based on  the concept of technology. ”I am glad to say that this will change the method  of border control, which would no longer be physical, as it would be purely based on technology on what is happening at our borders. The duty of Immigration is to ensure the entry and exit of screened people, so, we will be able to tell all security agencies of the threat of unwanted persons, like those, who want to enter our premises. That is the revolution. ”We can’t do 21st century crime, with an 11th century mindset. We are going to be ahead of the criminals.” In his keynote address, Bristow Managing Director, Captain Oladapo Oyedipe said, we chose to assist Immigration, adding that when you are leaving and entering the country, the Immigration Service is actually the face of Nigeria. ”Invariably, they are the last people you will see on your way out and probably the first people you will see on your way in. So, it is important that they are trained to the highest standard that you can find globally.” ” So, for us, we see this as the way of enhancing that ethos in training schools to develop and bring out the best of the Nigerian Immigration Service, it is an extension of what we do already. So, we are very proud to be part of this history.” In his address, the Commandant of the Training School, Idris Olusegun, thanked Bristow management for building the two class room blocks, for the training of cadets at the superintendent level. According to him, it will, among others enhance the capacity building of the Immigration Service toward advancing service delivery to the next level. 