DISTURBED by the spread of violent protests across Gusau, the Zamfara State capital, President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday ordered the military, the Department of State Services (DSS), the police and other security agencies to restore normalcy. The President condemned the killing of innocent Nigerians in Birnin Magaji community in Tsafe Local Government Area and Magami community in Faru District of Maradun Local Government Area of the state. The attacks were carried out by armed bandits. The protesters, including Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs), went violent in their protest against incessant killings by bandits. They blocked the Gusau – Funtua – Zaria road, leaving commuters going to Zaria, Kaduna, Kano, Sokoto and Kebbi states stranded for hours. The protesters set ablaze the secretariat of the Tsafe Local Government Area and burnt down 18 vehicles and motorbikes, demanding that the Federal Government put an end to the orgy of killings of villagers. Mobile policemen were called in to restore normalcy. The protest which was initially peaceful,  was hijacked by some youths. In a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media & Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President said: “These horrendous acts of violence are crimes against humanity. This violence must stop.” Expressing his deepest condolences to the families of those killed in the attacks, the government and people of Zamfara State, President Buhari also wished those injured speedy recovery. He authorised an assessment trip to Zamfara and Sokoto states by the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshall Abubakar Baba Sadiq, on Christmas and Boxing days. The President reassured residents of states under armed bandits’ siege, including Zamfara, Sokoto, Kaduna, Niger and Taraba, that their safety “is an enduring commitment of his administration” and he will continue to ensure that security agencies work round the clock to protect the local population. According to him, a major operation by the Nigerian Armed Forces, police, DSS and the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, is being considered to restore peace and stability in the region. The President conveyed his strong support to the police, which has already deployed Special Forces in the local government areas in Zamfara and the Defence Headquarters’ deployment of a Special Military Intervention Force, comprising more than 1,000 personnel to respond to the security challenges in the North Central and North West. The statement said: “These measures, among others, will be intensified to flush out the bandits from wherever they are. The President praised Nigerians for their support to our security agencies who have continued to demonstrate dedication, commitment and bravery even in very difficult and complex operations. Tsafe Council Chairman Aliyu Abubakar said:  ”These thugs must have been motivated by mischievous politicians who feel that they must always be in control or they will not allow peace to reign. “We have recently bought some cars and motorcycles which we intend to distribute to the citizens of the area under our empowerment programme and all these have been raised to ashes including some private properties.” He said the local government will raise a team to “investigate the matter and anyone found wanting, especially the sponsors, will be made to face the full wrath of the law”. Police Public Relations Officer Mohammed Shehu, said the State Police Command had curtailed the violence. He confirmed the deployment of 1 1/2 Units of PMF/CTU, police personnel and Special Forces to Tsafe to protect lives and properties. He said: “We have restored normalcy to Tsafe and its environs.  The police and other security Agencies are in total control of the situation with rigorous patrol, stop and search and continuous raiding of identified criminal hideouts ongoing. “The  Commissioner of Police, Zamfara State Command,  Usman A. Belel, along with the Brigade Commander and other heads of security agencies Visited Tsafe in the early hours of to assess the security situation and ensure total regards to law and order. “The Command appeals for continued support and cooperation from members of the public by giving the police and other security agencies timely information on activities of disgruntled elements in the state for prompt action.”