Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and Northwest Coordinator of the Atiku /Obi 2019 presidential campaign has said that the people of Northwest would vote wisely for PDP devoid of sentiment. While presenting his welcome address Monday in Sokoto at the flag off,   Tambuwal who described Atiku as a well incubated political icon and democrat noted that the country was yearning for him as he remains the best choice with the required credentials to lead. “PDP will run an all-inclusive government with priority to the youths as well drives our economy to prosperity. “If given Atiku the mandate, he will transform our agriculture, education, create job for our teeming youths and ensure respect for the rule of law in the principle of uplifting the tenets of separation of powers where independence would be encouraged for our national stability”, he explained. While urging Nigerians to turn out enmasse and entrust their mandate in Atiku added that” Atiku is a leader who believes in our youths. So believe in who believes in you. Unlike the current president who will go out of the shores of this country and smear the good image of our country as well discourage our youths by name tagging them as ‘lazy,” he stressed. Former Kaduna state governor and immediate past Caretaker Committee chairman of the party, Senator Ahmed Muhammad Makarfi said he was optimistic of Atiku’s victory, noting that only God gives power and as such he has the form believe that PDP would form government. Former Jigawa state governor, Alhaji Sule Lamido advised Nigerians to reconcile their individual state of survival with current realities in terms of security, poverty, socio-economic transformation which were at their lowest ebb as a result of bad governance. In his remarks, former Minister of Special Duties, Tanimu Kabiru Turaki described the APC led government as unrealistic and woeful in its promise to Nigerians to make it better. “We have heard a lot of rhetorics by the APC led regime and nothing has happened. Nigerians are fed up and need a messiah in PDP,” he stressed Taraba state governor, Darius Ishaku urged Nigerians to massively  vote for PDP presidential candidate, adding that” we the PDP governors have resolved to mobilise our people to actively support the dream of our party by making it victorious,” he called. Former Niger state governor, Mu’azu Babangida Aliyu urged PDP members to ensure their votes go to Atiku whom he believes has what it takes to sail Nigeria through the murky waters of bad governance created by the ruling APC.