 Minister of Transportation Rotimi Amaechi took a historic trip on the Lagos- Ibadan standard gauge rail line on Tuesday for about 50 minutes. During his routine visit on December 4, Amaechi insisted he had to ride a rail car on the tracks by December 18. He embarked on the 36- km journey with members of the House Committee on Land Transportation led by its chairman Abdulmumin Jibrin, top officials of the Federal Ministry of Transportation, top management of the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC), officials of the Federal Ministry of Works, the CCECC and a consortium of Federal Government engineers and consultants. Amaechi expressed his readiness to invite Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and other members of the Federal Executive Council to a ride on the tracks by first week of January. He dedicated the success of the project to the media, who according to him, defied the sun or rain to stay on the project since it started in June 2017. He commended the contractor for bringing the project to fruition within 18 months, while challenging local engineers to rise to the occasion and salvage the nation from the clutches of foreign domination. “While praising the Chinese for their engineering prowess which has turned a rain forest into an emerging city, our engineers must see this as a challenge and save Nigeria from the clutches of foreign domination in the area of construction,” Amaechi said. The minister added: “This project is nearing completion, right now, work has advanced and we are six kilometres away from Abeokuta. “The contractors have assured me that we would be able to ride from Iju in Lagos to Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital by the first week of January 2019. “The idea is to bring the Vice President and some ministers to join in the ride.” He said once the track is flagged off, the route would be opened for passenger traffic while efforts would be doubled to ensure the standard gauge be taken to Ibadan. He said work would begin on the construction of stations immediately the project gets to Ibadan.