THOSE accusing the Federal Government of plotting to manipulate next year’s elections in favour of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC)  are living with the fear of the harmless, President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday. He promised that the results of the polls would reflect the yearnings of the electorate. He said he understood the yearnings of Nigerians and strongly believed in the collective dream for a greater country. “All will be done to ensure that the results of 2019 elections reflect the will of the people,” the President assured Finland Ambassador to Nigeria, Dr Jyrki Juhani Pulkkinen, who was at the State House to present his Letter of Credence. A statement by the Special Adviser on Media & Publicity, Femi Adesina, quoted Buhari as saying that Nigerians reserved the right to elect leaders at the various levels in 2019, and that all efforts would be made to safeguard the integrity of the process. ”I respect the people’s feelings. I assure all that we will have a free and fair election next year,’’ the President was quoted as saying. The President congratulated Finland on its 101st Independence anniversary (December 6) and commended its growing relations with Nigeria, especially in the areas of Information Communication Technology (ICT), trade and education. The Finland envoy said the areas of mutual benefit in relations with Nigeria could be extended to electricity, smart technology and crises management initiatives, pointing out that he would work hard to improve the trade figures and exchanges. He said: “We will like to contribute to Africa rising, and we know that Nigeria is the biggest country on the continent, so we are very interested in the growth of Nigeria.’’ At the level of the United Nations (UN), Dr. Pulkkinen said his country would continue to support the restructuring of the multilateral institution to give greater roles to African countries, including Nigeria. Also receiving the Letter of Credence from French Ambassador Jerome Pasquier, President Buhari described France President Emmanuel Macron’s visit to Nigeria’s capital, Abuja, and his stopover in Lagos, as impressive, adding that it would bolster blateral relations. The President said he was impressed with relations between France and its former colonies in Africa, noting that France had been playing positive roles in promoting security and economic growth in the countries. “France is investing so much in Nigeria and we are grateful,’’ he added. President Buhari, however, called for more support in the fight against terrorism as the networks keep expanding with fighters moving across borders to support insurgents. Responding, the envoy said that President Macron would continue to support Nigeria, especially in the war against terrorism, with specific interest in gathering and sharing of intelligence. He commended the President for Nigeria’s role in resolving the crisis in Togo and Guinea Bissau. President Buhari also received the Letter of Credence from the Ambassador of Czech Republic, Marek Skolil, assuring him of improved economic relations in areas, such as solid minerals exploration. Mr Skolil said his country would continue to support Nigeria’s military in the fight against terrorism in Northeast. “Nigeria is a very important country for us. We look forward to stronger ties, particularly with the armed forces.’’ he said.