Though not the final placement he wished for, Nigeria youth international Ahmad Abdullah Gero says there are reasons to be grateful after finishing sixth in his first season with Jonkoping Sodra. Few youngsters from Africa are often lucky to walk straight into the main team of European teams but Gero is a special talent, no wonder he was sparingly handed the captainship of the club’s Under-21 armband barely months after nestling at the Swedish second division side. “My brother told me a lot about Sweden and that I have to be smart and work hard,” Ahmad, the 19-year-old erstwhile captain of Nigeria U-15 to the 2014 African Youth Football Tournament in Botswana, told The Nation. “That I must show them that I can play, so I put that in my mind and I saw everything he told me when I got here.” Ahmad is indeed following the footsteps of his brother, Alhaji Gero, the lively striker who played in the NPFL with Lobi Stars, Kaduna United and Enugu Rangers as well as the national U-20 team before moving to Ostersunds FK in Sweden. But for Ahmad, there is indeed blessing in disappointment since he got the chance of moving abroad after he missed the Golden Eaglets’ cut for the FIFA U-17 World Cup Chile 2015. “My brother (Alhaji Gero) has been looking out for clubs for me since when I was in the national U-15 but we were promoted to the U-17 team when we came back from Botswana. “But  I didn’t make the 25-man list  for the training camp in Argentina  and I went back home to continue training with my team; not long ago I got invitation from Jonkoping Sodra to come for trials and after few weeks, I was a given a pre-contract. Always wearing his smile, Ahmad said he counted himself lucky to have come out of a football-loving family, adding that his predecessors practically smoothened his path in chasing his dreams. “I grew up in a family that loves football; all my brothers play football and right from my younger years, I’d loved football,” he revealed. “My brother (Alhaji Gero) really helped me to get this opportunity of coming to Sweden; he has assisted every member of our family in one way or the other. “My brother used to play here in Sweden with Ostersunds FK but he has moved to Esteghlal in Iran and I was so happy when he played against Al Sadd, the club of former Barcelona star Xavi and  Gabi (former Atletico Madrid captain), in the Asia Champions League. “My brother is one of the reasons I chose football as a career; football is my life. I love football so much and I have one hundred percent confidence that I’ll be one of the best players in the world because nothing is impossible with hard work, discipline, consistency and prayer and I want to get there (the top) in order to make my family, friends and my country proud. “Through football, I want to assist people and I think footballers can help a lot of people in Africa and Nigeria because a lot of people need help. “This thing (philanthropy) has been in my heart since I was young. It has also been my ambition in football to represent my fatherland, Nigeria.” Ahmad has partly achieved that dream of playing for Nigeria and he delights with the pleasure of leading out the national the U-15 level in Botswana. “Playing for the national U-15 was really a great experience for me as the captain. We went to Botswana and we won the soccer Gold at the African Youth Games. “That was really a good achievement for me but I’m looking forward to get called to the national Under-20 after doing so well with my club in Sweden,” noted Ahmad as he chats through his fledging career with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Excerpts… Coping with life in Sweden It’s really difficult to live in another country at my age and the only thing I hate most is the snow. Besides that, it has been a good experience for me because I have been exposed to different trainings than what I was used to back home in Nigeria. But I’m coping well because everything in life is about believing in yourself and with hard work, I think everything will be okay. My brother told me a lot about Sweden and that I have to be smart and work hard. That I must show them that I can play, so I put that in my mind and I saw everything he told me when I got here. I’m the only African player in the team. They are serious and hardworking people. I like especially the way they have helped me; they are really nice people and I try to learn every day from them. My humble beginning I started as left winger but one coach in my city, Kano, told me one day ‘as from today, you are not a winger, you are a striker.’ Thereafter at training, I was just crying whenever I was played as a striker then. The same thing was said by Coach Haruna Ilerika in my first training with the national U-15 team and that was how I fitted into the role as a striker. I like to watch Cristiano Ronaldo because of his hard work and determination, but my hero is my dad. He taught me a lot; he showed me how to live with people and how to live life simple. He told me to always be humble. My parents and I I have my mom and my dad but my dad passed away this year. I miss everything from him, especially when all the family meet in parlour just to talk about life. My father taught us many things especially to be patient in life; that everything that comes your way, whether it’s good or bad just take it and continue living your life. That we should not listen to people when we are doing something good, they’ll talk shit but we shouldn’t listen to them. He told me to have respect for everyone in life, whether he’s bigger or smaller than me. We have a large family; we are 13 children but I’m the 5th. My season review My team finished in sixth position on the table for 2018.My best moment was with the Under-21 team of my club (Jonkoping Sodra). I was the highest goal scorer in the Under-21 league and I scored 20 goals with six assists. My expectation in 2019 is to help the team to get back to first division and score many goals as much as possible and to get the chance to represent my country at any level. But I will be happy to join the Nigerian U-20 team, the Flying Eagles.