Until 27 years ago, Idris Jimoh Ajibaye, 69, was very independent; he could feed his family of five, pay school fees and even drive his family on outings in his 504 Peugeot car. But all these came to a stop when he suddenly lost his sight. Was he sick? This reporter asked when the former tipper truck driver visited The Nation on Tuesday to tell his sad story and ask for assistance to rent a house as he doesn’t have a place to live in anymore. Hear him: “I was not born blind. In 1991, after breakfast, I went to the motor park to take my tipper out for work, but as soon as I entered the tipper and switched on the engine , my sight left me. I was supposed to go and load sharp sand, I had not gotten to the place but I just couldn’t see anymore. “I never had any problems with my sight until that fateful morning. After losing my sight , I started visiting  hospitals, herbalists, mosques and churches to see if I could get it back until the right was restored one and I started  to  drive again. But on  August 17, 1999,  I lost the right eye  again and I became completely blind till today.” He said on the day he lost  his sight the  second time, he had delivered sand to the TeslimBalogun Stadium  three times and was preparing for his fourth trip when he noticed that he couldn’t see anymore. ”I used to have two tippers, and a car. I bought my first tipper in 1986 and the second in 1993, but right now, I don’t have anything. The plate numbers of my tippers were LA 249 BE and 012304AH. The person I gave them to manage didn’t use them well. He kept telling me stories till I sold them off.“ He continued: “After I went blind again, I began to spend money until I spent all I had on trying to find a solution to my blindness. Soon, I couldn’t take up my responsibilities anymore. I began to live on what people give to me.” More tragedy struck him when his wife died from tuberculosis in 2007 shortly after his only son died. Ajibaye was sent away from the house he used to live in and his friend who gave him a room after his eviction also told him that he needed the place as soon as possible. What this means is that he may soon be sent out to the streets. He is calling on well-meaning Nigerians to assist him with another home. “I have written to AsiwajuBola Ahmed Tinubu, Babatunde RajiFashola and even Governor AkinwunmiAmbode since my predicament began because I supplied almost all the sand used in building Alausa in 1975, but I haven’t heard anything from them. I don’t think they even saw the letters.” Crying, Ajibaye said if he had built a house before now, he wouldn’t be  begging  as one of his two daughters who is married, along with her husband, tries to feed him once a day. ”My daughter is not working and I cannot burden her husband with all the responsibility. If I had a male child, who was alive, I would have pleaded with him to take me in or rent a place for me. They feed me but they cannot pay the rent. I need help to get another house. I used to pay my rent with the help of people but they couldn’t meet up with the payment anymore. Donations can be made to First Bank account 3061524502 with account name IdrisJimohAjibaye.