Former Chief of Staff to the Imo State governor Uche Nwosu on Tuesday said that the failure to clinch the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) as a result of the injustice meted out to him by the National Chairman  of  the APC, Adams Oshiomhole, cannot stop him from winning governorship election under the platform of Action Alliance (AA). Nwosu who officially announced his emergence as the governorship  candidate of the AA at the Sam Mbakwe International Cargo Airport Owerri, shortly after his arrival from Abuja, disclosed that injustice, impunity, lack of respect for party’s constitution forced him out of APC. He stated that the entire APC structure ,except those supporting the senatorial ambition of governor Rochas Okorocha had defected to AA. Describing AA as a party with the ideal democratic manifesto, Nwosu added that his ambition to succeed Okorocha was driven by the fact that he enjoys the massive support of over 70 percent of the population of the state electorate . He said that AA will corporate with APC to deliver President Muhammadu Buhari, deliver him as the next governor of the state and  Okorocha who is still in APC as a Senator. According  to him,  “We are going to work with APC to deliver President Muhammadu Buhari in Imo state. We will deliver governor Rochas Okorocha as senator because AA has no Senatorial candidate in Orlu zone” He continued that, “I have no problem with President Muhammadu Buhari. The problem is the National chairman of APC. He stole my mandate and administered injustice to many of us in Imo state. “It is a divine project and we are ready for the election.It is inter party marriage between AA and APC in Imo state. We  will work with APC to deliver president Muhammadu Buhari, governor Rochas Okorocha, myself and all our candidates”. He said that his resolve to defect to AA was to ensure that he respected the wish of the youths of the state who were projecting his governorship ambition. Meanwhile, the Chairman of Imo youths Council Hon. Jeff Nwoha, said that thousands of youths of the state had defected to AA to ensure that Nwosu emerged the next governor of the state. Nwoha said that the youths would reject any ploy to rig the 2019 governorship election in the state. He informed that the youths would work for Okorocha who is the APC candidate for Imo West senatorial district and Buhari. 