The Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police in-charge of Zone II, Lawal Shehu, yesterday declared war on herbalists and human part dealers in Lagos and Ogun states. The action followed a spate of ritual killings and exhumation of bodies at graveyards and other places. Lamenting the involvement of young people in ritual activities, Shehu said each time the suspects were apprehended, they usually claimed they were herbalists, adding that some native doctors were aiding and abetting the practice. “If they are herbalists what are they doing with human parts? These ones we arrested on December 3, about 8:30pm, were found with human skull. “We received information that Jimoh Adeola of Muslim Cemetery, Oke Yadi, Abeokuta, Ogun State was in possession of human parts and has been dealing in such for a long time. “Detectives of the Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS) were detailed to investigate. Five suspects were arrested and exhibits recovered. Others nabbed are Lukmon Bayewunmi, Kabir Badmus, Victor Nnacheta and Nurudeen Sogaolu. “Dried human jaw and scalp were recovered from them. They will be arraigned soon. “This is a warning to criminals and those aiding them. Whether they are ritualists, militants or robbers, we have been instructed to drive them out of this zone. We are in collaboration with the Lagos and Ogun police commands as well as vigilance groups. “We have launched a strategy to go after all those who call themselves herbalists, but are ritualists. If they can go to the graves to exhume bodies and dismember them, they can as well do same to human beings. We will not tolerate any crime. This is why during the two weeks I have held sway, we have recorded a lot of achievements.” Nnacheta, 20, said he paid a native doctor N250,000 to perform ritual for him so that he would become a billionaire. Badmus, an Islamic cleric also contacted by Nnacheta for money ritual, said he knew him through one Gabriel, adding that the young man told him he was into football betting and wanted to become a billionaire. Badmus said: “They called me and explained his (Nnacheta’s) problem and I told them to come to Abeokuta. I gave him three options. The first was that I would prepare concoction for him so that when he drank it, his business would boom. The second option was to give him a soap bought that he would pray on, while the third was to prepare a fresh soap for him, which would require those items. One of the soaps was made using human skull and a bird called “Eiye Oge.” “I got the skull for N50,000 from a mortuary attendant. He brought them to me. It was the mortuary attendant’s wife who called me that brought Alfa to his house. Within two hours, police arrived my house and arrested me. “I was still contemplating what to do when they arrived. What I wanted to do for Nnacheta is called ‘ransu’. He did not choose anyone. He allowed me to choose an option for him. I have not done this before. The job does not bring wealth; it is called ‘awure’ in Yoruba language.”  