Esperance de Tunis lifted the CAF Champions League after a dramatic two-legged final against continental rivals Al-Ahly. Having lost the first leg in Egypt, 3-1, Esperance mounted a remarkable comeback to win the tie thanks to a 3-0 win in the second leg. Supporters can use the Virgin Games promo code to wager on the Club World Cup in December. The 4-3 aggregate win gave Esperance their third CAF Champions League title and first since 2011. The Tunisian club will represent CAF at December’s FIFA Club World Cup. The assembled confederation club champions will meet in the United Arab Emirates from December 12 to 22. Esperance have the opportunity to rub elbows with the world’s elite football teams. Now, the big question is, can Esperance de Tunis win the Club World Cup? Club World Cup: The road to the final  Seven teams will meet in the UAE with matches taking place in Abu Dhabi and Al-Ain. Esperance will be joined by host team Al-Ain, Team Wellington (Oceania), Kashima Antlers (AFC), Chivas Guadalajara (CONCACAF), Real Madrid (UEFA), and either River Plate or Boca Juniors (CONMEBOL). Esperance have already qualified for the last six of the tournaments. Football supporters can follow the entire Club World Cup with Ladbrokes and never miss a kick. The Tunisian side will start their journey to the tournament’s championship game in the quarterfinals against the winners of the playoff match featuring Al-Ain and Team Wellington. On paper, the UAE hosts should get past New Zealand’s Team Wellington. Al-Ain possess some exciting players, including Sweden’s Marcus Berg, who played at the 2018 World Cup. Manager Moine Chaabani will have the opportunity to take Esperance into the semi-final where they will play the CONMEBOL representative (River Plate and Boca Juniors will play the Copa Libertadores second-leg final on November 24th). From there, a date with either Real Madrid, Chivas, or Kashima in the final with occur. Club World Cup: Is winning the tournament possible?  No Tunisian team has qualified for the Club World Cup Final. That isn’t to say Esperance won’t be the first club to do so, however. The tournament has been dominated by European and Brazilian teams since its inception in 2000. Brazilian clubs have won the competition on four occasions while European teams have lifted the trophy nine times. The last five Club World Cup tournaments have been won by Europeans. Despite European and Brazilian dominance, African and Asian clubs have qualified for the final previously. In 2016, Real Madrid needed extra-time to see off Kashima Antlers, 4-2. In 2013, Bayern Munich defeated Morocco’s Raja Casablanca, 2-0; while in 2010 DR Congo’s TP Mazembe made a Cinderella journey to the final. Club World Cup: Form matters in winning  Increasing Esperance’s chance of winning the tournament is Real Madrid’s hot and cold form this term. The Spanish side is struggling on the domestic front following the sale of Cristiano Ronaldo, but remain tournament favourite. If Esperance can make it to the final, anything could happen against Los Blancos. In 2011, Esperance made their Club World Cup debut after winning the CAF Champions League. Performances didn’t go as hoped, however, as Esperance lost to Qatar’s Al-Sadd in the quarterfinals. The team them lost to Mexico’s Monterrey in the fifth-place game. Despite their poor results, Esperance can learn from the experience and finish the 2018 tournament with a better outcome.