The President of the National Institute of Marketing of Nigeria (NIMN), Mr. Tony Agenmonmen, has explained that the decision of the council, to open a new corporate office for the institute in Government Reservation Area (GRA), Ikeja, was informed by the need to give marketing practice a new lease of life in the country. Speaking at the inauguration of the new office, recently Agenmonmen stated that for  marketing  practice to flourish in the country, it has become imperative for practitioners to practice in conducive environments that would positively project their image. Describing the new building as a collective effort of the council and the institute’s members, the NIMN boss expressed the resolve of the council in ensuring that the practice is given the utmost recognition it deserves in the country. “Though this building does not belong to us, but it is far better than where we are coming from.  Before now, nobody would be proud of being a marketer in the country, seeing the deplorable state of our former office. Though it’s still work in progress, but we believe this new place gives us a sense of pride as marketers,” he added. According to him, the institute is gradually overcoming its challenges as evident in the return of some of its members that left in the past, and the impressive attendance its activities had been able to attract in the past two years. “We had double equity challenge, in the past, but we are happy things are gradually looking up. For instance, in the past two years, our members that have left are coming back. Even our activities, especially the last one in Abuja was able to attract the presidency and other important dignitaries in the country. “While all these were positive for us, the fact that we had no befitting home (office) was a major challenge. We thought this is a convenient place. We then appealed to our members, and quite a number of them were generous,” Agenmonmen stated. According to him, the council would soon create a Hall of Fame, to recognise those who contributed towards making the idea of the office a reality. “What we are doing today, though a little step, but a giant one that will take the institute to a completely new level,” he added. Congratulating the council on the new office, the Chief Executive Officer of S.O& U and chairman of the event, Mr. Udeme Ufot, believes the location is key; since it would go a long way in boosting marketing in the country. “It’s a proud moment for the institute. The location is key. If you are marketing people, you must show where you live. The future is marketing. A location like this will be a big boost to marketing.”