It is often said that ‘all work without play makes Jack a dull boy’. In line with this time-tested truism, the Eastern Naval Command recently organised an intra-sports tournament to boost the morale of its officers for higher productivity. The launch of the maiden sports championship which took place at  the Godswill Akpabio International Stadium, Uyo, Akwa Ibom State, on Friday was attended by participants from all units of the ENC. In his opening remarks, Flag Officer Commanding Eastern Naval Command represented by Rear Admiral Abraham Adaji, welcomed the participants and units to ENC 2018 Championship. Adaji said the exercise is in line with the vision of the Chief of Naval Staff, which according to him, is to develop Naval Force that is well trained, organised and highly motivated  to enable them to discharge their constitutional role of defending the nation. “This is in furtherance of the vision of Chief of Naval Staff which is to develop Naval Force that is well trained, organised and highly motivated to discharge its constitutional role, professionally and efficiently, for the defence of Nigeria and ensuring her economic prosperity “, he said. He also said the championship was organised to foster co-operation and information sharing among sister security agencies. “The Championship will afford us the opportunity to compete with sister security agencies in order to foster the spirit of co-operation and information sharing as no agency alone will be able to confront the multifaceted security challenges facing Nigeria,” he added. He thanked the state government for keeping the cordial relationship with the Navy strong, assuring that Navy will continue to cherish the relationship. “The hosting of the Eastern Naval Command Intra-sports Championship at the Uyo modern stadium is a testimony to the good relationship that exists between the Navy and Akwa Ibom State government, Navy will continue to cherish this relationship,” he said. In his address, the Command Sports’ Officer, Lieutenant Commander Kenneth Otakagu, listed the benefits of physical exercises to the military which is to keep the military healthy for military operations, adding that the sporting event will help strengthen the existing relationship between Nigeria Navy and the sister services. “Physical exercise keeps the military healthy for military operations. “Through carefully planned and implemented physical training exercises, the military is able to maintain a high level of combat readiness with healthy capable personnel. It is widely acknowledged that participating in physical activity produces range of good health, high performance, combat readiness, physical, mental, social and economic benefits for individuals and the community. “It would foster good sportsmanship within the command as well as further consolidate the existing synergy and cordial relationship between the Nigerian Navy and the sister services “, he said. Also speaking, Akwa Ibom State Commissioner for Sports, represented by the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Sports, Elder Paul Bassey commended the military generally for recognising the importance of sports in individual’s well-being as well as nation-building. “I am aware the military generally recognise the role of sports in individual’s well-being and nation-building. Hence, personnel are not only encouraged to engage in sports but to see it as an avenue that fosters healthy competition among personnel and units”, he said. Mr Bassey said Eastern Naval Command, in collaboration with other security agencies, has made good successes in ensuring peace across the state and its waterways notwithstanding some challenges facing it. “The Eastern Naval Command has made successes notwithstanding the myriad of challenges facing it. The command, in collaboration with other security agencies in Akwa Ibom State has been actively involved in the operation across the state to ensure peace and security. The command has been a forerunner in the fight against illicit goods, especially contraband rice into the country through our waterways “, he added. He assured the command that Akwa Ibom State government will continue to support them in ensuring peace, adding that the state will continue to collaborate with the Nigerian Navy in the promotion of sports. “Akwa Ibom State will continue to support security agencies to ensure environment conducive to legitimate businesses to thrive. “The state have invested a lot in sports and will continue to collaborate with the Nigerian Navy in the promotion of sports, , he added. The event featured thug of war (Port Harcourt versus the Fleet) and oath-taking by the participants