The Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson, has appointed a former President of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, Udengs Eradiri, and four others as commissioner nominees in the state. Others appointed by the governor were a former Deputy Speaker of the state House of Assembly, Chief Victor Sam-Ateke (Brass); Pius Jonah (Ekeremor), Peter Afagha (Ogbia) and Andrew Arthur (Sagbama). Eradiri, who represents Yenagoa Local Government Area, and others were screened and cleared as commissioners by the state House of Assembly. The 24-member Assembly confirmed them during plenary presided over by the Deputy Speaker, Abraham Ngobere. Leader of the House and Member representing Sagbama Constituency I, Peter Akpe, advised the appointees to view their appointments as opportunities to serve the state. He urged them to ensure that the interest of the people of the state was paramount in their activities when assigned portfolios by the Governor, Seriake Dickson. Also, the Chief Whip of the House and lawmaker representing Kolokuma/Opokuma Constituency I, Tonye Isenah, admonished asked them to key into objectives of Dickson’s administration. He also charged the would-be commissioners to be diligent while discharging their duties as members of the state executive council. Speaking shortly after his confirmation, Eradiri said the state should expect the best from them and commended the governor for considering them worthy to serve the stage. He expressed optimism that following his leadership style, governor Dickson would give them the enabling environment to discharge their duties. Eradiri said: “I thank the governor for finding us worthy to serve the state in this capacity. Bayelsa State should expect the best from us. Leadership is about the people and you must carry the people along. “I will bring an all-inclusive leadership because I know that the governor following his leadership style will give us the enabling environment to do the job according to the best of our abilities”.