Foremost destination promoter, Dubai Tourism, has further demonstrated its commitment to popularising the Nigeria’s movie industry popularly called Nollywood. Evident from the opulent premiere of a new Nollywood movie, ‘Chief Daddy’ which held at the Oriental Hotel, Lekki, Lagos, last Sunday, the Dubai’s Department of Tourism & Commerce Marketing (DTCM), partnered notable production company, EbonyLife Films, for the society premiere. Explaining DTCM’s support for the movie and EbonyLife Film, Dubai Tourism’s Head of Campaign Management for Africa, Salim Ali Mohammed Dahman, said it was in line with its mission to help boost the Nigerian film industry, and encourage local talents while showcasing the beauty of Dubai to Nigerians as one of the leading visitors to magnificent city in United Arab Emirates.” According to him, “Nigeria is a key source market for Dubai in Africa.  We firmly believe that there is a wealth of talent within the African community and we are pleased and honored to have been given the opportunity to support Nollywood, the world’s third largest movie industry entertaining millions of people and generating income for key players. This partnership with EbonyLife Films aligns with our objective of nurturing talents as well as helping to forge ties with Nigeria Africa.” Also speaking on the unique event, and the part of Dubai Tourism in the partnership, DTCM’s Director of International Operations, Stella Fubara-Obinwa said Dubai Tourism was excited to be a part of the success of the movie premiere, as well as that of the previous movie projects it has been involved with, and pledged to continue to support similar projects by EbonyLife Films and others in Nollywood as part of its contribution to the development of the Nigerian movie industry. Dubai Tourism was also one of the leading sponsors of EbonyLife Film’s highly successful “Wedding Party” and its sequel, “Wedding Party 2: Destination Dubai’ which was shot in Lagos and glamourous locations in Dubai, and became Nollywood’s  box office reference movie by raking in N467 million worldwide. ‘Chief Daddy’ is set for release on December 14, in Nigerian cinemas.  PHOTO: L-R: Director, International Operations, Dubai Tourism, Stella Fubara-Obinwa; Head of Campaign Management for Africa, Dubai Tourism, Salim Ali Mohammed Dahman, and CEO, EbonyLife TV, Mo Abudu at the grand premiere of the movie, Chief Daddy at Oriental Hotel, Lagos on Sunday.