The petitioners – the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate in the last governorship election in Osun State, Ademola Adeleke – opened their case yesterday tendered documents, mostly result sheets, at the Election Petitions Tribunal. Lead petitioners’ lawyer, Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN), during proceedings, which lasted from 10 a.m till a little past 5 p.m, tendered 492 documents comprising the result sheets (EC8A and EC8A – VP) for 27 local government areas. The local governments are: Atakunmosa East, Atakunmosa West, Ayedaade, Ayedire, Boluwaduro, Boripe, Ede North, Ede South, Egbedore, Ejigbo, Ife East, Ifelodun, Ife North, Ife South, Ila, Ife Central, Ilesha East, Irepodun, Irewole, Isokan, Iwo, Obokun, Odo Otin, Ola Oluwa, Olorunda, Oriade and Oshogbo. Lawyers to the respondents, Adesina Agbede, for the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Abiodun Owonikoko (SAN), for Adegboyega Oyetola and Lasun Sanusi (SAN), for the All Progressives Congress (APC), examined the documents, as tendered by Ikpeazu, local government by local government and elected to reserve their objection to the point of final address. The procedure was a bit slow as each lawyer to each respondent took turn to examine the documents per local government before the tribunal, led by Justice Ibrahim Sirajo, admitted them as exhibits, numbering each item from P1 to P492. After tendering the last set of documents from Oshogbo Local Government Area around 5 p.m, Ikpeazu told the tribunal that he was willing to continue. The lawyer said he was willing to tender more documents, including voters’ registers, from about 12 local government areas. Lawyers to the respondents objected to Ikpeazu’s willingness to continue, citing the problem of security in Apo, Abuja, where the tribunal has been sitting. They requested for a postponement of further proceedings till today. In a ruling, Justice Sirajo agreed with the respondents to adjourn till today. He ordered lawyers to all parties to resume at the tribunal at 9 a.m today to sort out the documents to be tendered, before the tribunal sits at 10 a.m. The PDP and Adeleke are, by their petition, challenging the outcome of the election. They are querying the victory of APC candidate, Gboyega Oyetola, in the election. Respondents to the petition are: the INEC, APC and Oyetola – listed as first, second and third respondents. The tribunal earlier heard applications on another petition filed by Mrs Jumoke Lawal and the National Rescue Mission (NRM), with INEC, Oyetola and APC as respondents. The applications by Oyetola and APC sought the dismissal of the petition for being defective. After listening to arguments from lawyers to the parties, Justice Sirajo held that in view of the provision of Section 285(8) of the Constitution (as amended), ruling in the applications would be delivered at the time of judgment in the petition.