Prince Ikpe Ekong’s career lasted over two decades playing for 12 clubs across Africa, Asia and Europe but he revealed the call to evangelism was too much for him to ignore in a conversation from his base in Sweden with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. It may be easier for the proverbial camel to pass the eyes of the needle than for most footballers to quit the stage when the ovation is loud but Prince Ikpe Ekong believes he’s an exception following the dramatic manner he hung his boots at the peak of his career. Ekong’s career which lasted over two decades saw him playing for 12 clubs across Africa, Asia and Europe but he revealed the call to evangelism was too much for him to ignore in his heart-rending memoirs. “Life without a divine purpose is the biggest blunder,” Ekong, the former Nigeria international turned preacher, told The Nation from his base in Sweden. “Going into coaching (after my retirement) would have been like going into another football career because coaches spend more time in the field than their players.” As a player, Ekong had a storied career that started seriously at Julius Berger of Lagos to Italian Serie A with Reggiana A and then to Sweden where he signed for GAIS after God reportedly told him to do so. “I was privileged to have seen Jesus three times and the fourth time, he appeared to me at my villa in Sweden,” Ekong, who clocked 40 on 5th October, explained when pressed on why he abandoned the pitch for the pulpit. “It was an experience that no word can chronicle it. So the next thing I did was to study and acquire more knowledge for the credentials given to me by God through His son, Jesus. “He (Jesus) characteristically told me to bring his people together. I have been involved in the ministry for years; I travel around the world to visit helpless (people), prisoners and I have testified in churches to sportsmen and women.” Now a serving pastor at The Centre International Church City Church in Sweden, Ekong was spotted from the feeder team of Julius Berger by Italian club Reggiana, then under veteran coach Carlos Ancelotti. “I actually started my football career with Okoloba FC in Tolu (the popular Ajegunle district in Lagos) and later moved to Albion FC Tolu and later to Eze Boys at the Maracanã field,” he confirmed. “It was from there that I joined Julius Berger feeders and less than a year, I was offered a contract for the senior team. “I turned down the contract because I was advised by Churchill Oliseh not to sign for any professional team in Nigeria because it may hamper collecting my International Transfer Certificate (ITC) on time.” But on signing for Reggiana, Ekong was surplus to requirement because of his non-European status and was consequently farmed out as a loanee to Slovenian side, FC Koper. Between 1996 and 2000, he was further sent on loan to three other clubs including Tecos FC UAG in Mexico, AC Bellinzona in Switzerland and FCM UTA in Romania. On returning to Italy in 2000, he had to win a law suit to enable him feature for Reggiana that had fallen from the grace of playing in Serie A to Serie C2 where no non- European players were allowed “My best (career) moment was in Italy because Serie A was the best league in the world then and was a great thing as a young player,” Ekong said with benefit of hindsight. “I had fond memories of all the places I played but predominantly Italy because Italy was the introductory nation to my living abroad. “Though I did not play under Carlos Ancelotti for so long, his explanation to the club to give me a contract as a young player was indispensable for me and  it was a turning point you may call it. “Every talent needs a platform. He liked my style of play.  He is a calm person in nature, soft spoken and his success (as a coach) started with A.C Reggiana when he took the team to Serie A.” After his Italian job, Ekong signed for Chinese Super League side, Changsha Ginde, in 2003 and he recalled with nostalgia his adventure to the Far East in Asia. “Benedict Akwuegbu and I were the first Nigerians from Super Eagles to play in China,” he said. “I had good experiences playing in China; my salary and match bonuses were not taxed. “I can’t also forget the day I gave a copy of the Bible to all my teammates, sports director and owner of my club while on the bus going for a football match,” recalled the midfielder who later starred for Xiamen Lanshi. Meanwhile, it was in Sweden after playing for almost a decade at Gothenburg Athletics & Sports Association, commonly known as GAIS, Djurgardens IF and AFC Eskilstuna that Ekong started preparing for life after football. “I came to Sweden in 2006 and played there until 2013,” confirmed Ekong. “Then only Peter Ijeh was in the highest league while Chukwudi Nwogu and Kingsley Amuneke were then in the lower division. “However, I left my contract and career while I was at my peak though I was privileged to be one of the highest paid players in Sweden at that time. All that was dropped for the gospel because of the grace upon me and I saw it like Jesus told Apostle Paul the purpose he appeared to him as well as assignment he gave to him.” Today, Ekong is pleased about the progress he has made with evangelism as he criss-crosses Europe and America. He offered: “I am a (football) scout and I manage football players too. I can navigate my time by negotiating on phone and sometimes I can easily authorise someone else to stand for me if need be. “But I became a full-time pastor in 2014 and I’ll say that managing humans is not easy if not the grace of God. You need to be long-suffering, patient, humble, and to understand different kinds of human personalities. “In my own case, it is not just an African church but internationals with people from Europe, Africa, Asia and the Americas. I see my assignment as a calling from God through Jesus Christ.” Apart from his evangelism, another thing that gives Ekong deep pleasure is his admirably large nuclear family. Ans he opened up with refreshed enthusiasm. “ I met my wife (Patricia) in 1997 and that was after I left for professional football in Italy and we met  through a very dear friend, Kunle, who we used to stay together every evening after my training and within a twinkle, I knew she was what I wanted,” the love-smitten Ekong says now. “It was Kunle that introduced me to the beautiful, alluring, church-going girl. “Her desire was to marry a pastor when we met and she wasn’t interested in football or players but I think my kindness and a humble persona made her review and give me a trial “It turned out good for us and my goodness, I am a pastor today also. My wife has been very supportive from day one, she is compassionate  and very open to reasoning.” Today, his liaison with Patricia is blessed with six children, with double twins much to the pleasure of Pastor Ekong. “We have been married for 18 years and we have six children. Four boys and two girls, we had twins twice. “All my four sons play football and they are all talented. It is the grace that came on them; after all, I obeyed (the voice of God) to quit playing football for the gospel of Jesus Christ. “My first son Emmanuel Ekong  is 16 years of age and plays for the Swedish national team; he’s also  contracted with Nike and gets about 6000 Euros worth of gears every year. He is with the youth team of Empoli FC of Italy. “He combines his football career with education. He is driven to school back and forth with the club shuttle bus. Emmanuel plays piano too and he plays for our ministry whenever he is around with us. “Shalom Ekong is 14 years and plays with an academy team here in Sweden while his twin sister, Sharon, is a designer and has a strong persona. “Grace Ekong is 12years; she is a gospel singer and has written eight songs already. She plays the piano and sings so well for His glory. “My twin boys, Elijah and Elisha Ekong, are eight years already and they both play for one of the best football academies here in Sweden. One is a goalkeeper and the other a midfielder like me,” he elucidated with deep satisfaction.