Buhari, Saraki, Tinubu, Atiku greet Nigerians at Christmas It is Christmas  – the celebration of the birth of Jesus Christ. For leaders from various political leanings and religious divides, it is an opportunity to reflect on the polity, particularly next year’s elections. In their Christmas messages, they urged Nigerians to use the season in praying for successful elections in February, next year. President Muhammadu Buhari reaffirmed his promise to ensure free, fair and credible elections. Other leaders who echoed the President included Senate President Bukola Saraki, House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar, governors, lawmakers and clerics, among others. According to Buhari, his repeated pledge should not be taken as a vain political promise, as everything would be done to create a level playing field for all. The sanctity of the wishes and aspirations of the electorate will be respected, he said. “My word is my bond,’’ the President told Nigerians yesterday in his Christmas message. The President said that his commitment to free, fair, credible and violence-free polls is neither a ruse nor yet another vain political promise. In a statement by his Special Adviser on Media & Publicity Femi Adesina, President Buhari said he had already charged the security and law enforcement agencies to secure the sanctity of the ballot box and ensure that “the outcome of the polls reflects the will of the people’’. The statement reads: “It is a sworn declaration on the advancement of Nigeria, the future and safety of our young and unborn generations. “Let us tell the world that, indeed, ‘something good’ can come out from Nigeria. And it will happen, as we all team up to make it happen.’’ Buhari, who felicitated with all Nigerians, particularly Christians, on the joyous occasion of this year’s Christmas, noted that “in 2018, Nigerians have had mixed blessings, typical of human beings’’. He said: “On the pleasant side, our economy has made significant progress since coming out from recession and our faithful implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). “Agricultural revolution has seen a vastly improved local production to the detriment of importation while we have achieved surplus in our trade balance. “Similarly, infrastructural deficit has been greatly reduced with significant improvements in roads, railways, aviation and power. In addition, we have not relented in the fight against corruption while the business environment has been improved through institutional reforms.’’ The President, however, observed that on the downside, the nation had witnessed so many unnecessary deaths caused by violent clashes between neighbours, who ordinarily should complement and support one another. He said: “We cannot bring back the lives lost to floods, unfortunate fire disasters, road accidents, farmers/herders clashes and insurgency. But we can put back smiles on the faces of the grieving, the displaced and the troubled, if we show a little love and recommit ourselves to building relationships with those outside our ethnic, religious and socio-political divides.’’ According to him, “this season is another opportunity to reflect on the imagery of the humble, symbolic and divine birth of a young child thousands of years ago in Bethlehem, Judea, and the message of hope, compassion, salvation, reconciliation, forgiveness and peace that Jesus Christ embodies and conveys. “As we celebrate Christmas, exchange gifts, pray and visit loved ones, let us remember many others who cannot be with their families this time.” President Buhari also enjoined Nigerians to always remember the nation’s Armed Forces, and other security men and women who had made incredible sacrifices to keep the country safe. He said that the aged, the sick, physically challenged persons, all deserve the attention and goodwill of the well-meaning citizens in this season of love and sharing. “Together we can show generosity to our neighbours and demonstrate the diversity that makes Nigeria unique – a land with a beautiful climate and vegetation, beaming with an energetic and creative youth population. “We must not also forget that what lies ahead of us as a nation is better than whatever we must have experienced in the past.’’ In a statement by Yusuph Olaniyonu, his Special Adviser on Media & Publicity, Dr. Saraki congratulated Nigerians for their resilience in the face of the challenges facing the nation and urged them to pray for improvement in the social, political and economic conditions in the New Year. The Senate President urged Nigerians to make it part of their New Year resolution that they will play their constitutional roles to ensure that the country has a peaceful, credible, free and transparent elections in February and March 2019. He said that Nigerians should also pray that the results of the elections will lead to rapid socio-political and economic development of Nigeria. Saraki said: “I wish all Nigerians a merry Christmas and a prosperous New Year. I want to call on Christians, in particular, and Nigerians, in general, to emulate the virtues of Christ, who through self-sacrifice brought salvation to humanity. “This is a time for us to be our brother’s keeper, extend our generosity to one another and ensure that the less-privileged among us are not left out of the ensuing merriments.” Describing the forthcoming election as another opportunity to lay a new foundation for the prosperity of the nation and banishment of poverty from the land, Saraki urged the police and other security agencies to be alive to their responsibilities to secure  the lives and property of Nigerians. Abubakar urged Nigerians to reconcile with one another and show love to others. The former vice president said the essence of the birth of Jesus Christ was to reconcile man with God. He said: “Seeing that the essence of Christmas is that Christ came to earth to reconcile us to God, should we not, as beneficiaries of such divine reconciliation, reciprocate it by being reconciled with each other during this Yuletide period and beyond? “There are too many divisions in our nation today and it is up to each and every one of us to inject the healing and unifying serum of love for our neighbour into the nation’s consciousness this Christmas. “We may be Muslim, Christian or traditional religion adherents, but we are all creatures of God deserving of the love of God and of our neighbours. Let that be the attitude we embrace this Christmas and beyond.” Atiku urged all Nigerians to remember the military and security forces who have been on the frontlines defending the country, even as they celebrate Christmas. He urged Nigerians to think about the heroes who made the relative peace we live in possible, saying they endure so that we all can enjoy. The PDP presidential candidate said: “So, when next you see a soldier, boost his or her morale by acknowledging their sacrifices and thanking them. “Nigeria owes so much to the gallant officers and the men and women of our armed forces. “They epitomise the spirit of Christmas, which is sacrificial giving. Let us also celebrate the sacrifice our armed forces make for Nigeria.” The All Progressives Congress (APC) urged Nigerians to show love to the less-privileged. In a statement by its National spokesman Lanre Isa-Onilu, the ruling party said: “As we gather with family and friends for the Christmas festivities which is characterised by gift-giving, social gatherings and feasting, we should remember and extend love and generosity to the less-privileged around us. “We should also emulate the virtues of Jesus Christ exemplified by self-sacrifice. We call on Nigerians to use the joyous occasion to pray for our leaders and the peace, progress and socio-economic development of our dear country.”