YOUTHS have been urged to shun drugs, and cultism to avoid being lured into crime. The Divisional Crime Officer (DCO), Iju Police Division, Gbadebo Faseki, a Superintendent of Police (SP), gave the advice at a lecture held by three groups at Ijaiye-Ifako Local Government Area Office, Lagos on how to tackle drug abuse and cultism in Ifako-Ijaiye area of Lagos. The groups are Nigeria Policing Programme (NPP), Community Safety Partnership (CSP), Iju and Police Community Relation Committee (PCRC). Faseki said those who take drugs were prone to being lured into crime. Specifically, he warned youths against making friends with drug addicts and cultists, saying: ‘’Those who commit crimes are liable to punishment. Don’t indulge yourself in drug abuse because through it you could be lured into crime. Run away from drug takers.’’ Earlier, as part of the two-day event, the groups, led by the NPP Lagos Intervention Officer Mrs Ivy Basil-Ofili; a PCRC member, Jude Ndoh and CSP Chairman Sir Felix Usalo, kicked off a campaign from the Police Station near Iju Waterworks, marched through the Agege-Ishaga-Iju road and terminated it at the council Area office on Bola Ahmed Tinubu road. They explained that the event was aimed at reducing the menace of drug abuse cultism in the area, adding that the sensitisation has a key role to play on the issue in view of the forthcoming general elections. They were accompanied by pupils of Adeola Memorial College and Olu Abiodun High School, among other associations. The council Chairman Apostle Olorutoba Oke, whose local government partnered the groups, expressed satisfaction with the team for a good job. He emphasised the danger posed by drug abuse to the society. He cited the late President Nnamdi Azikiwe and the late Premier of Western Region Chief Obafemi Awolowo, who, as youths, travelled abroad to study and returned home with their degrees, without any problem. He told the youth that any one destined to great could have his life destroyed by drugs and that they should take Azikiwe and Awolowo as their role models. He said a drug addict would suffer from mental imbalance and would never be able to hold on to its own. ‘’I never went into drugs. That is why I can stand before you today,’’ he added. Oke urged the youth to run away from drugs. ‘’When you see drugs, run, run, run,’’ council chief counselled.