Team Coordinator of the national U-17 team, Prince Udofia, has yet tipped the Golden Eaglets for glory ahead of the Total U-17 Africa Cup of Nations Tanzania 2019, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. The national U-17 team, Golden Eaglets, remain the team to beat at the forthcoming Total U-17 Africa Cup of Nations Tanzania 2019, according to its Team Coordinator, Prince Udofia. Last September, the Golden Eaglets saw off the Black Starlets of Ghana – via the penalty shootout after they both tied 1-1 in regulation – to emerge winner of the WAFU Zone B qualifying tournament. They will now join hosts Tanzania along with six other zonal flagbearers including Cameroon (Central Zone), Uganda (Central-East Zone), Angola (South Zone), Morocco (North Zone), Senegal and Guinea (West A Zone) at the continental cadet championship to be held between 14th and 28th April 2019. On Thursday at the Mlimani City Conference Centre  in Dar es Salam, the Golden Eaglets were drawn against Tanzania, Angola and Uganda in an interesting Group A  while Guinea, Cameroon, Morocco and Senegal are housed  in Group B. Yet Udofia admitted the 13th edition of the biennial competition will be the fiercestever with the four semi-finalists guaranteed tickets to the 2019 FIFA U-17 World Peru 2019. “Tanzania  2019 can never be a walkover (for the Golden Eaglets) because every other  team coming to  the U-17 AFCON are champions in their own right after they came top in their zones,” Udofia, a U-17  World Cup winner  as Team Coordinator with the golden Eaglets class of 2015, says in an interview with The Nation. “But given Nigeria’s pedigree, we would be one of the contenders for the title. “Our target first and foremost in Tanzania is to qualify for the FIFA World Cup; we cannot afford to miss this privilege to qualify for the World Cup since 2015.” Nigeria, FIFA U-17 World Cup record winner with five titles, failed to defend her last title at India 2017 after the Golden Eaglets acrimoniously lost out to Niger in the penultimate qualifier, but Udofia is upbeat about the chances of the team nicking one of the continent’s four tickets for Peru 2019 in Tanzania. “I have no iota of doubt that we shall conquer in Tanzania, I mean winning the African Nations Cup in Tanzania. This does not mean we do not have respect for other teams; but we have so many good things going for this team,” declared the tough-talking Udofia as he speaks on Tanzania 2019 and his trajectory with the Golden Eaglets. Excerpts… Golden Eaglets’ target in Tanzania This is awesome though dicey.  Strangely, I knew we were going to be drawn against host country, Tanzania. If you check the history of the Golden Eaglets in the U-17 AFCON, you will discover that we are always drawn with the host country in almost 99 percent of past competitions. By and large, the die is cast since we have been drawn against mostly unfamiliar foes, which makes it a tricky group irrespective of the fact that we’re placed ahead of all the teams in our group. In conclusion, I will say that our preparation should start in earnest to guarantee our readiness for the competition because we hear that Angola is one of the best teams going into this Nations Cup while the host country has been in camp for almost seven months running. Nevertheless, we stand a better chance of qualifying for the World Cup and that will be our first priority in Tanzania. The WAFU B Tournament in Niger I was really not in doubt that we were going to qualify for Tanzania 2019 despite the fact that we lost to Burkina Faso in the opening match and this is due to the enormous work done on the team collectively. Before going to the zonal qualifier in Niger, we deliberately hid the team for obvious reasons. During our preparation, we played 26 matches with academies and league teams within Nigeria at the Goal Project in Abuja. We won 25 games and drew only once. The boys also scored a total of 143 goals and conceded just 16.  Unfortunately, our three best attackers failed the MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) Test before we departed for Niger and we resorted to what we had. Fortunately, he (Olusegun Olakunle Jnr.) won the golden boot award of the tournament in Niger. But I knew our first match was going to be difficult owing to the fact that the players were playing for the first time away from the FIFA Goal Project package B. It’s very difficult for a group of rookies to survive international game like that of Burkina Faso without overcoming stage fright and anxiety since they’re not use to it. The massive stadium and the vivacious and thunderous noise from the crowd must get them frightened. However, I’m disappointed with this new format because some of the best teams in Africa won’t be in Tanzania. The likes of Ghana, Cote d’Ivoire, at least, should have qualified to bring strong competition in Tanzania. Remember youth football is in West Africa Experience with Golden Eaglets since 2015 The good moment is the privilege to serve my father’s land and the NFF reposed confidence in me and by God’s infinite mercies granting me numerous victories and making the NFF and the nation proud. To be candid, the 2015 squad was far better than the 2017 because of obvious reasons which included the late opening of the camp, late MRI and lack of quality players. The 2015 squad’s proper preparation that included international friendlies beyond the West African region and Africa with good time frame. It also had few individual players and collectively team work. While the present squad is still in progress with a lot of individual talents like Akinkunmi Amoo, Saviour Isaac, Alfred Olaniyan, Sani Abacha, Hassan Hussaini etc. This team is only about 25% ready for now which means we need more time to catch up if we must excel in Tanzania and Peru. The good thing about this team is the cordial relationship amongst the coaches and crew. They work as a team by sharing ideas together and acting professionally with one love and voice. Between Niger 2015 U-17 AFCON and Chile 2015 U-17 FIFA World Cup Niger 2015 was a good step prior to the world cup in Chile. The confidence of the players came alive after the tournament even though we didn’t win the tournament. It was even better that we couldn’t play at the finals, ordinarily our players would’ve relaxed believing they would stroll and win the world cup. I have problem with Nigeria youth players as very little success make them relaxed. I had earlier thanked the NFF and I will still thank them again over the way the team was exposed to international games in Egypt and South Korea as well as Argentina before the world cup in Chile 2015. Chile 2015 was a different ball game as we took one match after another. The working relationship between the players and officials was very cordial and that played out in the results. The officials hardly slept due to the pressure the world cup carries. Let me use this opportunity to thank all the players and officials for those great efforts. New generation of youngsters since 2015 Well, I want to state here that God knows how he produces players at this level of the national team. The class of players in 2013, 2015 and the 2017 cannot be compared. Apart from the squad that conquered the world in 2013 and 2015, the 2017 squad lost out due to Anglo-Francophone politics. I have never seen where a General Secretary of a football-playing nation like Nigeria is embarrassed, harassed, intimidated and beaten with the FA cameras seized just because of their evil plot. Where did they end up at the World Cup? You can’t give what you don’t have. For instance, in 2013, the Golden Eaglets defeated Niger home and away with nine goals aggregate and went on to win the World Cup. In 2015, we scored only two goals during the Nations Cup hosted by Niger and still went on to win the World Cup in Chile. But they teamed up against our team in 2017.