Barewa Rugby Football Club of Kano became back-to-back champions of Nigeria as they beat Cowrie Rugby Football Club of Lagos in a pulsating Presidents’ Cup final at the Mainbowl of National Stadium, Surulere, Lagos on Saturday. Tries from Joshua Etim and Sani Muhammed helped the Nothern champions into a 13-0 lead, but Cowrie hit back through Jeremiah Peters unconverted try. Both teams brought in their kicking game in a strong contest for teritory after which Joshua Etim dotted down in the 30th minute to put Barewa ahead. Man of the match and Barewa captain; Nuhu Ibrahim created the second try after picking the ball from a loose ruck before releasing Sani Muhammed wide on the left for Barewa’s Second try in the sixtieth minute. Cowrie withouth their captain Onoru Jatto and wing man Christian Ogar then launched endless attacks on the Barewa defence, forcing their full back Gabriel John to make three try saving tackles deep inside the Barewa half. Cowrie eventually made a try of their own when a quick penalty was taken and ball quickly moved wide left from Azeez Olanrewaju to Jeremiah to cross the whitewash and Barewa held on for their back to back win. In a chat with NationSport, Nigeria Rugby Football Federation (NRFF), Kelechukwu Mbagwu expressed confident that rugby will continue to grow in the country. “It was a great game of rugby, I must say the better and more prepared side won and it is good for the game of rugby to see that the North is starting to take control once again. When I was very young and when we were growing up in rugby, the Northern league was the first league to run in Nigerian. So they are the oldest league and they are showing that they haven’t collapsed with age. They are still strong and it showed in the game that was played today. “I will say we are making progress for many reasons. This league had a total of 24 rugby clubs participating. That may not look much to the South Africans, but to us in Nigeria, that is the highest we’ve ever been. 24 rugby clubs across the nation and for the first time, we have the South South and South East league being played. That means our rugby has started to materialize in areas where you have naturally big Nigerians. I’m sure that next year’s final, we will have different clubs playing.” National rugby team, Black Stallions captain, Azeez Ladipo blames lack of adequate preparations for the loss suffered in the hands Barewa. “I think it has to do with our preparations, it wasn’t right for this. We did all we could but the guys are already winding down for the year and most of them are not around. We just had to gather the players around for this game. That is not an excuse though; we just lost to a better prepared team,” Ladipo told NationSport. Nuhu Ibrahim however credits hard work and dedication for the team’s success. “What makes my team special is because we train five days a week and we always follow the rules and regulations of the game. Our club is supporting us and we are always practice and respect the coach and officials and that is why we are moving forward all the time. “Rugby is growing in Nigeria and we are urging other corporate world to come and support the sport. Our president is trying all his best to ensure that the game develop but he cannot do it alone,” Nuhu told NationSport. Teams Cowrie Rugby Club: Sunday Bassey; Elijah Johnson, Olatunde Sulaiman, Ikenna Mgboji, Obiyele Ajinde; Azeez Olanrewaju, Hassan Rilwan; Hassan Mohammed, Daniel John, Jeremiah Peters, Alfred Oche, Tokunbo Lambo, Azeez Ladipo, Replacements: Chijioke Emmanuel for Tunde Sulaiman (40), Sodiq Oduola for Elijah Johnson (40), Emeka Iheanacho for Tokunbo Lambo (50), Isaac Sani for Ikenna Mgboji (60) Saracens: Mohammed Umar; Ibrahim Suraju, Zarmai Daniel, Alex Richard, Shalom  Matthew; Shamsudeen Aliyu, Jude Abrakson; Issa Omale, Nuhu Ibrahim, Sani Mohammed, Michael Gabriel, Joshua Etim, Akpabio Samuel, Gabriel John Replacements: Bashir Usman for Michael Gabriel (56), Abdulkareem Zaraddem for Akpabio Samuel (72), Wisdom for Issa Omale (70),