ABIA State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has raised the alarm over the destruction and defacing of campaign posters of President Muhammadu Buhari and the governorship candidate of the party in the state, Dr. Uche Ogah within Umuahia, the state capital. In a telephone interview with the Publicity Secretary of the party, Comrade Benedict Godson,  on Wednesday, the party accused the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) of being behind the defacing and destruction of President Buhari and Ogah’s campaign posters. APC while warning that the party would no longer watch the ruling party in the state using hoodlums to destroy campaign posters of the President, its gover norship candidate in the state and any other candidate of the party said that henceforth, anybody caught engaging in the wicked act would be dealt with according to the law. According to Godson, the defacing of its candidates’ campaign posters is a sign that the ruling party is defeated already. He stated that what the party is concerned about at the moment is how to sell ideas of their candidates to the people of the state and ensuring that President Buhari gets maximum votes in Abia State. Godson, while enjoining members of the party and Abians to get their PVCs and be ready to vote out bad government from office come 2019, assured that the party would ensure that the votes of the people counted. “I want to advice our brothers in the opposition party that this is not the way that democracy is being played. I believe that they have seen that we have come to take over the state and I want to plead with them to gently hand over the mantle of leadership of Abia State to Dr. Sampson Uche Ogah who has come to liberate Abia from bondage come 2019. “Destruction of billboards and posters Mr. President, Uche Ogah and other candidates of the party is undemocratic and that cannot stop us from returning Mr. President Muhammadu Buhari who has done so well in terms of good roads, constant light, better life for Nigerians and Uche Ogah as both Presi dent and governor of the country and Abia State respectively. “It is important to say that the PDP government that we have in Abia State has failed Abians in all ramifications. They owe teachers from primary to tertiary. The roads that they claim that they have built have caved in and they cannot justify the amount of money they claimed to have spent on such roads. “The little that we are seeing in the state is being built by the Federal Government through the NDDC. “We want to assure them that nobody has monopoly of violence and destruction of posters. We are warning the PDP to stop the destruction of our candidates’ campaign posters with immediate effect,” said Godson.