African Boxing Union lightweight champion, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph, and Rilwan “Real One” Oladosu, West African Boxing Union lightweight champion, have attributed their rise to fame and fortune to GOtv Boxing Night. Both boxers have enjoyed a meteoric rise in boxing in addition to winning the best boxer award at the event. Joe Boy, who made his professional debut at GOtv Boxing Night 1 after an impressive reign as amateur champion, is a three-time winner of the Mojisola Ogunsanya Prize for the best boxer and has once been a second runner-up. He won N1million twice, N1.5million once and N500, 000 for emerging second runner-up. Oladosu has won the biggest ever sum in the history of GOtv Boxing Night, walking away with N2.5million at GOtv Boxing Night 13 in 2017. Speaking of the impact of GOtv Boxing Night on his career, Oladosu said the event has ensured that he has had the opportunity to fight regularly, become national and sub-national champion as well as given him financial breakthrough. “It was through GOtv Boxing Night that I became the national and West African champion. I am also happy and proud to be the winner of the biggest amount at GOtv Boxing Night when I won N2.5million. I am seen on television across Africa. This is very encouraging and has inspired me to aim higher. I will be in action at GOtv Boxing Night 17, where I hope to put in a good fight,” he said. Joe Boy, who is equally billed to fight at GOtv Boxing Night 17 holding at the Tafawa Balewa Square on December 28, is of similar persuasion. “Without the intervention of GOtv, I do not think that people like me would have had the opportunities currently available. GOtv Boxing Night has given hope to Nigeria boxing and, of course, boxers. We are now respected across Africa and we are better paid than ever before,” said the ABU lightweight champion. GOtv Boxing Night 17 will feature eight fights, including the World Boxing Federation (WBF) Intercontinental super featherweight title bout and musical performances by Burna Boy, Wande Coal, Teni da Entertainer, Daddy Showkey, TJ Classic and OJ Flamez. The best boxer will go home with  N1.5million.