For Miss Ajibode Elizabeth Toyin, hers was the result of consistency and diligence in study, and not surprisingly, she emerged the overall best graduating student of Tai Solarin University of Education (TASUED), Ogun State, at the institution’s 10th Convocation. Miss Toyin made a Cumulative Grade Point Average of 4.84 in Chemistry Education.  She attributed the feat to the grace of God, hard work and determination to succeed against all odds. A total number of 2,723 students were awarded Bachelor’s degrees with 23 of them making First Class.  A total of 256 students also graduated with postgraduate degrees. Toyin revealed that she had been a first class student right from year one at the university and denied herself of many social activities to sustain the good grade. She also acknowledged the sacrificial support of her family and the favourable disposition of her lecturers who were always willing to help diligent students excel in their studies, as other factors that contributed to her excellent academic performance. She said: “I know I have to be focused about my educational pursuit, so I restrained myself from unnecessary activities. I don’t really joke with my studies, I read as much as I could, using the library. “I have some alumni as friends who also helped when I had difficulties having traveled the road before. Above all, the Almighty God has been my source of strength, so I return the glory to Him “While thanking God for this great achievement, I must as well laud my parents for being there for me as well as my lecturers who do not derive joy in frustrating their students or demanding bribes from them before they do their job. The experience would have honestly been very tasking and horrible.” According to her, the next thing on her mind is to proceed to the postgraduate school for a Master’s in Chemistry. Addressing the graduands, the Vice-Chancellor, Prof. Abayomi Arigbabu, charged Toyin and others to remain good ambassadors of TASUED and use the skills acquired during their training to help build a more prosperous Nigeria.