Global leader and Nigeria’s No.1 Air Conditioning brand in Room and Commercial Air conditioning, LG Electronics, has once again demonstrated its market leadership with the introduction of LG Single Split Smart Inverter AC into the Nigerian Market. Speaking with Media Men recently at the LG’s Brand shop in Ogba Lagos, the General Manager Air Conditioning and Energy Solutions, LG Electronics West Africa operations, Mr. Cholyong Park noted that the LG Single Split Commercial Air Conditioner [SCAC] which now comes in floor standing ACs popularly known as packaged unit ACs clearly shows LG Electronics understands the desires of its esteemed consumers hence its determination to offer Nigerians cutting edge technologies especially consumers seeking Energy efficient products. “Unlike the conventional  air conditioner that cannot operate at lower speed due to its constant rotation, the newly introduced SCAC unit is designed to save energy by 40% by constantly adjusting the compressor speed to maintain desired optimum temperature level thereby reducing energy costs.  The AC comes with a single split smart inverter compressor, making it more stable hereby increasing durability”, explained Mr. Cholyong Park. Explaining further, the General Manager noted that the LG Floor Standing Smart Inverter AC possesses some unique features which stands it out from conventional ACs. Some of the unique features include; 40% Energy Saving, Wide Voltage Range, Smart Inverter, 30% Cooling Speed, Small Generator operation and many more. “It achieves cooling speeds even in very harsh weather condition and interestingly, at a low voltage. The AC comes in various working capacities, there is the 2HP which works with a 2.5kva generator, 3HP works with 3.5kva and the 5HP works with a 3 phase 6.5kva generator. This has given credence to the fact that, the AC has the ability to perform optimally even with a Small Gen Operation mood which is yet another unique thing about the product. In terms of reliability, it has an inbuilt high and low voltage protection mechanism which enables it to regulate its frequency appropriately, therefore prolonging the lifespan of the AC”. Another remarkable feature of the Floor Standing AC said Mr. Cholyong Park is the “Wide Operation Range which is second to none in its category of ACs with directional control mechanism based on human motion. At the same time and condition the inverter reaches the set temperature which is about 30% Quick cooling capacity faster than its constant speed level” LG Electronics is poised to serve Nigerian consumers better with its innovative products designed specifically to meet the desires and aspirations of it esteemed consumers. Life can only get better for lovers of innovations which the company is ever ready to churn out. Cooling experience can never be the same again, as LG Smart Inverter Floor Standing Air Conditioner is out to make a difference.