• Govt weighs options on CBN’s $8.1b repatriation order to MTN The Executive Vice Chairman/CEO, Nigerian Communications Commission (NCC), Prof. Umar Garba Danbatta yesterday said MTN Telecommunication Company has paid about N165 billion of the N330 billion fines imposed on it. Danbatta, however, said the Federal Government was weighing options on the $8.5 billion fines imposed on MTN by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN). He restated the President Muhammadu Buhari administration’s commitment to finding amicable resolutions to the challenges facing MTN. According to him, the government will apply flexibility on  issues that could adversely affects the economy. Danbatta was fielding questions from reporters in Abuja. He said the NCC as a regulator, preferred an amicable settlement of all issues with MTN. He said: “That has since been settled. The MTN fine that NCC did has since been settled. As I am talking to you, there is a Settlement Agreement with MTN according to which MTN will pay N330 billion. “They are busy paying. So far, they have paid 50 per cent of this amount, meaning that they have paid N165 billion to the coffers of the government. “And they will be paying the next tranche in December this year. So, the fines have since been settled a long time ago. Aren’t you aware?” On the $8.5 billion repatriation dispute, Danbatta said it was an issue between the CBN and MTN. He added: “ The $8.5 billion is a CBN issue, and as a regulator,  we pray and hope that this will also be amicably settled because what affects MTN will have serious consequences for the telecommunication sector. “So, our prayer is that this issue will also be amicably resolved,  it is being resolved amicably. “We hope to read very soon that this issue is over also. The government is disposed to amicable resolution of the MTN matter with the CBN. This information should go out. This information was provided at the last event of the ITU Telecoms World. “I think this is part of the stance of this government showing flexibility to resolution of issues of this magnitude. “Issues that have bearing on the economy, the government is always disposed to finding amicable resolutions. “This has always been the position of this government on issues that may have adverse effects on the economy. “ You know, they (the government and its officials) tread the path of flexibility, humility at times,  to find amicable resolution to any issue. And this is to the credit of this government,  I think.”  