The police have uncovered an alleged illegal factory where medications are produced. The factory located at 2, Okunnenye Street, Ikotun Egbe, Lagos, was said to have been uncovered by operatives of the Inspector General of Police (IG) Intelligence Response Team (IRT). According to the police, the factory was raided by IRT on November 23 and four suspects Emeka Madu, 47 (alias Cabara), Eze Young, Chijioke Umunna and Kingsley Obilo were arrested. Parading the suspects at the factory on Friday afternoon, Force Headquarters spokesman Jimoh Moshood, an acting Deputy Commissioner of Police (Ag DCP), said Madu was the owner of the factory known as Cabara. Moshood said the operatives received credible intelligence and acted on it in uncovering the hidden alleged fake factory, where substantial production, packaging and distribution of suspected fake drugs to different parts of the country was being carried out. He said the IG, Ibrahim Idris was pleased with the IRT and the Lagos State Police Command for uncovering illegal manufacturing factories especially where food, drugs and drinks were produced. Moshood said the police recovered cartons of different fake drugs, large quantity of unprocessed chemical substances used in manufacturing drugs, machines for processing, manufacturing and packaging of these drugs as well as forged pharmaceutical papers. He said plastic buckets of different types suspected to be fake drugs were also recovered. He lamented that several people might have died as a result of complications and physical disabilities occasioned by the use of the alleged fake drugs. He said: “The IGP has advised members of the public to be weary of where they procure food, drugs and drinks as many of them are fake and may cause outright deaths or physical and mental disability. The premises has also been sealed and remained sealed till the determination of the law court.” He urged the public to avail police useful information on happenings around them. Madu said  “I am the owner of the factory. I am a school certificate holder. I learnt the trade from a friend of mine who is now late. I started my own business about four years ago. Although, I am not a pharmacist or a chemist but the medicine is not totally fake as I used quality chemicals to produce it. “My market is at Onitsha Anambra State. I do not supply in Lagos. I distribute only in Onitsha. I have not really made too much money. I am the owner of the place. “Yes, I can take the drug and give to my wife and children because it is not totally fake. I try to be genuine. Instead of 250mg I make it 180 mg. That is the only offence I have committed but really the medicine works.” 