The House of Representatives has intervened in the lingering land dispute between the University of Lagos (UNILAG) and Iwaya-Abete community. The Chairman House Committee on Legislative  Compliance, Abiodun Olasupo at a meeting with the parties, said it was to ensure peace and compliance with the agreement in the 1962 gazette of the acquired land. UNILAG was represented by its Vice Chancellor,  Prof Oluwatoyin Ogundipe and the Iwaya-Abete community was represented by the Delfino Anthonio Da-Meranda family. The meeting, which was in response to the petition from the Delfino family to the House Committee on Public Petition, was to review the  land coordinates and address issues on compensation. “We are here to ensure compliance with the resolution of the House arising from the boundary dispute between the University  of Lagos  and it’s adjoining communities.  The resolution of the House  says that the University  should not exceed  the limit of the line as stated in the 1962 gazette  that was given after the acquisition of the land. Therefore, our job here is to look at the existing lines, the coordinates as contained in the gazette and ensure that what is on ground is the same. We will rely on the outcomes of the surveyors from the Federal Ministry of Works, Power and Housing that came with us.  This is a matter of law. The University  is a creation of the law and the law acquired some lands for it. Let us bring conclusion to this matter so that everybody can move on,” Olasupo explained. On the issue of compensation, he explained that the House of Representatives would play its part to ensure adequate compensation is made to the affected families. He said he was aware that some families had not been paid compensation. Olasupo assured that the Federal Ministry of Works,  Power and Housing  would value  the acquired property and take the necessary action, assuring that the House would ensure that adequate compensation was captured in the budget. Responding, Ogundipe noted that the University had met with the affected families and also paid compensation in 2013. “I don’t see any problem with this. We have been relating well.  If there is need to pay these families, it is very simple,” he added. A member of the  family, Stephen Jagun, said the family was in support of the committee to end the land tussle.