Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on Monday presented to the State Assembly for approval, a N169.652bn budget‎ for the 2019 fiscal year with Education sector taking the highest allocation of N41 bn to represent 27%. The budget reflects a shortfall of over N50bn which represents 23% compared to the over N220bn of the preceding year. However, recurrent expenditure has taken 41% of the budget which represents over N70 bn  ‎while capital expenditure allocation stood at over N99bn representing 58% respectively. Presenting that budget tagged ” Budget of Consolidation for Sustainable Growth and Development”, Tambuwal while noting that the journey to the promised land was a long one, assuring that said his administration would continue to give hope to the people of the state  by prioritizing their welfare and development. He said the state government will focus on the completion of ongoing projects and embark on new ones to add value to the lives of citizens in the state. “It is our strong desire and fundamental responsibility to channel our scarce resources to meaningful projects with direct bearing on the people of the state”, he stressed. The Governor while reviewing the performance of his administration, said despite of the economic down turn, it provided over 1,000 decent housing accommodation for civil servants to meet the high demand for shelter. Accordingly he said two command secondary schools had been completed at Shagari town and Army Barracks respectiviely. He however explained that a responsive mechanism to sustain its health and medical needs were vigorously pursued to measure up with the SDGs requirement by equipping hospitals and establishing more healthcare  facilities across the local governments. While saying that emphasis had been placed on agriculture as the mainstay of the state economy with adequate provision of fertilisers at subsidized rates, boosting irrigation farming and supply of modern farming tools to the farming populace, construction of dams and providing seedlings among others‎. Accordingly, he urged the people of the state to cooperate with the government as the future of the state lies with all, adding that” We will continue to strive to consolidate on our noble and appreciable successes”, he urged. The ‎Speaker, Hon. Salihu Maidaji expressed delight for the overwhelming speech while assuring that the budget proposal would be given urgent attention for quick passage for the overall benefit of the state. He further appealed to the Governor to ensure financial autonomy to the state legislature and judiciary in 2019 ‎respectively. 