Ondo State Governor  and Visitor to Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA), Mr Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), has expressed confidence in the push by the school to be one of the leading institutions in Africa. He urged its management not to rest on its oars in placing the institution among the top 10 in the country. The governor spoke last week, at the eighth convocation of the university. Represented by his deputy, Mr Agboola Ajayi, the governor expressed joy that the school has moved from 31st to 18th position in the Webometrics ranking. This, he said, is the reward of the support his government gave the school, adding that the school’s prudence in managing resources and members of staff’s hard work led to the success. Akeredolu said: “The government of Ondo State is proud of Adekunle Ajasin University an institution that has become a force to be reckoned with in its 19 years of existence at a period other universities are struggling to make name. “It is gratifying that graduates of this university are winning laurels and making waves globally. I would like to charge them to push further so that AAUA would be established as a global champion. “The time is now for everybody, including corporate organisations and wealthy individuals, to join hands with government in funding education because government alone cannot fund education. “As a government and proprietor to this university, we will contribute and continue to do our best to sustain the achievements of this great university. We will like to appeal to stakeholders to seek time-tested and creative ways that have been used by world-class universities and deploy similar strategies in building the university.” The governor, who appreciated the support of the school alumni, added that universities all over the world drew support from their alumni bodies. The governor congratulated all the 5,252 graduands, especially the 31 students, who graduated with First Class, wishing them the best in their future endeavours. The pro-chancellor and chairman of Governing Council, Dr Tunji Abayomi, listed the various steps taken by the council to improve the fortunes of the institution. He thanked parents and other stakeholders for showing understanding and support during the recent increment in the school fees. The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Igbekele Ajibefun, promised that the management would continue to make inputs that would make the university stand tall among its peers. He pledged that staff members would be given assistance and support needed to improve on their skills and welfare. Highlights of the event included the unveiling of the 31 First Class graduands, including the  Overall Best Graduating Student, Ebenezer Olorunwa Komolafe, who finished from the Department of Science Education with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.74. Also, a businesswoman and philanthropist, Mrs Siju Iluyomade, was honoured with the Doctor of Laws (Honoris Causa).