Last week Monday was a special day at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The day was not special because President Muhammadu Buhari was receiving any visiting world leader at the State House. Neither was it a day for conferring awards on the President or any high ranking member of the society. It was a special day at the seat of power because President Buhari in marking his 76th birthday that Monday raised the bar above what was experienced during his birthday anniversaries since 2015. His December 17th birthday anniversaries in 2015, 2016 and 2017 almost went unnoticed. For those three anniversaries, the highest point of cerebration was presentations of birthday cards and cutting of cake in the present of some top government officials inside his official residence. At those three occasions, no drum was rolled out for the celebration. Many Nigerians, during those three anniversaries, mostly knew of the President’s birthday from pictures posted on the social media posing with the cake or with state governors, who visited him. But last week Monday celebration was completely different from the past three anniversaries. It was taken away from the inside four walls of the President’s official residence. In marking the day, a special military parade was conducted by 203 members of the guards brigade at the forecourt of the Presidential Villa. The parade involved various military display after the President inspected quarter guard at the ceremonial gate of the State House. The inspection was immediately followed by a special rendition which ushered the President into the forecourt of the Presidential Villa. At the forecourt, there was special performance by the silent drill squad of the Guards Brigade, which included the formation of words like PMB @ 76 There was also a special display by the Guards Brigade Band and some of the songs played included “I remember when I was a soldier… “ That was followed by the presentation of birthday cards to the President. The Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan-Ali presented card on behalf of the country’s Armed Force, while the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha presented card on behalf of members of the cabinet. The Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari presented on behalf of Presidential aides while the Guards Brigade also made a special presentation. The high point of the event was the cutting of the birthday cake by the President, who was flanked by Ministers, aides and other top government officials. Just as the President came to the forecourt to start the birthday celebration from the old Banquet Hall of the State House, where he declared the 2018 National Migration Dialogue open, Buhari immediately returned to his official engagements after the brief birthday ceremony. Also unlike the birthday celebrations by some past Nigerian Presidents, no dinner party was organised to celebrate the birthday. Surprisingly too, Buhari’s birthday celebration did not engage the attention of the Federal Executive Council meeting presided over by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo,  during its opening session last Wednesday. Reasons why Buhari’s 76th birthday celebration was marked in special way above the three previous anniversaries should not be lost on Nigerians. The President, during his visit to Poland early this month had promised to celebrate his birthday as proof of his genuineness to those who felt he was cloned. ‘‘It’s real me, I assure you. I will soon celebrate my 76th birthday and I will still go strong,’’ the President had declared in Poland. Before leaving the forecourt venue of the special parade lady Monday, Buhari did not fail to thank Nigerians. He said: “Well, I am impressed with it, they have put a lot of time behind it, I thank and appreciate them very much.” In a message he later issued, the President said “It’s been my joy and honour to serve our country, Nigeria, for most of my life. “As I turned 76 today, I am deeply grateful for all the prayers, goodwill messages and encouragement from Nigerians and friends, at home and abroad. “Life is better lived together in peace, unity and prosperity. “In all, I give glory to almighty Allah for mercies, and thanks to Nigerians for counting me worthy to serve them. It is something I have rededicated myself to, and will do to the very best of my ability. “Nigeria has all the potentials for greatness. Our greatness as individuals will only derive from Nigeria’s greatness. So, on this special day, I commit myself again to the task of taking our country to greater heights, and invite you to partner with me in that worthy cause,” he stated. Giving glory to God for the day, Boss Mustapha said “It is such an exciting time for us to share in this very glorious ceremony of the celebration of the 76th birthday of our dear president and our dear leader. “In a typical simplistic manner, just a simple military parade and the cutting of the cake because he has got work to do. “He has just returned to the office to continue with the day’s proceedings, he came out of an event 2018 National Migration Dialogue and then straight into this. “But it is such a joyous and beautiful day to see him strong, healthy, hearty considering the health challenges he went through in the last two years. “We cannot wish him any other thing but bountiful health and wisdom to take this country out of the present situation which we find ourselves, a trajectory of prosperity and progress. “The president is renewed in his spirit, strength and in his resolved and determination to put this country back on the part of greatness, that is his ultimate desire, that every Nigerian young, old, upcoming should be able to press whatever desire they want to achieve in the nation that is so endowed with a lot of wealth, a lot of goodness. “There will be a lot that will be released in the next couple of days and Mr. President is so strong and determined to hit the road and I can tell you by the time he starts, Nigerians will be able to have a lot to be thankful for.” he added