The candidate of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) for Abia South Senatorial Zone, Chief Chris Nkwonta has vowed to defeat the Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe in 2019 senatorial election in the zone. Nkwonta who came second to Abaribe in the 2015 poll said that the Senator representing Abia South is sitting on a stolen mandate because he, Nkwonta defeated him in the 2015 poll. Speaking at the palace of Eze Ishmael Nnakwu of Etiti-Ohazu in Aba South LGA of the state, Nkwonta warned that 2019 will no longer be business as usual. Nkwonta in a chat with journalists said that INEC insistence that incident form will not be used in the 2019 election will help reduce rigging which he claimed helped the ruling party in the state to manipulate the outcome of 2015 election results in their favour. In his words, “I am going to win Abia South Senatorial Zone in 2019. Abaribe is already sitting on a stolen mandate. I won the election in 2015 and he rigged his way through by using incident forms. In 2019, we are no more going to use incident forms. So accreditation will be by electronic means. So rigging will no longer be as rampant as it was in 2015. My chances are very bright and I will win the election. “Campaigns have started; they’ll not come out to campaign. All they are looking for is how to grab result shits are write results. If they have done well in four years, they’ll not be panicking. We have more billboards than roads in our state. My question to the senator representing us is, where are his Constituency projects? No matter how they try to intimidate us we’ll match them. If they destroy our billboards we shall do same, if they shoot guns, we shall reply them, if they pick up machetes, we shall carry ours and if they bring the method of carrying caskets, we shall show them we know where caskets are sold.” Speaking on the fire incident that consumed wares of traders and how it could have been handled better, Nkwonta blamed the rate of damage at the Nkwor-Ngwa Timber Market on the nature of the roads stating that if the roads that lead to the market were to be in good shape, it wouldn’t have taken the fire service much stress to come to the aide of the traders as was reported. He said, “It was a very unfortunate that the fire incident was made worse because there were no access roads to the place. If there was an access road, I am sure the extent of damage could have been considerably reduced. We have serious problem in our state. The level of decay in infrastructure is alarming. We don’t have roads and people are wasting time on frivolities. We have not had any change in Abia because of wrong people are in power. In 2015 you voted us in, but some criminals stole our mandate. Abia is not working and APGA will make it work. “Under APGA, there will be access roads to the place. The market will be rebuilt to a modern standard and there will be access roads.  In fact this morning we could not even get to the domain of the traditional ruler. To alleviate the sufferings of the traders; we are going to start reconstruction work at the market even before the commencement of the elections. “I have always had a blue print of what we want to do for Abians. We had one in 2014 / 2015 when we ran for election. That blue print is to completely rebuild Aba. We are going to start with Aba because if we fix Aba, we have fixed Abia state.” In his response, the king of the Etiti-Ohazu, Eze Ishmael Nnakwu thanked the APGA senatorial candidate and wished him well in all his endeavours.