WBF Africa Cruiserweight Champion, Tony Salam, has spoken about his grass to grace story, revealing he was out of boxing for about eight years before his career started experiencing a resurgence early this year. The United Kingdom-based boxer popularly called Sugary by his adorable fans said he had to look for other means of livelihood to sustain himself as promoters were not ready to organise fights for him along with other Nigerian professional boxers. However,  Salam’s breakthrough came when he got a call from Monarch Promotions in April this year inviting him for the much trumpeted ‘CHAOS  LAGOS’ held in October. After taking part in that event, it was as if many other doors started opening for Salam who has gone ahead to participate in two more bouts this year in Zimbabwe and Lagos. Come December 22, the smooth-talking pugilist will be trading punches with Kwesi Tutu in an 8-round World Boxing Union (WBU) sanctioned fight at the Landmark Events Centre in Victoria Island, Lagos. “Monarch Promotions are really doing their best for Nigerian professional boxers because without their support some of us could have been frustrated out of the sport,” Salam told The Nation.”I was already out of boxing for eight years in the United Kingdom before I got a call from Monarch Promotions to come and fight in April this year. “I just had three days to train and yet was still able to defeat my opponent. After that fight in April, I have fought twice in Zimbabwe and another  bout in Lagos. “I’ve trained very hard and I’m in great shape ahead of my next fight against Kwesi Tutu. If I could train for only three days and  won my first fight after being out of boxing for eight years, I think any boxer that faces me now will see hell,” he thundered. Meanwhile, organisers of the  event tagged ‘King of the Ring’ have invited some former world champions as special guests to the occasion and the exclusive list include Herbie Hide from the UK,  Ghana’s Azumah Nelson, Bash Ali and Joshua Clottey of Ghana. About nine bouts involving boxers from Nigeria and abroad will take place in the event. Other bouts at the event would see Policeman Sule Olagbade battle Hungarian Gyorgy Mizsel JNR while Tasif Khan of the UK faces Sammy Reyes of Mexico in a 10-round WBU Super Flyweight title fight. Meanwhile, Nigeria’s King Davidson who is the WBF Africa Middle weight champion also boasted that he had been training to defeat anybody who is paired against him.