The Bayelsa State Government and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) have rolled out additional programmes to deliver proper health care services to pregnant women, newborns and children to reduce mother and child mortalities in the state. The Commissioner for Health, Prof. Ebitimitula Etebu, who spoke while inaugurating the second round of the 2018 Maternal, Newborn and Child Health Week (MNCHW) at the Ogbia, said the programme was focused at protecting women and children. He said the event was a week-long programme organized to deliver integrated, high impact, low cost, result-oriented, effective, preventive and curative health care services. He said the programme was geared towards shoring up maternal and child health indices in the areas of intervention embarked upon by the government. Etebu named some of the interventions outlined for the week as Vitamin A supplementation in children, de-worming of children and nutritional assessment of children. He said others were Iron/folate supplementation for pregnant women, routine immunization, birth registration and Intermittent treatment of malaria in pregnant women. He said the programme would include HIV counseling and testing, counseling on key household practices (KHHP) such as hand washing and provision of reproductive health service especially family planning service. Also speaking, the state Coordinator, World Health Organization (WHO), who was represented by Bumiegha Suowari enjoined all women to embrace the programme and make Ogbia a healthy place. She said WHO and other partners were  always available in the state to support the health programmes technically and financially. She said: “I enjoin the chiefs and the entire people of Ogbia LGA to embrace this program. Let me mention that in Ogbia LGA there are a lot places where we go and deliver health care services but a lot of people does not make good use of it. “A lot of people just ignore. A lot of people said they don’t want it. A lot of people are noncomplying to the health care services. In Emeyal 1, the people that are not taking immunization program are too many. We have gone to the CDC chairman, had several dialogues. We have gone to do several community engagement meetings but it is of no avail. “I want to use medium to tell the chiefs to go back there, gather your people, sensitize them and let them embrace every health care program that is coming to them. It is beneficial, it is free so that the entire people will be healthy devoured of all diseases”. Speaking further, the Executive Director, Public Enlightenment Project, Mrs. Lilian Ezenwa said: ‘For this round of MNCH week, we have been able to provide 10,000 bottles of vitamin A, multivitamins and prenatal for our women. It is one thing for government to spend money organizing programs like this for us, it is another thing for partners to support with commodities. “But the benefits will not come until we the mothers come out and access these commodities for our use and for our children. Therefore, I am appealing to all women here present, the nursing mothers, the pregnant mothers to please make good use of this opportunity. “Visit every health care facility closest to you and receive these products for yourselves and for the wellbeing of your children. When we do that, we live healthier lives, our children will grow to be stronger and better and we will all break out of poverty. “On behalf of vitamin A angel and Public Enlightenment Project, I pledge our continued support for every time that you need commodities”, she noted. UNICEF Technical Resource Person for Bayelsa State, Odo Chikwuemeka said the purpose of the MNCH was to reduce sicknesses and death among women and children. “The purpose of it is to reduce what we called malnutrition- child not eating well that is among our children”.