 The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Tuesday expressed deep concerns over adequate security before, during and after the 2019 general elections. Its chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu identified security as a major challenge facing the success of the polls. Yakubu, who spoke in Abuja at the Police/stakeholders’ security summit organised by the Nigeria Police Force, however said the commission will engage with security agencies in defining new parameters for the deployment of security agencies in the electoral process. He also urged the security agencies to maintain professionalism and neutrality. He said: “As with all elections, security is going to be a major issue in the 2019 general election. “The agencies have a responsibility to secure the environment for elections. “In doing so, there is the overriding responsibility for professionalism and neutrality. “The rules of engagement must be clear to all. Learning from the cumulative experience of the off-season elections conducted into 195 constituencies since the 2015 general election, the conduct of some security personnel has become a major issue of discussion. We are deeply concerned.” The INEC boss also noted it was important to review the template for the general elections to reassure Nigerians and international community of the commission’s preparedness to conduct free, fair and transparent elections. He assured the commission will continue to work with law enforcement agencies for the arrest and prosecution of violators of the electoral act. Speaking on INEC preparedness for the polls, Yakubu said the commission has already implemented six out of the fourteen activities as outlined in the timetable and schedule of activities. Yakubu also pointed out “there is intense interest nationally and around the world in the 2019 general election. In just a matter of weeks, some international observers will begin the deployment of their long-term observation missions for the election.” On Permanent Voter Cards(PVCs), he said the commission has successfully completed the printing for new registrants. 