Nigeria’s foremost EPL club fan group, “Naija Gunners” are set to launch an annual event tagged “End of the year Red-Tie dinner“ aimed at fostering unity, building synergy, improving networking amongst passionate Arsenal fans and creating a bigger and robust platform across the country. Former President of the club and chairman, organising committee, Wole Olagundoye disclosed that the “Red-Tie” event is a celebration of passion, togetherness and their darling Premier League club Arsenal. The event is billed for Wednesday at the Muson Center, Lagos by 7pm. In celebration of this feat, a pre-dinner match between the fan club and selected celebrities all stars took place at the Campos Mini-Stadium, in Obalende, on Saturday. It was all even at the end of 90 minutes as the ace-comedian Bovi and popular television presenter Frank Edoho led celebrity all stars drew 4-4 with the Gunners supporters’ club. “The Red-Tie is an exclusive dinner for Arsenal fans. It is an upscale event for passionate and die-hard Gunners fans,”Olagundoye said. He continued, “this is about Arsenal, about support and about passion. We want to celebrate annual seasons with Arsenal; Celebrating the losses and the wins”, he enthused. Collaborating Olagundoye’s statement was Sam Chidoka, the current President of “Naija Gunners”. He further outlined their plans to not only reposition the club, but to also partner with organisations; organisations involved in sports, youth development and even charity in order to create a positive impact on the society. “We intend to open other platforms in Ibadan, Abuja, Port Harcourt just to mention three. We want to give ourself a wider reach and presence, and it could only be achieved by taking Naija Gunners beyond Lagos. “It is an objective to seek partnership with organisations because we have a reach. This is about football. It is about passion and lastly about Arsenal. With our platform we can key into projects that can have meaningful development on the youths,” Chidoka explained.