The Police in Osun have arrested 4 members of a robbery gang that robbed and later killed one Lagos businessman, Victor Akinbile, 48, by setting him ablaze while locked in his car. The Osun Commissioner of Police, Mr Fimihan Adeoye, disclosed this to journalists on Monday while parading the suspects and other criminals at the State Police Command in Osogbo. According to Adeoye, some friends of the late Akinbile reported to the police on Nov. 27, at about 10:30 p.m., the case of suspicious transfer of N3 million from the account of the deceased. He said that they also informed the police that they were unable to reach Akinbile after he had travelled to Ikirun from Lagos on Nov. 26. The CP also said that Akinbile’s friends informed the police that Akinbile had informed them that he would be passing a night in Ikirun, his home town. Akinbile was also said to have informed his friends that he would return the next day, Adeoye said. The police commissioner said that Akinbile’s friends were worried about the money transferred from his account and their inability to reach him. Adeoye said the police anti-kidnapping and SARS team where deployed to investigate the matter. He said that between Nov. 29 and Nov. 30, the team had arrested four suspects as well as recovered the charred remains of Akinbuile’s car and his burnt body. “The police team discovered that the gang consisted of four men, and that one of them happened to be a security guard who alerted his members that Akinbile was in town. “The gang came to the victim’s abode, where he was passing the night, broke into the house and took the N25,000 he was having on him and equally forced him to transfer N3 million to the account of one of them. “The police tracing the account where the money was transferred to, arrested one of the gang members identified as Hamed Rafiu. “Rafiu subsequently gave useful information that led to the arrest of other members of his gang. “One of the gang members, Sunday Kayode, was also traced to and arrested in Ondo state where he relocated after their operation while the other two members were arrested in Ikirun. “During investigation and interrogation of the suspects, the police discovered that the suspects robbed their victim of his cash and transferred N3 million from his account into one of theirs. “They then put him in his car and drove him to a secluded place where they set the car alight, while he was locked in the booth,” he said. Adeoye said the suspects were being prosecuted, adding that he had sent the condolence from the Inspector General of Police to the family of the deceased. Also, the CP said that the command had arrested two men with a human head and two human palms. He said that the men were suspected to have exhumed the human parts from a grave with the intention to use them for money rituals. Adeoye said that all the arrested suspects would be charged to court after the police would have concluded their investigations.  (NAN)