The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Ogun State, Prince Dapo Abiodun, has assured that his administration would strengthen the Local Government system in the state, to enable them perform effectively, their constitutionally assigned responsibilities. Abiodun also pledged to improve on the prevailing religious harmony, saying if given the mandate to govern in 2019, there shall be a special office on religious affairs to strengthen the inter – faith harmony in the state. The APC flag bearer gave the assurances while speaking with reporters, shortly after his meeting with the Muslim leaders in Egbaland at the Kobiti central mosque, Abeokuta, Ogun State on Friday evening. The indigenous entrepreneur and real estate player and his running mate, Engr.(Mrs) Noimot  Salako -Oyedele, were in Kobiti to seek the blessings of the Imams in Egbaland and solicit their support ahead of the formal flag – off the governorship campaigns round the state. Abiodun who also used the visit to market his policies, listed rural development , good governance, women empowerment, educational development, improved health sector, facilitation of constant power supply, increasing the Internally Generated Revenue(IGR) and infrastructural development among others, as issues his administration would implement when sworn-in. Abiodun said: “We visited Kobiti Central mosque to get the blessings of the Muslim community. The same we have seen in CAN. So that they can pray for us before we embark on going around to campaign. “We also solicited their support because they are religious leaders. We thanked them for the peace we have been enjoying in Ogun State because if there is no harmony in both the Islamic and Christian religions, there may be crisis. I also shared with them part of my vision for Ogun State. “Like I said earlier on, we will ensure that we keep them very close to our chest by appointing a Special Adviser on Religious Affairs and having Special Assistant for both the Islamic and Christian religions. “So,  we have someone who is constantly bringing their issues to the fore so that they are not lost in the sewer of things. “I have assured them that we will only be building on what Governor Ibikunle Amosun has done. It will not be any less. If they have enjoyed peace and harmony, we will improve on that. “I don’t know about moribund. We will strengthen the local government administration. We will ensure that they are empowered to do that which they are constitutionally assigned to do. “And going forward, we will see a more virile local government administration but that doesn’t mean they are moribund.”  