TheRE is need to increase the  funding of malaria control, National Malaria Elimination Programme (NMEP) National Coordinator,  Audu Mohammed, has said. Mohammed noted that malaria remains an important public health issue as it accounts for 30 percent of childhood mortality and 11 percent of maternal mortality. The World Malaria report 2017 and that of this year have shown that  the progress in malaria elimination had been stalled and that the world was off-track in meeting the milestone for 2020 as reflected in the global technical strategy for malaria 2016-2030. Nigeria was blamed for stalling the  malaria process, noting that to get back to form, it would require that the global GTS morbidity and mortality milestones for 2025 were achieved, a response is required to change the trend in countries that are off-track, especially in the 11 highest burden countries, which includes Nigeria. Based on the World Malaria report by the World Health Organisation (WHO), the estimated number of malaria cases rose from 52.4 million in 2016 to 53.7 million in 2017. The number of cases, according to the report, represents 25 per cent and 52 per cent of cases globally and in the West African region. The report, however, showed a decline in the number of deaths due to malaria from about 98,378 to 81,640 in 2017. According to experts, this is still significant, as it constitutes about 19 per cent of global deaths caused by malaria, and 21 per cent of deaths among children under five is due to malaria. At the moment, about 191 million Nigerians are estimated to be at the risk of contracting malaria. Mohammed, who spoke in Abuja at the NMEP fourth quarter media chat 2018, said the government and the private sector should give more resources to malaria control. He said the private sector could be a major contributor to malaria eradication. Mohammed, who was represented by the Head of Advocacy Communication and Social Mobilisation (ACSM), Chukwu Okoronkwo, said: “We need the government to give more resources for malaria control activities in the country. This is not limited to the Federal Government, local or state governments alone. The private sectors can also be a major contributor to this fight.” He noted that the private sector does not need to give money to NMEP; all they need to do is to do something within their own environment. Mohammed called for a major subsidy on malaria commodity to ensure easy access to them.”One critical area about domestic funding is the issue of subsidy of malaria commodity. Commodities in the private sector cannot be accessed because they are too expensive.These commodities are already subsidised at the government health facilities because donors are bringing them in at subsidised rates. That also has to happen for all health facility, whether government or private,” he said. The World Malaria Report 2017 and 2018 was not encouraging.  The report indicated that around 70 per cent of all deaths in 2017 took place in 10 African countries and India. While admitting that new cases fell steadily up until 2016, the report stated that the number rose from 217 million to 219 million in 2017. Also, NMEP chief said Nigeria needs to redouble efforts to make an appreciable impact in the malaria landscape. He urged the public to maintain environmental sanitation in and around the places they live and work. 