IF peace and concord are to reign in the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari will have to firm up his party and governmental ethics to set the moral tone for the ruling party. So far, he has not done that. In fact, increasingly, he is showing that he is less disposed to offering the party the leadership it urgently needs. The party is unquestionably in disarray, despite the enormous conciliatory work the party’s chairman, Adams Oshiomhole, has put into regulating party affairs and smothering revolt within the ranks. But hard as he has tried to paper over the cracks, his efforts appear more like putting new wine in old wineskin. The problems Mr Oshiomhole contends with, and which the president dithers over, are largely inherited. It will require the concerted efforts of the chairman and the president to restore sanity and amity in the party. Mr Oshiomhole’s interventions are well known, even if they have achieved only qualified success. He has returned the party to the path of discipline and rectitude, curbed the overweening influence of some party leaders, including governors, and shown daunting readiness to contend with and curb every facet of dissension in the party, whether it be ethical or organisational, or personality or philosophical. His readiness to face up to the acrimonious internal politics of his party has seemed to charm many members and officials within the party. But his methods and objectives have also contradistinctively alienated some powerful individuals in the party, some of them very close to the president. It is not clear which is the culprit in the party discord, whether the president’s dithering or the active and fiery opposition of powerful individuals. But it does appear as if both the president’s dithering and the powerful individual opposition to Mr Oshiomhole reinforce each other. The sword cuts both ways, with the dithering giving fillip to the opposition, and the opposition in turn giving catalyst to the president’s dithering. Mr Oshiomhole has so far stood pat, but having been unnerved by the president’s indecisive and imprecise interventions in late November, his resoluteness and panaceas appear increasingly unable to command enough amperage. More than three weeks ago, the president had summarily overruled the party chairman by admonishing aggrieved party members to litigate their grievances. This intervention came on the heels of Mr Oshiomhole’s warning to party dissidents to shape up or ship out, insisting that they must exhaust party dispute resolution mechanisms before heading to the courts. On Thursday, the president, in what seemed like a mild vote face, urged aggrieved party members to pursue genuine reconciliation. He embraced this new deal while receiving defecting members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) from Kano State who paid him a courtesy visit in Abuja. The defection, which appears to strengthen the APC position in that Northwest state, is a fallout from the political schism between the bedraggled governor’s camp (Abdullahi Ganduje) and the former governor’s loyalists (Rabiu Kwankwaso) bivouacked in some impenetrable redoubts in the state. The president’s call for genuine reconciliation is, however ,unlikely to be heeded, for it is as futile as his earlier call for litigation. The reasons are not far to seek, and they are principally his own making. One of the reasons trumps every chairman’s competence and questions his political ethics and bona fides. The cause of the hostility is the party chairman’s refusal to endorse Mr Okorocha’s candidate, Uche Nwosu, for the 2019 Imo governorship election. The party under the firm grip of Mr Oshiomhole supports Hope Uzodinma. The situation in Ogun State is no less provocative and disconcerting. In that Southwest state, Mr Oshiomhole and the APC have endorsed Dapo Abiodun for the state’s 2019 governorship election while repudiating Abdulkabir Akinlade, the candidate of the governor, Ibikunle Amosun. Livid, Mr Amosun has called the party chairman unprintable names and insisted that whether the chairman and the APC like it or not, Mr Akinlade will become the governor next year. Mr Okorocha also insists that his candidate will win. It is not the presumptuousness of the governors that unsettles APC members or amuse the public; the most unsettling thing is actually the president’s hesitant approach to the matter, his dithering in the face of insurrection, his seeming lack of resolve when the ruling party is being gravely threatened. In a clear defiance of party discipline, both Mr Amosun and Mr Okorocha have pushed their candidates into other political parties, hijacked a significant portion of the APC machinery to back those candidates, and managed in the same pungent breath to sit pretty in the ruling party on the platform of which they are contesting senatorial seats. Under the instruction of Mr Amosun, Mr Akinlade has defected to the Allied People’s Movement (APM) and become the party’s standard-bearer for the 2019 governorship seat. On the order of the Imo governor, Mr Nwosu has defected to the Action Alliance (AA) and taken the ticket to vie for the governor’s seat. Both Messrs Amosun and Okorocha as well as their new all-purpose party vehicles have pledged their loyalty to the president, announcing boldly and widely that the two parties have endorsed President Buhari for a second term. So far, the president has seemed unable to distinguish between his own interests serviced and flattered by the support of political insurrectionists, and the larger interest of the party as defined and exemplified by Mr Oshiomhole. It is inconceivable that he has appeared to let his friendships get in the way of the larger and long-term interest of his party. He may not like the way the party has resolved the disagreement between the party and Messrs Amosun and Okorocha, but once a resolution had taken place and the courts are unable to reverse it, not to talk of how close the whole affair is to the next elections, the president has a duty to ensure party discipline and supremacy. Both Imo and Ogun governors have openly identified with other opposition parties, and have pledged to work against the interests of their own party in selected elections. Yet, they have not even been censured. The president ought never to countenance that kind of revolt. Indeed, encouraged by the president’s dithering, some other disgruntled party leaders, including a federal cabinet member, Bayo Shittu of Oyo State, have taken spine-chilling oath to work against the APC. It is likely the rebel leaders have in a manner of speaking given an undertaking to return to the APC once their alienated candidates triumph in the governorship polls next year. It is an uncalculated risk, not to say an unethical step. The president had the power to placate the disgruntlement in the party when the cancer first reared its head in the first few months of the party’s 2015 victory. He unwisely didn’t, or, as some say, perhaps because he couldn’t. Now, with the disgruntlement accentuated by lack of discipline and egregious rebellion, the president has remained perched on the horns of neutrality or indecision. If he does not urgently reconcile the party and its rebels, or take firm steps to punish the revolt in the leadership because he is indulgent of the executive rebels, there is no telling how fast or hard the cancer will spread. Sadly, there is no indication that the president is willing to champion any real and lasting reconciliation beyond talking the talk. Perhaps, indeed, it is already too late to even sue for peace. The aggrieved party leaders sensed the president’s lack of resolve and have exploited it. The stakes are now so high and the consequences too dire to persuade any of the rebel leaders to climb down. The conflict has in effect become a zero-sum game. Somebody will win delightfully, and somebody will lose appallingly. The winner will then take all. Both winners and losers will, however, hope that the party can survive the brutal rebellion that has exposed it to so much public ridicule.