Former students of the Government College, Ughelli trooped out to honour their colleagues for their service to the school and country. The annual dinner party cum President’s night was marked with much celebration as old boys turned out in Niger Delta traditional outfits. With their spouses also in their best, it was like a competition on who turned out best. Red carpet and photo shoot preceding the evening held at a posh Abuja hotel began with the arrival of the old students and guests. A three-man live band was in the background churning out old highlife and jazz tunes.  The roll call had Amb. Bagudu Hirse, Engr. Akin Bada, AVM. Sonni Gberevbie (rtd) and former Director General of the Department of State Services (DSS), Matthew Seyeifa among several others in attendance.     It was an evening of fun; even the usually very serious Major General Ibrahim Haruna (rtd), the chairman of the event, himself a product of Unity school too, drew laughter from the audience while passing the important message of a united Nigeria embedded in the concept of the Unity schools. He recalled how highly regarded students of Federal Government Colleges were, even during and after the civil war irrespective of their religion, tribe or location of their school. To emphasise the importance of Federal Government Colleges to the unity of the country, the former Federal Commissioner for Information and Culture, under whose tenure the Nigerian Television Authority (NTA) and the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) were established, said no politician should contemplate handing over the running of the schools to state governments. This was in reaction to Atiku Abubakar’s election promise should he be elected as the next President of the country. The keynote address by The Nation’s Editorial Board Chairman, Sam Omatseye had the audience swirling when he analysed the deceit of the Nigerian ruling elites and their manipulation of the masses through religion and politics. He said the greatest disservice the elites did on Nigeria was to mix religion and politics to the detriment of the county, “How come religion cannot stay in its place and politics in its as well? After all, the concept of a secular state was borne out of this necessity. In his presentation titled ‘The Mystical Bread: Religion and Politics in Nigeria, Omatseye said,”Thou shall not live by bread alone,” a phrase we borrow from Jesus, is one of the most poetical combustions of history. Yet it comes across as one of the most innocuous. Bread gives life, our much-cherished biological life, the flow (blood) in robust streams over our bones and muscles. It is also an omen, like a sanguinary pie. It sheds blood on the streets. It pits brother against brother; it roils revolutions, maims and makes heroes, it bedevils the just and brings joy to the devil. It turned French streets into fire and fury because of the naivety of a royal vixen. She unwittingly mocked a mob by asking them to choose cake instead of bread. This is the bread of the earth. But so powerful is that piece of food that it has its counterpart in the holy of holies. Welcome to the bread of heaven. So, when Jesus said we should not live by bread alone, he had set one bread against another, a militancy of pabulum had been born. The other bread is the word. The word is supposed to feed the mind and spirit as the earthly bread should minister to the interstices of our digestive system. The danger is that when bread the earth meets bread the heaven, hell hath no fury more fiery”. On the way forward and to curb the deceit and manipulations of the ruling elites, Omatseye said Nigerians must fight ignorance and poverty, if an enduring and prosperous democratic society must be built as obtained in other climes. The highlight of the night was the award of honour on deserving old boys and others that had served the school well in other capacities which included Sam Omatseye, Christy Naibe, who served the school for 25 years and Onwah among several others. One Ancient Mariner was inducted while the audience soaked in the grandeur of the change of Presidential baton from to John Onwah to Fidelis Ogaga and his executive team. It was all fun throughout the night. The hall was treated to a documentary of various intervention projects by the old boys to bring back the school to life while a raffle draw which saw lucky winners carting home prizes that included home appliances. With lots of food and wines to go round, the night was one to remember in the life of the GCUOBA, Abuja Branch.