But for advanced technology deployed in the renovation of the Ijora Seven-Up Bridge, the structure would have been lost, Hallekem Limited Chief Executive Officer Haim Halle has said. Hallekem is the contractor that handled the project. According to the Israeli firm boss, the state of the 325-metre section of the bridge before the renovation was bad. He blamed it on non maintenance of the bridge for over 35 years. “When we opened up the expansion joints, it was all rusty and full of water deposit dating back to several years. This is because there was no drainage constructed on the bridge to evacuate such water. Besides, the rubber in the joints were all worn out. This was why motorists felt the heavy vibration giving them the feeling that the bridge would collapse,” Halle explained. He said the most affected section of the bridge had to be lifted instead for repairs. The joints were fitted with rubber made by Alga of Italy. Besides, he said his firm also constructed drainage pipes into the bridge to ensure there was no water in the section repaired. “We used a four-inch pipe for the drainage. However, we also had to construct the edges specially because of the effect of heavy duty trucks on asphalt. What we did was to reinforce the edges with a 50-grade concrete whereas the bridge itself has 30 grade concrete. We also used ‘bituminous felt’ as reinforcement around the drainage; this will prevent water from logging on the bridge’s drainage path,” he said. Halle said the renovation had extended the life span of the bridge by about 40 years. He disclosed that instead of the official one year slated for the renovation, his firm completed the job in five months. Declaring the bridge open  last Friday, the Federal Controller of Works, Adedamola Kuti, said: “This is about the third bridge in Lagos that we have completed maintenance work on. Earlier, we completed that of Marine Beach. We completed Coconut Bridge and now this one. Hopefully, in a couple of months, we should be completing the Leventis Bridge,” Kuti said. Similarly, Kuti inspected the  failed portions of the Third Mainland Bridge. He said it was part of their deal to keep the over 25-year-old bridge in good condition. He said from January, renovation work would begin on the underwater piles. This would be followed by the joints. The controller said the repairs on the Third Mainland Bridge were being done at night to avert gridlock. “We work on the bridge at night when there is less traffic and only shut the section we are working on to allow cars on the other lane. We continue work till about 5:00 a.m.,’’ he said. Kuti listed other roads that were repaired to include the Agege Motor Road, Herbert Macaulay Way, and Alagomeji Road. “We want to thank Lagosians for their patience with us. This is just a necessity. The government is very responsive and trying its best under the leadership of the Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, who has given us the opportunity to fix all bridges in Lagos,’’ he said. Dvirh Hirsch, Project Manager, Reynolds Construction Company Limited, said heavy vehicular movement coupled with reckless driving affected construction works on the Third Mainland Bridge.