Osun elections, Alexis Sanchez  Black Panther have been named the top Google Searches in Nigeria in 2018. Google made this known in a statement made available to The Nation on Wednesday, presenting the 2018 year search. The September Osun State election, which top the year search gripped national attention due to alleged incidents of voter intimidation and interference. Manchester United footballer Alexis Sanchez was both the most searched person and the most searched sports person of 2018. Black Panther took number one in the trending movies list while Fever by Wizkid was the top trending song. The list by Google gives a unique angle on the year’s major moments and top trends based on searches conducted in Nigeria. People have over the years turn to Google to get answer about questions embarrased to ask others. Here’s the full list of 2018 top trending Search: Top trending news searches Osun elections Ekiti elections PDP Presidential Primaries ASUU Strike NLC Strike/Minimum Wage Offa Robbery Kaduna Crisis Lagos APC primaries Royal Wedding Atiku Running Mate  Top Trending People Alexis Sanchez Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang Meghan Markle Stan Lee Philippe Coutinho Atiku Abubakar Tosyn Bucknor Avicii Aisha Abimbola Sylvester Stallone  Top Trending Questions How to check Jamb result How to write a Business Plan Who is leading in Osun Election How to check BVN Who is Prince Harry? Who is the richest musician in Nigeria? How to write a CV How to dance Shaku Shaku Who is Atiku’s running mate? Who is the president of Croatia?  Top Trending Songs Fever – Wizkid Assurance – Davido Science Student – Olamide Motigbana – Olamide Nwa Baby – Davido One Ticket – Kiss Daniel ft Davido Gbona – Burna Boy Manya – Wizkid Soco – Wizkid Fia – Davido  Top Trending Movies Black Panther Avengers Infinity War Acrimony Venom Deadpool 2 King of Boys Wedding Party 2 Rampage  Top Trending Sports People Alexis Sanchez Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang Philippe Coutinho Emmanuel Eboue Fred Anthony Joashua Jorginho Unai Emery Willian Didier Drogba