The Vice Chancellor of Plateau State University, Bokkos Professor Yahana Daniel Izam has expressed optimism that the products and students of the institution would continue to occupy centre stage at the national and world competitions. Prof Izam made the disclosure while honoring the best documentary winner of the African International Film Festival Ms Dorcas Bello, Mr. Hosea Gumbias Issac who emerged 5th at the IET World completion and Mr. Japheth Waziri as the best Actor at the 2018 edition of Nigerian Universities Theatre Arts Festival (NUTAF) hosted by Plateau State University. Izam expressed satisfaction that the University is producing world class grandaunds that will take stage at the local, national and world competitions and establish their firmness and authority without feeling inferior and enjoined the awardees to see themselves as proud brand ambassadors of the University. According to him, for teachers it is always a thing of joy for them to see the students they mentored excelling at the local, national and international levels and urged the lecturers to continue to monitor the students to be great leaders in the society. He disclosed that the story of Plateau State University that was previously regarded as ‘one building’ University is rapidly becoming a world class University and the products of the University are doing the institution proud both at the local, national and international levels. Professor Izam announced that the University will delegation to the next year’s edition of Nigerian University Games Association (NUGA) saying that the management of University has since up the game by introducing series of activities in sports, academic and other activities. He said that the 8 programmes of the University have fully been accredited while outcome of the remaining 5 programmes is awaiting and expressed the hope that the result will be favourable adding that staff of the University who went on oversea studies have started returning with their Ph.Ds while recently some were sent out of the country for their Ph.Ds. The Director of Advancement and Linkage Reverend Dr. Andrew Dewan described the occasion as historic and the feast is a thing of joy for the awardees and the University. The awardees, Dorcas Bello, Hosea Gumbias Issac and Japheth Waziri said they are proud of the University and their lecturers who monitored them well assuring that they will continue to project the University in good light.