The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) yesterday urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to call the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) to order over what it termed hate speech and campaign of calumny against President Muhammadu Buhari. The group described PDP’s statements on President Buhari’s position on the state of the country’s economy and his refusal to assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018 as ridiculous and misleading. In a statement in Abuja by its Director of Communications and Strategic Planning, Mallam Gidado Ibrahim, the president’s support group described certain statements issued recently by the major opposition party against Buhari as the antics of a drowning political party, whose plot to rig the 2019 general elections had been scuttled. On Buhari’s words to governors at the weekend that they should expect tough times ahead, BCO said rather than describing the president’s admittance to impending economic hardship as a sign of failure, the PDP ought to have praised the president for the courage to speak up when necessary. The group noted: “Because of its 16 years of leud leadership, the PDP is ill-prepared for the role of constructive opposition. If they don’t have anything to say or do, the PDP can as well go to the Sahara Desert to dig a well, rather than making hate speeches and throwing tantrums everywhere in the name of opposition. We urge the electoral umpire to call the PDP to order. “It is pathetic that the PDP prefers the president to lie to Nigerians about the state of the economy. What is wrong in admitting to where challenges exists? The PDP’s modus operandi for 16 years was to continue to mislead the people. We all know President Buhari very well; he won’t lie to Nigerians. Rather, he will tell them the truth, while working hard to fix the problem. “For the records, Nigerians elected and trusted President Buhari to tell them the truth at all times and he will not deviate from that. The problem that still bedevils the economy today is still a fallout of PDP’s 16 years of irresponsible governance”. On the amended electoral bill, BCO said Buhari was right to have declined his assent to the bill, even as it insisted that the amended electoral bill presented to the president was a landmine the PDP would have relied on to rig its way back to power in 2019. Ibrahim stated: “A Leopard can never change its skin. The PDP thought they are smart but the president and his party are smarter. No more will the PDP  be allowed to execute its sinister motives. They want to use the amended electoral bill to rig their way back to power again in 2019 so that they can continue to plunder the economy of this country. We say capital NO! “The PDP has demonstrated once again that it means no good for this country and its people. The president will not fold his hands and watch the PDP rig its way back to power to destroy the economy he is toiling to rebuild. Knowing that they have been rejected by Nigerians, the only way they think they can foist themselves on this country again is through the back door. “Their plan to engage a Russian hacking agent to infiltrate INEC’s data base during the next general elections has been unravelled.”