The Managing Director of JAC Elizade Autoland Mr Demola Ade Ojo has identified four features that make JAC T6 pickup unique. He spoke during unveiling and test drive of the truck at Landmark Beach Front, Victoria Island, Lagos. According to him, the four combinations that really give value for money is not found in any other truck except JAC T6. “You have the price that you cannot beat and it is affordable. Two, you have a vehicle that matches the durability of the best vehicle that is out there. Three, it gives you a taste of luxury and four, it gives you high technology. The type of technology used in this vehicle gives you a vehicle that is 2.0 litre engine but delivers the power of the 2.7 litre. So you get to save fuel usage. No other trucks are doing that,” he said. He said the truck manufacturer is working on the automatic version of the truck, noting that the largest market for truck is manual transmission. He said Pickup is one of the most popular vehicles used in the country. This, he said, cuts across corporate organisations, governments, small businesses and individuals. He said: “The pickup segment is the segment that is wide in application. But we are specifically targeting government, corporate organisations, especially multinational, distributors, Customs, Police and INEC. These are the customers that use the pickup. Individuals can also use the pickup; as a matter of fact, the T6 is very good when it comes to leisure because it combines and gives individuals a taste of luxury. Most pickups are considered as workhorse. People use them just for works. But with the T6, it has a combination, what we are selling here is the luxury version. The luxury version gives you the taste of luxury. However, you can still use it for work as well. So for individuals, they stand to enjoy luxury such as leather seat, reverse camera, bluetooth, turbocharge and it gives you very good technology as well. “This truck is a destructive truck. When you see the tech, the design impresses you, and when you go inside the truck, the finishing will impress you too. When you now drive the truck, you will be amazed. I am happy a lot of people have driven the truck.  It is amazing the way it drives even on this sand. So when you get such combinations of a truck and at a price that beats every other type, it is called value for money.”