Lagos Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on Saturday urged voters in Epe Divison to vote en masse for candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) during the 2019 elections. Ambode said voting for the candidates across board would ensure the continuation of the good work of the party both in the state and the country at large. Ambode spoke in Epe during a meeting with leaders of APC in the division, which was called at his instance. He said it was time for the people to put events before and after the APC governorship primaries in the state which produced Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu as the governorship candidate of the party behind them and truly unite for the party’s victory. Ambode said it became imperative for him to meet with the leaders to let them know that all members must submit to the decision of the party. “All of us are brothers and sisters because this is a close-knit community. It is now time for us to work together for the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and election of Mr Sanwo-Olu because Epe cannot be left behind. “I know that in view of what happened, some people are still aggrieved but what I want you to know is that there is no way PDP will work for the development of our division like APC. “We are also all aware that for the past 16 years of PDP, they did not do anything in Epe division and it is only the APC that has been doing something for Lagos and for the country. “I want to assure you that Epe will benefit more if we vote for APC. “All my achievements in the last three and half years will be improved upon if Sanwo-Olu wins and so I want to urge you all to come out and vote for APC because that is how we can secure the future of our children and this division.’’ Also speaking at the meeting, the Deputy Governorship Candidate of APC in the state, Dr Obafemi Hamzat thanked Ambode and all the leaders in the division. Hamzat said the governor displayed unusual maturity and character which eloquently confirmed that he was a man with a large heart. “I want to thank Gov. Ambode for being a man with a large and great heart. “What you are doing is unusual and I want to assure you that you have a future and that future will be very soon. We will do everything to protect your interest and that of Epe division. “Gov. Ambode has done his best and we will do our best to continue his legacies and build on what he has done to further develop our dear state, ‘’ Hamzat said. Those that attended the meeting were: Senator representing Lagos East, Gbenga Ashafa; and a member of the House of Representatives representing Epe, Wale Raji. Others were: Chief Lanre Razaq, former House of Assembly Speakers, Adeyemi Ikuforiji and Jokotola Pelumi; Alhaji Akanni Bamu, among others.