Tofunmi Akinseye, publisher of Saavy, a magazine that tells the stories of celebrities, comes across as a go-getter. Tofunmi, a native of Ondo State and last child in a family of four, in this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, shares her experience on publishing, meeting celebrities and other issues. Excerpts Aside from being a celebrity storyteller, what other thing do you do or passionate about? I am quite passionate about a lot of things, whatever thing that contributes to self-growth and service to others. I’m passionate about community projects, youth development etc. and I have volunteered in some of the capacities like the Global Shapers; a world economic forum initiative and also functioned in some capacity for TedX. Having played in the digital space for a while, I have also developed keen interest in the digital space, which transcended into me helping SMEs communicate and reach a wider audience via their digital assets for sales and awareness. In the nearest future, it would interest me to be hosting and owning my show, also volunteering for more community projects and exploring more space in the media. What best describes you? Tenacity, shrewdness, and enterprise. Tell us how you started your magazine publishing? Ooh yea! This part of every interview gives me a nostalgic feeling. From my high school days, I always had that inclination to write a book and I remember I did start at some point and my dad would help me edit it, but I never did publish it. I was a very restless child, from organising community fellowship with the kids in my neighbourhood, to participating in debates and drama, extra-curricular activities, young people’s club etc. Fast forward into my university days, I became restless during my second year and just wanted to create a platform that could expose a lot of young talents and potentials. I mean, I did grow up amidst very creative individuals who were doing great things and covering some milestones at a very tender age. Boom! The idea of a magazine came to mind. I thought of ‘Precocious Mind’ for the name, but after several meetings with my friends as at that time, I settled for Savvy, which connotes shrewdness; hence birthed a platform to create a link between young people, their talent and audience. However, my first edition was graced by Mr.  MayD, a 24 paged piece. What is the concept behind Savvy Magazine? Savvy Magazine’s vision is geared towards fostering a renaissance society by combining in-depth coverage of the faces and figures behind the global industry with the latest trends and all over Africa. We have had seven editions so far graced by MayD, Yemi Alade, Patoranking, Kunle Afolayan, Kehinde Bankole, Adekunle Gold, Niniola and recently Seyi Shay. You feature celebrities most on your cover page, why? I started off with celebrities initially, from the commercial point. I needed a figure that could sell the magazine, being a new brand. I also did go for celebrities with unique stories that could tie into the essence of the magazine. A story that would make the young ones believe in their craft and follow through on it, having heard the grass to grace stories from the ones we look up to. After my first three editions, it became a thing for us to always have celebrities grace the cover, because it did work for us, gave us the exposure, recognition and did impart the lives of the young ones out there. Tell us who is the best Nigerian celebrity you have worked with and why would you choose the person as the best? Hmm! So far, it would be Kunle Afolayan. As at the time Kunle graced the magazine, he’d just released his ‘October 1st movie’ and I was in awe of the work that was put into the production. Having him on the cover was the biggest thing that could happen to my brand at that time. On the day of the interview, traveling from Ibadan to Lagos at his office, where he fixed the interview, I was literally shaking and was super tensed, questions like would he receive us well, and would he grant us the audience etc. being a growing brand. Alas! We got there and the reception was super warm and great. Kunle was incredibly nice to the entire crew, took out time to talk about his films, family, career, took several pictures with us and handed us a gift when we were leaving. That edition remains one of my best! For me, he is the best celebrity everyone would want to associate with. When people say ladies who are doing well financially in their chosen field get sponsors from men who are having sexual relationship with them, how do you feel? Well, the latest global entrepreneurship monitor annual survey shows that women are well represented when it comes to starting a business in Nigeria. According to this survey, 41 per cent of early stage businesses are run by females compared to 39 percent of males. Gem’s research also indicates that these women are very creative and innovative and they’re more eager to establish new businesses than their male folks. Also, the high success rate of these businesses shows that women are more focused and resourceful than their male counterparts. Personally, I do think a lot of women are beginning to challenge the status quo and breaking the glass ceiling. It’s a different narrative now, and we’re beginning to embrace our potentials to the fullest. Half the time, I think this notion of ‘sponsors’ comes from when people cannot measure a lady’s income with her lifestyle. A lot of young female entrepreneurs flaunt certain lifestyle on social media and get berated by people who think their business cannot afford such standard of living.  However, I still do think this notion is very stereotyped and does not apply to every successful female entrepreneur. In the course of your exploit, have you experienced any form of sexual advancements as a requirement to get what you need? Women have always been and are still faced with such challenges from various walks of life – that lecturer who wouldn’t just give a pass mark because he wants to go to bed with you, or that boss who goes all out just to get you in bed. These things have put us in very precarious situations as women, but the ability to deal with them as adults are very pivotal to how we overcome them. I also do think a lot of men are being brought to books for such acts when forcefully done. I’d say I have faced a few teases and sexual advancements from men in various walks of life, and one thing that has worked personally for me in surmounting all of these would be diplomacy, value and maturity. I do think if you’re offering something of great value and you know your onions getting around all of these wouldn’t be much of a problem I mean who would ditch a million dollar idea over a one night stand’ ? Value first for me! Being a very young lady who’s already doing big things in her space, kindly tell us the beautiful side and ugly side of your story? Ooh yeah, let me start with the beautiful side. The fact that I can visualize something and see it happen gives me much joy. Also, that I have found purpose and gracefully enjoying each chapter as they unravel is a beautiful feeling, pursuing my dreams after five years since inception is also beautiful. To the ugly sides, there have been too many, from hopes that were dashed, to days when I felt like giving up, because of the financial pressure that comes with media. Relocating to Lagos with a larger market – it almost seemed impossible to gain relevance and acceptance, finally having to juggle my 8 to 5 with this has been super tedious! In all I’m thankful that I have found a cause to live for.