He will certainly come away with the plaque if there is such award as the most tolerant statesman of the year. In recent times, Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu has endured a lot provocation from both the Peoples Democratic (PDP) and its presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar. Were all things to be equal, Ekweremadu should at this moment be eyeing the seat of the Vice President. But that was not to be as the gesture was accorded former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, no thanks to Atiku’s decision to overlook Ekweremadu, the highest-ranking elected public office holder in the South East, in his choice of a running mate. A pacification visit Atiku and Senate President Bukola Saraki paid Ekweremadu ended up adding insult to his injury. The Deputy Senate President has paid his dues as a loyal member of the PDP, weathering the gale of defections that hit the party before and after the 2015 elections. By the time the dust of the elections settled, he had become the biggest political fish from the South East, serving a third term as the Deputy Senate President. It then fell to him to chart the roadmap for the party’s reinvention. Apart from acting as the chairman of the PDP Post-Election Review Panel that zoned the presidency to the North, Ekweremadu is credited with negotiating the return of many PDP bigwigs, including Atiku, Saraki, Sokoto State governor Aminu Tambuwal and some National Assembly members, who had defected to other parties in protest against the violation of the party’s zoning arrangement. So, when Atiku began to beam his searchlight on the South East geo-political zone for a running mate after his emergence at the PDP convention in Port Harcourt as the party’s presidential candidate, it was widely expected that Ekweremadu would be picked for the position. The expectation was reinforced by speculations before the party’s convention that Atiku had promised to pick Ekweremadu as his running mate if he became the presidential candidate of the party. Based on the foregoing, Ekweremadu was said to have worked assiduously for Atiku who eventually beat other aspirants, including Tambuwal and Saraki, by a wide margin to become the party’s flag bearer. It turned out, however, that a few days after the convention, Atiku announced former Anambra State governor, Peter Obi, as his running mate without even consulting Ekweremadu before he made the announcement. And while Ekweremadu was smarting from this slight on his person, the news broke again that Atiku had constituted his campaign council without consulting Ekweremadu and without including his name on the list. If the first incident would be taken as an oversight, Ekweremadu and his supporters were at a loss on what to brand the second. Age-long wisdom, they reason, dictates that if Atiku would not eat palm oil for the sake of yam, he should consider eating yam for the sake of palm oil. If he would not appoint Ekweremadu as his running mate or member of his campaign council for fear that he might be advancing the Deputy Senate President’s political career, he should have appointed him for the sake of his own presidential ambition, knowing full well that Ekweremadu could be a good rallying point for the party in the South East. In a move that smacked of after-thought as the grumbling in Ekweremadu’s camp grew louder, Atiku, Saraki and the National Chairman of PDP, Uche Secondus, reportedly visited the Deputy Senate President in his Abuja residence last week to pacify him and his supporters. But the fence-mending mission turned out an insult added to Ekweremadu’s injury. In his bid to make Ekweremadu understand why he preferred Obi as his running mate, Atiku reportedly said that he opted for the latter because the former Anambra State governor does not have any corruption case hanging on his neck. As it would be expected, Atiku’s explanation has left political observers wondering if it implies that he did not pick Ekweremadu as his running mate because he is corrupt. Observers were also quick to observe that Ekweremadu might have had enough after the visit, going by the mild drama that played out when he presided over plenary at the Senate penultimate Wednesday and seemed to subtly endorse the APC campaign slogan, ‘Next Level’. As senators made to revert to plenary after considering some bills at the Committee of the Whole, Ekweremadu said: “Those in favour that the Senate do move to the next level say aye; those against say nay.” This happening a few days after the Deputy Senate President led some governors from the South East on courtesy visit to President Buhari is causing jitters in PDP’s camp.