Unlike some governors who use the occasion of their anniversary in office to pup champagnes, Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State used the occasion of the celebration of his two years anniversary to unveil progress made on campaign promises regarding the youths, women, health and education. Governor Obaseki assumed office in November, 2016 with a promise to create a minimum of 200,000 in the first four years, consolidate on the achievements of his predecessor, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as well as use technology to drive his administration. He had focused his administration around six thematic areas which are Economic Revolution, Culture and Tourism, Environmental Sustainability, Welfare Enhancement, Infrastructure Development and Institutional Reform. Obaseki has endeared himself to Edo people as regards restoration of law and order, roads construction, youth’s empowerment and institutional reforms. The manner with which Obaseki responds to issues of governance earned him the nickname, ‘Wake and see Governor’ but to the opposition party, he is “Governor of MoU”. To critics of Obaseki, the several MoUs entered into by Obaseki were meaningless and not achieving desired results. State Chairman of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, described the administration as the worst in the history of the state. He said: “Obaseki has done nothing and he will do nothing. He has failed in his responsibility to protect lives and property. He has failed in providing logistics for the security agencies to up their security arrangement. When he came about banning night grazing what came to my mind was that the governor spends more time outside the state. He has travelled far more times than Oshiomhole did. “Have you driven on the streets when it rained? Obaseki was the Chief Economic Adviser to Oshiomhole who used N30 billion to check erosion problem in Benin City. As we speak, the problem still persists. Can you name one single project started and completed by Obaseki? What we are seeing is patching of selected existing roads and that will never make us to credit him. He prides himself with ‘wake and see’. Have you seen anything?” However, reflecting on his performance in the first half of his first four years, Governor Obaseki said he has done beyond the expectations of his critics by staying focused on his areas of priority. On his promised 200,000 jobs, Obaseki said he has created 77,200, achieved in collaboration with the Federal Government agencies and multilateral institutions. At a Youth Summit/Job Fair tagged, “Pathway to Prosperity” held at the Edo Innovation Hub, several youths who were trained in building solar power and installation and other fields showcased their products. An elated Obaseki gave beneficiaries of the Edo Start-up Fund Initiative who have registered their businesses N500, 000 to scale up their businesses and provide job opportunities for others. Obaseki, who promised to make available N100 million grant to fund start-ups in the state’s 2019 budget said his programmes and policies would guarantee shared prosperity and engender more growth opportunities across the state. At the summit, Governor Obaseki launched the Edo Graduate Internship Scheme (GIS) and the Edo Start-up Fund Initiative which are aimed at providing skills for the youth as well as access to funds for small businesses in order to eliminate obstacles that hinder youths from contributing to economic development. Speaking on his stewardship in the last two years, Governor Obaseki said he was determined to restore hope through various reforms he introduced and has delivered on jobs creation, infrastructural development, health care delivery and education. His words: “EdoJobs initiative is not only about giving you work, but it is part of it. It  was set up to teach you, train you as well as give you skills so that you can find jobs or create jobs for yourself and be an employer of labour. “The Edo Graduate Internship Scheme has identified projects in different areas such as construction, technology and agriculture where we send youths for training. As they get trained, they will earn a stipend, and at the end of the training, we will place them on specific jobs.” He said his administration would provide for hotspots for free access to the Internet at designated places. He said: “By consolidating our Colleges of Education into one, we now have one College of Education and three schools instead of having three different colleges. Each school is specialising on specific aspect of teacher education. The one in Abudu will have a digital training centre to train primary school teachers, the school in Igueben will focus on secondary school and science teachers while the one in Auchi will specialise in training teachers in technical education, physical education and special education. “We have launched the Edo Health Improvement Programme which is a plan on the whole aspect of our health care value chain. We are rolling out a prototype of our primary health care system. Each must have 24/7 solar-powered electricity, a functioning borehole, trained staff and a customised technology to assist the nurses in managing cases so that anybody who walks through the door of our health centres will be tracked and upload to referral centres for review. We now save one per cent of our Federal Government allocation every month to invest in our health care system. The local government is also saving. “I promised to create a minimum of 200,000 jobs by 2020. These jobs are not coming out from government but from the private sectors. We believed jobs will be provided from manufacturing hence the push for industrial park, agricultural services and technology which was why we invested in the innovation hub. We set up the Edo State Skills Development Agency to provide the youth with positive pathway to prosperity and self-reliance. Through this agency, we create a steady supply of skilled manpower and attract employers to give them job opportunities. “Housing is another plan which we focus on. We believe that housing is a necessity for mankind. We see the development as one to boot construction and create jobs. We have restructured the Edo State Property Development Agency to become business-oriented and it has opened the door for more private investors in the housing sector. The existing housing estate was built 16 years ago. Within the last year, we started the construction of Emotam Garden Estate. Over 60 units have been constructed and we believed that before Christmas, 100 units will be constructed. “We are focusing on professionalism of the Edo State public service. We are establishing a public service training academy. The facility will be able to take 500 people at a time. The challenge in getting government to work is because we neglected training. If we keep sustained training programme for our public servants, they will perform better.”