Ex-agitators and youths in Niger Delta have adopted Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa for a second term. The former militants, and youths belong to the Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-militants and Youths for Atiku/Obi 2019. Led by Eshanekpe Israel aka Akpodoro, the group noted that Okowa deserved “even much more than a second term in office”, citing his impressive developmental initiatives in less than four years in office. Akpodoro, the national coordinator, spoke to reporters in Abuja, yesterday, saying  the endorsement came after consultations with stakeholders in the Delta project. He said equity based on zoning must be respected, noting that besides, Okowa had done better than his precedessors in terms of achievements, honesty, and sincerity of purpose. Akpodoro added that no government in the state’s history had taken such huge steps in infrastructural, human and material development, as ‘’this administration is selflessly doing’’. The coalition said Okowa, the candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) had given appointments to  all without discrimination in his bid to drive an all-inclusive government, and give the people a “sense of belonging’’. He listed roads and bridges built by the administration across the three senatorial districts, which he noted, had massively changed the narrative. The coalition is a 200,000-member group drawn from the leadership of former agitators in the Federal Government’s Amnesty programme, and a large youth population. It warned those it described as ‘’children of anarchy’’ not to cause disaffection by flying the ethnic flag for personal interest, saying Okowa’s support base and popularity cut across tribal divide, cautioning these “rebellious” characters not to undermine the peace in the state by creating divisions. The group noted that the Urhobo in Delta Central and Itsekiri in the southern district had their share of governance, adding that it would be reasonable those who served eight years each, support  Delta North to do same. Urhobo-born Akodoro, also coordinator of Urhobo Youth Forum for Change (UYFC), said the coalition had enough strength to drive the process of returning the Ika-born politician to the Government House. ‘’This is a PDP state and will remain so for a long time to come. We’ll deliver bulk votes to the governor from the eight Urhobo councils. But Akpodoro wondered why an Urhobo man would challenge a second term bid of a Delta North candidate? He stressed that the political class had established a zoning system, with the two districts serving 16 of eight years each. The North, he noted, had not even completed its four-year term, yet ‘’some selfish interests were angling to undermine a system that strengthens our brotherhood, uniting us beyond politics.’’ “In the name of crass politics, some persons choose to play dirty deceiving themselves by wearing deceptive democratic faces, whereas they are anti-democratic elements, who have shown enough disdain for democratic norms. “The coalition shall be up against whoever wants to sabotage zoning, and Okowa’s friends shall be our friends while his enemies shall be our enemies, “Akpodoro said. He added that the group at the national level would work to enthrone Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and ex-Governor Peter Obi, to oust the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration. He said Nigerians must rise up to end the regime of debilitating hunger in the land bequeathed on Nigerians by the ineptitude of the Buhari government. ‘’The situation in the country was an avoidable malady brought by the deception of APC, which captured power with lies and blackmail’’. Buhari, he said, should be preparing his handover note.