For some in the nation’s capital, life is good. For others, it is rough, reports GBENGA OMOKHUNU Life, they say, is not a bed of roses. While some people relocate to Abuja knowing what they are coming to the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) to do to earn a living, others who are not fortunate come to seek menial jobs where the pay is low and the hours long. Many in this category are majorly hawkers of water popularly known as ‘Mai ruwa’. Two of such people who are finding life difficult and trying to make ends meet are Adamu Alidu and Amisu Isaa. They live in Kuje, one of the satellite towns in the FCT. They both hawk water to survive. And most times they sleep in an uncompleted building because of the high rate of rent. Adamu Alidu is not married while Amisu Issa is married with three children. If not for the Mai ruwa guys, getting water in Kuje would have been like hell to many. They supply water to many homes in the morning and evening. Adamu who is 35 years of age relocated to Abuja five years ago from Niger State and have since been visiting his parents whenever he has enough money to give them and other members of his family. He told Abuja Review that he started hawking water when there is no other job at hand. He said, “I relocated to Abuja over five years ago. I am from Niger State and my parents are from Niger. I am 35 years of age. My aim then was to come and start a business. But when I got here there was no capital to start the business so I went into pushing water for sale. I sell water in the morning and evening and aside that I also do little job. Many people do call me to supply water to their homes regardless of the time but not at midnight. We are about 40 people here selling water and many of us who are married feed their families from this job. “This is where we all converge and anyone that needs our services always calls us. This is the biggest place in this Kuje where we converge. In a day sometimes we make N1,000 and at times we make like N2,000. During the dry season business booms more that the raining season. I always visit my parents and stay with them for about five days before coming back to Abuja. If I have money for marriage now, I will marry in Niger and leave my wife there but I will still be shuttling between Niger and Abuja. My friend here is married with children. For Amisu Issa, life is more difficult because his wife and three children are in Katsina expecting money from him on a monthly basis. He was optimistic that if he could raise enough capital his life and that of his family will change for the better. His words: “I am 34 years of age. I am married with three children. I relocated to Abuja in the year 2003. Then I was into dry-cleaning business. But when things were not moving as expected, the owner of the business was not paying me again so I start selling water to survive. My wife and my three children are in Katsina. I do go visit my family often and when I do I stay with them for like a month before coming back to Abuja. And if I do not visit as planned I do send money to them. There is a lot of business that one can get involved in but when there is no capital you have to make do with what you have. I am still wishing to get more capital to do better and more lucrative business to better my life and that of my family.” The worst part of the story is that many of them sleep in an uncompleted building exposed to the danger at night and hoping that life will favour them someday. Aliyu Musa is the security man that guards the area where those men are sleeping and earning their daily bread. He praised them for their courage and resilience for what they are doing are advised other people who are not engaged in any way to emulate they guys and start from little rather than involving themselves in criminal activities. Musa said: “I am the security guard here. This people selling water are very helpful to the community. There is no government supplying water here. All we rely on is the borehole and these guys are the ones saving people by delivering water to households. Most of them have their customer. Government should also help in bring pip bone water in Kuje. Youths should be encouraged to do something with their hands. Many of our youths want to make ‘quick money’. And many of these guys looking for ‘quick money’ are not educated and they do not want to learn any handwork. So these boys instead of them to steal they will sell water and no type of job that they cannot do. These guys around me here are very hard working.” In Abuja there are several homeless people. They stay on pedestrian bridges, under the bridges at Karu, Nyanya, Berger and Area 1, Garki. They also live in parks, gardens, abandoned cars and uncompleted buildings. In most of the shopping complex in town the situation is almost similar as almost every shop in the place has people sleeping in them at night. Majority of those who stay in such shops are men who come into the town to hustle for money. Other places where homeless people exist are Mabushi, Karu and Nyanya market, among others. In Abuja, the plights of the homeless are compounded because of the cost of renting apartments, which runs into hundreds of thousands or millions. Such apartments stay empty for years until luck shines on the landlord and they are taken. tal, life is good. For others, it is rough, reports GBENGA OMOKHUNU