Bayelsa State Governor, Seriake Dickson on Tuesday led a fight against fake drugs to the state-owned drug distribution centre. The governor in the company of pharmacists, medical doctors and other health experts inspected pharmaceutical products at the centre shortly after declaring open Yenagoa Trade Fair. Dickson’s Special Adviser on Media Relations, Mr. Fidelis Soriwei, in a statement said the governor directed the Commissioner for Health and Acting Head of Service to ensure that all public health institutions in the state compulsorily procure their drugs and other pharmaceutical products from the centre. Speaking at the event, the governor said the target of his administration was to make Bayelsa a foremost medical tourist destination, where health care seekers could meet their needs at affordable cost. He noted that his administration invested on world class health facilities and programmes including the state Health Insurance Scheme adjudged to be one of the best in the country. He expressed appreciation to the organizers of the trade fair saying that over 40 pharmaceutical firms were participating at the exhibition. According to the governor, the centre was primarily targeted at curbing the circulation of fake drugs in Bayelsa and neighboring states. He also called on Nigerians to emulate former President of the Country, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, to patronize medical facilities in the state for their health needs. He said: This state is ripe for medical business. If you are thinking of doing anything serious in the health sector, this is where you should come because  apart from the several world class health facilities we have built, we also have a health insurance system that is so robust and will get better with time. “I call for more support by all and sundry for this drug distribution center. The whole purpose is to have a place where genuine drugs can be obtained in our state and beyond Bayelsa. It is also meant to serve other states around us. ” I’m pleased with the reports I have  received and I want to direct that all public healthcare facilities in the state, to compulsorily procure their drugs and other medical products from this center. It will be wrong for any public facility to procure drugs from any place other than this drug center because we want to be sure that they are genuine. “And I hereby direct the Acting Head of Service and the Commissioner for Health to ensure that appropriate circulars are issued to all those in charge of public healthcare facilities in the state.” Also speaking, the Commissioner for Health, Prof Ebitimitula Etebu, explained that the trade fair was being organised to promote interactions among stakeholders in the health sector. Etebu. who is also the Vice-Chancellor of the newly established Bayelsa State University of Medical Sciences, commended Dickson for supporting the health ministry to complete the Centre and ensure its commencement of operations. In their separate remarks, the Managing Director of the Bayelsa State Drug Distribution Company Limited, Ms Tamaraotare Owota-Johnson and the state Chairperson, Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria, Dr. Bio Joseph, lauded the governor for his efforts at moving the health sector forward.