.Police arrest ‘fraudsters’  Operatives attached to the Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Zone II, Onikan in Lagos have arrested five persons for allegedly being in possession of fresh human heart and body parts. The suspects including three Islamic clerics alleged to have been found with human flesh, were paraded on Tuesday by AIG Lawal Shehu. He said the clerics were allegedly members of a syndicate that specialised in using human parts for rituals. According to Shehu, they were arrested around 9:45am on December 10 by Zonal Intervention Squad (ZIS) operatives on stop and search operation. He said the detectives arrested an unnamed man with fresh human heart and investigation was on to establish where he got it. “On December 10 , at about 9:45am, information was received by the command that Alfa Mustapha and his cohorts who specialised in exhuming dead bodies and removing their parts were noticed around Isabo area of Abeokuta. Detectives from ZIS were detailed to investigate. Four suspects were arrested while exhibit of bunch of human flesh was recovered,” said the AIG.  Also paraded were suspected fraudsters, Lawal Amoke, 40, Babatunde Adeyemi, 26, Oluwabunmi Okeowo, 45 and Monday Ogoade, 25 said to have swindled a businesswoman of N1.5 million under the pretence of introducing her into phones and accessories business. The suspects were arrested on November 27, after the victim’s husband, Iroha Onyekwere, discovered that the $3500 he kept in their bedroom was missing. It was gathered Mr. Onyekwere played along with the suspects when he discovered his wife was being swindled and in the process got them arrested. The police said they were tracked to their hideout, a shrine, where fetish items and fake dollars were found. Onyekwere said he noticed his wife was behaving strangely and money was missing from their home. Because she was threatened not to disclose the deal to anyone, Onyekwere said his wife could not tell him what the problem was. He said: “Fortunately, my wife had an accident. I was able to go through her phone and it was then I discovered what had transpired between the fraudsters and my wife. “It was when I went through her phone that I got to know that my $3,500 that was missing was stolen by my wife and exchanged to naira and sent to the fraudster’s bank account that was how I started playing along with the fraudsters. “Whenever the fraudsters called my wife, I would pick their calls. That was how I became familiar with them. One day, I called the leader of the fraudsters who identified himself as an Islamic cleric and he asked me to come and meet him at Sango area of Ogun State. “When I finally met with the Islamic cleric, I told him to come to my house but he asked me to send money for transport. I sent N6,000 to him to travel down to my house. “I wanted the Islamic cleric to come to my house because of the magic they said they want to do for my wife. He then said before he could come I have to send N15,000 which I immediately sent to the bank account he sent to my wife. When the Islamic cleric finally arrived, I thought he was the only person that would come. “To my surprise, I saw the Islamic cleric, two women and two other men in a saloon car, when they entered my apartment, for about three hours he was making incantation and moving around my house. After a while, the Islamic cleric said I should check one of the bags he brought to perform the magic. “Before I knew what was happening they had brought out some chemical and then mixed it with something and brought out dollars, it was then I knew they were fraudsters duping my wife. “Before the conclusion of the money doubling process, the Islamic cleric said he wanted to pick something outside the house which I allowed him. To prevent other fraudsters from leaving my house I had to lock the gate and the door and then went and called some neighbours in the community who came to my rescue and we were able to arrest the remaining four suspects and handed them over to the police.” Mrs Onyekwere said she was going somewhere when she came across the cleric who promised to introduce her to phones and accessories business. “I did not know when he introduced the money doubling aspect to it. When I was stealing my husband’s money, I did not know what came over me and I was giving the money to the fraudsters. It was when I had accident that my husband later got to know much about what was happening. “Sincerely I acted gullibly; I see no reason why I should fall into their trap easily because it was the same phones and accessories my husband was selling.” Police said the other suspects confessed to the crime during interrogation and claimed it was the said Islamic cleric who brought them into the deal. Shehu said the suspects would be charged to court at the completion of the investigation.