The Chairman of the National Union of Road Transports Workers (NURTW) in Ondo State, Jacob Adebo (aka Idajo), has been arrested by security operatives. It was learnt that Adebo was yesterday whisked away to the Force Criminal Investigations Department (FCID) at Alagbon, in Lagos State. A source, who confirmed his arrest in Akure, said the NURTW chief was arrested over a petition written against him. Sixteen aggrieved lawmakers of the Ondo State House of Assembly had recently petitioned the Inspector General of Police, (IGP) Ibrahim Idris, over the attack allegedly led by Idajo on the assembly where many of them including journalists and assembly workers were assaulted. In the petition, the lawmakers explained how Adebo and his members beat up members of the assembly and also destroyed properties worth millions of naira. The source explained that Adebo was taken to Lagos State by security agents dressed in plain clothes. Police spokesman, Femi Joseph, confirmed the arrest of Adebo but did not give any reason his arrest. Many political observers and groups had criticised Adebo over attacks on innocent people at gatherings in the state. They expressed delight on the directive by the IGP to pick him for interrogation, stressing that the action would check his excesses. In a press statement signed by the Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly, Rt  Olamide George, and the majority leader of the assembly, Hon. Olamide Araoyinbo, the lawmakers commended the IGP over the arrest of the NURTW chairman, saying the violent attack and wanton destruction of properties at the assembly complex on Friday November 9th, 2018, should not be swept under the carpet. “It has become a misery why somebody, just one person who holds an entire state into ransom over his nefarious activities such that he decides who to live or not live in Akure, his dimension of thuggery in the last two years, is a huge concern to citizens and residents of Akure, but we are happy as peace has been restored eventually. Our hope is that the police research and investigation will be thorough, such that Idajo and his gang will be prosecuted and punished according to the law of the land.”