In its bid to reduce  the spread of HIV/AIDs among youths, the 4Youth-By-Youth (4YBY) group has lauded the self-testing programme  of three young Nigerians. In commemoration of the 30th anniversary of the World AIDs Day, with the theme: “Know your status”, the 4YBY group had recognised three young personalities, who were among the pool of 903 contestants that proposed smart ideas on the promotion of the HIV/AIDS self-testing amongst Nigerian youths. This took place at the Police Training College, Ikeja, Lagos. The  4YBY group, a team of Nigerian researchers led  byDr. Oliver Ezechi of the Nigerian Institute of Medical Researchers (NIMR) and scientists at Saint Louis University and the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, is backed by the United States National Institute of Health (NIH), Eunice Shriver National Institutes of Child Health and Human Development. At the event, the top three winners went home with cash prizes, cool gadgets, medical kits as well as mentorship opportunities from leading business and health professionals. They will also be trained based on the ideas they have pitched. Also, free condoms were given out, while oral and confirmatory blood-based HIV tests were administered to over 300 attendees by medical practitioners at the event. Over 1000 attendees got a chance to enter a raffle draw to win lots of exciting prizes. Meanwhile, the team had coordinated a social media-driven HIV Self-Testing Contest that ran from October 25 to November 25, 2018, in a bid to crowdsource innovative ideas to promote HIV self-testing in Nigeria. Speaking at the event, 4YBYprincipal investigator, Dr. Juliet Iwelunmor, said: “Our goal is to drive the increased participation of young Nigerians in the fight against HIV/AIDS through generating demand and adoption of self-testing. This we hope to achieve by rewarding innovative and creative ideas that encourage self-testing amongst Nigerian Youth, which will ultimately go a long way in helping to end the AIDS epidemic as a public health threat.” The 4YBY group, in collaboration with Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LASACA), had earlier organised a walkathon, which took place before the commencement of the award ceremony. Nigeria currently has the highest rate of new HIV infection in Africa, after South Africa and Uganda. UNAIDS reported that there are 200,000 newly infected people in Nigeria annually – 46,000 of these are young women and 33,900 are young men.