The Worship Centre (Assembly of Son and Daughters of Christ Apostolic Church) will hold its annual Apostolic Fire Conference between January 11 and 12, next year. The senior pastor of the church Seyi Adeyemi said the conference, which will be rounded off with the assembly’s ninth anniversary thanksgiving on January 13, will hold at 1, Worship Centre Avenue, Off Kudirat Abiola Way, Oregun, Lagos State. Adeyemi said the conference would put the issue of holiness on the front burner, adding that holiness is needed to revive and beautify the life of the nation. He said: “God expects us to be holy.  Christians need to get back to the requirement of holiness, which is not just the exhibition of piousness but the character of uprightness, forthrightness, godliness and purity in thoughts and actions.” The cleric said the church would showcase the “Beauty of Holiness”, the theme of the programme. He said nothing can attract the nation to God and God to the nation other than holiness. “Nigeria has been a ‘work-in-progress’ since independence. “There may have been some developments here and there, but by and large, we have become the poverty capital of the world. The responsibility lies squarely on the shoulder of our leadership, which has been the bane of the Nigerian project. “The more truly spiritual people we have in Nigeria, the better our nation will be. These are the kinds of fruits we expect that the Apostolic Fire Conference will produce in the life of attendees.” Adeyemi noted that as the election year draws nearer, the church needs to watch and pray. He added: “Watching entails educating Christians to bring forthrightness into the electoral process, to get involved in issue-based discussions, proffer brilliant and progressive ideas, insist on doing the right thing rather than sell their votes for a pot of porridge, identify the best candidates and vote for them on Election Days.” According to him, great countries of the world were built on Christian ideals. Adeyemi also said: “The more genuine, spirit-filled Christians like the biblical Joseph, Daniel, Meshach, Shedrack and Abednego we can get into positions of power, the better for our nation. We need genuine spiritual, God-fearing and knowledgeable people in positions of governance.” On how the annual conference began, he said: “The Lord inspired us to start this conference in 2016 and the inaugural edition came up in January 2017 with the theme: Tongues As of Fire. The 2018 edition has the theme: Eyes on Eternity. We look forward to the 2019 edition with the theme: Beauty of Holiness. “With these themes, our direction as an assembly is focused on spirituality as opposed to religiosity. We believe the church will be more impactful to the nation and society if we live up to God’s expectation.” 