FLORENCE: Dear PTAD, thank you for informing me that deduction in my May pension was due to computation correction. But the short payment is more than what it has stated. My Federal gratuity too has not been paid since my retirement in 2005. Please I need solution. PTAD: Please scan and email your verification slip and supporting documents to complaints@ptad.gov.ng. This will enable us investigate and resolve your complaint. Thank you  OZEGBE: My name is Ozegbe. I retired on October 15 2006 as  senior foreman carpenter on grade level 7 step 8. I did my capturing in 2016. My problem is nonpayment of federal share since 2006 till date. Thanks PTAD: Kindly scan and email your verification slip to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us investigate and resolve your complaint. Thank you.  KAWONISE: I am Kawonise. I retired from Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, Lagos. I have not been paid my pension for April and May 2018. Kindly help me out of this problem and save me from hunger. Thank you. PTAD: Kindly scan and email your verification slip as well as your duly signed and stamped bank statement, covering at least six (6) months before complaint to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us investigate and resolve your complaint. Thank you.  BAIYEGUN: My name is Baiyegun, I am an Ondo State pensioner with Federal share. I was verified by the PTAD during the last exercise and captured into their scheme. My financial benefit was supposed to start from January 1, 2002 but to my surprise when I received bank alert for the payment, the PTAD only paid me for March, April and May 2018. When am I going to receive the arrears of my pensions, starting from January 1, 2002? Please I am dying. PTAD: Please note that PTAD has compiled the list of pensioners for the next batch of pension arrears payment and is waiting for the allocation and release of funds from the Federal Government for this purpose. Thank you.  ALI: My name is Ali; I am from Plateau State. I have not been put on payroll. I am being owed gratuity and accumulated pension arrears. Please come to my rescue. PTAD is concluding computation of pension benefits for pensioners in Northcentral. You will be put on the payroll as soon as this process is complete. Payment of pension arrears will make when funds are released and allocated by the Federal Government for that purpose. Thank you.  MUFUTAU: I am Mufutau, a retiree of NICON Insurance in October 1990. I participated in PTAD verification in October 2017. I was later told that others were paid while mine has not been paid. PTAD claims my name was not forwarded to them. PTAD: Kindly scan and email your verification slip as well as your duly signed and stamped bank statement covering at least six (6) months before complaint to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us investigate and resolve your complaint. Thank you.  CHARANCI: I did not receive my pension in the month of April and May 2018. Yusuf Hassan Charanci. PTAD: Kindly scan and email your verification slip as well as your duly signed and stamped bank statement covering at least six (6) months before complaint to complaints@ptad.gov.ng to enable us investigate and resolve your complaint. Thank you.  NENROT: I have been verified since November 2018 by PTAD in Plateau zone. PTAD has not put me on payroll. PTAD is concluding computation of pension benefits for pensioners in Northcentral. You will be put on the payroll as soon as this process is complete. Payment of pension arrears will be made when  funds are released and allocated by the Federal Government for that purpose. Thank you. ALI: My name is Mike. I will like to remind you of my late father’s pension increment arrears. He is retired inspector Ali and he retired in Benue State. I look forward to hearing from you. THE NATION will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the PTAD and subsequently every week for pension news. ADEJUMO: My name is Adejumo from Ibadan Oyo State. I am a Federal pensioner. I am being owed seven years and seven months’ arrears of pension from March 2003 to August 2010. I retired in February 2003 after 35 years of service with the Federal Ministry of Defence as a Senior Typist Grade 1 on GL 8 step 8. I started to get my pension from October 2010 and I am still receiving. On October 17, 2017, when I appeared for verification at International Conference Centre University of Ibadan, I presented my complaint with relevant documents, including bank statements from 2003 to 2017 to show clearly that I didn’t receive pension during the period of claim. I attended verification exercise on 17th October 2017 and was issued pensioner’s verification acknowledgement form. Please help me find out what is happening to my case.  THE NATION: will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the PTAD and subsequently every week for pension news.  EMMANUEL: My name is Emmanuel the son of late James. I have an issue on the pension of my late father who pass away on 13 March 2015. I have paid the amount they ask us to pay and also submitted all the necessary documents required. But we have not receive any massage about his pension. Please help us. THE NATION: The Nation will intervene by sending your complaint to PTAD. Do watch out for the newspaper publication next Wednesday for a response from the PTAD and subsequently every week for pension news. 