The Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is yet to have its authentic governorship candidate for next year’s election. MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE examines the fresh crisis threatening the efforts to present the party’s candidate. The Ogun State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is not at peace with itself. The party does not have a undisputed governorship candidate, few months to the election. The party was about of launching its campaign, when fresh challenges militating the its chances of winning the election reared its ugly head. The party, led by Alhaji Sikirulai Ogundele, nominated and Ladi Adebute as its flag bearer, but the faction led, by Chief Adebayo Dayo, challenged the outcome of the primary. Senator Buruji Kashamu got a reprieve from a Federal High Court in Abeokuta, declaring him as the party’s flag bearer. He belongs to the Dayo faction. The Ogundele faction appealed the judgment at the Court of Appeal, Ibadan. Leaders of the party have reacted differently to the matter. Some said the party is in good stead to win the election in Ogun State, despite the confusion, while others call for urgent solution. According to the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, the Ogun candidate had been decided. He said it was not possible for a candidate who did not take part in the primary to be fielded as the candidate. He added that the National Working Committee (NWC), which was the only body that can conduct primaries for the candidates, had done that for Ogun. Ologbondiyan said whoever parades himself as the candidates without following laid down rules and regulation is an impostor. He said Buruji lost his membership of our party and as such, did not purchase the nomination form. “He did not participate in any way whatsoever in our Ogun State governorship primaries, yet he had continued to cause confusion and parade himself as PDP candidate.” The PDP spokesman further stressed the need for the Independent National Electoral Commission ( INEC ) to take copious note of past the court judgment. Suit No FCT/HC 0303/2017 affirmed the power of the PDP, as provided in the constitution, to discipline and punish any member who contravenes the provisions of the constitution. Despite the hiccups, the candidates have gone ahead to launch their campaigns for the election. Kashamu kicked off his campaign in Ijebu Igbo, while Adebutu was handed the party flag by the NWC in Abeokuta the capital, to start his campaigns. Analysts urged the party to seek political solution, noting that if it degenerates, it would jeopardize the PDP’s chances of winning the election next year in the state. However, the PDP expressed optimism that what is happening is simply a flash in a tea cup, stressing that the storm would soon be over. Its National Chairman, Uche Secondus boasted that the Ogundele’s PDP would win the legal tussle against Kashamu, adding that nobody can bend the process because the constitution had spelt it out. “You cannot come and bend the process. It is criminal for one person to print form and sell the form to himself, conduct congress by himself and submit names to INEC in his signature,” he added. But, Kashamu said whatever efforts the party had mustered to undermine his candidature would be an effort in futility. He maintained that Secondus was an agent of the All Progressives Congress (APC), noting that his double dealing would soon be exposed. Buruji said he was only defending the oppressed and the downtrodden who have no voice. “As the national chairman of the opposition and pan-Nigerian political party, Prince Uche Secondus is supposed to be a leader and alter ego of the PDP. Thus, there is a presupposition that he would project the best that PDP represents. “It is not for him to continue to carry on in this manner, through consistent disobedience of subsisting court judgment under the guise of party supremacy. He cannot continue to act as if the party is not guided by its own constitution.” The tussle is drawing the attention of party members and other observers. Afenifere Publicity Secretary Yinka Odumakin called on the judiciary to douse the tension by creating the enabling environment that would assist parties to resolve whatever problem they have. He said the court had taken some decisions that have exacerbated conflicts in party development. “You look at some cases; three courts passed different rulings on the same issue. The court rather than interpreting the law so that INEC will know where to make correction and move ahead, it has left the body confused. “So, I think the court should look into the matter of the parties as they arises and see how they can interpret the laws in such a way that it would lead to progress and not causing confusion in the polity.” Stakeholders urged the judiciary to ensure the rule of law. They pointed that the Ogun PDP governorship crisis is not only a bad omen, but a threat to democracy. They said if the situation is not swiftly curtailed, the followers of Kashamu and Adebutu may take the law into their hands. The National Vice chairman Southwest, Dr. Eddy Olafeso, said there is no disputation on who is the candidate. According to him, Adebutu is the candidate. He said: “Adebutu is the candidate of the party, since July 2018, Buruji Kashamu ceased to be a member of the PDP. He did not participate in any of our primaries; he did not fill or submit form of intent. He has no relationship with the party since July. “So, as at this moment Ladi Adebutu is the authentic candidate of the party. He has been handed the flag of the party and has been campaigning. So, that laid to rest completely any doubt or argument being raised from any quarter on who is the candidate of the party.” The party chieftain explained that the action of the party does not amount to contempt of court, if it continues to recognise Adebutu as the candidate. Olafeso said: “It still remains that a court of the land already gave a judgment. We are working with our candidate and it very clear the PDP candidate is Adebutu.” Some stakeholders believe that party would settle the matter out of court. They said that political solution would be proffered to the matter. They are of the view that the crisis should not be allowed to fester. Observer say what the party should be doing at the moment should be how to make inroads into the grassroots and let the people have a feel of its manifestoes. The Publicity Secretary, Ogun PDP, Alhaji Malik Ibitoye, said the leadership of the party is handling the matter amicably, adding any moment from now there would be a political solution to the matter. He said: “Though the matter is in court, a political solution is being worked out to end the ugly development. The leadership in Abuja is not relenting on this. This would be sorted out before the election. “Those who think that the unfortunate development will affect the party’s chance of winning the election are merely dreaming. It will not affect us because the PDP is fully on ground and would win the 2019 election. “The only formidable and strongest party in Ogun State is the PDP. The members have resolved to stay together despite the challenge, we are not moving to other parties. So, irrespective of where the pendulum swings we will remain in PDP.” The National Chairman of United Progressives Party (UPP), Chekwas Okorie the crisis has been addressed by the electoral acts. He explained the INEC was acting based on the electoral act, noting the guideline remain the basic rule of the game. “The acts state that the chairman and secretary of political parties are the authentic offices that can present or candidate for the positions they should vie for and whosoever, the chairman and secretary present forward their names to INEC as the candidates of the party will stand. “This can only be voided by a competent court of jurisdiction. Based on that, all the decisions and actions amount to nothing until the court has reversed it and whatever the party has decided will stand. They are too close to election to be engage in internal conflict or reversal, it will never work.” Lagos PDP chieftain Stanley Osifo said the party should bring the parties the dispute to a round table, adding that every member of the party was important at the crucial moment. The party should handle it in such a way that everybody would feel that justice was done. Osifo stressed the need for a political solution that would keep the party cohesive ahead of the coming election is very close. He maintained that the Ogun PDP issue is just one of the many cases the party should beam it search light and resolve in order to win the coming election across the board. 