Counselors have been urged to rise up to the demands of the profession of guidance and counseling in schools to measure up with their colleagues in mental health and clinical sectors. This charge was given on Thursday at the 2018 convention of primary school counselors, organized by the Association of Professional Counsellors of Nigeria (APROCON), held in Lagos. According to the Unit Head, Guidance and Counseling, Lagos State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Mrs. Folashade Oladepo, a school counselor serves three populations, including the pupils, teachers and parents. The counselors she noted guide these people within the framework of an organized programme according to the mission of the school. “Counselors face identity crisis which needs to be addressed. In many Nigerian schools, counselors are burdened with additional responsibilities like teaching, which inhibits their professional roles as counselors. “ I however challenge the counselors to rise up to the increasing demands of guidance and counseling services in schools to enable them measure up to their counterparts in mental health and clinical sectors. While expressing her joy as a counselor, Oladepo said empathy is the key to success in counseling. “I found myself in the profession right from my university days, and continued when I joined the ministry of education. I believe that empathy is the key of counseling, you must not give up on a person as a counselor, no matter what he or she is going through.” She further expressed gratitude to her chairman, Dr. Ganiyu Oluremi Sopeyin for the encouragement and suppiort she gets from him. The Chairperson, APROCON Lagos State, Professor Ngozi Osareren, told The Nation that “Counseling is for everybody. We are making concerted efforts to catch the children right from their primary school, in order to make them useful members of the society.” Osareren explained that “Counseling is not just about advising people. It is about giving variable alternatives to people about people. It is about guiding people on what is right and wrong. For example, it is a known fact that no man is supposed to carry a small lady on his lap. And this is what counselors do; telling people what is right and how they can walk in the path. Honourable Wakeel Akeusola, a board member of the association, advised counselors to also focus on the youths, and introduce moral instructions back to the primary school. According to him, “this will be a way to bring back the morality that is lacking now in the society, especially among the youths.” Awards were presented to deserving counselors who have been outstanding during the year. 