The Federal University, Otuoke (FUO), Ogbia, Bayelsa State, has demoted seven professors and sacked six other non-teaching employees. The institution said the employees suffered the punishments following lack of requisite scholarship and abscondment from the university. Some of the affected lecturers were said to have faulted their sanctions saying they were motivated by sectional and tribal sentiments. But the Registrar of FUO, Mr. Iruo Yousuo, said the action was part of the ongoing cleansing exercise to sanitize the university, which is located in the country home of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Yousuo said that the Governing Council of the university took decisions on appointments and discipline at its 10th meeting, which affected the lecturers and the non-academic employees. He said: “Consequently, the Governing Council of the Federal University Otuoke have re-classified some academic appointments by downgrading teaching staff appointments to lower ranks for lack of requisite scholarship.” “Those affected are: “Dr. Steve Nwabuzor, who downgraded from the rank of Professor to Lecturer 1; Dr. Leonard K Shilgba, downgraded from the rank of Professor to Senior Lecturer and Dr. Timothy Falade Obalade, downgraded from the rank of Associate Professor to Senior Lecturer. “Others are Dr. Felina Nwadike, downgraded from Associate Professor to Senior Lecturer, Dr. Sepribo Lawson-Jack; downgraded from the rank of Associate Professor to Lecturer 1; Dr. Marcellina Offoha, downgraded from the rank of Associate Professor to Lecturer 1 and Dr. Evans Eze, downgraded from the rank of Associate Professor to Lecturer 2.” “The Council equally converted the appointments of Dr. Felina Nwadike, Dr. Timothy Falade Obalade and Dr. Sepribo Lawson-Jack to contract appointments as their tenure appointments were at variance with applicable rules. “The Governing Council also approved the termination of appointments of six non-teaching staff on grounds of abscondment. “The affected staff are: Mr. Obele Gabriel, Miss Modozie Rejoice Chinenye, Mr. Akpan Ufot. I and Mr. Bomor Tarela. Others are Mr. Anthony Arhogor and Miss Bassey Affiong Agbor.” The registrar further said that the Governing Council approved the appointment of two principal officers for the university. He named them as Prof. Felicia Etim, appointed as the University Librarian and CSP Rosalyn Biobaragha (Rtd) as the Chief Security Officer.