To mitigate long-term shifts in weather conditions and patterns of extreme weather on Nigerians, environmental health officers across the nation have been urged to maintain high level professionalism. This charge was given at the 50th annual scientific workshop and first international conference of its kind in Lagos by the Environmental Health Officers’ Association of Nigeria (EHOAN), popularly called ‘Wolewole’ by the locals.Environmental experts from other parts of the world joined their Nigerian counterparts to celebrate and brainstorm at the event. The theme was: Climate Change and Environmental Health: Consequences, Concern and Mitigating Factors on Socio-economic Status. Welcoming everyone to the event, the National President of EHOAN, Dr. Samuel Akingbehin encouraged all and sundry, especially the officers, to continue doing their best for their society by ensuring that the people enjoy sound environmental health at all time. According to Dr.Akingbehin, human co-existence and unity is very important and not negotiable and, “with the manifestation of effects of climate change so glaring, emergence of numerous communicable diseases, nationally and globally due to negligence of environmental health must be halted. And that is where the roles of professional environmental health officers are most significant. “The government of the day, even members of the public, our various communities, local government, the professionals in different health and environment sectors should rise up and face reality when it comes to environmental health,” said Dr.Akingbehin. He explained that is what the conference/workshop stands to address, “there is no other time that the organisation of scientific workshop and international conferences so significant to our economy and national life than now. Professionals, fellow sanitarians, let us wake up now; the whole world is still waiting for us. The government of the nation is not looking elsewhere but upon us to deliver effective preventive means in finding solutions to the big issue. Let us rise to our responsibilities to bring about the needed change which I believe this conference will contribute greatly.” The EHOAN boss also called on the federal, state and local governments that the era of treating environmental health services as mere appendages, or ‘food for boys’ should be over. “We have environmental health officers graduating every year; let us put them on the job. These are professionals trained to address health- related issues,” he enjoined the authorities. President, Lagos chapter of EHOAN, TaiwoAwonuga, said Lagos has always held the ace in terms of cleanliness. “It is truly worthy of note and a humbling remembrance to recall how the practice of environment sanitation had started in the colonial era. Our role as preventive professionals in the healthcare delivery sector is unrivalled, and can never be over-emphasised. We must however continue to make ourselves visible and audible, counting notably at every roll call of professionals. We must never burn out or wear out; we must continue to exhibit professionalism in all aspects of our practice and discharge of our duties. We are stalwart! Little wonder the World Health Organisation prescribed one environmental health officer to a population of eight thousand people. We cannot afford to falter.” While delivering a lecture on the theme of the conference, the guest speaker, Prof George Karani of the Cardiff Metropolitan University, United Kingdom, said: “Climate change refers to long-term shifts in weather conditions and patterns of extreme weather events harm humans. Climate change will make drought and flooding more frequent, according to the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, report of 2011.” He added that the biggest concern, however, is the seven percent increase in greenhouse gases between1990 and 2010 that are impeding solar energy from escaping the earth’s atmosphere and, therefore, contributing to global warming.”Global climate is projected to continue to change over this century and beyond. The magnitude of climate change beyond the next few decades will depend primarily on the amount of greenhouse (heat-trapping) gases emitted globally and on the remaining uncertainty in the sensitivity of Earth’s climate to those emissions (very high confidence), he explained. “The frequency and intensity of extreme heat and heavy precipitation events are increasing in most continental regions of the world (very high confidence).There is evidence that higher temperatures are associated with greater civil and military violence,” stated Prof Karani Stating the key approaches to solving the problem, he added:  “strengthening of the health systems, promoting more sustainable public policy, more systematic evidence based from Africa, partnership involving all stakeholders, cooperation and strengthened accountable, multilevel governance, among others.”