A row has been broken out over the non-payment of the scholarship cash prize of 18 First Class graduates of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). In 2014, the Nneji Chukwu Foundation set aside N11million as cash reward for Best Graduating Students in the Faculty of Engineering. No recipient has been able to access the fund since then. KINGSLEY AMATANWEZE reports. Where is the N11 million endowed by the Nneji Chukwu Foundation to reward Best Graduating Engineering students of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN)? This is the poser  the group of graduates of the school wants the UNN management to answer. The inability of the school to pay winners of the scholarship for years has fueled an allegation that the money may have been embezzled. But, the school denied the allegation, noting that its failure to pay the recipients was due to “unintentional omission”. Mr John Chukwu, a philanthropist, endowed the money through the foundation, with the objective to promote scholarship by giving cash reward to the Best Graduating Students in the Faculty of Engineering yearly. The endowment, which was instituted in 2014 at the Herbert Macaulay Memorial Lecture, is to give N100,000 to the Overall Best Graduating Student in the Faculty of Engineering, N50,000 to the Best Graduating Student in each Department of Engineering and N25,000 to the Best Student in Engineering Practice. Four years after, the endowment has become a subject of controversy. Investigation by CAMPUSLIFE revealed that the UNN management gave N175,000 only to three winners in the year the endowment was instituted. Investigation further showed that no other prize winner had received the cash award from 2015 to 2018, raising questions about the whereabouts of the funds. Attempts by the prize winners to get the school to release the cash were futile, as authorities did not respond to the recipients’ several requests  to be paid. Some of the recipients, who spoke to CAMPUSLIFE, said the school only gave them the Nneji Chukwu Foundation certificates, which indicated that they were awarded the cash prizes upon graduation. A 2016 graduate, Albert Ugwu, told CAMPUSLIFE that he was yet to be paid N175,000 he won for being the Best Graduating Student at the Faculty of Engineering, Best Student in Civil Engineering and also in Engineering Practice that year. He said: “I got nine academic awards during our convocation and awards night, three of which were from the Nneji Chukwu Foundation. When I went to the office of the Dean of Engineering Faculty to get the money, I was referred to the school Bursary Department where I was told to write down my name. I got the cash prizes for other awards, but I did not get the money for the three Nneji Chukwu Foundation awards.” Albert met his Head of Department on the matter, but he was told to forget about the money. Godwin Nwangene, 2017 Best Graduating Student at the Faculty of Engineering and in the Department of Electrical Engineering, told CAMPUSLIFE that his efforts and those of other recipients of the foundation prizes to get the money paid to them were futile. Godwin disclosed that they wrote to the principal officers of the school individually and collectively, but their letters were “practically ignored” by the school management. He decried what he described as “irregularities” in the award of the cash prize, wondering why it was impossible for winners to get the money already paid by the benefactor. He said: “It is funny that, after receiving the Nneji Chukwu Foundation award for the Best Graduating Faculty of Engineering Student in 2017, I have not been given the money for almost a year now. To redeem the cash prize, I met with the then Dean of the Faculty, Prof Ogbonna Oparaku, and asked what I needed to do to get the money. He told me it would take time for the school to release the cash, and told me not to worry. According to Godwin, the dean promised to write to the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Benjamin Ozumba, for the release of the cash, but he never heard anything about it for months. Curious to know why it was difficult for the school to pay the cash, Godwin got the contact details of the award sponsor, Mr Chukwu, to know if he (Chukwu) had stopped sponsoring the award. Godwin said: “I sent Mr Chukwu a text message and explained my inability to get the cash prize. After reading my text message, he called me immediately. He was shocked that students have not been paid for three years. Then, I told him the school only paid the first set of winners since his foundation started the endowment.” Worried by the development, Mr Chukwu, in a complaint letter to the VC on June 12, 2018, expressed concerns and described the development as “an embarrassment to my personality”. In the letter obtained by CAMPUSLIFE, the sponsor confirmed that he endowed N11 million to the cause and appealed to the school management to release the money to the winners without further delay. The letter reads in part: “This is a follow up to my previous telephone discussion, email and WhatsApp messages to you (Vice-Chancellor) on the above subject matter. Kindly save us further embarrassment by investigating the respective winners of the said prizes and ensuring that all the recipients are paid accordingly and documented appropriately.” Five months after Chukwu’s letter, the school is yet to give the cash prizes to the winners. The school, it was learnt, cut off further contact with the prize winners. The award recipients are demanding from the school to release the money. According to Godwin, 18 recipients have been denied by the school. The concerned graduates said there was no hope the school would pay future winners of the prize. The school denied the money had been embezzled, saying the delay was caused by “unintentional omission” arising from change of guard at the school’s registry. CAMPUSLIFE met with Prof Oparaku, who admitted the recipients had not been paid since 2015. He, however, said the school planned to pay the prize winners. He said: “I spoke with the Registrar on this issue some days ago, and he told me there were plans to make sure the affected students are paid very soon.” When our correspondent spoke to the Registrar, Mr Christopher Igbokwe, he said the money was being processed and that the recipients would get their cash prizes soon. He said: “Their money is being processed. We’ve sought their bank details from them and as soon as their bank details are released to the Bursary department, the respective amounts would be paid into their various accounts.” Asked why the school delayed the payment for three years, the registrar blamed it on “work stress” and “unintentional omission”. “At times, when you undertake certain strenuous jobs, you tend to omit some things,” the registrar told CAMPUSLIFE. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE on telephone, Prof  Ozumba said part of the reasons for the delay was the need to “regularise the processes of the payment, because it is a new award”. The VC said: “The award was instituted when I came in as the Vice Chancellor and at the time the immediate past registrar was preparing to leave the office. So, the first set of winners got paid. Now, we have new registrar and bursar, which requires that we put some processes in place.” Prof Ozumba said he set up a committee to look into the matter and ordered the bursar to transfer the money to the recipients. Godwin said his aim for bringing the matter to the public was not about money, but to ensure things were done properly. “My reason for speaking up is to expose the wrongdoings in the award of the prize. Why should the school withhold an endowment that has already been sponsored? They never gave us any explanation for the delay when we wrote to them privately. I am surprised everybody is now speaking up when they know the media is involved. This is not the best way. It could have been properly handled,” Godwin said. Daniel Onyinanya, the 2017 Best Graduating Mechanical Engineering student, who had not been paid, said: “We have been making attempts to reach out to the school and see how we will be paid. We even sent several text messages to the Vice-Chancellor without responses.” Another unpaid recipient, who was the Best Graduating Mechanical Engineering Student in his set, said: “Six of us wrote and submitted our letters at the same time for the school to release the money. The last letter actually was acknowledged by the registrar and sent back to our departments for verifications. Since then, nothing has been done.” Anthony Asadu, 2017 Best Graduating Metallurgical and Materials Engineering Student, said the Dean of Faculty of Engineering told him to write a letter to the effect; he submitted the letter through the Dean’s Office, but never got any response several months after. As at press time, the school was yet to pay the award recipients, despite assuring CAMPUSLIFE that the funds would be released to the beneficiaries within days.