Having acclimatized with the weather as well as the golf course hosting the finals of the Ladies European Tour (LET) Qualifying School, Nigeria’s teenage sensation – Georgia Oboh has said that she will face her toughest test when the tournament tees off on December 16 to 20 at Amelkis Golf Club in Marrakech, Morocco. To make the cut for the finals, the 17-year-old Edo State-born finished third amidst the 65-field of players from 38 countries that competed in the pre- qualifying school A in November. For next week’s finals, Oboh is expected to compete with 107 ladies from the LET and the LET access series including seasoned European players across the globe.. From the list of competitors already released by the organizers, Africa has three players in the LET School Qualifying Finals with Oboh representing Nigeria, while the duo ofBrittney-fay Berger and Nobuhle Dlamini will represent South Africa. According to Oboh, the task ahead of her is to make the top 25 to qualify to compete in LET tournaments in 2019 and she is boosted by her maiden pro title in Cote d’Ivoire recently. “This will be my toughest test yet to I am working really hard but praying even harder. As a young professional I am looking forward to the finals with optimism that I can make the cut of 25 players to be able to compete across Europe next year. There is no doubt that I need every support I can get now because playing in Europe is not as glamorous as people think but a more tasking and challenging tour that requires a lot of fund and I know that this will open doors for a lot of Africans as well,” she said. “I am in good shape having arrived since November 29 to be able to get used to the golf course and weather. I can say that the weather has been very friendly particularly at this time of the year in Morocco. Also, I am getting used to the golf course ahead of the finals next week. I am in high spirit and full of optimism going into the competition,” Oboh added. The battle for the top spot at the LET School Qualifying finals will take place over the Golf Amelkis and Palm Golf Ourika for two days each with the final day to be held at Golf Amelkis for the final 60 players who make the cut.
The Qualifying school is held yearly for golf professionals and elite amateurs aiming to attain playing privileges on the Ladies European Tour which holds their events mainly in Europe but as far as Australia, South Africa, China and Thailand. The Ladies European Tour Qualifying School is the gateway for female players to compete at an elite level globally.