Barely two months to the 2019 general elections, the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has said it is prepared to conduct a credible exercise. The commission has slated  February 16, 2019 for the presidential and National Assembly elections. March 2 is for the governorship elections in 27 states and 37 state assemblies as well as the FCT council election. Speaking yesterday after his meeting with the head of the European Union (EU) delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS,  Ketil Karlson, INEC Chairman Prof. Mahmood Yakubu stated that the commission “is prepared to conduct an election that would be an improvement on previous election”. On the issue of amendment to the electoral law, Prof. Yakubu noted that there will be no difference as the electoral umpire has been conducting itself within the ambit of the law. “For us there is no legal lacuna as a law exist, but if it is accented to then we will abide by the provisions of the new law, but as we speak, there is no legal lacuna, we have taken the actions we have taken so far legitimately under the provisions of the law as it exist and nothing has changed.” He also assured that steps have been taken to guarantee an all inclusive election, adding that, “for the first time in Anambra, we introduce magnifying glasses for those with visual impairment, in the Osun election; we introduce tactile balloting, meaning that those with visual impairment who can read with brail and can vote are assisted”. He said the commission is looking at all possibilities that would ensure people with disabilities exercise their franchise. Karlson expressed hope that the electoral  body will do a food job come 2019. He also noted that the EU has been a worthy  partner with the country in the effort to stabilise democracy. Karlson stressed that the EU has committed more than a 100 million Euros in support of democratic processes in Nigeria since the return of democracy in 1999. The supports which entails institutional and technical, according him, aimed at ensuring elections in the country are free, fair, credible and peaceful. Karlson added that as part of its support to Nigeria’s democracy, the EU has just concluded tours of the six geopolitical zones, educating youths and women on the essence of participating in the 2019 general elections. He said: “EU has been supporting INEC for a very long time, it is not something that we started doing just ahead of the elections, as a matter of fact we have been providing institutional support and technically support to INEC for a very long time. And as some of you may have seen we have done something very innovative, doing a youth vote count campaign throughout the country, in all the six geopolitical zones including a number of celebrities. Through that we have literally reached million of youths and potential voters and educated them about the importance of their participation.”