Following alleged decision of an Ilorin, Kwara State High Court Judge to give judgement in a matter already being entertained by the Appeal Court, pro-democracy activists in the state have urged the Judge to exercise retrain so as not to heighten the already charged political atmosphere in the state. The said suit was instituted against the current leadership of the APC by its former executives led by Mr. Ishola Balogun-Fulani seeking to be reinstated by the national leadership of the party. Making the appeal in Ilorin on Saturday, the Kwara Coalition, a pro-democracy group in the state, said it is important for the judiciary to remain an unbiased arbiter as the 2019 general election draws nearer. The co-ordinator of the coalition, Ahmed Baba-Rahman, called on the concerned judge to follow the rules guiding his profession to the letter in handling the matter. “The judiciary must not be seen to be providing succour for some suspended members of Kwara APC. So the judge who is insisting on delivering a judgement next week despite subsisting appeals before the Court of Appeal, should kindly desist from such action which is capable of heating up the political atmosphere in the state. Ours is an appeal for caution following his insistence on Friday that APC counsels must enter into the substantive suit because he will deliver a judgement next week. “W recalled that the judge’s earlier decision to grante an amendment to the original prayers of Mr. Balogun-Fulani without outlining what the new prayers were seeking, is still being contested by the defendants, who have expressed worries over the actions of the judge, especially when he threw away the stay of execution filed before him and ignored all the pending suits before the Court of Appeal, a higher court. “We have followed this matter keenly since its commencement in August, and we are worried that it may be headed to a predetermined destination. We appeal to the judge to cross check his actions and inaction in the interest of peace just as we call on all persons of good conscience to defend justice and abort the travesty going on in Kwara State judiciary,” Baba-Rahman said. 