The Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has developed a four-year Strategic Health Development Plan (SHDP) that will require about N162 billion to execute. Secretary, FCT Health and Human Services Secretariat (HHSS), Adamu Abubakar Bappah who disclosed this during the end of year press briefing in his office, announced that N7.9 billion has been spent on healthcare delivery in the FCT for 2018. He said: “FCT Strategic Health Development Plan (SHDP) 2018-2022 has been developed, which will provide policy and pragmatic directives of the FCT health sector for the next five years”. According to Bappa, the strategic blueprint would be sourced from budgetary allocations, Internally Generated Revenue from health services, international donors such as the World Health Organization (WHO), United States Department for International Development (USAID) and the United Nations International Children Emergency Fund, among others. Highlighting major achievements of the Secretariat in 2018, Bappa revealed that N200 million was spent on recapitalization of the Drug Revolving Fund, N1.3 billion was spent on drugs and medical supplies distributed to various FCT Hospitals and commodities for control of HIV cost N2.5 billion. More achievements of the Secretariat include establishment of Public Health Emergency Operation Centre with support from Nigeria Centre for Disease Control, ongoing construction of 12 Primary Health Centres and 12 solar powered boreholes in the Six FCT Area Councils, Public Health Laboratory for routine screening for food handlers, as well as  construction and equipping of 220 bed Gwarinpa District Hospital, which is at 30 percent completion. The Secretariat also recorded increase in the coverage of mother to child HIV transmission from 36.7 to 81.1 percent, immunization coverage from 63.4 to 80.5 percent, increased distribution of mosquito treated net from 16.5 to 36 percent and distributed over N1.3 billion worth of drugs to FCTA hospitals. Accordingly, a total of 4075 clients, consisting 1127 principals and 2948 dependents were enrolled under FHSS, secured accreditation for residency training in opthalmology in Asokoro District Hospital and residency training in general surgery for Bwari General Hospital and distributed 45255 rapid diagnostics test kits for to health facilities in the Area Councils. The Administration also constructed 4-bed  Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in Gaube -Kuje Area Council, renovated PHCs in Jikoko, Cumi and Ayaura in Abaji Area Council, constructed cold store -fitted with direct drive solar refrigerators in Apo, among others. He also stated that N15.3 million has been spent on tuberculosis control, family planning consumables gulped N20.7 million and vaccines programmes cost N3.7 billion for the year 2018. The FCT Health Secretary however disclosed that the Secretariat generated N114.1 million internally, with N60.3 million generated by Private Health Establishment Registration and Monitoring Committee while Abuja Central Medical Store generated N53.7 million. He added that the Secretariat is collaborating with Institute of Human Virology to develop a database for all health workers in the FCT and 60% Reporting Rate on submission and utilization statistics at health facilities has been achieved while 508 public and private health facilities in the FCT are on District Health Information System Platform National Server. Bappa however decried that the Secretariat was confronted with challenges such as funding, epidemics, understaffing, delayed budgetary releases and overstretched amenities and called for more funding as well as partnership to fulfill the responsibility of providing and delivering health services to the public. He therefore debunked insinuations that there was outbreak of any disease in any part of the FCT. 