Residents of Enima Omin Omin Community in Calabar, Cross River State have cried out to the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) and other relevant authorities to save them from an impending doom that may result from a failed road that was shoddily done by a contractor to who the contract for the road construction was awarded in 2014. NICHOLAS KALU reports that the community is on the edge of the precipice and may be cut off from other communities if nothing is done urgently. For residents of Enima Omin Omin Community in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, every minute they live in palpable fear of recording fatalities in their community due to haphazard road construction project carried out on their road. The contract for the project, it was gathered, was awarded in 2014 by the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), but was abandoned by the contractor handling the project. In April this year, the community had to write to the NDDC to demand that the contract be terminated and awarded to a competent contractor. When Niger Delta Report visited the area, it was observed that a shoddy clearing, which had been abandoned, had left the road almost impassable. There are deep gullies dotting the landscape. To worsen the situation, the shoddy job had jeopardised the drainage system constructed by the community to manage flooding in the area, thereby leading to the rapid expansion of ravine. The houses are at the edge of the precipice. Again, members of the community may be cut off from their neighbouring communities because the expanding deep gullies may encroach to the road and cut it off. Chairman of the Enima Omin Omin Neigbourhood Association, David Edem, a lawyer, who narrated the community’s ordeal said: “Sometime in 2014, a contract for the construction of the Enima Omin Omin Road was awarded by NDDC. After a long time, the contractor never moved to site. The community had to write to NDDC asking that the contract be terminated and the project awarded to a more competent contractor. We wrote the letter in January this year. We were here in April when suddenly the contractor ran to site and began to clear the site for work to begin. When they started doing haphazard job after raising our hopes, we had to draw the attention of the NDDC to it. “After that they left, using the rain as subterfuge. Clearing the site by the contractor was the extreme error by the contractor as the action engendered the erosion and the gully sites. It has now opened up this place because virtually all water comes undirected to this ravine. You can see what is happening. Our electric pole was here, we had to relocate it. We spent almost N200, 000 relocating it so that it would not be submerged by the ravine. “We are in a terrible situation now because the contractor left the road much worse that it was. We are a community bonded in strength and unity of purpose. We used to have monthly contribution through which we manage our roads. Where we have challenges, we contribute; we make gutters and make it motorable for our residents. This was until the contractors came in and spoilt everything. “This has affected our lives so terribly; especially with this erosion site it has created, because if nothing is done and the contractor refuses to move to site and complete this job so that we can channel water properly, then by next rainy season, houses would be submerged by the yawning erosion site. People would be at risk. We were able to manage erosion in the community before the contractor messed up the whole thing through construction of culverts through which water passed through until when they now came to open up the entire area to allow water to flow freely from all angles into the ravine. Their coming destroyed everything and left us exposed to this danger. “They have left the road in a far worse state. When it rains most cars cannot even use the road. Before we had a mechanism, where we had people work on the roads. We bought chippings and poured on it.  The condition of the road was all right before they did the shoddy job which has exposed the road to ravine because of rain. “So, we are left worse off than we were. We had told them before they started the job to allow us to continue to manage and maintain the road as we have been doing if they were not going to complete the road project. They said they were going to work. If the contractor is unwilling to complete this job, they should bring in some other competent contractor.” A resident of the community, Mr Tony Takon, whose house is close to the ravine said it would not survive another rainy season. “Over time, we have noticed that the encroachment from the ravine getting worse every day. Luckily for us, the rains have subsided and its destruction of the road temporarily halted. But I don’t think we would be this lucky with another round of downpour if nothing is urgently done to ameliorate the horrible situation. “We are praying that some palliative measures should be taken as soon as possible to, at least, prevent our people from suffering continuously. All the while we were hoping that once the rain stops, the contractors would move to site again, but nothing has happened so far. We hope that the matter should be looked into by the appropriate authorities and do something fast. “For the ravine, we had created passage for the water but there is little the community can do. So there is no way to tackle this permanently without government’s intervention. What they have done has even jeopardised the community’s efforts because all the structures put in place have been dest royed. Even most of the electric poles had to be removed. Most of these destructions occurred in the night. One wakes up and notices that a huge chunk of the road has caved in. We really need something done as soon as possible,” Takon pleaded. Another resident, who also stays close to the ravine, Osinachi Mboku, said: “We are appealing to government to fix the road before the situation becomes a disaster. The contractors came and destroyed the road so government should come in and do something before people lose their lives.” A letter to the Director, State Office of the NDDC, signed by David Edem (Chairman), Mr Boniface Ekarika (Head Project) and Mr John Nandi (Treasurer), for the Enima Omin Omin Neigbourhood Association, said the contractor had “subjected the community to pain, anguish and agony in the last four years.”