A non-governmental organisation, Newstime International Company, Tuesday blamed past leadership in the country for showing gross incompetence and deceitfulness in handling the issues of Boko Haram insurgency and Niger Delta militancy. The group said the situation in Nigeria on the twin challenges of Boko Haram and Niger Delta militancy were a legacy of many years of problems. President of the group, Tony Oyatedor, said these at a briefing on Tuesday, in Abuja. Oyatedor said Boko Haram and Niger Delta militancy will move from bitter fighting to close friendship with the federal government through the help of Nigerians. He called on the Federal Government to make peace with aggrieved Nigerians to end killings and the continuous destruction of properties of innocent Nigerians. He said: “The situation in Nigeria on the twin problems is a legacy of many years of problems. It is not something that happened overnight. We are not going to be able to resolve it overnight with a snap of the finger. ‘’We must not take sides. Our work is not to condemn, but our work is to accomplish reconciliation and peace. ‘’The twin problems in Nigeria is a serious problem and no one is working to fix it, they only talk about it but Newstime has the solution and will roll up our sleeves to work and fix it for good.” Oyatedor said previous administrations in the country proved their priorities were to look the country instead of creating an enabling environment for peace, security and development. ‘’Niger Delta leaders always complain about the terrain in the area while, northerners and so many other countries are begging God to give them water. Niger Delta have water but the people make it sound like it is a disease to have water, instead to give thanks, praise and glory to God for a land flowing with oil, gas, milk and honey due to water and the terrain. ‘’People complain about unemployment, power outages, bad roads, lack of potable and clean water to drink and clean environment. Government should rather employ people to handle this infrastructural deficit properly,” he added.