Youths in the country have been urged to shun political bigotry ahead of the 2019 general elections in the country. A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akoko Northeast local government of Ondo state, Najeem Olodeoku gave the charge at solidarity forum held in Ikare-Akoko. The youth leader noted that youths constitute 70 percent of the electorate and should comport themselves with decorum as political campaigns that would herald the election proper have commenced. He urged them to guard against been a tool in the hands of desperate politicians for a token,which may land them in trouble eventually. At the occasion attended by about 3,000 youths,Olodeokun noted that the achievements of the lawmaker representing Ondo North District,Prof Ajayi Boroffice particularly in Akoko North East gingered them to endorse him as their candidate. The youth leader particularly listed the construction of classrooms at Agboriki Comprehensive High school, Cashew Processing Industry, Ikakunmo Akoko,  and massive boreholes project across the local government. Besides,he pointed out that the lawmaker also installed  Solar mini grid at the State Specialist Hospital, Ikare Akoko, Solar powered  electricity in Akoko North East, facilitation of Federal Government Agency to Ikare Akoko,various empowerment programmes and assistance to many graduates  to secure Federal government jobs. He said since youths were  significant in electoral processes ,they would mobilise to guarantee Boroffice’s victory at the poll in the North district. The APC women leader in the local government,Mrs Raji Febisola described Boroffice as an outstanding performer among his colleagues. According to her, the lawmaker is imbued with passion to help the downtrodden. The motion for the endorsement was moved by Olodeokun and seconded by Wasiu Animashaun. The meeting was attended by all the ward chairmen, women leaders and youth leaders of APC in Akoko North East Local Government The Personal Assistant(PA) to Senator Boroffice,who is also one of the leaders of the ruling party in the local government, Fesojaye Hassan, appreciated the youths for the confidence reposed in the lawmaker. He urged them to mobilize electorate to pave way for the victory of Boroffice during the 2019 polls.