In order to avert gas flaring, the Green Energy International Ltd, operators of Otakikpo Marginal field  in OML 11, is now building a $12million Liquefied Petroleum (LPG) plant  in Ikuru Town in Rivers State that will be ready for installation by the 2nd quarter of 2019. The 12MMSCFD  capacity plant is being constructed in China  at a cost of over 12 million dollars. Disclosing this at the first  stakeholders interactive luncheon held in Port Harcourt, the Chairman of the company, Professor Anthony Adegbulugbe, said this was one of the unique projects of the company to ensure zero gas flare in the the Niger Delta, under its small scale gas utilization programme “SSGUP”. This was contained in the statement which the Director, Legal & Corporate Affairs, Olusegun Ilori released to reporters yesterday. The statement also noted that  the host communities are to enjoy uninterrupted power supply through the company’s gas to power project, with 6 MW gas generators already on site for installation process. He said the company has secured a 15 MW power generation license from the National Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and efforts are being made to increase to 40Mw. Reeling out other plans of the company in its phase 2 development, Adegbulugbe said the company had just completed a 3D seismic campaign to understand the field with a view to  drilling more wells in the area, while an onshore export terminal is also being proposed to be established by 2020. He said the company which started production in 2017 was producing  6000bopd, adding that it planned to ramp up production to 20,000  bopd in the next few years. He commended the traditional rulers and the people of the area for their support and cooperation with the company in achieving tremendous progress adding that this was a  prove that its unique programme of taking the communities as partners in its development effort was not misplaced. He said the company and its technical partner Lekoil, has patronized  local  community contractors since its inception with over N3billion worth of procurement contracts.