Since President Muhammadu Buhari presented the 2019 budget in a joint session of the Senate and House of Representatives on Wednesday, tongues have been wagging over the conduct of the members of the two chambers of the National Assembly who booed and jeered the President at the occasion. Since the unfortunate incident, concerned Nigerians have exhausted the adjectives available in dictionaries condemning the conduct of the errant lawmakers. Some say it was indecent and unethical on the part of the lawmakers to subject their guest, particularly one of the calibre of the President, to the premeditated embarrassment. Others say the orchestrated act was a descent to the nadir of infamy. Personally, I am not disappointed. Going by their antecedents as a bunch of public officials without the slightest regard for ethics or etiquette even in less desperate times, I had feared that they would throw chairs and exchange blows while the President was delivering his speech. Hence, there is every reason to be grateful that Wednesday’s show of shame was limited to boo and jeer. A gathering that had Senator Dino Melaye and other talented pugilists who could have fared better as boxers and wrestlers cannot be said to have overstepped their bounds when all they did was boo the President. Nigerians who have followed their scandalous records will agree that the act they put up on Wednesday was the most decent they could muster. Nigerians could not have forgotten so soon the antics of Senator Melaye and his gang of wrestlers during his time in the House of Representatives. He came into national consciousness as a member of the House of Representatives on June 22, 2010 by sparking a free for all in the House after snatching a paper another member of the House, Hon. Chile Ogbu, was reading from while moving a motion that members who had become a bone in the neck of the House should be suspended. His action culminated in a commotion with some members beaten to stupor while the Sergeant-at-Arm battled to protect the mace and the Speaker. Melaye himself was bundled out of the chamber alongside other cantankerous members in the course of which his dress was torn into shreds. Melaye and his co-travellers in the National Assembly have since built on their records of violence within and outside the hallowed chambers, provoking unrest and throwing chairs at the slightest provocation. Lately, he has taken it a step further by engaging the police in a running battle with full support from the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki and other senators of his ilk who, unfortunately, were part of the crowd that received President Buhari on Wednesday. My fear that all would not be well at the budget presentation ceremony had been hinged on the fact that the violent disposition of the querulous senators and representatives was already compounded by the fact that many of them had lost their parties’ tickets for the 2019 elections. Others who are bent on frustrating the war against corruption are also frustrated by the seemingly growing popularity of President Buhari as the elections draw closer. In the circumstance, it was difficult to expect a receptive National Assembly. Alarmed at the level the bilious lawmakers had taken their antics, President Buhari reminded them that the world was watching. But he needed not to. Well-meaning Nigerians are intelligent enough to see through the antics of the booing senators and Reps. They know that the nation’s enemies were at work on Wednesday; that it was a clear instance of corruption fighting back. The President should, in fact, be worried if the crowd he met with on Wednesday was friendly, for it would mean that he was on the same page with the looters of our treasury and that would rubbish his hard earned reputation as the man of integrity the nation needs at this material time. He will become the enemy of the people if he becomes friends with looters. In the light of the foregoing, Saraki’s description of the budget as hopeless will be taken by those who mean well for the country as a positive development, knowing that he would go to any length to discredit the Buhari administration to feather his own political net. His inability to rein in the thugs that taunted the President during the session is nothing but a political suicide. It is a clear indication of leadership incompetence on the part of a man who had sought to rule the country only to come a distant third in the race for the presidential ticket of the Peoples Democratic Party. Many have described his failure to pick the presidential ticket of the PDP as an act of God. His supporters will now have to pray extra hard that humiliation will not be complete with the loss of Kwara State to the All Progressives Congress in the 2019 elections.