Candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ogun and Ondo states have scheduled a meeting for the weekend to discuss their fate. This followed their alleged neglect by Governors Ibikunle Amosun and Oluwarotimi Akeredolu. The meeting, a source close to one of the National Assembly candidates in Ogun State said, will appraise the defections of some aggrieved aspirants to other parties on the prompting of the two governors following irreconcilable differences arising from the last APC primaries. Although a position paper is expected from the planned meeting scheduled for Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, the source told our correspondent that the candidates have sent emissaries to Vice President Yemi Osinbajo as well as APC National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, over their plight. “From the look of things, the two governors do not believe in the party but seem to be interested in their ego trips. There is nowhere interests will not be bruised after such political battles, but we have to come together and resolve all issues and forge ahead. “The governors should not forget that even when they erred as candidates, there were issues and the people, I mean members of the party, who still stood by them. Today, they are using same leverage against us. “So, we have decided to seek the intervention of Vice President Osinbajo, Asiwaju Tinubu and even Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi so that we can make the party come afloat in these two states because all indications point to the fact that they have dumped us as party candidates and are rather facing their non-APC candidates at our expense. “That is why our Abeokuta meeting will examine all issues around our ordeal, whether we will continue to pursue our aspirations or we should just give up because the governors appear to be adamant. “For instance, in Ogun, 26 lawmakers from the House of Assembly dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) for the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). The lawmakers’ defections came just a week after Governor Amosun’s governorship candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, defected to APM.” There have been reports that in Ondo, all the National Assembly candidates who were promoted by the governor are currently stranded as a result of lack of a robust reconciliation process. This came as two of Governor Akeredolu’s men, Dr Tunji Abayomi and Adetunji Felder, have picked the senatorial tickets of the Action Alliance (AA) for Ondo North and South senatorial districts.