To eradicate poverty in Makoko community, a Non-Governmental Organisation, Marversity Foundation,has donated 10 sewing machines, 400 mosquito nets to residents  of the Lagos slum. The event, themed: ‘Makoko Tour’ held on Saturday, December 15th, 2018 at the Whanyinna Nursery and Primary School, the only school in the water front area. The event was attended by      residents including a representative of Baale of Makoko, Taiwo Shemede. Donating the items, the founder of Marversity Foundation, Cosmic Kalu Macduff, said that we do not have to depend on the government before we can get change. We can always make a change from where we found ourselves, where we sleep and wake up, in our street and our communities. “I believe that when we have real people, we create real stories and together we can make real change,” he said. He explained that his vision has  belief in humanity and wants to be a change agent in Nigeria, Africa and across the globe. “Having spent one year and  a half here in Lagos State, I said to myself, I need a place where I can make great impact on people’s lives and I discovered Makoko, Yaba, Lagos. So, I decided to set up a competition. We were able to select 10 beneficiaries by picking the most penurious ones who have the passion, determination and commitments towards their work but lack equipment to stand as entrepreneur especially in tailoring. “Today, we are presenting 10 sewing machines to the winners of our competition as a reward for their hard work and also distribute  400 mosquito nets  to  the residents. And we thank God for allowing us to be an instrument of change to these people.” Macduff added that ‘Makoko Tour’ is a spiritual movement of love that is geared  towards  bridging  the gap between skill acquisitions and financial empowerment and we are not leaving them. We have put in place practical measures to monitor and ensure they don’t sell the machines rather they use it to create their own wealth. Some of the winners include, Zawwoo John, Iwamu Idowu, Babatunde Paul, Dossou Katerine, Blessing Apety amongst others. Responding, the representative of Baale of Makoko, Mr Taiwo Shemede, thanked the organization for its kind gesture and for fulfilling their promises to  his people. We have to say big thanks to Marversity Foundation because no other NGO has  given us sewing machines . What many of them give are mosquito nets. “The first time they came to meet Baale, saying they wanted  to donate sewing machines to youths who are learning tailoring but didn’t  have machine, it was  just like a joke because when other people  promise to be back,  we won’t see them again. Marversity has proven they are real, we give kudos to them,” Shomede said.