The Leader of the Seagull Band, one of the five competing bands in the workd famous Carnival Calabar, Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, says this year’s edition of the carnival would so far be the biggest and most relevant to the society. Ita-Giwa in a chat with The Nation in Calabar, the Cross River State capital, said this would be due to the theme of this year’s edition, which is “Africanism.” The former Presidential Adviser said they were working tirelessly to interpret the theme of the Carnival, which would hold on December 28. Her words, “This year’s carnival is going to be the biggest carnival so far because of the theme Africanism. It is such a huge theme and it is a theme that is very important for Africans to raise our consciousness about who we are. The story we are going to tell is a story of Africa. Where we were the before the white came and led us into believing that we were not good enough and thereby moved us to thinking that whatever is good is white. “All of a sudden there is this consciousness. We realized what we were. What this story is about is what we were, what we are today and where we are aiming to be. We have tried to shake off the mentality of colonialism and now establishing ourselves and in our efforts, a lot of great people have emerged. Go back through history, go to Mandela, go to Obama that became president of the United States. Even here in Africa, a lot of Africans are doing a lot of great things. “So we are telling the story of Africa, not just Nigeria. We are looking at how great Africa was before. That consciousness has come back, we are trying to reestablish ourselves and we are doing very well with it. “The important thing is how the Carnival has grown from little to where we are today. The world knows about the Carnival and the entire Nigeria and the world are planning to come down here to come and see the Carnival. This is the going to be biggest and most colourful and most factual carnival because we are telling the story as it is. It would be the most relevant to what is happening today in Africa.”