Senate President Bukola Saraki, Ekiti State Governor Kayode Fayemi, leader of Pan-Yoruba socio-political group, Afenifere, and Second Republic senator, Chief Ayo Fasanmi and Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa yesterday expressed sadness over the death of the founder of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC), Dr Frederick Fasehun. In a statement in Abuja, the nation’s capital, by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, the Senate President said: “Fasehun was a man who transcended childhood limitation of late enrolment into school, became a medical practitioner of repute and joined in the struggle to enthrone democracy in the country. “He served the Yoruba nation in particular and the country in general through his cultural renaissance movement – the OPC – and political struggle. He was one of the people who deserved to be called the heroes of our present democracy as they fought against military rule. “Dr. Fasehun worked to preserve the health of the high and low in society. He worked to free Nigeria from military dictatorship. He worked to promote the cause of the Yoruba Nation. We have lost a star and a man of ideas. We shall all miss him.” Saraki commiserated with the immediate family of the deceased, the government and people of Ondo State and the Yoruba nation over the sad loss. Dr Fayemi noted that the country had lost a major pillar of its democratic struggles. In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr Yinka Oyebode, the governor said: “We have lost another strong pillar of our democratic struggles. Dr Fasehun would do anything to defend the rights of his people against any act of tyranny and oppression. “Dr Fasehun fought a good fight as a frontline leader in the struggle for the democracy we now enjoy. He challenged and encouraged many of the younger generation with the way he fought for democracy with all his energy and resources. “We shall surely miss his amiable personality, simplicity, wisdom and courage. “But we are encouraged by the fact that Dr Fasehun fought a good fight and left behind a good name and a legacy of selfless service that is worthy of emulation. This, we believe, should be a source of consolation to the children and the family. “Our prayer is that God grant the family the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss and grant Baba eternal rest.” Senator Fasanmi said the death of Fasheun, whom he described as his in-law and friend, came to him as a rude shock. In a statement his personal assistant, Mr. Adebayo Temitope, the Afenifere chieftain also described the late Fasheun as a fighter for justice. Pa Fasanmi said the late OPC leader dedicated his life for the struggle of the common man. He said: “He is one of the frontline leaders for the sustenance of democracy in Nigeria. The death of Dr. Fasehun is not a personal loss to his family but to the entire progressive family. I pray to the Almighty God to fill the vacuum he left behind in the family of Fasheun, in Ondo and Nigeria. May the soul of our departed one rest in perfect peace.” Obasa commiserated with OPC. A statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary, Musbau Rasak, the Speaker said: “The late Dr Fasehun was a nationalist; his death is, therefore, not only a loss to his family and OPC but also to the entire Nigerian nation.” “He was a dogged fighter who will always pursue his belief to logical conclusion. Nigeria will surely miss his experience, knowledge and wisdom,” he said.