..CEO Bukola Olapade quits
…Kanda City pullout Nigerian domestic league  has been thrown into full blown crisis as the CEO of the  Nigeria National League(NNL), Bukola Olopade, resigned his post over reported meddlesomeness  in the activities, even as  one of the purported promoted clubs to the Nigeria Professional Football League(NPFL) Kanda City, has also pulled out of the NNL. In a message circulated over social media platform on Saturday, Olopade, erstwhile commissioner of sports in Ogun State said he was left with no choice  after  the NFF seemingly  backed  out of  its decision over the number of clubs to be promoted into the NPFL. Olopade statement reads: ”  Good morning Mr President. Let me first start by thanking you for the confidence reposed in me to be the CEO of the Bet9ja Nigeria National League. Nigeria is a country blessed with so many capable hands, despite that, you picked me with the belieF that I had the capacity to do a decent job and for that I am grateful. “These past few days have thrown up a different kind of challenge to our football, in particular the promotion of 8 teams from the Bet9ja NNL to the NPFL. And in all of these, my stand has been based on the principle of common sense. I am sure you have read from a few Whatsapp forums my strong opinion on this matter, but importantly, is the fact that I had told you of my intention to leave if the decision of the Bet9ja NNL Congress is not respected and all stakeholders sit down to seek solution to a situation that all caused especially the LMC. “I woke up this morning 8th Dec 2018 by a call from the League’s COO confirming to me that the NFF has gone ahead to direct that the there must be a playoff to promote only 4 teams. Mr President, I respect the decision of the highest body in football but I now humbly inform you first through this medium and subsequently through an official letter of my resignation from the position of the CEO of the Bet9ja NNL.” In a related development, the proprietor of Kanda City , Ekene Abubakar Adams, in a release said he was pulling out his club from the domestic league  over the same issue. He said: “Sequel to the directive of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) to stage a promotion playoff against the collective decisions  reached by NNL clubs during the Annual General Assembly (AGA) held on 24th November,2018 at  NERA Hotel Jabi, Abuja where eight (8) team promotion to the NPFL was proposed. “Before the AGA, the NFF had during its Executive Committee meeting held at the Hampton hotel, Asaba, Delta State on Tuesday, 20th November, 2018 in paragraph four (4) of its communiqué, encouraged the NNL Board to hold a meeting with all NNL clubs, because issues of Relegation/ Promotion between NNL and NPFL was a matter for the clubs to propose. The Board also empowered the NFF President to approve whatever propositions/decisions reached at the expanded meeting for a way forward for the league. “Following the silence by the NFF two weeks after the NNL clubs had met and took their stand on promotion/relegation as directed by the NFF and the recent directive to stage playoff which was abolished during the NNL AGA, I Mr Ekene Abubakar Adams, Chief Executive Officer of Kada City FC hereby withdraw from the league and will have nothing to do with Nigerian football until the decisions of the NNL clubs during the Annual General Assembly (AGA) held on the 24th November, 2018 are respected and implemented.”       