Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential aspirant Stanley Osifo has called for fresh primary. He said the party’s  candidate, Atiku Abubakar, was an imposition. Addressing a conference in Lagos, he said the primary that produced Atiku failed to follow laid down rules and regulations. Osifo said having obtained and fulfilled the requirements to enable him participate in the primary, the party denied him the opportunity. He said: “There is no doubt; this is the height of impunity in the party. Before I decided to participate in the election, I met and discussed with the party leadership. As such I obtained the form to enable participate. “Incidentally, when the party was meeting the aspirants to have discussion on primaries, I was never invited and only get to know about the development in the media. It is instructive to note that if the party did not want me to participate, why should it collect the money I paid for expression of intention to contest and obtaining the forms?” The PDP stalwart said he complained to the party to address the impunity and injustice done by the party but it had not responded adequately to his complaint. He maintained that he was protesting on the ground that he equally have the same rights to contest as a party member, stressing that nobody was using him to scuttle the efforts of the party. Osifo added: “I have addressed the some allegation in the past that I am a mole in the party.” I must make it clear again that nobody can use me to derail the PDP. I believe in the cohesiveness of the party by it is not laying good example. “I therefore call on the party to address this germane issue in the next 48 hours, failure which, we will proceed to court to seek redress. Therefore the primary that produced the party’s presidential candidate is null and void. “I have written two letters to the party and the chairman on the matter. But my complaint was not taken seriously and we would not relent until we get justice because to pursue the matter,” he said. 