The great American Poet and Educator, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow who lived between February 27, 1807 to March 24,1882 penned some immortal lines in two of his timeless poetical works, “A Psalm of Life” and “Ladder of Saint Augustine” which could serve as apt sobriquets for the life of Hon. Joseph Jaiyeola Ajatta. Growing up, Hon. Ajatta virtually became a jack of all trades to push for his survival and progress under very difficult circumstances of his birth and environment. He was born in Ikaramu, Akokoland, Ondo State on December 20, 1938. At a very young and impressionable age, the parents left him in the care of the grandmother to enable them travel to Lagos where the father worked in a sawmill while the mother was trading around the sawmill. So, young Jaiyeola Ajatta had to live a peripatetic life which involved moving from Ikaramu to Abeokuta and from Abeokuta to Lagos in the course of which, he sold firewood, went into fishing and canoeing, rolled floating logs of timber to the sawmill and did other odd jobs to enable him pursue his desire to get good education. Ajatta was an amateur wrestling champion in Ikaramu. His skills in that area enjoyed popular acclamation among the village folks. Getting to Lagos enabled him to acquire further education, which was not smooth because of financial hiccups. But, he finally succeed in getting admission to Lagos City College, Yaba in the commercial section from where he acquired the Royal Society of Arts (RSA) certificate. This certificate enabled him to join the work force in Lagos. First, he was an Accounts Clerk in a Bakery. Later, he was employed as a Bookkeeper at the Royal Insurance Company. He worked at the insurance company for one year and decided he wanted to go to England to further his education and career. While in England, he worked at the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) in the kitchen store and later registered for Accountancy under the Association of Cost Management Accountants (ACMA) He attended many educational institutions in England, which include City of London College between 1966 and 1967, Wednesbury College of Technology and Enfield College of Technology where he did the ACMA final in 1970. He worked in many organisations in England, which include the General Post Office in the Accounts Department, Johnson & Johnson, and a company that made Baby Products where he was Assistant Cost Accountant, Thorn Lighting Ltd, which produced Bulbs where he was Assistant Cost Management Accountant and International Computers Ltd where he served as Senior Internal Auditor. However, it was not all rosy in England as he encountered many challenges, the most notable being the loss of his wife to tumour. Eventually, he returned to Nigeria and joined the Union Trading Company (UTC) where he rose to become the General Manager, Finance and served there for eighteen years. Leaving the UTC in 1990, he set up a number of businesses, which included Carat Investment and Securities Limited and Triumph Merchant Bank where he served as founding Chairman. Ajatta later joined politics, ultimately getting elected into the House of Representatives as the member representing Oshodi-Isolo II Constituency for two terms of eight years between 2003 and 2011. Since then, his adequate representation in office has become a reference point in the constituency. Ajatta does not pretend to be perfect. For instance, he said that even though he is a polygamist, he would not glamourise or recommend polygamy to anyone. He has suffered both personal and political reverses, but he has taken all of them in their strides. Two notable examples in this regard: First, he lost heavily both financial and emotional investments in the political misadventure of pursuing the governorship of Ondo State. Secondly, on October 15, 2014, while he was on a trip to Abuja, a strange fire incident which some suspected to be traceable to electrical surge completely consumed his apartment in his Ajao Estate, Isolo residence. The fire did not spare anything, such that the only clothes he had remaining were the ones he took on his Abuja trip. But, like the phoenix, he is always bouncing back from such reverses. This is just a glimpse into the life of a man who defied several odds to carve a niche for himself in life, in business and in politics. The full story is captured in his autobiography titled: Adventures in life, business and politics. It is indeed captivating, interesting and inspiring. 