•Oba of Lagos opens largest outlet in Opebi SPAR Nigeria has consolidated on her expansion with the opening of an outlet in Opebi, Lagos. The new outlet, which is the largest in Lagos, has sections, such as food and grocery, butchery &bakery, wine & spirit, fresh farm foods, frozen foods, laptops, mobile phones, and electronics products. SPAR Managing Director,  Mr.  Haresh Keswani, said: “The newly commissioned store is the 14th in the country.’’ With the opening, Keswani said SPAR now has eight stores in Lagos, two in Abuja and in Port Harcout, while one in Enugu and Calabar. Oba of Lagos, Oba Rilwan Akiolu, who  inaugurated the outlet based at Adebola House, said with the opening of the store, SPAR Nigeria had further demonstrated its committed to the growth of Nigeria by making goods and services available to Lagos residents and other Nigerians. ”SPAR is promoting made-in- Nigeria goods and products, which is strategic to the economic development of any country such as ours. They are helping to promote our local contents, thereby helping the government in her economic development policy and through that, SPAR helps the government to solve various problems especially the problem of  high unemployment in Nigeria. “SPAR Nigeria remains one of the leading hypermarket stores in Nigeria and with this new outlet in Opebi, the residents of this area will now enjoy varieties of affordable consumer goods and products that SPAR offers to the public. I will want to thank the company for opening this store here in this strategic location, Opebi,” he said. Artee Industries Limited Chairman, Asiwaju Solomon Kayode Onafowokan, said the Opebi store remains the largest hypermarket store in the country and that it is strategic to the residents of the area. “We are opening the largest hypermarket here in Opebi because of the cravings of our ever growing customers especially from this community. The uniqueness of Opebi is that we have all our products here, electronics, food and grocery, wines, perfumes, frozen products just to mention a few. We have free parking space for our customers, most of our products are made in Nigeria, we equally ensure that Nigerians have access to quality products and also have goods and products for non-Nigerians to enjoy,” he said. He continued: “We have ensured that all our food and grocery products are approved by the regulatory authorities in Nigeria and our prices are affordable.” Artee Group Deputy Managing Director Mr. Prakesh Reswani said the Opebi outlet is not only the largest hypermarket store that the organisation has but the store remains one of the most strategic in its location. “This new store is very close to businesses, corporate organisations, residences, and common people. Besides, the seat of power, Alausa Secretariat is not too far from here. We have varieties too with affordable prices; we guarantee our customers quality products and services that will give value for their money.” Prakesh added: “ We know Nigerians want this type of store in such a strategic location like Opebi. We have many of this type of  hypermarket stores in South Africa, a country whose population is lesser than Nigeria. So, Nigeria should have more here – about 3,000 of this – we will help to bring that to reality. Patronages have been great, people know us with affordability and quality. Our competitive edge are our prices, varieties, credibility and guarantee for money spent.’’ SPAR has grown from a very humble beginning to become one of the fastest growing business conglomerates in Nigeria with a wide portfolio of brands, such as Park n Shop, SPAR, Port Harcourt Mall, Calabar Mall, Enugu Mall. Other dignitaries at the event were: Chief Adegunwa Adebola, the owner of Adebola House; Mr. Gbolahan Toriola, Lagos State Chief  Vehicle Inspection Officer, and Alhaji ‘Kunle Hamzat, former Head of Corporate Services, SPAR Nigeria.