A non-governmental organisation, Healthcare Educational Liaison Project (HELP) based in the United States has given free medical treatment to residents of Amaigbo-Edda, Afikpo South local government area and its environs The NGO, The Nation learnt, carried out the health outreach because the community is located in one of the remotest parts of the community where the people have great difficulty accessing quality and constant health care. Speaking to our reporter, Dr John Kalu Ijem, a US-based heart surgeon who led the team of medical doctors during the programme, said the programme has become a yearly ritual he started to give back to the community of his birth. “We are here to provide free medical care to indigenes of Amaigbo Edda free of charge. The programme is organised by Healthcare Educational Liaison Project, HELP, based in the United States. It’s a non- profit organisation, that provides free medical care for undeserved areas”. “I am from the area so having excelled in what I am doing overseas in the United States there is what we call giving back and so this is a way giving back to the people of my community”. The Medical Practitioner advised wealthy members of the community to imbibe the habit of sharing with the less fortunate members of the society. ”It is not how much you have but how much you are willing to share with those who are less fortunate than you are. I am not the richest person in the community but I have enough for myself and I think I could share with other folks who are less fortunate than myself. ”As you can see we have over 250 people here right now who are here to receive the  free medical care. Many more are still coming We have four resident doctors who have come to help us to try and provide the free medical care to the people. So it is not how much you have but how much you are willing to share and care for those who are in need. The total cost of this project is about 30,000 US dollars”, he said. The Cardiologist said the programme has had tremendous impact on the health and well being of the people of the area and promised to sustain the programme “The programme has been tremendous. Last year I saw a person who I put in a pacemaker about 7 years ago. She saw my mother in the and was thanking my mother. That her son was able to save her live after many years that she was going from one hospital to the other. She is still alive today. So it has been tremendously successful. Most of the people here are farmers, so they do lots of hard work and it comes with some serious pains. So we give them a lot of pain medications to alleviate their pains and so they are always looking forward to our coming”. The Nigerian facilitator of the programme, Mr Ijem Sunday Ogbonna commended Dr John Kalu for coming up with the programme which he said has help to alleviate the health challenges of the people. ”The programme is a lofty one. As you can see the number of people here is much. We thank God who has helped him to come this far and to remember where he comes from. So that yearly like this he comes to see his people to tell them yes, I know that you people are suffering this is the little I can do for my people. ”So we thank God who gave him such an opportunity. The programme is not only for Amaigbo people, it is for all of Edda. As many people as we can reach we try to help them. People from all the neighbouring communities are here that is why the number is overwhelming”, Mr Sunday added. A beneficiary, Mrs Rose Orji Ndukwe said she was there to get treatment even as she confirmed the efficacy of drugs given to her in previous editions of the programme. ”I have serious fever and chest pain and high blood pressure.. I also have pains all over my body. It is as if someone used iron to hit me all over my body. It also comes with serious cough. I came to get treatment because I heard that Dr John is giving free treatment again. I was here last year when I hear similar problems and he gave me drugs and I was well again. But after the drugs finished it started again, so the drugs are very effective and I hope that he will help me to get better again. May God continue to bless him for all the good works he is doing”. A member of the National Youth Service Corps, NYSC, Imo Kalu, who benefited from the outreach last year said the programme has been of immense help to the people of the area. ”Last year while I was in final year, I was deeply sick so they told me that there was one man here that was giving free treatment. So I came and was totally healed. So, I was at my place of primary assignment in Aba, Abia State when I heard that he was around again, so I decided to come and show my appreciation by volunteering to help organise the programme for this year. I am helping to organise the people and do the necessary documentation like writing down their names so that they will go in and be attended to in an orderly fashion”, the Corps Member said.