In 2014, in Aba, Abia State, then Candidate Muhammadu Buhari was conferred with the Ogbuagu 1 of Igbo land title. Four years later, the President gets another: Ikeogu Ndi Igbo. SUNNY NWANKWO reports Four years ago a bold monarch in Abia State, the Enyi of Aba, His Imperial Majesty Eze Isaac Ikonne, honoured then Candidate Muhammadu Buhari with a chieftaincy title: Ogbuagu 1 of Igboland. The title literally means the lion killer, a metaphor for a champion, but the gesture was not popular. It was thought that some traditional rulers were opposed to it. The Enyi begged to disagree. Four years down the road, the president has picked up another title in the state, this time in Bende Local Government Area of the state. Over 60 traditional rulers in Isiukwuato/Umunneochi constituency conferred the president with the Ikeogu 1 of Igboland (fighter for Ndi Igbo). Many dignitaries graced the occasion. Speaking on behalf of the traditional rulers, the Logo I of Amuda Isuochi, Eze Okechukwu Chukwuji who was at the event to mark the flag-off campaign for the reelection of the All Progressives Congress lawmaker representing Umunneochi/Isiukwuato, Hon. Nkeiruka Onyejiocha stated that the traditional rulers’ decision to honour Buhar with a chieftaincy title was based on the good work that the President has done since assuming office in 2015. He said, “Our presence here is to show the APC family that we are supporting her. We are going to give you our support. Based on the good job of Mr. President; Muhammadu Buhari, we the committee of traditional rulers in Isiukwuato/Umunneochi Federal Constituency decided that we should honour him because of the great job that he has been doing. “In every society, everyone must not agree with you. We honoured him with the traditional title of Ikeogu Ndi Igbo because Mr. President is a brand and we are supporting him.” Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje who received the chieftaincy title on behalf of the President thanked the traditional ruler for such an honour Ganduje said, “President Buhari loves Nigeria…There is no doubt about it. The president of Nigeria is always telling us that we should take advantage of our diversity. Every ethnic group has its comparative advantages in terms of nature, achievements. “Everybody knows that the people of the southeast geopolitical zone are very hardworking people. That is why they are succeeding in cohabiting peacefully with other members of the country. Your people have gone high in terms of entrepreneurship. We should take advantage of that. So, President Buhari is happy with the chieftaincy title and I will convey it to him and we appreciate what you have done. “I want to seize this opportunity to thank the paramount ruler and chairman council of chiefs Abia State for giving me the Agu n’eche mba I of Igboland. I was at his palace and I received the title which was in appreciation of the role that I played especially during the quit notice given to Igbos living in Northern Nigeria by the Arewa Youths. There is nothing like non-indigene in Kano State. Everybody is an indigene. “We have seen a number of infrastructures created and implemented by the federal government. I think that this is a good development. Mr. President is concerned about your roads, in the southeastern geopolitical zone. That is why he has committed a lot of funds [for them in the budget]. “And on our way here, we see the road construction that is going on. So we are not surprised, all the states that we have visited, there is political revolution. People are coming into APC. So we believe that this time around, you will be integrated into the national politics. The issue of being onlookers will be a thing of the past. “I think that the strong politicians from this zone who are now in APC will make you proud. We know that it is already done. Mr. Buhari is not only looking for 25 percent, he is looking for more than 50 percent of your votes.” The Kano governor came in the company of Governor Kayode Fayemi of Ekiti State, former Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Senator Godswill Akpabio, Southeast National Vice Chairman, Emma Enukwu, former National vice chairman southeast and APC 2015 governorship flag bearer, Chief Nyerere Anyim, APC national woman leader and among other members of the party.