Senior lawyers Chief Niyi Akintola and Festus Keyamo disagreed on Thursday following the indecorum of some lawmakers during President Muhammadu’s Buhari presentation of N8.83 trillion 2019 Appropriation Bill on Wednesday. Some of the lawmakers interrupted the President’s remarks during a joint sitting of the lower and upper chambers of the National Assembly, heckling him with shouts of ‘Lies! Lies!’ This forced the President and his supporters to respond. Chief Akintola observed that such conduct was commonplace in democracies and urged President Buhari or any future occupant of the office to brace for more of such heckling. He said: “I don’t see why there should be any hullabaloo about it. “What happened was just normal in a democracy. There will always be people in support or against you. “It’s part of democracy. You could see there, depending on the side of the divide you found yourself, I watched it on Youtube. “Those in support of Buhari were more in number; they were shouting ‘Sai Baba! Sai Baba!’ and some others were booing. It was all normal. Akintola added: “You would also have noticed that most if the senators didn’t take part in that because they are senior citizens. They are supposed to be statesmen, so, they didn’t join in the rowdiness. “Most of the people that spearheaded the rowdiness were from the House of Representatives, which is understandable: they are younger men and women. “There’s nothing spectacular about it, it is normal. Even in advanced democracies Presidents are booed once in a while. They are even pelted with rotten eggs.” But Keyamo disagreed. According to him, the booing lawmakers’ had insulted the Office of the President and disqualified themselves from contesting for President in future. Keyamo said: “What they were booing yesterday was the Office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, not Buhari. “Buhari is not the owner of that office, whether in 2019 or 2023, he is going to leave the office. “They denigrated the office, not Buhari and the Office of the President is actually the symbol of the country. “By doing so, they showed that they are not worthy of their office. “The internet does not forget. Every single one of them that opened their mouths to boo the President would never ever aspire to the Office of the President of this country. They have disqualified themselves automatically. “The day any of them bring out posters that they want to contest for President, they will be shown their picture or video booing the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “They have automatically disqualified themselves as potential candidates forever, till they enter their graves because they have shown contempt for that office. “You cannot come tomorrow and say you want to elevate that office; you cannot.”  