Bridget Agba is one of the fastest growing upcoming brands in the Nigerian fashion world having stormed the fashion industry by accident. A close encounter with the young quintessential designer, who studied English Language at the University of Lagos, throws a glimpse into her brilliance and passion to make a mark in the dynamic Nigerian fashion industry. In this interview with KEHINDE OLULEYE, she speaks about her career, love and foray into the prolific fashion world. Was it your dream to be a fashion designer when you were young? No it wasn’t. My dream was to fly a plane but I ended up finding fashion after a period of time. What inspired you into fashion designing? My inability to get into the university in Nigeria on time. Waiting for a number of years that was almost impossible. So, I used up my time in creating something good for myself which was fashion designing. That was how I got into this. What stands you out? Our finishes are amazing. We have top-notch finishing and our designs are flexible, they can work in the day and at night. What major challenges have you encountered on your job and how do you handle them? I have countless challenges; one is major – I could say business in Nigeria needs capable hands to work with. You can’t just own a business and be by yourself, meanwhile most of the hands in Nigeria are not always reliable. Sometimes they want to assist, other times they want to steal ideas of the business owner. There are different factors but I have learned over the years to manage people properly and better. What motivates you? I am motivated by tomorrow. I always want everyday to be better than the last. So, I keep at it, hoping to see a better tomorrow. Where do you get your design inspiration? My design inspirations are from Africans who jump onto commuter buses. I used to jump on buses a lot before and sometimes I want to look pretty to an outing but I get restricted due to the fact that I cannot take a public bus and wear a fitted dress or something comfortable at the same time. So, I decided to make clothing for the people who own their personal cars while working in corporate offices and those who do not work in the offices but still want to look great. What is the best peck in being a fashion designer? I get to look good everyday and I sleep looking good! What do you wish people will understand about working in the fashion industry? What I want people to understand is that fashion is not all glamour. Fashion is also hard-work and proper work. You have to put in your entire time to make it work. You have to know that quality is essential. So, you have to be on top of the game every step of the way. What trends do you see becoming big in 2019? For fabric trends, I think sheer, organza and tuttle. Those fabrics that are see-through are the things that people are going to be comfortable with and I think those are going to be trending next year 2019. What is style to you? Style is simplicity. As they will say, little is more. How will you describe your style? My style is simple, straight-forward and classy. What was growing up like for you? Growing-up was fun. I had an amazing dad who is late and I still have a beautiful mum who makes life easier for me every day. When are we likely to hear the wedding bells? I hope soon. What is your take on love, marriage and relationship? For me, love is a decision. You decide to be in love while marriage is an essential institution that I think people should go into but we do not all have same kind of destiny. So, we should enjoy our destiny as it comes to us.