The National Pension Commission (PenCOM) has assured employers and contributors of the safety of their funds under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS). Pencom’s Head of  State Operations Dan Ndackson spoke at a consultative forum for states and local governments in Port Harcourt, Rivers State capital. Ndackson said: “Under the contributory pension scheme,  fraud is reduced to the barest minimum,that is why we make bold to say, the new scheme is fraud-free to a large extent. If states continue with the old scheme, the issue if pension fraud will continue to arise, this is because, it has so many loose ends that people exploit and commit fraud. ”That cashier, that officer that used to steal under the old scheme, where will he see the money to still, the money is remitted into peoples’ accounts. “We normally advise employers to ensure necessary measures are put up by their organisations to discourage the drive to commit fraud. “The scheme is self- insured, the way the scheme is structured,  it is very difficult for a fraud to be perpetrated under the scheme.  This is because the people who manage the funds have no access to the funds, those who keep custody of the fund assets do no relate with anybody and the contributors have record of everything that is credited into their accounts. “By this, it is not possible for anybody to tamper with the money, as in the secular bank accounts,  if anybody notices unexplained reduction in his,  her bank account is at liberty to query the bank,  so much so it is with this account,  in the same way,  nobody has ever come up to allege that finds were withdrawn from the accounts since the commencement of this scheme,” he said. He confirmed that most states were yet to sign up  for the scheme. “Which naturally means that it goes with non- payment of gratuity,  death benefits, and we are also aware that most of this state still do not pay pension to their retirees, and even those that are managing to pay,  settlement of gratuity still remains a challenge. “PenCOM is helpless with states because the constitution gives them the powers to design their pension systems, we only assist states as required,  we cannot impose a particular pension scheme to states, because of this,  we can only appeal to them to do something on this area,  and the matter is worsen because of the fact that most states are yet to accept the CPS system.”