After delivering results that had many smiling home at the Best of Nollywood (BON) Awards, which held at the weekend in Ibadan, Oyo State, Chairman of the jury, Mr, Niran Adedokun, used the opportunity provided by the award show , to congratulate all filmmakers in Nigeria, for what he described as “yeoman’s job that they do in spite of the harsh conditions which they work.” While noting that filmmaking in Nigeria, as it is across the world, is work in progress, he urged producers to continue to explore the richness of Nigeria’s diverse cultures in their production. He said: “…every year, filmmakers take on new challenges in moving the industry forward in the stories that they tell and in the technical quality of their productions. And we are pleased to say that this year, 2018, is no exception at all.” In recognition of the 10th edition of the award scheme, Adedokun said, “Over the past ten years, the awards have remained consistent as the foremost pan Nigerian award with a deliberate bias for the promotion of films produced in the nation’s indigenous languages.”  He congratulated everyone who was nominated, describing all as winners, while also thanking the Executive Director for BON Awards, Mr. Seun Oloketuyi and his team for the opportunity to serve. BON Awards is presented annually by Best of Nollywood Magazine, to honor outstanding achievements in the Nigeria motion picture industry. Held at the Kakanfo Inn, Ibadan, on Saturday, December 8, the 10th anniversary edition rewarded deserving filmmakers and industry veterans in the competitive and honorary categories. The event which began with a red carpet, witnessed a convergence of stars, who also made impressive fashion statements. The evening saw prolific director, Tope Oshin, clinching Director of the Year, for the movie ‘We Don’t Live Here Anymore’; while Tana Adelana and Kelechi Udegbe won Best Actress and Actor of The Year (English language movie category), for the movies ‘Body Language’ and ‘Bedroom Points’ respectively. Anchored by Helen Paul, other celebrities in attendance, some of who won awards at the event include, Yemi Solade, Femi Adebayo, Faithia Williams, Segun Arinze, Nobert Young, Femi Branch, Dayo Amusa, Liz DaSilva, Muyiwa Ademola, Bukunmi Oluwasina , Omowunmi Dada, Blessing Egbe, Ayo Mogaji, Tope oshin, Yomi Fash Lanso, Francis Sule, Judith Audu, Oreoluwa Adedoyin, Nosa Obaseki , Jumoke Adelaja, and Jasmine Fakunle among others.