The wife of Babajide Sanwo-Olu, Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Dr. Ibijoke, has urged women to get their permanent voter’s cards ready, in anticipation of next year’s elections. She said the PVCs are not meaningful, until they are used for voting, advising party women to mobilise the electorate to use them to vote for her husband at the poll. Mrs. Sanwo-Olu, a promising medical doctor, visited the Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation (BOSCO)/Independent Campaign Group (ICG) office at the GRA, Ikeja, where he she was received by the campaign coordinators. No fewer than 20 women groups stormed the campaign secretariat to give solidarity to the Sanwo-Olu/Hamzat ticket, which Mrs. Sanwo-Olu said will not disappoint Lagosians, if elected. The groups included Bola Ahmed Tinubu Women Forum, BOS-ICG Women Forum, Asiwaju Supreme Women Forum, Asiwaju Ultimate Group, Integrity Group, Asiwaju Unique Group, the 34-member APC Women Councillors’ Forum, Yeye Asiwaju Group, Asiwaju Progressive Women Group and ‘Hamzat Babes.’ Some of the groups presented gifts to the visitor. Accompanied by Mrs. Olayinka Agunsoye, wife of House of Representatives member Prince Rotimi Agunsoye, and other friends, Mrs. Sanwo-Olu held  meeting with the groups, which reiterated their commitment and loyalty to her husband’s cause. She was received by the deputy campaign manager, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, and other members of the campaign organisation. They included former Agriculture Commissioner Chief Enock Ajiboso, former Special Adviser for Environment Sesan Olanrewaju, Hamid Olorunoje, Chief Tunde Temionu, Toyin Gafar, Folasade Onajobi, Babatunde Oke, House of Representatives member Jimi Benson, Lekan Wahab and Sesan Daini, who paired with Saint Keke Ogungbe as master of ceremony. As part of the events marking her visit, she commissioned the private clinic at the campaign office. Preceding the commissioning was the cultural display by a masquerade group from Lagos Island. Mrs. Sanwo-Olu thanked the party chieftains and followers for the confidence reposed in her husband and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat. “You have known Babajide Sanwo-Olu for long. I thanked you and our leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, for the confidence they have in Sanwo-Olu and Dr. Hamzat.” The medical doctor-turned politician spoke with humility and candour, acknowledging that she was about to cross the bridge from medical profession to politics and governance. “I am a doctor. I only know how to give an injection. I only know how to handle syringe. But now, I have to carry brooms,” she said, drawing applause from the crowd. She described herself as a woman of few words, who believed in action, promising to learn and acquire political skills, with the passage of time. Mrs. Sanwo-Olu demonstrated her close ties with Dr. Hamzat’s wife, Oluremi, saying that the two of them have been united by the common cause. “Everywhere we go, I go with Mrs. Oluremi Hamzat. She cannot come today, because she has gone somewhere. When we come back, she will be here too.’ Mrs. Sanwo-Olu alerted the women and Lagosians in general to the challenge of 2019 polls, saying that the possession of the PVCs is important. However, she said the cards are only meaningful, if they are effectively utilised to vote for Sanwo-Olu next year. She added: “We must mobilise voters. We must tell people to vote. On election day, some people often stay glued to the television. Let everybody who has PVS go and vote. That is how we can achieve our aim.”