The Southern Kaduna People’s Union (SOKAPU) over the weekend urged its people and Nigerians to maintain a peaceful demeanour and conduct, especially during the forthcoming general elections. The Chairman of the Abuja Chapter of SOKAPU, Mr. David Manya Dogo, who made this known at its end of year cultural festival to showcase her rich heritage and to engender togetherness and peace, explained that the event was to demonstrate and celebrate the Southern Kaduna People’s culture that is rich, friendly, and peaceful. According to him, “The people of Southern Kaduna are known to be peaceful. We are a people of peace, social justice and equity; let us do whatever we can within our power to be peaceful. “There cannot be development without peace. We have to be good example of peace for others to follow. “The 2019 general election is by the corner; we therefore have a duty to appeal to our people to be part of the process. It is an opportunity to decide the kind of leadership we want for our country. “If we fail to vote, we lose the right and power to challenge the leadership when they don’t serve us well.” He further added that: “This event is an opportunity to fraternize and interact with one another; a number of us have not seen ourselves for a while. It is therefore, an opportunity to exchange ideas to help our people and move the country forward. “Most tribes in Southern Kaduna are working towards developing their languages and putting it in writing. Some tribes already have their written languages, and many others are also doing that. We are encouraging people to develop their language into written formats.” While encouraging the youths to play active roles in the political process of our country, Dogo said, “in the demographic of our country, the youths constitute of about 60% of our population, what it means is that the youths can take very far-reaching decisions when they decide to. You can change a lot of things as youths because of your number.” The event which not only celebrates the culture of the Southern Kaduna people, but also to thank God for being faithful, kind and gracious, witnessed a colourful array and extravagant display of the interesting and rich cultural heritage of the Southern Kaduna people. Apart from the obvious and palpable display of cacophony amongst the people, they were equally entertained by traditional dances and music. According to the Vice Chairman of the SOKAPU, Abuja Chapter, Mr. Jeremiah Peter, “We are here to tell the world what we can offer in terms of culture; culture being a uniting factor and medium for everyone to come together as one indivisible family. “This event has benefited the people in the sense that it has united us and brought us closer to interface. It is a melting point. “We also use this medium to identify some of our youths that are unemployed and see how we can help them get jobs. Also, those that are into business, we see how to support them with little finance to get started.”