An indigenous firm, Beeptool Communications and Integrated Services Limited, has developed and unveiled a smartphone for low income earners. According to the firm, the project was part of Beeptool’s commitment to provide communication and digital access to everyone, everywhere and every time. Speaking at the inauguration of Beeptool’s Oyi-1 affordable smartphone in Abuja, the Founder/Chief Executive Officer of the firm, John Enoh, explained that the affordable smartphone concept was one where manufacturing and ancillary costs were covered by investors and stakeholders and handed to user who live on less than $2 a day at $1 or the nearest local single currency note. Enoh stated that the implementation of the first level in the affordable smartphone project was broken into three stages. According to him, stage one had to do with technical development which includes design, testing and prototype manufacture of a basic affordable smartphone, adding that the second stage was to raise public awareness and funds to manufacture the first batch of 3,000 units. “Stage three is to distribute the 3,000 units to the public through a qualifying process,” Enoh said. In his address at the event, the Chairman of the occasion, Amb. George Ajonye, expressed confidence that the innovation would complement government’s effort to improve the standard of living of Nigerians in the areas of communication, access to digital services and financial inclusion. He said, “This innovation is unique in many ways. It provides access to digital services such as telephone, e-health, financial and data services in rural locations with or without grid power. In addition, these services are accessible with or without cellular network coverage. “I have no doubt that you will agree with me that this solution can create several opportunities and spread prosperity across the country.” Ajonye called for the support stakeholders to make the project a success in order to empower Nigerians with access to digital and financial services, particularly the low income earners in the society. The Co-Founder/Chief Operating Officer, Beeptool, Michael Ige, said the innovation would solve the problem of high cost of acquiring a smartphone for low income earners, adding that Beeptool fintech app, embedded in the smartphone, would provide access to digital and financial economy for the unbanked and undeserved in Nigeria. Ige urged stakeholders to fund the Oyi-1 affordable smartphone project and noted that with such partnerships, the firm would be able to narrow the access gap and improve the welfare of citizens in Nigeria and sub Saharan Africa.