The Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria (FAAN) has assured passengers and other airport users of adequate security during the yuletide period. Its General Manager Corporation Affairs, Mrs. Henrietta Yakubu, in a statement, explained it has beefed up security at all airports, especially at international terminals in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano. She also urged passengers to get to the airports early to conclude all check in procedures. Yakubu said: ” As Yuletide approaches, the Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria wishes to notify air travelers and other airport users that her network of airports across the country are fully prepared for the usual surge in passenger traffic that is the norm during the season. “In preparation for the season and beyond, we have beefed up security at all airports, especially the major international gateways in Lagos, Abuja, Port Harcourt and Kano. “Also, we are improving on our facilities and infrastructure to ensure maximum comfort for all airport users. “Recently, a brand new international terminal was commissioned for use at the Port Harcourt International Airport. “A similar facility was also commissioned in Abuja on Thursday December 20, 2018. “At our premier airport, the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, the VIP lounge has been renovated to enhance passenger comfort, the carousels are working optimally, amidst other facilities upgrade currently on going. “Stories are similar at all other airports, as the Authority has put in place facilities, procedures and  systems to ensure maximum comfort, safety and security of airport users during this season and beyond. “FAAN will like to use this opportunity to appeal to passengers to please get to the airports early to conclude all check-in procedures in good time to avoid the experience of missing their flights. “This is important because of the heavy passenger traffic that is usually the experience around this time and also due to ongoing construction works around the Lagos and Abuja airports.” 