The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN)  on Wednesday warned stakeholders in the minimum wage issue in the country not to politicize the issues of a new minimum wage for workers and asked government to handle the issue with all the seriousness it deserve. President of the Union, Francis Olabode Johnson who gave the warning at 5th triennial delegates conference of the Group Executive Council of NNPC PENGASSAN said all hands must be on deck to actualize the minimum wage in line with the slogan that Labour create wealth. Johnson also asked the government to hasten work on the rehabilitation of the refineries as conflicting pronouncements from the government are creating more confusion  than addressing the situation. He said the rehabilitation of the refineries must be done immediately so as to prevent the intended sales of the refineries as such action will not be accepted by workers. He said the position of the union has remained that the NLNG model should be adopted for the refineries, adding that the rehabilitation of these refineries must be concluded as it will go a long way to preventing Nigerians from being shortchanged. He also asked politicians to avoid hate speech in their campaign and avoid inner overheating the polity in the larger interest of the Nigerian nation. He said “We strongly; appeal to the Federal Government to hasten work on the rehabilitation of: the Refineries as conflicting pronouncements are ‘creating more confusion. “We urge the Government to fast track the rehabilitation of the refineries so that the intended sales as been propagated in certain quarters will not be accepted PENGASSAN position from time immemorial has been the NLNG Model and for the model to be accepted by the Association. The rehabilitation of these refineries must be concluded. as this will go a long way in NOT shortchanging the Nigerian nation. “I will use this opportunity to urge every member of the NNPC GEC to put the ‘events of the 2017 National Delegates’ Conference behind us and strive to strengthen the NNPC Family’s Unity in view of the future challenges the Corporation may encounter. The night is over, the morning beckons, and we must all set forth at dawn by putting the past behind us and forge ahead towards a strong finish. “We appeal to Government at all levels to handle seriously the issue of the ongoing minimum wage imbroglio. On this, we appeal to all Stakeholders that this is not a time to politicize this matter and that all hands must be on deck in tandem with our Slogan of “Labour creates Wealth”. We also urge politicians to avoid Hate Speeches in their Campaigns and should avoid unnecessary overheating of the polity in the larger interest of the Nigerian Nation. “We all need ourselves to navigate through this very challenging and onerous task of providing effective leadership to our teeming members who desire assurances of improved work conditions.”