FORMER President Goodluck Jonathan, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Boss Mustapha, Afenifere leader Senator Ayo Fasanmi and Voice of Nigeria (VON) Director-General Osita Okechukwu have congratulated President Muhammadu Buhari on his 76th birthday anniversary. They spoke yesterday in their different goodwill messages. Jonathan, in a personally signed message, thanked God for blessing Buhari with the grace of a long life. He noted that the President has contributed so much to Nigeria’s growth, having served the nation in different capacities, and always giving his best whenever he is called upon to serve. The ex-president said: “Yours has been a life of great service to our dear nation, having served as a brave soldier, governor, Minister of Petroleum, Head of State and now President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria.”Jonathan, who also highlighted Buhari’s patriotism and deep commitment to Nigeria’s growth, prayed to God to grant the President good health and more productive years.” He added:  “I join you, your family, well-wishers and fellow Nigerians to give thanks to Almighty God for the gift of a long life. “I wish you good health and more productive years, as you continue to lend your skills and energy to the task of building a Nigeria of our dreams.” he said Mustapha, in his message, said: “Consistency. This is the hallmark of a great leader. You say what you ‘ll do. And you do exactly as you’ve said. “You have matched your consistency with good vision. You have said that Nigeria, under your watch, will be great. Like the great leader you’ve always been, you are leading the charge from the front in spite of grave distractions and gang-ups. We, your followers, are proud to join you to build a united and prosperous Nigeria. “As you attain the 76th year landmark, we pray that your strength be renewed. When the job is done, posterity will know that President Buhari did his best for Nigeria the way only a true patriot could have. “Happy birthday, Mr. President.” Fasanmi prayed God to grant the President good health and wisdom in his strive to take Nigeria to the next level. The statement reads: “As our great leader Awo taught us, tough time do not last, but tough people do. You have come, you have seen and by the grace of God you will conquer. As we look forward for your re-election in February, 2019, God will grant you the strength and wisdom to lead Nigeria to the promise land. I wish you many happy returns.” Okechukwu saluted former military president Gen. Ibrahim Babangida for vindicating Buhari’s disciples on his laudable achievements since assumption of office in May 2015. Okechukwu, while reacting to IBB’s birthday statement to Buhari on his 76th birthday, said he and others were in the same league with IBB that Buhari’s administration has achieved tremendous success in war against corruption, terrorism and other forms of insurgency, as well as bringing the country out of economic recession. The VON boss, who is an ardent supporter of Buhari, also noted that Buhari has embarked on massive growth of critical infrastructure and revolution in agriculture sector towards self-sufficiency in food production.