 As the 69 members Campaign Council of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kaduna state was launched on Tuesday, Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai has said that, the 2019 general election is a poll between thieves and trust worthy people. This was as he said that, the opposition party, the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has nothing to offer Nigeria. Saying that, their ideology is nothing but looting. El-Rufai who delivered keynote address at the launching of the campaign council at Murtala Mohammed Square, Kaduna described the Monday’s flag-off of PDP campaign in Sokoto as a gang-up of ‘thieves’, who rented crowd from foreign country. According to El-Rufai, “The 2019 general election is a poll between trust worthy people and thieves, between patriotic leaders and those who went to Abuja to loot our treasury. So, we have to stand up and show them that, Kaduna is not a state that will allow them cheat the people and the masses. “What we have done in Kaduna state in the last three years has shown that, APC as a party is the one that loves the masses and assists the masses, not party that will take public fund and share among the rich. That is why we want you people to go out and tell the people to vote President Muhammadu Buhari again. ”Thieves have ganged-up against President Muhammadu Buhari. Yesterday they were in Sokoto, and they rented crowd from Niger Republic just to show people that they have supporters, because Sokoto people refused to come out. So, when it is time to launch President Muhammadu Buhari’s campaign in Kaduna, people should come for the whole world to see that, it not Niger Republic people that are disguising as Nigerians. “We must show that we are in supoort of President Muhammadu Buhari, and when is time to cast our votes, we should vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and all the APC candidates. In Kaduna, we will support APC from top to bottom. “With the hard work of our members and the votes of our people, APC won a sterling victory in 2015. The government that we produced has anchored its agenda on putting people first. The APC in Kaduna has since May 2015 focused on running an equal opportunity government. We have tried to empower our people by anchoring our programmes on putting people first. We are making life better and reordering the priority of government to focus on human capital development. At the centre of this is education and health. “What we have done in the last three years is fixing the rot left behind by the 16 years of PDP’s misrule and neglect. But there is a lot more to do, to reset the country on the path of stability and posterity. “The task in 2019 is to continue to work towards the upliftment of our people. We cannot allow the people whose ideology is looting to return to power. The PDP has nothing to offer the people of Kaduna state and they have nothing to offer the rest of Nigeria. Over 16 years, they left most of our 4,250 primary schools in terribly bad conditions; many did not have toilets, roofs, windows or doors. They left schools where more than half of the pupils had no desk or chairs. In some schools, number of children sitting on the floor was more than 90 per cent. “The PDP left terribly bad health indices with high maternal and infant mortality and low investment on health. Many primary health centres were left as just buildings without staff and equipment. We are correcting all these mess. We are tackling fraud and waste. We have rescued all our local government councils from bankruptcy. When we came in, eight out of our 23 local government could not pay salaries. Today, each and everyone of them came pay salaries and have at least 50 million left every month.” He said. The Governor who is the chairman of the campaign council himself however tasked the members to get cracking and ensure victory for the party in all the position from top to bottom. “The campaign council must ensure that we get every member of our supporters collect their voter’s card by the end of December. We must run a true grassroot campaign and ensure that our supporters come out to vote on election day. The campaign council must get to work immediately and bring out your workplan and budget in one week. Other members of the campaign council include; Minister of Finance, Zainab Shamsuna Ahmed, NPA MD, Hadiza Bala Usman, Deputy Governor, Architect Barnabas Yusuf Bala, Deputy Governorship Candidate, Hadiza Balarabe, Senatorial Candidates, Uba Sani and Suleiman Abdul Kwari, Jimi Lawal, APC Chairman, Emmanuel Jekada and Alhaji Umar Gana among others. The campaign council was inaugurated by the party’s Deputy National Chairman (North), Alhaji Lawal Shuaibu.