An emotional Nathan Sharibu, father of Leah, the Christian schoolgirl abducted from Dapchi, Yobe State and who remains in Boko Haram custody, spoke with Joel Duku in Yola, Adamawa State. hat is the latest on your daughter? There is nothing I have heard so far. I don’t have any news concerning my daughter. I only hear through the media that Federal Government is doing their best to bring my daughter back. It is that you have not had any contact with government officials? Yes. I have not heard anything. The President himself has called my wife and assured her that his government is doing everything to make sure that my daughter, Leah, is released from the hands of Boko Haram. But up till now we have not heard anything from them again. Secondly, the President sent a delegation of some ministers to my house in Dapchi to encourage and assure the family that the Federal Government is doing their best to see that Leah is released, but up till now I have not seen any sign. When was this promise made to you? The promise is about three months now but no positive news has come to us yet. We wake up every day thinking to hear some good news but it is just quiet up to this moment. We don’t even know how long we will continue waiting for the Federal Government to translate their action into result. How do you sleep with the thought of your daughter always playing on your mind? I really cannot explain it. It’s very, very hard for me. For us as a family, it is a very terrifying and horrific feeling. It is very traumatic for us. Everybody in the family is confused but we still look up to God our creator. Do you still sit and chat, laugh and joke as a family since the kidnap of Leah? Hmm… Her absence has really affected us in the family. We are always remembering her and the moments with us as a family. Even the mother now looks somehow. Some times for three days she won’t eat food and just be thinking of Leah. As a man, I am a bit better but I cannot pretend that I am fine. It really hurts. Her younger brother keeps asking me when Leah will come back anytime I speaking with him either on phone or if we meet. Anytime he asks me that question, I get confused because I don’t have an answer to those questions. Sometimes, I will just manage and tell him that Leah is coming very soon but deep down in me I know I don’t know what I am saying. What support are you getting from federal or state government? There is no government official that has ever visited me, either from Yobe State Government or Local Government. But I must say that the Christian and the Muslim communities in Dapchi, Damaturu and Yola have been of immense support and encouragement to my family. There in Dapchi, many people in the community are always visiting to sympathize with us and give us hope and even in Yola here, both the Christian and the Muslim communities are doing same to me anytime my family is on holiday like this. What kind of upbringing did you give Leah that made her take that decision even with the threat to her life? That is the way we taught her the religion. I really appreciate it even if she did not come back because she did not deny Christ as her savior. It is her religion. It is a religion that she was born into and she is deeply rooted in it. Do you have hope for your daughter’s freedom from the way things appear? Yes, I really have hope…I really have hope. Where is your hope coming from? Is it from government or what? My hope is really in God. The fact that Leah is still alive gives us more hope than despair. Though we are frustrated at the moment but the God that she did not denounce will do something for her miraculously. The same way Daniel was rescued from the lion’s den that is the same way my daughter will be rescued from Boko Haram. Leah’s presence brought peace, happiness and harmony in the past and the opposite is the case now. How are you coping without her presence? I cannot explain that because it’s beyond expectation. I cannot say anything. Missing this girl is a huge vacuum for us that is difficult to fill. Our feelings cannot be adequately captured in words. It’s just… (shakes his head in despair) What is your message for Boko Haram who are still holding her? I am calling on them to treat everybody equally. This is an innocent girl. I am begging them to release my daughter to me. She did not do anything wrong. They should consider the trauma the family is going through and release our daughter to us please. How does Leah’s kidnap affect your work? It does not affect my work at all. It’s just that I was warned at a time not to attend to journalists like you. But I decided that I have to speak to the media instead of just keeping quiet. It is my family. But as for my work, I am doing my work diligently without any problem.