The needs to instill discipline informed the dissolution of the state Executive Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Imo and Ogun States, National chairman of the party Comrade Adams Oshiomhole said on Wednesday evening. He spoke at the inauguration of a 27-man caretaker committee to pilot the affairs of the party. Oshiomhole said the decision to devolve the executive committees was to build powerful institutions as against indiduals. He added the new national leadership of APC was determined to build strong platform that will not be at the mercy of powerful individuals. Oshiomhole said that the lesson to be learnt from what happened in Imo and Ogun states with regard to the last primary elections was that no one should play God or try to corner things to himself alone. “In politics, there is need for inclusiveness in handling issues in the democratic setting. We want to build strong institutions and not strong individuals,” he said. Oshiomhole told the caretaker committee that their major assignment will be to work hard to ensure the success of the APC’s governorship candidate, Senator Hope Uzodinma. The party’s National Working Committee had dissolved the party executives at all levels in Imo and Ogun states following public threats by Governors Ibikunle Amosun and Rochas Okorocha to campaign against APC candidates during the election. Oshiomhole also said he will be in Imo state on Thursday to flag off the governorship campaign of Uzodinma. He charged members of the committee to close ranks with Uzodinma and other candidates of the party by mobilising supporters across the state to ensure it’s victory in the 2019 poll. Oshiomhole said the APC was much more preoccupied with building strong institutions than powerful individuals whose tenure remained ephemeral. He urged members of the committee to take a cue from the party’s philosophy of negotiation and inclusiveness in its dealings with supporters of the party in Imo state. Chairman of the committee, Marcelinous Nlemigbo, who expressed gratitude to the Oshiomhole- led national working committee (NWC) over the constitution of the body assured they would put in place efforts aimed at reconciling aggrieved members of the party. He also promised to work closely with the top echelon of the party to ensure victory for the party in the 2019 poll. 