A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State, Dr. Jamil Isyaku Gwamna on Wednesday said the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari were visible enough for APC to defeat the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) in the next general elections come 2019. Dr. Gwamna who is the Sardaunan Gombe, made this disclosure in a chat with newsmen, saying that the people-oriented programmes and policies of the Federal Government would make APC defeat any opposition in 2019 with ease. He insisted that it would be difficult for the PDP or any party to convince those who have benefitted from the good governance of the current administration not to vote APC at all levels. According to him, President Buhari and APC do not need to campaign like other parties because the people are now more political-conscious than any time in history to know the difference between good governance and bad leadership. “President Buhari and the APC do not need to campaign like the PDP or other political parties. The people-oriented programmes and policies of the federal government which have affected positively the lives of Nigerians will speak for the president. “It will be difficult for the PDP or any party to defeat President Buhari and Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya of Gombe state, because the people have tested lives under these two political parties and are more knowledgeable to differentiate between the good governance of APC and the bad leadership of the PDP. “Without sounding immodest, the PDP has a lot of campaigning to do because they performed poorly while in power and even in Gombe State within the last years. “How will the PDP convince the 500,000 N-power beneficiaries, farmers who have been given loans through Anchor Borrower Programme, those enjoying the over 3000MW of power that has been added to the national grid, the residents of the North East who had abandoned their homes for fears of Boko Haram, are now back to their normal way of life, not to vote the APC? “So you see why I said the PDP has a lot of campaigning to do in terms of denying the reality on ground which is not possible,’’ he said. Gwamna also advised the people of Gombe State to be wise in their voting, adding that vote-buying should be resisted as it portends grave danger to good governance. He expressed his optimism that President Muhammadu Buhari would win the 2019 general elections. He, however, appealed to Gombe electorate to cast their votes for Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya to align Gombe to the center and jettison the ‘opposition’ status that was tagged to the state. Furthermore, Dr. Gwamna said, “Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya is a prudent businessman who has administrative prowess to lead the state to the next level,” adding that, “the state has not fared well under the PDP in the last seven years.”