At a glittering Igbo Day event in Owerri, the late Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu, Sam Mbakwe and Maitama Sule get the highest honours, reports OKODILI NDIDI The late trio Alhaji Maitama Sule, Dim Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu and Dee Sam Onunaka Mbakwe came alive in Owerri, the Imo State capital. The city itself also came alive as it hosted an illustrious gathering on a night of honours for the unforgettable threesome. Their contributions to nation building and humanity still live after them. It was a night of mixed feelings at the Ikemba Ojukwu Heroes’ Pavilion, where eminent Nigerians gathered to honour the fallen heroes. With great oratory, speaker after speaker relived the times of these great Nigerians for their different roles in uniting and developing the country. They were conferred with posthumous awards at the maiden Imo Merit Award, a colourful event that marked this year’s Igbo Day celebrations. The late Maitama Sule was awarded the Grand Commander of the Order of Imo (GCOI) because of his stand against corruption and divisive tendencies. He was lauded at the award ceremony for playing a key role in engendering unity and peaceful coexistence among all Nigerians. Kano State Governor Abdulahi Ganduje, who received the award on behalf of the late Sule, said he was a rare politician who put national interest above tribe and religion. Ojukwu, the late Biafran warlord, was conferred with the Grand Chancellor of the State of Imo (GCSI) for providing leadership for the Igbo, during and after the civil war. Ikemba as he was fondly called remained a strong voice for the Igbo until his death in November 2011. His name invoked emotion as the shouts Ikemba! Ikemba! erupted when it was announced for the honour. For Sam Mbakwe, first governor of old Imo State, the award of the Grand Chancellor of the State of Imo (GCSI) was described as deserving. Mbakwe is reputed to have initiated all the major infrastructure and businesses in the state. Some of his landmark projects which are still thriving include the famous Concorde Hotel, Imo Palm Plantation, Avutu Poultry, Aboh Mbaise Raising Paint, Textile Industry in Ehime Mbano and the Amaraku Power Plant, among others, were his projects. Till today, this record has remained unbeaten and it was not surprising that Dee Mbakwe, as he is fondly called, was conferred with the highest award in the state. It was rather late in coming, though, considering his contributions to the old Imo state. The living were not also left out, as array of distinguished personalities including frontline Igbo leader, Chief Emmanuel Iwuanyanwu, Presidents of apex Igbo and Yoruba socio-cultural groups, Ohaneze Ndigbo and Afenifere, Nnia Nwodo and Ayodebanjo, Kano State Governor, Abdulahi Ganduje, Paul Unongo, former President of Ohaneze, Gary Enwo Igariwey and Chief Ndubuisi Kanu, among others who have made significant contributions to the development of the nation. In his speech at the event, the State governor, Rochas Okorocha, said the gesture was to remember the sacrifices made by Nigerian heroes who are no more and to show appreciation for what they did. He said such Award will spur the living to work harder and contribute to nation building and service to humanity, knowing that their efforts will not go down uncelebrated. The governor noted that the State had “chosen to honour some Nigerians who have distinguished themselves both in conduct and in service”. According to him, “this night is a night specially mapped out to honour our great leaders from this State and other parts of the country and beyond who have distinguished themselves excellently both in Conduct and in service and in the overall development of our dear State and nation. ”We have discovered that the problem with our people is that we are not good with history and the fact that we don’t easily remember the worthwhile developmental strides of our heroes past; we are at a loss in the shortest possible time and tend to forget these great nationals that have brought about our greatness”. He continued that, “it is therefore as a result of the foregoing that the Imo State government under law number 18 of the Imo State House of Assembly had passed a law to honour our own and those who have in one form or the other impacted on the lives of the people of this State and beyond”. “The Imo State Committee on the Merit Award nomination had carefully selected and eventually came up with the list of Awardees which we have decided to honour tonight”. In his response, Chief E.C. Iwuanyanwu said that he was elated by the Award and confessed his indifference to the Rescue Mission Government despite the kind overtures of the administration to him. He added that though he has received accolades from both local and international bodies, he cherishes the Imo Award most. President-General of Ohaneze, Chief John Nnia Nwodo poured encomiums on Governor Okorocha stating that the Award would prompt him to continue to push further the frontiers in the furtherance of Igbo development. He added “I know that someday, someone somewhere will recognize these efforts just like Owelle has done this glorious night. I pray for the coming together of all Igbos so that we will all come to the drawing board to see and correct where we have missed it and to take our rightful place in the comity of this entity Nigeria and the world at large. I commend Owelle Rochas Okorocha for this Award and for single-handedly building a befitting headquarters for Ohaneze Ndigbo in Enugu”. Governor Ganduje in his speech said “I hold this Award very precious to my heart. I am not surprised at the Award knowing that Owelle is one of the best detribalized Nigerians that have the heart for the general good of this nation. I commend the contributions of Ndigbo in Kano State and the foundation of the Imo State Governor, Rochas Foundation Colleges that have impacted positively on the lives of numerous Nigerian children from the length and breadth of this Country”.