As President Muhammadu Buhari marks 76th birthday on Monday, Governor Rotimi Akeredolu of Ondo and Rep. Umar Bago have called for prayers to support the president’s resilience in nation building. Akeredolu sought the support and prayers of Nigerians for Buhari to enable him serve the country better. In statement by Mr. Olusegun Ajiboye, his Chief Press Secretary, Akeredolu
joined millions of Nigerians to congratulate Buhari on his birthday. Akeredolu also congratulated Nigerians for having Buhari as their president at this difficult time. He expressed confidence that the president was celebrating his 76th birthday with calmness, love and robust service to his fatherland. He said the president’s commitment to the development of Nigeria as the largest black African nation was increasingly yielding the expected results. “I am soliciting more Nigerians’ support and prayers for the President to enable him to serve the country better,” he said. On his part the lawmaker described Buhari as a committed progressive concerned with the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians. Bago in a statement commended the president for his political commitment in the ongoing fight against corruption, insurgency, cattle rustling, and sectarian crisis. According to him, such positive development will continue to provide enable environment for the country’s growth. ” Mr President has succeeded in repositioning the country for the better, especially in the areas of security, transportation, roads construction, agriculture and diversification of the economy. ” President Buhari has proved beyond reasonable doubt to be honest, sincere and committed to the yearnings and aspirations of Nigerians, irrespective of political, tribal and ethnic differences. ” Our dear nation still has more to reap from his wealth of experience and deep wisdom in its journey to greatness. ” I am pleased to join your family and other well-wishers in thanking God for blessing you with the strength and wisdom to live a fulfilling life of honest, commitment to the well-being of all ordinary Nigerians, “he told President Buhari. ” At 76, your contributions to national growth have remained undiminished as you continue to fearlessly lend your strong voice and strategic support to the genuine efforts toward making our nation great. “I pray that God will still keep you longer to play greater role in the stabilisation of our country. Your life has been one of great sacrifices for the unity and progress of our country. ” From your days as a military head of state to a civilian President, you envisioned a great nation where everyone will be well accommodated and freely pursue his or her aspirations. “For this, you have worked, and still working to keep Nigeria united and Nigerians happier through democratic governance.”