A non-governmental organisation, OVL Foundation, has provided free medical check-ups for widows and market women in Lagos. It also distributed free drugs at a special concert and outreach for widows, women and the less privileged at the University of Lagos, Akoka, Yaba. OVL’s Executive Director Victor Laniyan said God inspired him to establish the foundation to empower women, especially widows and the less privileged. He said: “Today we are remembering women. We have decided to help women, who are in need in our society. “I want to encourage women whether married, single, and young girls that there is hope for them. Widows should not give up irrespective of what they go through. “It may be a big deal for them to go to hospital for treatments, hence the reason we decided to bring along doctors and nurses who will help to diagnose them and give medications as required. “As for critical cases, a referral letter will be given to such patients to the nearest government health facilities where they will be treated.” Laniyan said the foundation had an agenda for  women empowerment in the form of skill acquisition and financial assistance and health intervention. “We go round Nigeria to help the underprivileged widows in the society and today we are at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). “Specifically to give praise to God, and while doing that, we’re also helping the widows and the less privileged by providing medical assistance, which would have cost them a fortune if they were to go to hospitals.” A member of the medical team who simply identified herself as Bukola, said those diagnosed with ailments had been given professional advice, while those with minor cases were given drugs. She said: “We check their glucose level, as many of them are hypertensive and diabetic; we advise them to visit hospitals for medical check-ups because the major health challenge we have in Nigeria is that many people do not visit hospital for medical check-ups until they at the point of death.” One of the widows, Mrs. Ronke Ibirogba, said since her husband died in 2013, leaving her with 10 children, she had been moving from one relative to another, begging for alms.