The Federal Government has paid $5.4 billion to states for the settlement of the Paris Club refund, Finance Minister Zainab Ahmed said yesterday in Abuja. Speaking at her maiden press briefing, Mrs Ahmed said  the Federal Government has so far paid a cumulative sum of The Paris Club refund, she said, was released to states in phases based on conditions which include settlement of salary and staff related arrears; commitment by states to the commencement of the repayment of Budget Support Loans granted in 2016 and clearing of cash due to the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative. In the area of fiscal collaboration with state governments, the finance minister said “the Federal Government had provided budget support to states with the release of N1.9 trillion to enable the state governments meet their salary and pension obligations, especially in the face of dwindling oil revenues over the last two years.” Ahmed also said the government had liquidated some the inherited debts “despite the revenue shortfall experienced in the last three years.” Apart from the $5.4 billion paid to state governments as Paris Club refund, another $6.8 billion has been paid out to settle Joint Venture Cash Call obligations. Payments to contractors/Export Expansion Grants debt she said has attracted N1.9 trillion while about N488 billion has been paid out to state governments for road projects executed by the state government. She said to ensure that all pensioners  receive their entitlements, the ministry of finance, “has released N54 billion to settle outstanding pension arrears in 2014, 2015 and 2016 as well as paid pension claims up to March 2017 while over N571 million has been paid as gratuity to 175 Biafra fighters and affected retired police officers.” In the area of expenditure performance, she said “as at December 21, 2018, the ministry had released overhead funding for seven months, while N995 billion had been released for capital projects”, thus inching closer to the N1.1 trillion target for year end 2018. On revenue, the finance minister expressed optimism that the Ministry will do well to fund the rest of the budget “by driving up revenue generation to improve the fiscal space for spending.” To increase revenue, she said the Federal Government would be implementing more public financial management reforms. One of such reforms she disclosed is holding heads of revenue generating agencies accountable for shortfalls in revenue targets. According to her “revenue performance target would be given to heads of agencies in new fiscal year, defaulting agencies will be  sanctioned.” To shore up revenue, the ministry, “will improve collaboration between our revenue collecting  agencies including the Nigerian Customs Services, Federal Inland Revenue Service and other trade partners to share information and intelligence that will help improve revenue and make collections more efficient. Under my tenure as the Finance Minister, I intend to continue championing such digitalisation transformation initiatives that have proven to be a good way forward for our revenue generation drive.” On the proposed new tax initiaves, she said: “The government would from next year begin the implementation of taxes on luxury items. We are exploring the way to increase taxes as well as reduce taxes in some sectors. For Small, Medium Enterprises (SMEs), what will happen is to reduce taxes. But there are some special taxes that we will be looking at imposing. For example, luxury taxes. If you have a private jet, we will be taxing you specially for that. If you have a yacht, we will be charging you for that and also in terms of excise duties there are also some new areas where excise duties will be introduced.” She noted that the executive has not “got all the approvals but one of the major areas might be that of carbonated drinks produced in the country.” Still on boosting revenue, she said the government has recorded an increase in the number of registered tax payers from 10 million in 2015 to about 19 million in 2018 in conjunction with the Joint Tax Board (JTB). An interesting phenomenon which played out this year was the compensation to whistleblowers. She  noted that the whistle blower policy of the Federal Government had “recorded the recovery of over N8.5 billion and $465 million among others from 1,051 investigations conducted from tip offs received.”