Some good deeds never go unpunished … We are being punished for being too kind to our politicians… The World Hello Day was celebrated some time ago but I was much too busy to stop and say Hello! to you, dear reader. This is why I am saying Hello! now. Although, to be honest, I have been saying Hello! to you practically every week since this column began some years ago or so; you just might not have noticed it. The very astute among us (don’t mind the geniuses) would have noticed my Hello! every now and then. But the averagely attentive ones, who are ever and anon like me, would have let my Hello! go by without any notice. Then of course, those among us who have never even noticed me winking at you all would also have passed by my Hello! without seeing it. Someday, we really must talk about this Hello! Oh yes, don’t worry, we will find something to say on Hello! There are so many other topics angling for attention. There is the fact that the world is also marking the ‘Elimination of Violence Against Women’ day, the philosophy day, which is my pet subject. I would have so loved to talk about these but we have something else planned. Last week, the topic was kindness, and I got some interesting replies from some of my readers. I had said that kindness is one value that keeps going round. When you give it to someone, it is bound to come back to you, just like wickedness. Many of us don’t know that. Anyway, let me reproduce this particular complaint for you, faithfully. GOOD MORNING MADAM OYINKAN. I READ WHAT YOU WROTE ON PUNCH PAPER OF NOV. 25, 2018 PAGE 20 TITLED KINDNESS: WHAT GOES AROUND. FIRST OF ALL, I WANT TO THANK GOD FOR YOUR LIFE. LET ME TELL YOU WHAT I EXPERIENCED OF RECENT. MY WIFE WAS SERIOUSLY SICK, ADMITTED AT UHTH WHERE WE SPENT TWO MONTHS. SPENT CLOSE TO A MILLION NAIRA. ALL EFFORTS TO GET HELP FROM… FELL ON A BRICK WALL.WE HAVE SPENT ALL WE SAVED FOR OUR UPKEEP AFTER MY RETIREMENT AS A PUBLIC SERVANT. THE WORST ASPECT IS LACK OF FEEDING. I REMEMBER I HELPED A LOT OF PEOPLE. WHERE AND WHEN MY REWARD BE? BECAUSE NOW SUFFERING AND NO HELP FROM ANYWHERE. 2348034355148 If he had not got my name right, I would have taken offence at the wrong paper he cited. Anyway, there was no name to go with this much abbreviated letter but I think we all understand the tone of disbelief that any act of kindness can ever bring forth its kind. The writer is very likely to be of the school of thought that says no good deed ever goes unpunished. He says he has been kind to people in his time and what does he get in his own time of need? Silence. Well sir, this situation reminds me of when I was young and still fresh in the ways of the world. I had come into the world believing that when you show an act of kindness to someone, you would get it back a hundred fold. Yes, that’s just what we said last week. But I believed then that I had the right to expect kindness back because I gave it. My poor mother shook her head and told me that I should not expect kindness in return when I gave it. I should just do it for the sake of itself. If people were kind to me in return, then fine; if not, kindness was its own reward. I sincerely sympathise with you sir, Mr. Kind-heart, on the illness of your wife and hope and pray she has much recovered. I also sympathise that you had to go through all that alone, and your savings so fast. I would ask you however not to despair even though you felt that people had not repaid your kindness enough. The end-goal of being kind is not so that people can give you kindness back in return. The end-goal is the relief you have been able to give to others through your acts of kindness. Your kindness will come back to you in ways and times that you do not expect. It invariably does. So, please continue to be kind to others… It is not impossible, folks, for some kindnesses to go unpunished, I can assure you that. I have lost count of the times I have lent people money and now they won’t even speak to me. Of course, I do not have the heart to ask for my money back. No, of course not, I am not lending you any money. I don’t need another enemy; I have enough. Speaking of money. Like everyone else, I have been semi-keenly watching the political arena and have been shaking my head in despair at the antics of our prize politicians. I have told you many times that I do not like getting embroiled in Nigerian politricks. I leave that to my more politically savvy colleagues. They have the grit to take all the blood splattering and dark mumblings that splutter forth from the hot cauldron. I will however just mention the one act that I consider to be the unkindest cut of all, if it is true. I read somewhere, during the week, that a presidential aspirant, ex-Vice president Atiku, took about four hundred people to Dubai to go and ‘strategise’ on his political campaign that would hold in Nigeria. I say, when I read that, I had only one question for him: why was my name not on that list? Seriously, though, if this story is true (and I sincerely hope it is not), then we are in serious trouble. It would mean that after all is said and done, after fifty-something years in self-governance, we still have not got it. Countries all over the world work assiduously to bring resources into their countries. Nigerians work most assuredly and assiduously to take resources from their country to give freely to other countries, leaving Nigeria very, very poor. Funny thing is that, in spite of all these acts of self-vandalism, we wonder why things are so bad. How is it that no one in the world has ever told us how incredibly stupid we are when we persist in doing this? Nigeria is in a bad place right now, looking for who to fix her. She is looking for someone to tell her that the way she has been doing business has been injurious to her health. Yet, all we seem to get are people too ready to sink her. Here we are just popping out our heads out of the holes of boko haram attacks, Fulani herdsmen attacks, kidnapper attacks, sinking economy, expensive and chaotic political arrangements we cannot afford, gross social disorders, disingenuous and senseless social constructions, and just hanging on by the skin of our teeth… I say here we are and all we are getting are these dispiriting news about how money is being splashed by Nigerians on Nigerians into the economies of other countries. Now, how’s that for political brilliance? We the people of this country, out of the kindness of our hearts, elected people into political offices – presidency, senate, house of representatives, state assemblies, etc., to make this country good and great again. They got in and started living life to the hilt, really living it up. Now they won’t listen to any blessed thing we tell them. They will not reduce their pay when we tell them the country is broke and the rest of us are poor. They entrench themselves and their offspring into these political positions so that their lineages can continue to ‘eat’ us… Reader, obviously some good deeds never go unpunished … We are being punished for being too kind to our politicians.