The Bayelsa State Executive Council at the weekend condemned in strong terms the worsening security situation in the state following frequent change of police commissioners. The council accused opposition leaders in the state of controlling security agencies to undermine the authority of the authority of the state government. Rising from its 99th meeting at Government House, Yenagoa, where it deliberated on rising cases of insecurity, the council said opposition leaders were determined to destabilize the state ahead of the 2019 general elections. The council in the meeting chaired by the state Governor, Seriake Dickson, said it was an act of subversion bordering on treason to politicize security in such a manner ahead of the elections. Briefing journalists after the council’s meeting, the Commissioner of Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, said the executive council blamed the worsening security situation on frequent change of police commissioners for political reasons. He said the council considered deployment of eight police commissioners in Bayelsa within three months as highly subversive and capable of threatening the existing peaceful, harmonious and conducive environment the government worked very hard to put in place. Iworiso-Markson said: “Indeed, it is an act of subversion bordering on treason for security heads to give control of security agencies to former Governor Timipre Sylva, the junior Minister of Agriculture, Heineken Lokpobiri and their cohorts, who are using the ruling party at the center to undermine the security of the state”. He said the council resolved that the stage government would not allow anybody no matter how highly placed to get away with acts of subversion. He said: “We, therefore, call on citizens of our state to be wary of the subversive tendencies of some persons, who have all in the name of politics, set out to create and carry actions that are intended to undermine the security and stability of our state. “All Bayelsans must be at alert and be ready to reject the return of the deadly, Operation Famou-Tangbe in whatever guise, shape or form. “We will also not allow Operation Doo-Akpo, which was created by the Restoration Government and which has in the last seven years earned the respect, trust and confidence of our people as a reliable, professional quick response and credible crime-fighting outfit devoid of politics to be rubbished by anyone. “We wish to sound a clear note of warning to all that in the interest of peace, even as the elections draw near, that this state is bigger than everyone of us and nobody, no matter how highly placed, will be spared from facing the wrath of the law if found wanting. “Those who are interested in controlling the state by seeking to undermine the security should be ready to face the consequence of their actions should there be any breakdown of law and order”. Iworiso-Markson further said the council considered the exploitation of security apparatus to harass and intimidate perceived political opponents as unhealthy as it portrayed display of excessive use of political power. He added: “We, hereby, call on the Federal Government and the heads of all security agencies in the country to respect the authority of the state government and refrain from doing anything that will jeopardize the peace, order and stability of the state. “We also call on Bayelsans to be law abiding and peaceful even in the face of provocative actions by those said to be enemies of peace and stability of the state. “The governor will formally convey the position of the government for the umpteenth time to the President for appropriate action. We would also commence appropriate legal actions to defend the authority of the government of the state”.