Adeyinka Adedipe writes on the First Bank and D’Tigress influential player, Nkem Akaraiwe, who took home a record seven awards at the recently concluded 2018 Zenith Bank Women Basketball League . The Women Basketball League may have come and gone, but it left behind freebies that are still the talk of town. From Abuja to Enugu and the grand finale in Lagos, skills displayed by the ladies are capable of making the WNBA stars green with envy. They dribbled with gusto, drove into the arc with poise and their three-point shots were spot-on, while they rebounded and made their shots beautifully. Powered by Zenith Bank and holding at the indoor hall of the Lagos National Stadium, it was one-week of fun as fun seekers thronged to see exhilarating moves and dunks, out-of-this world dance steps, gaily dressed cheerleaders and musical stars dishing out popular tunes. It was also time to reward excellence and Zenith Bank ensured that deserving clubs and players smiled home and the biggest winner on final day was definitely Nkem Akaraiwe, who picked up seven awards. What was more striking is the fact that this is the first time a player will cart home seven awards in a single season. She made the top five in both the Atlantic Conference play off and the National final. She had the most point in blocked shots in both the Atlantic and National finals, highest number of rebounds in the Atlantic Conference and MVP both in Atlantic Conference and the National finals. Speaking with The Nation  at the FIBA Africa Champions Cup for Women in Maputo, Akaraiwe stated that she was shocked when she was adjudged the MVP at the National finals of the Zenith Bank League. According to her, she thought the MVP was reserved for shooters and was grateful to basketball fans for selecting her for the award. “I have other individual awards like best rebounder and leader in blocked shout and also finished in the top five, but I had never won the MVP, so when I was named as the MVP (Most Valuable Player), I was speechless, and it took days for me to understand the magnitude of the awards I won. It was like I was in dreamland.” However, the First Bank team forward said she has been working hard over the years and was happy that her hard work has finally paid off. She also commended her teammates for their support, noting that without them it would have been impossible to achieve this milestone in her career. “My teammates contributed a lot to my success. We played as a team despite our differences and similarities. We fought, laughed and played together, but the bond that we had never departed from the team. We are always one and I am happy that we keep improving every year,” she offered. While trusting God for her next career move, the Business Administration graduate from the Lagos State Polytechnic assured her fans that she will continue to play for as long as she can. “I really I don’t have any plan concerning my next career move. While it could be fulfilling to play abroad, I am trusting God to open new ways for me, while I will forever be grateful to First Bank for giving me the opportunity to play in the league.” Akaraiwe, who was part of the D’Tigress team that created an African record by finishing eighth at the World Cup in Spain, commended Zenith Bank for their unwavering support for the women’s game in the country even in the face of serious economic crunch.