Following a series of cash rewards to winners of the Globe Awards, in support of the Africa International Film Festival last month, Access Bank continues its partnership with the creative sectors in Africa by engaging the best of African music artistes in a concert this Yuletide. Tagged BAFEST, an acronym for Born in Africa Festival, the biggest names in Africa’s creative and entertainment industry will be showcasing their immense talents at Eko Atlantic City on December 16, 2018. Powered by Access Bank and brought to life by Livespot, the anticipated show is a celebration of the unparalleled dynamism of the African spirit. Fresh out of the Global Citizen Festival in South Africa, Nigeria’s very own Tiwa Savage and D’Banj will be performing alongside other African artistes at BAFEST 2018. An excited Tiwa Savage says, “I am delighted to be a part of Born in Africa Festival. This feels like Coachella Live in Africa and I can’t wait to give the best of African sounds to the World.” Organisers say the festival is designed to celebrate Music, Art, Film and Fashion which promote the African story to a global audience. Amaechi Okobi, Group Head, Communications & External Affairs at Access Bank Plc, speaks about BAFEST as the climax to a series of creative events the bank has embarked upon. He says: “We are proud to be showcasing the best of African vibes at this historic event. It is the climax of all our efforts to change the Nigerian and African narrative. Our string of event partnerships such as the Access Bank Lagos City Marathon, Art X Lagos, the Africa International Film Festival and the Born in Africa Festival all aim to change the continent’s negative narrative as well as to project it as a hub for entertainment and creativity. BAFEST is a day-long event which kicks off at 9am with the Fashion, Art and Film Park, where various artistes and fashion designers will exhibit their works, while some of Africa’s finest Filmmakers will host movie screenings.
The main concert featuring Africa’s biggest talents starts at 6pm.” In line with the theme of the event which is Retelling the African Story, organizers have put together an impressive lineup of artistes, including Awilo Longomba, Sho Madjozi, Olamide, Tiwa Savage, Timaya, Davido, Kizz Daniel,Yemi Alade, Falz, Dbanj, Burna Boy, Flavour and other surprises.
The event will also feature some of Africa’s most prolific models and fashion designers such as Oluchi, Millen Magese, DavidTlale, Torlowei, Blingshiki and Tiffany Amber.