Young professionals drawn from diverse backgrounds across the three senatorial districts of Ogun State have bonded together with a mandate to ensure the victory of the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, Prince Adedapo Abiodun, in 2019. The group said they are out to propagate the ideals and vision of Prince Dr Abiodun so that Ogun state citizens and residents would be driven by informed judgment to vote for him. The independent and self – funding group called Dapo Abiodun Alliance Group (DAAG), and which launched their activities on Friday night at the Green Legacy Resort, Olusegun Obasanjo Presidential Library (OOPL), added that they would engage in door – to – door vote canvassing for the APC gubernatorial candidate. Akogun Lanre Afred who addressed the gathering on behalf of the group during the launch, said it is the group’s belief that Abiodun’s entrepreneurial successes and strong commitment to good governance, fairness and prosperity for all, made him a very well-rounded candidate for the office of governor. He added that the APC gubernatorial candidate would run an all-inclusive government, unite members of the party and deliver quality governance to the people when he becomes the governor in 2019. “We are a self-funded, not-for-profit group whose only interest is to make the people of Ogun State know that if they want a governor that has the character, competence, local and international connections and vision to take the state forward, unify party members after the factious party primary and lead selflessly; a man that has their interests at heart, Dr Dapo Abiodun is the man. “For us to have come together to form this group underscores the unanimity of our belief that Dr Abiodun’s entrepreneurial successes and strong commitment to good governance, fairness and prosperity for all make him a very well-rounded candidate for the office of governor. “It is for these reasons that our group, the DAAG, undertakes to galvanize and mobilize human and material resources for him across the length and breadth of the state to achieve success in 2019. “We are not oblivious of the fact that the task before us is arduous considering the political atmosphere in the state. “However, we firmly believe that it is a surmountable challenge that requires the collective efforts of people of good conscience whose love and passion for a more prosperous Ogun State is not in doubt. “We are young successful professionals united by a shared reverence for the inspirational leadership of Dr Abiodun and feel that none of the other contenders can tie his shoelace in a free and fair contest. “We also feel that the indigenes would be doing themselves a world of good by voting for the APC in the general election. “The electorate needs to know the good fortune that is in stock for them with an Ogun State led by one of Nigeria’s most successful businessmen.” 