The 2019 electioneering fever, funding and poor grid facilities may hinder the country from realising its goals of improving electricity through off-grid means, All On has said in its report. The report said the country’s target of providing 2,000 megawatts (Mw) of electricity through small hydro projects and 500 Mw through solar are ambitious and not in consonance with the prevailing conditions in the country. Others are 400 Mw through biomass and 40 Mw through wind by 2025. The report said the targets, as outlined in the 2013 revised Renewable Energy Master Plan, is good, but is not feasible in the light of what is happening in the country. ‘’The Ministry of Power and the Renewable Energy Agency (REA) have launched mini-grid pilots. However, it not clear whether the Ministry of Power and the Renewable Energy Agency have right traction to roll out such programmes at scale, especially with election period coming up. Also, the agency has presented itself as bureaucratic and as a result, it might struggle to deliver the mandate. Failure of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) and Ministry of Power to provide incentives attractive for people that are investing projects in off-grid, will hinder projects in the sector,’’ the report said. It added that Nigeria has poor grid connectivity, and as a result, would not be able to  achieve its goal of getting 75 per cent connectivity to the grid by 2020. ‘’In reality, the country would not achieve 75 per cent connectivity. The task of shoring up existing grid infrastructure is so great that significant expansion to grid network is not viable in short to medium term. Even in best case scenario, grid expansion will barely out space population growth,’’ It added. Similarly, the Renewable Energy Agency’s Managing Director, Mrs Damilola Ogunbiyi, said funding was affecting electricity provision to rural dwellers. Speaking at an energy summit in Lagos, she said funding had incapacitated the goal of electrifying the country by the agency, adding that provision of off-grid form of electricity had  been foot-dragging in the country, due to funding. She said the country provides off-grid solutions, such as Solar-Stand Systems, Solar Mini- Grids and Energising Economies Initiative (EEI), through which the agency is providing solar power to shop owners, stressing that short of funds has crippled the initiative.