President Muhammadu Buhari on Thursday in Wudil, Kano State, warned the police to desist from torture, extra-judicial killings and other acts that tend to pit them against the society. The President, in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, said unprofessional conducts such as illegal detentions, extrajudicial killings, torture and violation of fundamental human rights were unacceptable. He gave the directive in his address at the convocation and passing out parade of the First Regular Cadet Course at the Police Academy, Wudil, Kano State. ”We must abide by the constitutional code of conduct in policing our people. ”The Police in its efforts to fight crime must work in partnership with the community. “You cannot properly police the people without their consent,” he told the 602 graduands. President Buhari also used the occasion to remind police officers to shun corruption and resist all temptations that impede the integrity and professionalism of the Force. While commending the police for the successes it has recorded in the fight against various aspects of crime in the country, the President acknowledged they had worked closely with the military in the fight against Boko Haram in the North East. On the 2019 elections, President Buhari reiterated that it is the duty of the police, supported by other security agencies to adequately secure the elections. ”The elections must be conducted in a violence free environment for it to be adjudged credible, free and fair in the eyes of both local and international observers,” he said. The President pledged his administration will continue to do all that is possible to make the Nigeria Police efficient and responsive to the security needs of the country by providing the necessary assistance to make its operations technology based. While congratulating the graduands on successfully completing the five years training programme in the institution, President Buhari enjoined the new officers to be courageous, brave and determined in the fight against all forms of crime in the country. The President noted that he was happy to be the first serving President to witness the passing out parade of the first batch of Nigeria Police Academy Cadet Officers.   