The World AIDS Day may have come and gone, with its focus of knowing one’s status, Chima Azubuike however calls attention to some risky habits that may yet be jeopardizing the success achieved in the fight against HIV. The euphoria of the world AIDS day celebration is very much in the air. Just like other years, it is not without a significant theme. For 2018, the world’s focus is “Know your status”. This is another wake-up call on families, communities, localities, states, and countries to rise to the occasion of ascertaining their HIV status in order to live a safe and healthy life. In a telephone chat with Mr. Peter Mkpuma, an Ekiti State-based reproductive health counselor and peer educator, this year’s theme is very instructive because knowledge protects. In addition to educating young people on how to protect themselves against HIV and gain access to screening, sex education also allows them to develop the skill set needed for a healthier and safer daily life. For young people living with HIV, a school environment that is sensitive to health issues can be life-saving, enabling them to access and adhere more readily to treatment. Knowledge is also the best means of defence against discrimination and stigmatization in relation to HIV and AIDS.” For those who have taken the courage to check their status and those who may yet make the move, it is important to be wary of some risky practices, one of which is patronising local nail cutters popularly referred to as ‘Mai yankamparichi’. These nail cutters, most of whom are from the northern part of the country, hawk their trade from street to street, market to market, cutting nails for a token fee. There are also the local barbers, who move about with their soap and scissors of all shapes and razors, offering brisk service and making quick money. According to those who patronise these ‘professionals,’ one major advantage of is that they bring out the beauty of your fingers and toe nails, giving them neat shape. They also claim that the local barbers do neater jobs to their scalps. These local nail-cutters and hawkers go about neighbourhoods, constantly making specific sounds with their scissors, which are easily recognized by their customers. Our reporter moved from the spare parts market in Ladipo, Mushin to the popular Agege Railway market, sampling the views of market men and women on whether they were aware of the theme of this year’s celebration, and why they patronise local nail-cutters and barbers, in spite of the risk of HIV/AIDS, hepatitis and other such diseases. Notably, many of those spoken to claimed they are not interested in knowing their status, as this will heighten their fears. Some however claimed it will be a delight to know their status, since it will help them live a healthy life. A young man, Yusuf, in Agege, was quick to say that he enjoys the service of the nail-cutters, as it brings out the aesthetic of his nails, while Okechukwu in Mushin noted that he oftentimes call for their services, as it saves him the time of looking for blade to cut his nail. “All I need do is beckon on them to do what they like doing best.” Biliamuyuh is quick to say he enjoys their services. When asked how safe the service is, he claimed that he insists on them burning the scissors, usually with fire from a cigarette lighter. He however agreed that it takes one that is knowledgeable to insist on such safe measures. He admits that most of the nail cutters are always in hurry to render service and move on to another customer, without bothering about safety measures. Although the chunk of the ‘Mai yankampari’ are northerners, their clientele or customers cut across all tribes and gender. Other people who are susceptible to health risks are women who patronise pedicure/manicure shops. Although they have argued against being major distributors of the virus, going by their chastity and faithfulness to their spouse, the fact remains that engaging in the practice still poses a great risk.