The Air Officer Commanding, Mobility Command, Nigerian Air Force (NAF), Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, Air Vice Marshall (AVM) Napoleon Bali, has stated that Nigeria’s security challenges are surmountable. He also insisted that a peaceful country is needed, in order to witness progress and development in Nigeria. AVM Bali, who was the special guest of honour, stated these at the Naval College, Onne, in Eleme Local Government Area of Rivers State in the Niger Delta. The colourful event was the ceremonial sunset and awards’ night in honour of the passing out 141 cadets of the Direct Short Service Course 25, who will be passing out today (Saturday) and will be commissioned into the service of the Nigerian Navy as Sub-Lieutenants and Lt.-Commanders, including medical consultants. The air officer commanding said: “Thank you for giving me the opportunity. Most likely I would have left the air force without knowing that there is something like this (ceremonial sunset). You have given me something in this neat college that I will discuss with my colleagues, both in the air force and in the army. When we did it in the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA), maybe because I was a cadet, it was not as interesting as this. “The Nigerian Navy is very regimental. Keep it up, because that is the only thing that can make us to be very disciplined. For the passing out cadets, I implore you, because you know what is happening in the country right now, we have so many security challenges, use this opportunity and the training you are given here to add value to what we, your superiors, have been doing. “Do not think you know it all. It is possible that one or two of you may be the ones to bring out the desired strategies. At the end of it all, let us have a peaceful country. So that we can develop our country, where everybody can go about their normal businesses. I implore you all to take it seriously. Maintain the regimentation. The military is a large family, very enjoyable and sociable, but you must always behave yourselves.” The Commandant of Naval College, Onne, Commodore Akinga Ayafa, in his welcome address, described the ceremonial sunset as an old-time tradition that is peculiar to navies all over the world. Ayafa said: The Naval College, Onne is adding value to the military, especially through intensive training of fresh graduates and others. We are preparing them for the daunting challenges ahead. Nigeria is passing through a lot of security challenges. We look at the contemporary situations and tailor our training towards ensuring that whoever we bring in will help to improve and add value to the system. “The training in this college lays a very solid foundation, upon which we expect them to build a solid career in the service of their fatherland, through the Nigerian Navy. “The cadets and others being trained in Naval College, Onne are very competent. Service in the Nigerian Navy is full of a wealth of experience. They learn on a daily basis. We have laid a very solid foundation for all of them.” The commandant also urged the cadets and others to always be good ambassadors of Naval College, Onne, while assuring that emphasis would always be placed on qualitative training, discipline and hard work.