 Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike has declared war against Sahara Group, the company co-founded by Rivers governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Pastor Tonye Cole. Wike, through Commissioner for Information and Communications, Emma Okah, on Friday in Port Harcourt, announced termination of the sale of the state-owned power plants to subsidiaries of Sahara Energy Limited. Cole, a billionaire businessman, who is a Pastor of the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) declared Wike a frustrated governor playing vindictive politics. The Rivers APC governorship candidate, who spoke through the Director, Strategic Communications of his campaign organisation, Prince Tonye Princewill, said:  “This is the vindictive nature of the politics we play today and the reason why many who can salvage our analog politics stay away. “We have said it before that politics is too important to be left to politicians. “So, the Tonye Coles of this world should have no fear. The old way is going and the old style politicians know it. My surprise is it took this long. “I can only imagine Wike knows that Tonye Cole will be confirmed as his opponent, he can no longer hide his frustration. “What he fails to appreciate is that no serious businessman will want to do business with Rivers State.” Okah stated the decisions and actions were part of the resolutions at Friday’s State Executive Council meeting, presided over by Wike at the Government House, Port- Harcourt. He told reporters at the end of the meeting: “The Rivers State government has approved the termination of the share sale contract for the sale of 70 per cent equity of the state government-owned power generation assets held by First Independent Power Limited in Omoku, Afam, Trans-Amadi and Eleme Gas Turbines to NG Power-HPS Limited. “The Rivers State government also terminated the concession of the Rivers and Bayelsa States’ owned Olympia Hotel (in old Government Reservation Area, near Government House, Port Harcourt) to Cenpropsaroten Hotel Management Limited. “The Rivers State government further terminated the concession agreement between the Government of Rivers State and Kild Concession Limited, in respect of the construction of a toll road and secondary developments in Abonnema Wharf, Port Harcourt. “The three companies that had their contracts/concessions terminated are subsidiaries of Sahara Energy Limited, used by the immediate past Rivers State Governor, Rotimi Amaechi, to acquire state assets.” Okah also stated that the Rivers government arrived at the resolutions, in line with the yet-to-be implemented recommendations of the white paper on the report of the judicial commission of inquiry on the investigation of the administration of Amaechi, now Transportation Minister, on the sale of valued assets of Rivers state and other related matters under the chairmanship of Justice George Omereji. Information commissioner added the government directed the Attorney-General to take further steps as contained in the white paper. 