•Call for collective action against menace President Muhammadu Buhari and Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (UNIWAS), Mr. Ibn Chambas, have expressed concern over growing threat of terrorism in the sub-region. The duo spoke yesterday at the opening of the 54th Ordinary Session of the ECOWAS Authority of Heads of State and Government in Abuja. Expressing his concern, Buhari said that the sub-region is still confronted with several challenges including peace and security. The President therefore called for collective action by all members of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) in dealing with terrorism in the sub-region. This threat, he said, calls for collective approach if it is to be effectively executed. He said: “It is a matter of concern that terrorism and violent extremism have continued to threaten the peace and security in our sub-region. This threat calls for collective action on our part, if we are to effectively and definitively eliminate it.” The president also called for the support of other partners in the efforts towards eliminating terrorism in the sub-region. “As we work on new strategies to combat and eradicate this menace, we require the support of our partners to ensure the achievement of our objectives,” he added. Besides, President Buhari also tasked ECOWAS member states on the need to pay their dues promptly, saying that no institution can function effectively without adequate funding.” He, therefore, charged other leaders of the sub-region on the need to work towards eliminating other challenges bedevilling the region. In his remarks, Special Representative of the Secretary-General and Head of the United Nations Office for West Africa and the Sahel (UNIWAS), Mr. Ibn Chambas, called for continuous collaboration among member states in the efforts towards ending terrorism in the sub-region. He said: “Peace and security in the sub-region are still threatened by growing number of terrorist attacks, the consequences of which have a direct impact on the development and coexistence of the different communities. We must intensify efforts to reverse the trend.” President of ECOWAS Commission, Jean-Claude Kassi Brou, on his part, highlighted the improvement in the sub-region. He said ECOWAS economic growth is on the rise, inflation down and the situation finances public remains stable despite the strong pressures related in particular to security issues. 