Marathons are not just keep-fit races; they are big money spinners. In Abuja, a runner, once dismissed by his mother as a blockhead, is a champion marathoner. And he is making good money. On December 1, Bodyline Fitness and Gym held its second marathon race in Abuja. The event comprised two activities: a half marathon (21km); and the Abuja Fittest Man/Woman challenge, with first and second winners male and female of each category earning prizes. The winner of the half-marathon Aliyu Umar, an Abuja driver, was excited to win the first price money of N750,000. Appah Goddey who was the first price winner of the second category, Abuja Fittest Man/Woman challenge, said he gave a huge chunk of his prize money to his mother, to prove her wrong since she never saw any good in him because he was not an intelligent child. The 24-year-old winner said, “I like sports and when I see anything sports I have to be there. I have this spirit of not losing, when they say Abuja fittest, I have beaten all the boxers in my weight class, I am the number one and I had to show people that I achieved it through hard work. “Most of my prize money went to my Mom because this is the first time in my life giving my mom money but I did it for a reason, I gave most of the money to her because growing up I was a dumb child, I gave it to her to let her know that no child is a waste. I work hard because of that, I don’t know the reason why she did all she did to me but after winning I sent a huge amount to suprise her, to make her know that no child is a waste, that even the child she saw as dumb can amount to something. “My advice to boys is to work hard and believe in themselves more than the way they see free money, you work hard even if you don’t see the money today, believe it will come tomorrow.” Business Development Manager of Bodyline Fitness and Gym Abuja, Bako Hosea said that they had two major events at this year’s fitlife event, the first was a 21km half marathon race and Abuja fittest which was more of a cross fit challenge, a group of exercises. We have the dead lift, bench press, running a 9.6km from Wuse 2 to Gwarimpa, ride a bicycle back and by the time they got back, there were exercises waiting for them and the person that had the highest point emerged winner. He also said: “We have an annual fitness event powered by Bodyline called fitlife. We try to encourage residents of Abuja and Nigeria at large to live a fit lifestyle, we came up with this to encourage people to start healthy lifestyles that will help them stay out of the hospital. “So we had the male and female categories, the first prize was N750,000 for first in male and female in the two categories and N250,000 for second place.” First prize female winner for Abuja fittest, Uduak Ikara, a fitness trainer, yoga enthusiast and a spin instructor said she trained for 10 days in preparation for the event.