The prelate of Methodist Church of Nigeria, Most Rev Samuel Kalu Uche has evaluated Nigeria’s profile and returned a dim verdict, saying the country’s failure to properly plan for the youths has exposed it to self-inflicted ruin. Using a biblical term, the cleric said the country has sown the wind over the years and was now reaping the whirlwind. Uche said that education is the basis for the upgrading the youths and that a country that cannot take care of its youths in terms of giving them sound education is planning towards failure. Speaking in Umuahia, the Abia State capital, after his apostolic visit to Umuahia archdiocese, Uche said that any government that has no plans for its youths who are future leaders of the country should be voted out from office. Uche who gave a graphic story of a young man who holds a master’s degree in geology said that the young man because he could not get a job in the area he studied had to make do with teaching in a secondary school with a salary of N20,000 per month. He said, “If this young man does not have the mind of God in him nothing stops him from carrying arms to rob or commit heinous crimes in the society, there is every need for the government of the day to invest meaningfully on the youths of the country. The head of Methodist church in Nigeria explained that the issue of Boko Haram is as a result of neglect of the youths by government, adding that if the needful had been done the dreaded group would not have arisen. On the issue of President Muhammadu Buhari refusing to assent to the new electoral bill, Uche said, “I am not familiar with that bill, however the executive should not hold the entire country to ransom as people want a credible election”. He continued, “We want a free, fair and credible election devoid of police or any security agency harassment of the electorates, the electoral umpire should be fair to all so that the best candidates would be elected”. “I don’t belong to any political party, all I am saying is that what happened in both Ekiti and Osun states should not be allowed to happen again where vote buying was the order of the day during election days”. “The two elections in the two states earlier mentioned were a charade people should be allowed to cast their votes and there should be no falsification of votes which is one of the ways of ensuring a united country”. “If the President refuses to accent to the bill, the legislative arm of government should over ride him in the proper way which is by voting in their chambers and not by force as what we need is a servant leader not a ruler”. Uche lamented the way the leaders of the country have been deliberately impoverishing their people to the extent that, “People do not know their rights again, many people can no longer send their children to school while they (leaders) send their children out of the country to school”. He said, “Every bad government should be voted out from office and it should be done through the right way which is the ballot box not by fighting as the country has had enough bloodshed”. The Methodist Prelate said that he was worried with the level of infrastructural decay in the state to the level that most of the rural areas he visited had no roads to evacuate their farm produce as most of them are rural farmers. He said that the roads to Amaudo Itumbauzo was nothing to write home about including roads to places like, Item and Nkpa communities, “The roads in these areas were so bad that I wondered if they are really part of Abia state”. Uche said, “I noticed that the state was so dirty as I saw people dumping refuse along the roads and the refuse collecting agency were not evacuating same which they were supposed to do on daily basis”. “I also noticed that many workers and pensioners of the state have not been paid their salary and pensions for several months as reported by our church members, I want to call on the government to do the needful by paying their workers”. “What I saw means that either the state or federal governments are not doing what they are supposed to do, however I also noticed that the government has been trying to give the state a facelift in the area of road construction among others”. On the issue of unity of the country, he said that the type of unity witnessed during Super Eagles, Super Falcons and any other age grade teams is what we need when ethnicity never existed.