The member representing Calabar Municipality in the Cross River State House of Assembly, Ntufam Efa Esua, has called on the state government to invest more in sports. Esua, who spoke after the final match of the third edition of the Northwest Unity Cup sponsored by Northwest Petroleum and Gas in Ishie Town, a community in Calabar Municipality, said this would keep young ones engaged, thereby checking the crime rate as well, and also fast-track development. The lawmaker, who sponsored a team, Efa Babes, who came second in the competition, lauded the organizers saying it was properly organized and well officiated. Esua, who is also the Vice Chairman, House Committee on Sports, said the competition also provided opportunities for the youths, as there were international scouts who came in to look for talents. Group Security Adviser, Northwest, Labaran Salihu, who represented the company urged the government to always engage the youths. “We thank God the tournament has come to a successful end and winner has emerged. We pray that by next year we do the same. We do not intend to relent in ensuring that this process continues. Next time we would do better than this. I urge the government to try as much as possible to engage youths just as Northwest is doing so we would be able to eliminate all those criminalities in the society. When youths are engaged of this nature, I think we would do better,” Salihu said. The sponsor of Ward Nine FC, who won the competition, Elder Willie Etim Okokon described the competition as a thing of joy. “In three years of the competition, we have won twice. The tournament is good because it deviates our youths from crime and so on. For two to three weeks they were always here, some participating. Some youth talents are also being discovered because some scouts were here to look at what they are doing,” he said. The competition, which kicked off on November 19, 2018 had ten teams representing the ten political wards of Calabar Municipality participating. Ward Nine FC, who emerged winners of the competition at the weekend, went home with a cash prize of N250, 000, while Efa Babes, who came second got N150, 000.