All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Senator Oluremi Tinubu, has reflected on her struggle to attract “special economic assistance” to Lagos State through a bill she initiated in the Senate. The senator representing Lagos Central said the motive was misunderstood by her colleagues. She noted that senators who misunderstood the bill uncritically confused her clamour for special economic assistance with the struggle for special status. Senator Tinubu, the Yeye Asiwaju of Lagos, said many senators later showed the readiness to support the initiative, after it had suffered defeat on the floor, when they became aware of its focus and objective. She said although many colleagues later encouraged her to represent the bill, she declined, adding that it is up to other senators to do so in the future and take the credit. The senator addressed reporters in Lagos on her legislative activities, her achievements, vision for good governance, women empowerment and re-election bid. Senator Tinubu was accompanied by APC leaders, including Governorship Advisory Council (GAC) members Alhaji Mutiu Aare, one-time Finance Commissioner Olawale Edun, her campaign manager and former House of Assembly member Wahab Alawiye King and Chairman of Lagos Island Development Council Area (LCDA), Mrs. Omolola Essien. Explaining her conception of special economic assistance, the senator said since Lagos contributed the greatest percentage of tax, Value Added Tax (VAT) and proceeds from the ports, equity, fairness and justice demanded that it deserved one per cent of what it contributed to the Federal purse. She said the one per cent could be used to fight part of the infrastructure battle, tackle the recurrent gridlock and build roads in the Centre of Excellence. Senator Tinubu added: “The percentage is to be decided by the National Assembly and the Lagos State House of Assembly will determine how it should be spent. But it was misunderstood. I was not fighting for special status but for special economic assistance. It was later that some of my colleagues came to me and said they did not understand it. Some of them even asked me to represent it and I said no; that another person can initiate the bill in the future and take the credit.” The senator, who highlighted her legislative activities and social intervention programmes for the poor and the indigent, said her achievements could speak for her, having placed her hands on the plough through divine benevolence and active support of Lagos Central senatorial leaders. She said her life has been about service to God first and her people, adding that she decided to seek re-election, following the insistence of her political leaders in the district. Senator Tinubu reflected on the controversy generated by constituency projects and the myth that senators are rich. She noted that since the days of former President Olusegun Obasanjo, money had been earmarked for zonal intervention programmes. She said 13,600 people had benefitted from her personal social intervention programme, adding that she had never been involved in budget “padding”. The senator hailed efforts by President Muhammadu Buhari to reposition the polity through his people-oriented policies and programmes, saying hope had returned to the country. Noting that the President is not a magician, Senator Tinubu chided the critics of the administration, including the opposition, for the shortfall on historical perception. She said their blackmail against the President will fail. On the minimum wage struggle by organised labour, which she said is backed by President Buhari, Senator Tinubu said: “I support people to be taken care off.” The senator urged women to participate in politics in a democratic atmosphere. Senator Tinubu noted that while she had been privileged to be married to Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, she also had the resolve to always work hard. Chiding big women in power for elitism, the senator doubted if they have a proper orientation of leadership. She added: “Women who got appointments don’t help other women. They should share what they have. Some of them will tell you how they fought with men to get what they got. The governors’ wives, what have they been doing? Mrs. Bisi Fayemi, wife of Ekiti State governor, passed the first child’s rights in the House of Assembly.”