•Governor seeks support for APC candidate Adelabu Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi has expressed gratitude to the people of the state for standing by his administration during its low and high times. The governor’s historical two-term tenure will end on May 28, next year. In his address at this year’s Christmas Carol and the thanksgiving service for his 69th birthday held simultaneously at the Agodi Gardens, Ibadan, on Sunday, the governor also said he had enjoyed the grace and mercy of God. Emphasising the need for the residents to love and sacrifice for one another beyond the festive season, the governor said these were the virtues that the life and times of the symbol of the season, Jesus Christ, epitomised. He urged the people to always be thankful to God for witnessing this year’s festive season, irrespective of their economic or social status. Ajimobi thanked his wife, Florence, for her regular support and especially for showing kindness and care to orphans, widows, the less-privileged and other vulnerable citizens of the state through several social safety nets. He said: “My message this year is just gratitude, gratitude and gratitude. First, let me thank God for the opportunity given me to govern this state for an unprecedented two consecutive terms. Secondly, I thank the people of Oyo State for their support. “I must thank God for His kindness and mercy, which made it possible for us to achieve all we were able to achieve. In governance key performance index, we have performed excellently. In education, health, agriculture, social infrastructure and others, we have done well. “But, I must especially thank my wife publicly for her support. She has taught me more about kindness and Godliness. My wife is a devout Christian who derives pleasure in putting smiles on the faces of the downtrodden. “She took many children, especially orphans, off the streets and she is nurturing them the same way she nurtures our children. “I thank the Muslim and Christian religious bodies for their prayers and support for my administration. I make bold to say that no governor in the history of this state promoted and celebrated both faith as we did since the inception of my administration.” The governor solicited the people’s for the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in next year’s election, Chief Adebayo Adelabu. He said he would be a worthy successor. Ajimobi described the APC candidate as courageous, bold and pious. These virtues, the governor stressed, are what some people erroneously misconstrue for arrogance. He said: “Like me, Adelabu is humble and he has the fear of God. I don’t suffer fools gladly; that is why some people have the erroneous impression that I’m arrogant. I’m not, but I don’t condone nonsense. I’m confident that Adelabu will build on what we have achieved so far. “I want to thank members of the State Executive Council (Exco) for tolerating my perfectionist stance. I must also thank the opposition for their strident criticisms at all times and for allowing us to show that we are far ahead of them.”