Among the high points of the show, some were higher than others. It was a high-octane show featuring high-quality performers. It was about Lagos and Lagosians.  It was about music flowing from the past to the present. Faaji Agba Eko, organised by Evergreen Musical Company on December 16, celebrated musical heritage and cultural legacy. The venue, Absolute Lagos, Tafawa Balewa Street, Lagos Island, boomed with a range of local music genres, including Sakara, Juju, Apala, Agidigbo, Waka, Fuji, Folk music, Highlife and Afrobeat. Legendary Orlando Julius Ekemode gave a riveting performance with his African-American wife, Latoya. “It’s 20 years today that Orlando and I have been in Nigeria,” she told the attendees.  Latoya said they got married in the office of Mr. Femi Esho, Chairman/CEO of Evergreen Musical Company. It was news to many of the attendees. “I’m very happy and proud to be his wife,” she added. Her husband turned 75 in September, she said. Latoya called for concerts and music festivals. “Your music isn’t going to die,” she declared. She got a round of applause. It was also an evening of narratives. Others told their own stories too. Giant flutist Tee Mac, who turned 70 this year, said someone stole his flute and he would be going to Switzerland to get another one. He attributed his youthful appearance to his abstinence from meat. “I stopped eating red meat in 1971,” he said. He recommended fish and fruits. “Keep quiet,” he whispered as he prepared to play classical music. Folk music master Jimi Solanke, who is in his seventies, performed some well-known songs. His deep voice was a delight. “I wrote Onile Gogoro in secondary school and gave it to Roy Chicago,” he said. Ara, the female drummer, was at the show. But she didn’t perform.  She was reflective as she narrated how she had survived a road accident while travelling with members of her band. “Let’s celebrate our music legends while they are alive,” she said. Sina Ayinde Bakare performed “Lagos roots music.” Buga Jesse King, described as “a contemporary Highlife musician and a core advocate of Nigeria’s indigenous music,” also performed. Afro Jazz music queen Yinka Davies was her bubbly self as she compered the show. The Evergreen Music Band kept the attendees happy with evergreen melodies.     Then Jide Sanwo-Olu arrived. The Lagos State governorship election frontrunner and All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate created a buzz with his entry. “Your word must be your bond,” he said, adding that he had promised to attend the event. “Your sector- Entertainment and Tourism- is important to me. What am I going to do for the tourism industry? We plan to build a film village and take advantage of the waterfront. Give me a blueprint. “He praised the organisers of the show: “This event brings back the glories of Lagos.” Sanwo-Olu’s attendance was significant.  This is the man who is likely to win the governorship election next year. His words were a promise. By showing interest in culture and tourism, Sanwo-Olu has given an insight into his ideas on well-rounded governance. Interestingly, Yemisi Busari, the running-mate to Jimi Agabje, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governorship candidate, arrived after Sanwo-Olu had left. She had positive words for “Lagos indigenous music.” Busari said:  ”Wura Fadaka played at my wedding. We plan to take tourism to the next level in Lagos State. We will pay a lot of attention to it.” Some days after the show, Managing Director of Evergreen Musical Company Bimbo Esho   publicised Sanwo-Olu’s support: “True to his word that he would support the Evergreen Music Heritage Foundation (EMHF), Sanwo-Olu has performed.  I told us he loves the icons and our indigenous music and that day he also said we should come to him to let him know our plans for music in Lagos. We have been advised to draw up a blueprint to drive Lagos tourism. I am positive that every member of this forum has a role to play.  I say a big thank you to Hon. Babajide Olusola Sanwo – Olu for considering us worthy of recognition and association.” When I first met Bimbo at the Faaji Eko show last year, there was no question that she had chosen to follow her father’s path.  When we met, she said things that were food for thought. Her thoughts: “Having spent my formative and adolescent years in Lagos State wining and dining with the Queens and Kings of Nigerian music, I have concluded that there is so much to learn from the songs of some music icons. At different points in time some of them sang that the world will one day forget them and not remember them for the smile and joy they put on different faces. One of such songs is the song of a Highlife music legend Rex Lawson  titled “ Old Friends and New Lovers” where he begged the world to remember him as he has sailed many oceans with his music, survived many storms,  delighted many hearts.” She added: “It saddens one that unlike other countries of the world that draw up calendars for different activities to celebrate their famous music legends all year long, we continue to live with the fading memories of our music greats…Music greats from different ethnicities who reached the peak of their career in Lagos and who also have contributed immensely to the social and  cultural development, religious growth, educational growth, political growth of Lagos State through their music are today forgotten.” The Evergreen Music Heritage Foundation, which Sanwo-Olu has given support, is situated in Surulere, Lagos.  It is a project “to preserve and safeguard musical heritage… It is a one-stop place for research and documentation of over 10,000 Nigerian musicians…And as part of its core objectives the Foundation will help to create a world-class archival institution to cater for the need of researchers, anthropologists and sociologists the world over.” This effort deserves support. Faaji Agba Eko is a promising project that needs support to achieve its potential. The public and private sectors should support it as a service to culture and tourism.