Nya Edward Inyang, popularly known as Blackky, stormed the Nigerian music scene in the 1990s with his reggae/raga music style which birthed songs like ‘Rosie’, ‘Bang Belly’ and ‘Blacckky’s Skank.’ Silent on the music radar since 2006 when he dropped his last album, Blackky, who will be among artistes to perform at this year’s One Lagos Fiesta, talks to JOE AGBRO JR about his hiatus, comeback and other things. Excerpts. What has Blackky been up to? Well, Blackky has been at the mountain top. When I say Blackky has been on the mountain top, what I mean is that he has been in a state of mind of solitary confinement, working on some new materials, new songs, because the kind of music that Blackky is known for is music that stands the test of time. So, if you listen to any of his classic hits, you can still play them and still enjoy them. So, I’ve been busy working on some new lyrics and some new sounds. At the same time, I’ve been busy performing. So, I’ve been on live shows, live concerts but I haven’t released an album in a couple of years. And that’s what we’ve been doing, basically. Now, you were a very big hit in the late 80s, early 90s and music has changed a lot from that time. Some millennials may not even know who Blackky is or have heard his songs. How do you see yourself fitting in now? Well, I’ve always been there. The kind of music that I play is African Dance Hall. If you listen to the airwaves right now, that’s what everybody is playing. They’re still playing dance hall, the contemporary side to reggae. You know, so I don’t just play traditional reggae. I came with a new perspective, with the Blackky’s Skank, Rosie and all those kind of songs that are futuristic. And I think that the younger colleagues may have something to learn from me in terms of trying to keep your career, keep your brand standing the test of time and having longevity. This is the age of collaborations. And given the fact that you’re about to come out with new sets of songs, is there any collaboration? Well, you know, because the fans have not heard Blackky in a number of years, so I want them to get undiluted Blackky. During the course of time, I may; but there is nothing like that for now because what Blackky represents – I even need the younger ones who are coming up. Even though I met some 20-year-olds, 21-year-olds, who tell me they listen to my music. I was like, ‘were you born when my first song came out?’ Those who have caught up with my music, they will keep listening to it. The younger ones will learn from it. So there is no collaboration. Why have you been out of music for so many years? We have a very Babylonian music scene right now. The music scene does not have structure. So, it was difficult for me, after releasing my last album, to deal with the system that is not organised. The music system in Nigeria is not organised. It is not structured well. So, I had to make sure that I put other things in place before I put out a new album so it would make an impact on people. When was your last music and how would you advise to organise the music industry? My album was Reggae Icon’. That came out in 2006. And it fetched me a nominee for Best Reggae/Raga KORA 2010. That was my last album released. The way the industry is now, we need to have record companies back in Nigeria. Years ago when I started, we had real record companies like Polygram, EMI and all those record companies. We need to have them back so that we can structure it for music distribution which is not there. Two, our collecting society, the management of intellectual property, has to be done properly. Distribution – we have a big problem. You must know about the story of Alaba and other issues. This affects the earnings of the artiste. So, they have to do something about piracy. They have to do something about our PMAN, we have to do something about our collecting management organisations. We have to do so many things so that we can have structure, so artistes like myself or those who even started with me who are not playing, may even come back to music. If you look at it, a lot of my colleagues are not even playing music again. I’m probably one of the few that are still on the game and still keeping visibility going. So, what has really been your staying power and is music the only thing you do? Yes, principally, music is what I do – music and performances. What has kept me going is number one, this is what my destiny is. Two, because the fans have been very kind to me. They always want Blackky to perform at their concerts and they always want to listen to Blackky. I’m just favoured. It’s not my doing. Away from the music, is Blackky married? No, Blackky is not married. I just live a cool, private life that I like to keep private. What I usually put out for the fans is musical – what Blackky is doing, what Blackky represents, my philosophy. You were popular before the advent of internet. What is your thought about social media? I think social media has its good and bad sides. So, you have to be careful how you use social media. If you’re an artiste, you use it strictly for music; you try and keep your private life out of it. And then, it can give you a lot of things. Some people have started businesses on social media. But some people have gotten their lives totally embarrassed because of social media. So, it depends on how you use it. How do you use social media? I use social media for positivity. I use social media for social consciousness. I use social media for education, to educate the youths, to educate my people out there. If I’m worried about the rate of abuse of fathers raping their daughters, I’ll put it on social media. If I’m worried about the state of the country and the fact that the country is not moving forward, I’ll talk about it on social media – to help people to shape their thoughts. Marijuana has been getting legalised in places like Canada and other western countries. In Nigeria, an aspiring presidential candidate has talked about even trading in marijuana. Now, marijuana usage is common in the Nigerian music industry. What is your view on this? Well, if you go to my social media handles, you will see that I am totally against the use of hard drugs by anybody. And I think that our youths need to learn to be hard drug-free, codeine-free, Tramadol-free. The youths must stay away from drugs because drugs will destroy you. That’s my clear position. What should your fans expect from you at the One Lagos Fiesta? We’re going to go down memory lane; I’ll bring them down to the present and I take them a little bit into the future. It’s all the idea of sharing love with those who are my fans and linking with them at the same time.