The CEO/Managing Director of Health Forever Limited, Otunba Olajuwon Okubena, answers the question. Scientists from the Pharmacology Department of the University of Ibadan, led by Dr. Solomon Umukoro,have  demonstrated that Jobelyn, a Nigerian herbal product, has the potential to provide succour for stroke patients. This was contained in a recent article published in the journal Pathophysiology (ref https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/30413288)and titled: ”Jobelyn ameliorates neurological deficits in rats with ischemic stroke through inhibition of release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and NF-K signaling pathway.” Their findings suggest that the positive effect of Jobelyn on neurological function in rats with ischemic stroke may be related to inhibition of oxidative stress, release of pro-inflammatory cytokines and expressions of other immune positive  cells. The scientists explained that Ischemic stroke is a fatal disease caused by sudden obstruction of cerebral blood flow with subsequent neuronal cell death ortissue necrosis. Occlusion of the blood vessels (carotid arteries) that supply blood to the brain and subsequent reperfusion are the critical factors involved in the pathology of ischemic stroke. Stroke is the second leading cause of death and disability worldwide. According to World Health Organisation (WHO), 15million people suffer from stroke worldwide each year, with over six million dying and more than half of the survivors being permanently disabled. The death rate due to the disease in most African countries is quite alarming resulting in huge loss of economic manpower and productivity. Moreover, stroke is typically associated with neurological deficits and the belief that the disease is incurable and even contributes to a wide range of psychiatric disturbances such as anxiety, depression and memory deficits. Over the past few decades, the understanding of the pathophysiology of stroke has increased but little progress has been made in the development of effective drugs for treatment of this debilitating disease.Current approach to the management of stroke focuses on the amelioration of symptoms as cure for the disease still remains elusive. The clinical efficacy of tissue plasminogen activators currently used for stroke has been compromised by serious adverse effects. Also, the need to administer them as quickly as possible, at least within three hours after onset of symptoms of the disease makes it almost unrealistic for patients in most African communities to benefit from these drugs. Moreover, the lack of accessibility to cost effective treatment for stroke is the major reason for the increased fatality and high burden of the disease in developing countries like most African nations. Jobelyn is a dietary supplement obtained from the polyphenol-rich leaf sheath of Sorghum bicolor (L) Moench(Poaceae). Sorghum bicolor is commonly known as millet and has been used in African traditional medicine for treatment of several diseases over hundred years ago. It is manufactured by Health Forever Products Limited, Lagos, Nigeria, and is available as capsules in most pharmaceutical outlets in Nigeria and abroad, including United States. It has gained high reputation as a remedy for treatment of moderate to severe anaemia. The manufacturer also claimed that the dietary supplement is beneficial in neurological disorders such as psychosis, stroke and convulsions. It is also known to boost the immune system, thereby enhancing the body’s defensive mechanisms in responseto stress, infections or debilitating diseases. The manufacturer recommends one or two capsules, one to three times per day for the treatment of anaemia. However, the manufacturer also recommends higher doses of Jobelyn for chronic diseases like cancer, arthritis and stroke. The major active phytochemical constituents found in Jobelyn and their mechanisms of action in neurological disorders were presented in the article. The results of this investigation showed that Jobelyn® improved neurological deficits induced by bilateral common carotid artery occlusion via inhibition of oxidative stress, neuroinflammation and neurodegeneration. These findings further support the eth-nomedicinal application of Jobelynas a therapeutic agent for the management of patients with ischemic stroke Stroke attack has become very rampant and it has no age barrier. If it does not result into instant death, it could turn the victim into a vegetable for the rest of his life with the quality of life reduced to almost zero. In some instances, it may give some warning signals but in many other cases, no warning will be given. A stroke causes a loss of function due to an interruption of blood flow to the brain. Those who suffer a stroke usually experience a number of symptoms, which may include sudden numbness or weakness of the face, arms, or legs—especially on one side of the body; confusion; trouble speaking; loss of sight; severe headaches; and loss of balance. Risk factors include hypertension, high cholesterol, obesity, advanced age, gender, and race. Stroke affects more than 800,000 people each year and ranks among the five leading causes of death and a leading cause of adult disability in the world. Although a stroke may not be entirely preventable, familiarity with the symptoms of a stroke can prompt you to get help faster, which can make a difference in recovery. Use the acronym FAST to remember the warning signs of a stroke: F – FACE. Ask the person to smile. Does the face appear crooked or drooping? A – ARMS. Ask the person to raise both arms. Does one arm drift downward? S – SPEECH. Ask the person to repeat a simple sentence. Are the words slurred? T – TIME. Call your doctor immediately if you observe any of these symptoms. It is important for people to understand stroke warning signs and get to a hospital FAST in case they are eligible to receive the appropriate treatment. Time is an important factor associated with determining whether a patient can receive it or not.” A scientist once said that oxidative stress may be at the root of some strokes, as the body may be unable to neutralise cell-damaging free radicals, which can lead to inflammation and vascular damage. How might antioxidant-rich foods reduce this stroke risk? According to the scientist, vitamins C and E, carotenoids, flavonoids, and other such compounds scavenge free radicals, thereby inhibiting oxidative stress. “Antioxidants, especially flavonoids, may also help improve endothelial function and reduce blood clotting, blood pressure, and inflammation.  How stroke can be prevented  Eating a healthy, antioxidant rich diet is associated other healthy behaviours. People who tend to eat healthier tend to also have healthier lifestyles as a whole, it is also noteworthy that the diet had an independent beneficial effect on stroke incidence.” The most congruous finding of epidemiologic studies is the lower risk of stroke among individuals with frequent consumption of fruit and vegetables. Eating a diet high in antioxidants may protect against ischemic stroke, an Italian cohort study showed. Antioxidants come from a variety of food sources, including fruits, vegetables, coffee, chocolate, red wine, whole grain cereals, and nuts, and diets high in antioxidants have been associated with reduced inflammation and increased circulating antioxidants. One of the newest, and yet oldest, treatments for stroke prevention is the dietary intake of plant compounds called flavonoids. Flavonoids are antioxidant compounds that are characterised by their polyphenolic chemical structure. Flavonoids are responsible for primary anti-oxidative effects by attracting oxygen free radicals before these free radicals can cause cellular damage. Over 4,000 flavonoids have been discovered, and they are found in fruit, vegetables, seeds, nuts, flowers, and bark. The best sources of flavonoids in human consumables are red wine, tea, onions, and the ubiquitous agent of health care: APPLES! Flavonoids have also been found to aid in vascular smooth muscle relaxation, which can reduce blood pressure, and thereby reduce the risk of stroke.  Use of Jobelyn for treating and preventing stroke  Jobelyn is a herbal product derived from Sorghum bicolour. For several centuries, the people of South-Western part of Nigeria have been using this plant in its raw form to treat and cure many diseases including stroke. The impression that I was given that this particular remedy is a cure-all for diseases like stroke, hypertension, diabetes,  arthritis and HIV. Parkinson’s  disease and sickle-cell anemia seemed illogical to me and in an attempt to find out the truth or otherwise, I have set out to carry out scientific investigations over the past 20 years. Our initial focus on the remedy as a blood boosting agent was successful and two publications  in the African Journal of Biotechnology in September 2003 confirmed that Jobelyn derived from Sorghum bicolor has the potential to be a substitute for blood transfusion except in emergency situation.  This does not give a clue to the cure-all claim of the product until we became aware of the Antioxidant properties of the product. Several studies in the US and Germany confirmed that Jobelyn is one of the most powerful antioxidants in the world. A synthetic antioxidant may have the ability to reduce the brain damage following a stroke by more than 40 percent — even if it’s taken hours after the stroke happens. A new study shows the antioxidant, known as AEOL 10150, neutralised hazardous free radicals and prevented cell death in a mouse model of stroke. Researchers say the antioxidant is designed to mimic a natural antioxidant, but it works against a wider range of free radicals and also lasts longer in the body. Naturally occurring antioxidants, such as vitamins C and E, are thought to reduce cell damage within the body by countering the potentially dangerous effects of free radicals produced when the body processes oxygen. Antioxidants are thought to be a promising treatment for strokes because they can be given after a stroke occurs to help reduce cell damage. Strokes occur when blood flow to the brain is blocked or a blood vessel within the brain ruptures. Brain cells eventually die as they become starved of oxygen, causing paralysis and loss of function. Cell damage can continue hours after a stroke. Having realised the potency of Jobelyn as a powerful antioxidant, we have tried it for the treatment of many diseases including stroke. For stroke that happens within 24 hours, Jobelyn take six capsules, four times daily at intervals of six hours and accompanied with daily water intake of at least three to four litres would reverse the damaging effects of the stroke within a period of two to four  weeks. For stroke that had taken long, the treatment that we have successfully adopted is four capsules of Jobelyn, three times daily, also with at least three to four litres of water daily. In this case, reversal or near-complete reversal would be possible within a period of four  to six months. It is, however, more advantageous to use Jobelyn to prevent stroke and many other diseases by taking a daily dose of two capsules, twice daily. The old adage that prevention is better than cure applies in this case. There are other aspects of health where Jobelyn has been tried. We have devised a formula for the successful treatment of Arthritis. We recommend that patients take three capsules of Jobelyn, three times daily, with three bottles of water (1.5 litre size) and in three months, the problem should be resolved. We even offer money back guarantee if  the result is not achieved. This formula could also be tried for diabetes. Conclusion  In concluding this piece, it is necessary to emphasise that a healthy diet, which includes regular consumption of fruits and vegetables would prevent many serious diseases but we need to state that a powerful antioxidant like Jobelyn, concentrated in capsules could as well prevent you from diseases and taken at a higher dosage could also reverse diseases and help you to maintain your wellness. 