Eleven young women who have excelled in their various fields would be honored on Sunday for their outstanding contribution to society. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the awards ceremony, organised by Her Network, an NGO, would hold at Landmark Towers, Victoria Island, Lagos. Nkem Onwudiwe, President of the NGO, said that Her Network ‘Woman of the Year Award’ was aimed at inspiring and uniting women through celebration of excellence. “In a world filled with so many distractions, it’s imperative that the value of impact isn’t downplayed. “It’s important that the younger generation have relatable and upstanding role models to look up to. “This way, they know they have a part to play in their immediate or extended communities. “There are so many outstanding women quietly doing great work in their various industries which spans from technology to health, agriculture to sports and more,” Nkem said. She said that 19 women received various awards in 2017, saying that the recognition supported their dreams by shining more light on their accomplishment over the past year. Among the nominees for this year’s awards were Nollywood actress and writer Alex Okoroji, ace comedian Chioma Omeruah and Nikki Laoye, popular recording artist and musician. Others were Kafayat Oluwatoyin Shafau-Ameh, professional dancer, Bisola Borha, entrepreneur, Lara Rawa, event planner, Ifedayo Durosinmi Etti, Dr Ola Brown, Founder of Flying Doctors and Zainab Ashadu, Nigerian bag designer Some of the past recipients of the awards, who spoke to NAN, described the recognition as unique. Timipre Wolo, Chief Executive of TFN Energy, who won `Overall Achiever Woman of the Year’  in 2017 told NAN that the award had impacted her career positively. “There are so many women across the country changing the narratives and doing amazing things to impact their world, against all odds. “It’s quite refreshing to have an award which seeks out such women and celebrates their work and efforts,” Wolo said. She said that Her Network also took on the responsibility of promoting most of her work in the course of the year which was something very remarkable and quite commendable. “Also the Award brought me in contact with so many amazing women with  whom I’m currently collaborating on other projects,’’ she said. Mrs Adeyinka Tekenah, Founder, Happy Coffee and Start-up Woman of the Year winner in 2017, said: “This award became an inspiration of hope and light for me as a business owner. “The award remains one of my most prominent, because it came at a time when I needed the courage to move forward regardless of my state of grief. “The award has had an impact on my career, it is now a part of our success story, highlight and marker as a brand and company.”  NAN