The Presidential Candidate, Grassroots Development Party of Nigeria (GDPN), Dr. Davidson Akhimien, on Thursday unfolded his plans to end the Boko Haram insurgency in the country if elected in 2019. The Edo State-born candidate said to win the war against Boko Haram, he would concentrate on identifying and neutralizing sponsors of the terrorist group. Akhimien, who recently flagged off his campaign at Onuebum, Ogbia, Bayelsa State, said the conspiracy theories fueling insurgency in the North-East must be properly interrogated instead of ignoring them. He said: “I have evaluated our security problems. I have done a threat analysis and I have seen at the highest level you have terrorism, which is a global phenomenon. Terrorism in the North East my approach is going to be double prongs. I will be using the political economy approach and the military approach. “In the political economy approach, we will be looking at conspiracy theories and interrogating them properly. We don’t just wave them off. We have been in this thing for over eight years. Who are the sponsors? Why haven’t we been able to lay hands on the sponsors of this thing? “What are the causative factors, economic neglect and lack of empowerment of the youths. So, we are going to bring about massive interventions. Deploy resources to engage the youths in productive ventures instead of leaving them in IDP camps. No matter how you deploy the military without taking care of ‘stomach infrastructure’, they will still win you”. Akhimien further said he would tinker with the Order of Battle (OBAT) of the country’s Armed Forces to concentrate efforts in defeating the ragtag Boko Haram. “I will tinker with the Order of Battle of the Armed Forces. In the principle of war, there is what we call concentration of forces. If it will require two divisions of the army, 10 squadrons of the Air Force to decimate the ragtag army, what am l doing with my divisions in town? “I will deploy them. They are there to protect the territorial integrity of the country, which is being threatened. Asymmetric warfare at this time requires speed, sophistication of weapons which we are lacking in many areas”, he said. On fight against corruption, the presidential candidate said he would first carry out a judicial reform to cleanse the third arm of government. Observing that many judges are still corrupt in the country, he said without clearing the rot in the judiciary, nothing much could be achieved in the war against graft. He said: “In many areas, we have faltered as a country. In the immediate, the judiciary is very key in bringing about a corrective measure when it comes to the issues of corruption. We are going to be carrying out judicial reforms at optimal levels. Most judges are corrupt. “But the judiciary is supposed to be the fulcrum of the democratic institutions. We will cleanse the judiciary and there will be consequences for action. It will be a case of who knows the law and not who knows the judge. It will bring about the self-corrective mechanism in the society. “Government transactions will be transparent. Freedom of Information Act will work very well in my administration. The National Orientation Agency will be set up in 774 local government areas. Akhimien also urged President Muhammadu Buhari to rethink his withdrawal of assent on the new Electoral Bill to avoid insinuations. He said: “Maybe, the President is ill-advised because one of the problems of Africa and Nigeria centers around models for democracy. The problem is inability to ensure democratic transitions. Nigeria should not fall into that category. “I would have preferred a situation where the President should give assent to that bill so as to take the electoral processes in this country to the next level. So that there will not be insinuations and manipulation in the process. “My call to Mr. President is to think it through again as a patriotic citizen. Let him recoil on his own personal integrity and love for country think it through and assent to the bill. It is in the general interest of the people. It doesn’t do anybody any harm. It doesn’t the entire system a lot of good”.