Governor Ibikunle Amosun has clarified that he only fears God and not human beings, including President Muhammadu Buhari. Amosun said God whose counsel or pronouncement cannot be altered by man, is the one he fears and nobody else. The Governor spoke during the 2018 edition of the state’s Christmas Carol and Service of Nine Lessons at Kuto, Abeokuta, the state capital,  in an apparent allusion to the report by the Saturday edition of The Nation which quoted him to have said “I only fear God and Buhari.” Amosun was reported to have made the comments while addressing  leaders and members of All Progressives Congress (APC)  during a stakeholders meeting  last Friday at the party Secretariat in Abeokuta . But clarifying his earlier statement, he said he fears only God and not Buhari. “You know this is our time as politician, a time when politicians will call black, blue. Yesterday I held a  meeting with our people, and the way I started was that, I was brought up to fear God but only for me to see in the paper this morning that ‘Amosun says he fears  God and Buhari’. “No, it is only God I fear, the one that is alive, the only one that will say ‘kufayakun’ and no one can change(it), that is the only God that I fear. “Of course, I respect President Buhari, I love him and he loves me too but I know him he fears God because he is from God. He doesn’t beg for respect he commands and earns  it. So it is only God that I fear.” In his yuletide sermon,  the Secretary-General, Anglican communion worldwide, Anglican communion office and consultative council, London,  Archbishop  Josiah Idowu-Fearon attributed the nation’s problem to scanty knowledge of both the Holy bible and the Quran. Idowu – Fearon said politicians are negatively using religion to divide the country but enjoined citizens to refuse any of such moves. He said: “Our major problem in this country today is that, so many people has scanty knowledge and understanding of the holy Quran and the holy Bible and they tend to propagate that little understanding of the word of God and anyone who does not agree with them, will be seen as an enemy. “For the Christians, the real problem is sin because it was sin that caused the reincarnation and that is why Jesus came as sacrifice and as ransom for men. “Jesus is a word that came in human flesh and as a result, he is a messenger and his mission is to save the people from their sins. “Meanwhile God expect us all to humble ourselves but our politicians are negatively using religion to divide us in this country and the time has come for all us to say no to them.”