A Salim Rufai has become the first graduate to get a First Class degree in Business Administration at the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS),. The 26-year-old from Mai’adua Local Government Area of Katsina State, graduated with a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 4.54, the highest in the department since its inception in 2001. Speaking with this reporter, Rufai said prayer, dedication and good mentorship contributed to his success. He said: “It always seems impossible until it is done. I believe that when there is success, there are many roads that lead to it. Two of these roads are dedication and prayer. I also believe my success is based on the acronym I created as my roadmap, the 3P’s (Patience, Persistence and Perseverance) and the 3I’s (Intention, Insight and Inspiration). These are what I tagged ‘The Success Formula’. “Of course, in the formula I created, I mentioned ‘Inspiration’. Many people inspired me and among them is Mallam Sadat Ibn Adam. He is my lecturer and indeed a great role model for me.” Asked of the challenges he faced during his studentship on campus and whether he partook in other activities on campus or not, he said: “The challenges I encountered were many but the life at Gidan Dalo village (a village within school premises where students reside in private-owned hostels) was so miserable. I managed to survive without security, good water, light, and others. “I was involved in social activities like football. I was involved in politics too because I was the President of the Association of my department and, I used to attend the MSS programmes.” Rufai advised students who think it was impossible to achieve such feat in some departments to disregard such thoughts. He said with prayer, hard work and dedication, nothing was impossible. “My advice to them is to stop believing in such fiction. Nothing is impossible with dedication and prayer,” he said. Rufai’s Head of Department, A. S. Junaid, an associate professor, confirmed he was the first person to graduate with a First Class since the inception of the department. “Yes, it is true,” he said. “He is the first person since the inception of the department in 2001.” Speaking on the students’ notion of the impossibility to acquire First Class honour degree in UDUS, the HOD said acquiring a first class honour is by students’ hard work and no department could deny any student who works hard for it. “Having a First Class? It is the students that can determine if they want to have it. Any student from any department or anywhere can get it if he or she works hard for it.   It is not given for free; and nobody can give First Class unless students work hard for it and do remember, it is based on merit,” he said.