Member representing Delta Central at the Senate Ovie Omo-Agege, at the weekend, empowered 150 Catholic women in Udu Local Government, with N5 million. Those empowered were from SS Peter and Paul, Saint Theresa Catholic Church, both in Ughelli, and God’s Delight Gospel Assembly, Udu. Each woman got N20,000. Speaking while presenting the gift in Ughelli,  Omo-Agege said the empowerment was part of his campaign promises to appreciate those who supported him during in 2015. Omo-Agege said: “The essence of this empowerment  is to encourage the women who are into petty trades but have no much money, but rather, buy some of the goods on credit with the promise to pay back, but with this N20,000 given to them, they can now get their goods, sell and make their little gains. “At God’s Delight Gospel Assembly, Udu,  100 women were selected from different branches while at St Peters and Paul and Saint Theresa Catholic Church, Ughelli, 150 were empowered with N20,000 each’’. Some beneficiaries; Mrs. Geradile Udochi, Mrs. Idiruka Ejiofor, Miss Felix Mabel, and President of Catholic Women Organisation at SS Peter and Paul Catholic Church Mrs. Veronica Akpomiemie prayed that God continues to bless Omo-Agege. The Parish Priest, Rev. Godwin Orovwudje, who also praised Omo-Agege for empowering the women, said the church would continue to pray for him. Speaking when his campaign team visited Ewu, Okparabe and Arhavwarien wards in Ughelli South, Omo-Agege urged the people to support APC governorship candidate in Delta State, Great Ogboru. He canvassed votes for President Muhammadu Buhari. “I approached the President on the state of Sapele/Agbor federal highway and because Buhari is APC President, he quickly approved the reconstruction of the road with N5 billion, and you can also see that the railway project that was abandoned by the past administration has picked up and is functioning as we speak.” “We all know that it was Buhari’s administration that ensured that the pension of DSC workers were paid, as well as put in motion the resuscitation of the steel plant. He has done much for us and there is need to reciprocate by voting for him. “I have heard your requests, but I assured you that by my next tenure, your water and solar street light requests will be done. It is the turn of Okparabe, on Arhavwarien Bridge and water scheme, I will ensure these are done as l return back to the house. “Apart from the bridge, l will also attract Federal Government projects to the area and if Ogboru becomes the governor, all these will become a reality.”