The members and staff of Abia State Passenger Integrated Manifest and Safety Scheme (ASPIMSS) have expressed their appreciation to their new General Manager (GM) Dr Anthony Agbazuere for clearing several months of their salary arrears. Before the coming of the new GM in October, the workers of the scheme had been languishing over the nonpayment of their arrears of salary by former leaders of the organisation. Speaking during a visit to their GM in Umuahia, the chairman of the ASPIMSS Staff Welfare Association (ASWA), Temple Egesi said that his coming was not only timely but suitable as it is one of the best things to happen to the scheme in recent time. Egesi said that his appointment came at the most auspicious time when the scheme is in dire need of reforms and eager to maximize the objectives of the establishment which has been neglected over time. He thanked the state governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu for appointing him, “By this act of the governor he has proven his commitment to make ASPIMSS better in terms of structure and human capacity development. The welfare boss said that his coming to the scheme has given them hope, “As in less than two months of assumption of office you have given us assurance of brighter days in the scheme”. “We are happy to express our thanks to you as you have within the two months you assumed office, you are up to date in the payment of workers’ salaries including the three months arrears you inherited”. “You have concluded plans for the payment of December salary before the Christmas Day, this feat is no doubt uncommon and record-breaking and can only be possible with a man of conscience and integrity like you”. In his response, Agbazuere thanked them for their visit and the governor for finding him fit to be given such a huge responsibility which gave him the impetus to work hard to clear their arrears of salary within a short time. Agbazuere assured them that they are definitely going to get their December salary before Christmas Day which has never happened since the scheme came into being, saying that the issue of salary arrears will be a thing of the past. The former information commissioner, “All workers in this scheme will be paid their salary before going home for Christmas break in addition to bags of rice as they need to feel happy after several months of work”. “January is a always a difficult time for parents when they find it hard to pay the school fees of their children and wards, I want to assure you that before the end of that month that so you can take care of your families unlike before”. He told then that the issue of accumulation of salary which are not paid will never happen while he is their leader, “It is now a thing of the past, as your welfare is of paramount importance to me and the re-roofing of the bad roof of our office”. Agbazuere said that he intends to increase their salary on or before February, stressing that the idea is to raise their morale as their take home package is nothing to write home about.