The FCT Police Command on Wednesday paraded 23 suspects for their alleged involvement in robbery, car snatching, murder, cultism and other crimes. One of the suspects, Yakubu Luka a security guard at National Assembly quarters was paraded for allegedly stealing $4000 from his master’s room. According to the Police, Luka used the money to buy a car, motorcycle, zinc, tiles and other items. Speaking in Abuja on Wednesday on how he was arrested, the FCT Commissioner of Police, CP Bala Ciroma said: “On 22nd November, 2018 following an investigation into a written complaint, police operatives from the Command arrested one Yakubu Luka ‘m’ 27 years, a private security guard, who broke into his master’s bedroom and stole cash in both foreign and local currencies amounting to N1, 485,000.00 only. “The suspect who was arrested after a discreet investigation at Apo confessed that he used the stolen money to buy: one golf 3 Volks Wagon car, one Hajo motorcycle, seven bundles of zinc 35 cartoons of floor tiles which were all recovered from Kikureni village of Kauru LGA of Kaduna State.” The Police also recovered the sum of N148, 800 from him. Narrating how he committed the alleged crime, Luka said: “I am from Kaduna state and I work with Senator Amori at the National Assembly quarters Apo. I work with him as a security man and I started work with him in 2015 and then I married last year. “I started working with him through one woman who introduced herself to me as his sister. My boss was hardly around. He comes at the weekend and travels out of Abuja during the week.  As at 2015, his sister told me to always clean his room for him whenever he is due to come back and she handed the key to his room and other properties like television to me. “This year, I fell sick for almost one month and the sickness made me very weak. I was sick but I could not approach my boss because if I do, I know he will not give me because I asked him one time but he declined and even reduced my salary claiming that I did not work while I was sick. I decided to carry his key, opened the door, carried $4000. I went to change the money, I treated myself and I used the balance to buy car, motorcycle, zinc. “I built house with my salary in the village in Kaduna and  I wanted to use the zinc to complete my building. I changed the money to N1, 485,000. I bought the car at the rate of N485, I bought the machine at the rate of N265,000. I wanted to use the car to start a taxi business which would earn me money.” He added: “I remained in the house after stealing the money but I was later arrested and I confessed to stealing the money. I had the intention of returning the money later in life when I would have made so much money but I was arrested and they recovered everything I used the money for. “I even lied to my wife who asked me where I got the money to buy all the things I bought that I borrowed the money.” The police also paraded one 58-year old Olawole Michael Olatunji who the police claimed has been parading himself as a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG). Items recovered from him include; forged receipt bearing Nigeria Police Force Airwings, cheque books from different banks, and some documents he used to defraud some of his victims. Bala: “On 10th December, 2018 Police operatives from the Command have arrested one Olawole Michael Olatunji ‘m’ 58 years who has been parading himself as a retired Assistant Inspector-General of Police. “The suspect has hidden under the same pretext to defraud unsuspecting members of the public by offering to help them secure contracts with the Police Air-Wing. He was arrested at a bank in Kubwa where he had gone to make some financial transactions. “In the course of investigation, fake Police Air-Wing receipts, fake contract documents, eleven ATM cards, Ten Cheque books and letter headed papers of different companies were recovered from him as exhibits. Investigation is on-going.” Explaining how a receipt bearing NPF Airwings was found in his possession, Olatunji said: “ I did not forge the receipt for monetary sake. The money in question is just N300,000. A pastor introduced me to one Alhaji Lawal. When he introduced me, he wanted something to fetch out money and he said he needed receipt to back up the money. I went to the bank to withdraw money and I was told my account was frozen. I only forged the receipt at Banex plaza to authenticate the business.” The Police said the suspects would be arraigned in court upon conclusion of investigation.