My column for this newspaper last week (Tuesday, November 27) was devoted to “Matters Miscellaneous,” a rubric under which I stated that I would, as has been my custom for more than 30 years, try to catch up “with broad strokes” and “in short takes” on some fairly recent events, “lest those who make and those who consume the news feel neglected.” Again, as has been my custom when employing that label, the tone was light-hearted, and tongue-in-cheek. That was the spirit in which I engaged a tale that had been doing the rounds for several weeks that President Muhammadu Buhari had died last April while receiving medical treatment in the UK, and that  since then, a Sudanese look-alike, Jubril al Sudaniya, insinuated into Aso Rock by a resident Cabal, has been the de facto president of Nigeria. The accounts of how this switch was executed and how it has been sustained seemed wholly improbable; yet, not a few in the attentive audience, including those one thought had been habituated by sound education to healthy skepticism, believed the accounts but actually embellished and propagated them. It occurred to me that I should join the bearers of the tale at their own game and outperform them and thus put them out of business. Their script was dated, I stated. Affecting the omniscient tone of some of my colleagues (“It can now be revealed”; “We can now assert categorically,” etc., etc.) I vouchsafed “authoritatively” that relations of the said Jubril al Sudiniya had stormed Aso Rock and demanded to share federal power “in perpetuity” and 50 percent of Nigeria’s oil revenues for the years “in the first instance,” failing which they would reveal to the whole world the sordid secret that the Cabal in Aso Rock had been keeping. For good measure, I added that the UK authorities were mediating. Early in my writing, the “satirical thread” was often so thin that readers frequently found it hard to determine whether I was joking or in earnest.  Teju Olaniyan, then a budding literary scholar at what was then the University of Ife, gave me a valuable education in the business.  “Bold exaggeration,” he wrote, “is the heart of a good satire.” I kept that counsel in mind when I was writing the piece under reference.  The case I was making would be so outlandish and so preposterous that it would be dismissed out of hand. It turned out otherwise. Instead of laying the matter to rest, my intervention this past weekend gave fresh wings to the tale of the Buhari Double, taking it far and wide, and in certain influential circles imbuing what was intended as entertainment with messages and meanings to which I do not subscribe. My November 27 intervention, “Buhari’s Double,” it is necessary to insist, was conceived and executed in a satirical spirit. And that is authoritative. 