An initiative to help secondary school pupils embrace entrepreneurship early in life is in the works. The initiative tagged, Building Young Entrepreneurs (BYE) is being promoted by Black Pride Multipurpose Company to help young ones incubate ideas and run them as businesses. Principal Partner at Black Pride Mr Bright Oloyo said at a press conference in Lagos that the firm was partnering  the National Association of Proprietors of Private Schools (NAPPS) and other local and international organisations/individuals to take the message of entrepreneurship to the classroom. “This initiative is designed to steer young minds towards entrepreneurship.  It is being done in partnership with NAPPS. We intend to reach out to students in secondary schools to change their mind set.  According to statistics from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS), 60-65 per cent of graduands would be unemployed,” he said. Through BYE Oloyo said pupils would undergo training in various phases that would, ultimately, lead to them getting support to run their own businesses or buying shares in businesses started by young ones under the programme. “The first phase is designed to hold in four states and reach 1,000 secondary school pupils.  The event will be held in various locations that would feature successful entrepreneurs, captains of industry, and select celebrities to steer their minds towards entrepreneurship and good leadership. It is designed to hold across three terms in select venues,” he said. Beyond the seminars, Oloyo said some of the participants would progress to the second phase, which would be a coaching and mentoring programme. “The end result is that a large chunk of those taken into the coaching and mentoring programme will own their own businesses under our support.  Every child in the coaching and mentoring programme would eventually own stakes.  The programme is designed to last a maximum of four years,” he said. Oloyo said registration for BYE would begin in January and would be done through schools registered under NAPPS.  However, he said pupils from public schools would also be able to participate. He added that NAPPS has agreed to bear some of the cost of the programme should the programme not get full sponsorship. However, he expressed confidence about the funding prospect for the project, saying many local and international partners have lined up support for the project. “We have the support of a lot of persons and organisations.  The National Black Unity Newspaper, the largest minority newspaper in the United States is supporting us; Mr Bobby Umar, a seasoned TEDx speaker is coming from Canada for the seminar; Frank Allen, a renowned American author, has prepared the workbook for the programme. “In Nigeria, we have the support of Mr Segun Oruame, founder of Qitech; Mrs Helen Oskoya, CEO, Nobelova Gradani, a certified specialist in dealing with children with learning difficulties.