A former member of the House of Representatives,  Nze Chidi  Duru  has advocated the collapsing existing political parties into two,  saying a two party system was. More desirable for the sustenance of democracy in the country. Duru who is seeking to return to the House on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC) however expressed fear that those left the party as a result of the outcome of party primaries may pitch tent with opposition candidates during the election, but assured that President Muhammadu Buhari would emerge victorious in the 2019 elections. Duru said: “I think it is the political behaviour and i believe that like we did propose in a meeting held in 1999, the agenda was to shrink the political space, to have at least not more than two political parties. But for reasons that suited the authority, after we left, they allow the possibility of 2-4 political parties. And after that, you now have different political environment where anybody can conjure a political party and then registered and people will start moving from party A to party B. “I also think that if we had kept faith with the two party systems that we propose, the electorate will begin to notice that the movement across parties is not in the interest of the electorate. It is basically selfish interest that drives one politician to the other party. Once the electorate becomes aware, they can choose to punish those itinerant politicians or political party as the case maybe.” Duru who assured that he would not relent in his effort to attract developmental project to his constituency said he would be preoccupied with the task of ensuring the passage of the Antitrust Bill if elected at the poll. He said: “As you know, i have been in the private sector. I will continue to support policies and legislation that will enhance governance and businesses. It is only the private sector that reduces the amount way and manner that people live and the way they conduct their businesses. “I will encourage legislation that will enhance ease of doing business in Nigeria. One of the cardinal causes that i will champion is to ensure that the bill pending over the years is allow to see the Light of the day. “You will remember in 2003, the Bill passed through the third reading in the House of Representatives but didn’t make it in the senate. That was why it was not passed. In the second attempt,  it was not passed in the National Assembly. Since then every effort to encourage a friend or a colleague who have been reelected into the National Assembly to Champion the bill didn’t work. I will revive it ice again because it would serve the interest of the country.”