The socio-cultural pre-eminence of yam in Igbo world view was recently lavishly show-cased in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory. The occasion was the New Yam and end of year celebration hosted by the Igbo Community Assembly (ICA), in Kubwa one of the satellite town in Abuja. It literally drew Igbo who is who in Abuja for an occasion adjudged not only as cultural soul lifting but also a unifying forum. That yam plays unparalleled role in shaping the moral life of the Igbo, is never in doubt. For the Igbo, yam, the tropical tuber and food crop, is king in all ramifications. That may have informed the decision of the ICA to commission a talk shop during the occasion to further underscore the place of yam in Igbo socio-economic, cultural and linguistic expression. The loftiness in which yam is held throughout Igbo land also manifests in proverbs, idioms and names of people of the area. The occasion as packaged by Honourable Chidi Okparauwakwe, chairman of the organizing committee, started with the breaking of the kola nut after the national and Igbo anthems. Igbo anthem was particularly rendered amidst pump and sophistry to remind the Igbo in the FCT the place of their birth. Cultural and traditional dances of Igbo origin was used to extravagantly give colour to the occasion to the admiration of invitees. Chairman of the occasion, Dr. Jonathan C. Okpara, who flagged off the celebration, was delighted that after some setbacks, Igbo in Kubwa could come together in unity. The celebration, Okpara said, was a telling point that absolute peace and unity of purpose had been restored among the Igbo in FCT. Eze Igbo of Kubwa, Jonathan Ozor Nweke and Eze Igbo Abuja, Eze Ibe Nwosu, graced the celebration in company with large members of their cabinet. Chairman of ICA Kubwa, Nze Okechukwu Nzeukwu, seized the occasion with both hands to stress the fact that the Igbo should be good ambassadors of the Igbo nation wherever they might find themselves. Nzeukwu did not forget to add that the Igbo wherever he is, should be politically conscious in his own interest. The high point of the celebration was the breaking of heaps of roasted yam by the Eze Igbo, Kubwa. Jonathan Ozor Nweke was supported by scores of other traditional leaders. Red cap chiefs were not left. Politicians, especially those contesting for positions in the 2019 elections, also came in their numbers. One such politician was Archbishop L.B. Kawas, who is gunning for senatorial seat in the FCT. The occasion ended with award giving ceremony to deserving Nigerians including non-Igbo. Engineer Mike Fuel Okere was one of the awardees with outstanding “Justice Personality” of the 