A critical analysis of the Nigerian situation will reveal that we are somewhat engaged in a dialogue of the deaf; we wittingly or unwittingly refuse to listen to one another. This critical lapse may be the reason we are where we are today. Critical thinking is nowhere near our discourses, or where they are, they are often shallow and hollow. Given this dialogue of the deaf, in which each camp justifies its own intellectual laziness by pointing to the laziness of the other, there is a dearth of constructive engagement anchored on facts and realities on ground. I believe that by patiently searching for facts and patterns and calmly analysing the economic, social, and political mechanisms that define our condition, we might then begin to truly explain them. If and when we do this it can then inform democratic debate and focus attention on the right questions. It can then help to redefine the terms of debate, unmask certain preconceived or fraudulent notions, and subject all positions to constant critical scrutiny. Brussel Brooks, the Public Affairs Officer of the US Consulate in Lagos, attempted this when he deflected attention from an issue that has been at the forefront of political discourse in Nigeria for some time now. Brooks spoke while fielding questions from journalists in Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, penultimate week, seeking to know his view on the raging controversy surrounding Atiku Abubakar’s application for a US visa. After clarifying that the United States Consulate treats the issue of visa as a confidential matter, he charged Nigerians to shift their attention to more serious issues that concerns their welfare and the future of the nation. It is only those engaged in this dialogue of the deaf that would fault his position and reasoning. With the myriad of complex issues and problems confronting this nation, some see the issue of the application for visa to a foreign country by one citizen as a source of “concern.” The ASUU is on strike, ASUP and COEASU are threatening to go on strike as well. These are fundamental issues that should concern serious citizens and not visa to a foreign country that compatriots like themselves struggled to build. Brooks who spoke at an educational programme organised by the ‘Fulbright Language Scholars’ Association of Nigeria,’ titled, ‘Teaching Resources: Availability, Applicability and Appropriateness,’ stressed that candidates in the forthcoming elections must engage in issue-based campaigns, while asking Nigerians to ask the candidates their plan to improve the education sector. ”Oftentimes, unfortunately, campaigns are full of distractions; things that are not that important to the lives and welfare of average Nigerians, especially the children that are with us today. What is important is to give them (children) the opportunities to serve in order to thrive in today’s world. This means they need good education. The schools should be improved. When I heard about the letter from the students describing their lack of books and dearth of desks in their schools, this is very disheartening. These are things that should be corrected. I will also encourage parents and voters to ask the candidates what they plan to do to improve education. I think issue-based campaigns will be beneficial to all Nigerians,” Brooks was quoted as saying. It can’t be clearer than this. Without doubt, the education sector in the country has been facing critical challenges for decades. As if reading the mind of Brooks, there appears a re-awakened consciousness on the horizon about the value of proper education. The National Economic Council (NEC) recently advised the federal and state governments to declare a state of emergency on education. As an addendum to that advice, the respective governments were also directed to allocate a minimum of 15 per cent of their budgets to education to restructure that sector. The renewed awakening was followed by two events. The ASUU declared a strike and the chairman of the Implementation Monitoring Committee of the Agreements entered between the Federal Government and various unions of Nigerian universities, Dr. Olawale Babalakin dismissed as false the touted claim of UNESCO’s recommendation that 26 per cent of budgetary allocation be earmarked for funding education. He informed Nigerians that the Federal Government alone couldn’t fund university education, after all. Ordinarily, the gesture of the NEC, and by extension, the governors deserves commendation. That they have deemed it expedient to declare emergency on education is a demonstration that some form of critical reflection may have been expended on matters of education. It also seems to suggest that they now appreciate the magnitude of the problem in the sector. I am however cautiously cynical about the timing of this reawakening especially with elections just around the corner. I’m also concerned because beyond enrolment of children in schools or taking children of school age off the streets, they need to understand that it takes focus and purpose, funding, appropriate research design for a 21st century curriculum, and other auxiliary amenities like electricity supply, functional internet services and computerisation for adequate provision of qualitative education. This raises a few pertinent questions: why are the governors suddenly thinking about a state of emergency in education now – that general elections are near. How much have they put in education in terms of purposeful thinking? What will be the time frame of this emergency? What are the goals to be achieved? What do we want as objectives? Why and how do we pursue those objectives? Has there been a perceptible needs assessment of the entire sector as done for the varsities in 2013? What is there on ground to be built upon in the different states of the country? Where is the draft law that would back up the state of emergency where all critical elements would be outlined? Without honest answers, the declaration of a state of emergency would just be a pronouncement that is merely an expedient token for the moment. Education is too critical a thing to toy with and without honest answers one can assume that this is just political gimmick contrived as the country approaches general elections. Nigerians have been through this before especially as ongoing negotiations between the federal government and ASUU has remained deadlocked over one month since the union commenced its current strike action. One can only take the governors serious when a draft law or roadmap is drawn; a sort of Marshall Plan, not only to provide basic education for our people, but also to turn out world-class manpower in deliberately guided enlightenment and empowerment schemes. Though Babalakin’s counterclaim disputing the 26 per cent UNESCO benchmark is controversial; I believe that with commitment and personal sacrifice on the part of the governors, states can at least meet up with 15 per cent recommended by the NEC. The primary sign of commitment would be the cultivation of the right mindset and the resolve to transform the human capital of the states. The first step is radical renunciation of wasteful and unnecessary spending. A further interrogation and clarification of Babalakin’s claim that the federal government alone cannot fund university education is needed. Though a frank, realistic and true position, we need to probe deeper: What does it mean to say that the federal government alone cannot fund university education? Does it mean that university education is a public-private partnership? Should it be mainly private sector driven? Is it that students are to pay for their university education? How do we get the money? These are further questions begging for answers when and if the emergency kicks off. With only seven per cent budgetary allocation for education, it will be problematic for a country like Nigeria to make meaningful progress in that sector when compared with countries with better planning, clear focus, less population, double digit budgetary allocation, heavy private sector involvement and better understanding of the purpose of education. By and large, there is one fundamental conversation we must have. Beyond basic education, can the government fully and totally fund university education? Is university education for all, and if it is, what contribution(s) should citizens make in the funding matrix? Is university education a ‘dividend of democracy’?