Azimo, Europe’s leading digital money transfer service, announced its donation of $125,000 to the Kanu Heart Foundation (KFH) as support for its help towards children with serious cardiac diseases. The Fintech company, at the donation on Thursday, said it  has been raising money for the charity since January 2017 as every time an Azimo customer makes a transfer to Nigeria, the company makes a donation to KHF. KFH is founded by world-renowned footballer Kanu Nwankwo, and helps children with serious cardiac diseases obtain life-saving medical treatment within and outside Nigeria. Azimo’s CEO, Michael Kent presented the cheque to the football legend himself at Azimo’s office in London. On the donation and his support for the charity, Kent said: “A national captain, a gold winner and a key part of the greatest ever Arsenal side, Kanu is one of the most successful and well-loved African sportsmen of all time. We are proud to be backing his Heart Foundation charity, which is providing lifesaving operations for children in need both in Nigeria and across Africa. His dedication to community connections and giving back to society is inspirational and chimes with our own company ethos of helping individuals support loved ones back home.” Nwankwo Kanu at the presentation said: “The firm’s donation to the Kanu Heart Foundation shows that Azimo really cares about the communities it serves, and it’s great to have them on board. Every company has a social responsibility and Azimo is leading the way in how to be an excellent business that is trustworthy and credible to people. “With my experience and privilege, I now want to help children and their families get the support they need for this medical condition, and we can’t do this without community champions like Azimo. The company is a valuable partner for us because Azimo has good brand awareness. It provides an excellent, reliable, and affordable money transfer service that supports many families back home. So in a way, it is already doing great work and helping lives with its innovation – especially in Nigeria, where the service is very popular.” Since its launch in 2000, KHF has funded open-heart surgeries for more than 500 young patients in hospitals across the world. Kanu set up the charity after suffering heart problems during his football career after the realisation of how lucky he was to have the means to get treatment, while so many others with the same condition didn’t have the financial aid to get better. “The Kanu Heart Foundation is important to me because most people in Nigeria and Africa can’t afford to even see a doctor for a checkup, let alone find the money to pay for life- saving heart surgery,” said Kanu.