The Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) has acquired a licence to operate a radio station. Its Rector, Mr Samuel Sogunro, who made this known at a press briefing to announce the school’s 40th anniversary celebration, confirmed that the National Broadcasting Commission (NBC) granted the school a permit to operate the radio station, having assessed equipment put in place by the state government. The station is to operate on 101.9 frequency. Sogunro also listed some recent landmark achievements under his leadership, stating that the polytechnic got patent rights for three machines developed by members of staff and students.The machines are fuel-less electric power generating set, automatic car jack, and biogas energy system. He added that the polytechnic had adopted the International Public Sector Accounting Standards (IPSAS) for its operation, noting that it had also started the process of implementing Enterprises Resources Planning (ERP) for a smooth running of the school. He said: “The academic board has approved the commencement of general agriculture for all students. This, in effect, is to mobilise our students for realisation of mass production of agricultural produce, poultry, fish farming and the likes. This is to encourage food security and ensuring that we are able to produce well for our communities. “The polytechnic also acquired water space and two hectares of land for fish farming and horticulture in Agbowa area. It is worthy of note, in a bid to ensure the security of lives and property, the polytechnic is strengthening the surveillance by providing CCTV on campus.” The rector stressed that the polytechnic was developing human capital for the realisation of transforming the school into a model polytechnic in Africa and to attain university status. While praising members of the management team, the rector said: “I wish to put on record, the contributions of retired and serving members of staff for the various roles played in bringing the polytechnic to the enviable status it holds in the education sector today. “The management believes that it is paramount to honour employees, who have contributed immensely towads the development of the school. Staff members at different levels have been selected for long service and meritorious awards to appreciate their services.”