*To tender voters’ registers, other documents today  The petitioners – the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidate in the last governorship election in Osun State, Ademola Adeleke – opened their case on Monday at the election tribunal by tendering documents, mostly result sheets. Lead petitioners’’ lawyer, Onyechi Ikpeazu (SAN), at Monday’s proceedings, which lasted from 10 to a little over 5pm, tendered a total of 492 documents – result sheets (EC8A and EC8A – VP) for 27 local governments. The Local Governments are Atakunmosa East, Atakunmosa West, Ayedaade, Ayedire, Boluwaduro, Boripe, Ede North, Ede South, Egbedore, Ejigbo, Ife East, Ifelodun, Ife North, Ife South, Ila, Ife Central, Ilesha East, Irepodun, Irewole, Isokan, Iwo, Obokun, Odo Otin, Ola Oluwa, Olorunda, Oriade and Oshogbo. Lawyers to the respondents, Adesina Agbede (for the Independent National Electoral Commission), Abiodun Owonikoko, SAN, (for Adegboyega Oyetola) and Lasun Sanusi, SAN, (for the All Progressives Congress) examined the documents, as tendered by Ikpeazu, Local Government by Local Government, and elected to reserve their objection to the point of final address. The procedure was a bit slow as each lawyer to each respondent took turn to examine the documents per LG, before the tribunal, led by Justice Ibrahim Sirajo, admitted the documents as exhibits, numbering each item from P1 to P492. After tendering the last set of documents from Oshogbo Local Government at about 5pm, Ikpeazu told the tribunal that he was willing to continue. Ikpeazu said he was willing to tender more documents, including voters’ registers from about 12 LGs. Lawyers to the respondents objected to Ikpeazu’s willingness to continue, citing the problem of security in Apo, Abuja, where the tribunal sits. They requested a postponement of further proceedings to the next day. In a ruling, Justice Sirajo agreed with the respondents to adjourn to the next day. He ordered lawyers to all parties to resume at the tribunal at 9am on Tuesday to sort out all the documents to be tendered, before the tribunal sits at 10am. The PDP and Adeleke are, by their petition, challenging the outcome of the election. They are querying the victory of the candidate of the APC, Oyetola in the election. Respondents to the petition are the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), APC and Oyetola (listed as 1st, 2nd and 3rd respondents). Earlier, the tribunal heard applications in relation to another petition filed by Mrs Jumoke Lawal and National Rescue Mission, with INEC, Oyetola and APC as respondents. The applications by Oyetola and APC sought the dismissal of the petition for being defective. After listening to arguments from lawyers to parties, Justice Sirajo said, in view of the provision of Section 285(8) of the Constitution (as amended), ruling in the applications will be delivered at the time of judgment in the petition.