It is the considered opinion of many experts drawn from different sectors that the proposed N8.83 trillion 2019 budget as presented to the lower and upper chambers of the National Assembly for approval by President Muhammadu Buhari will bode well for the economy, reports Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf s the 2018 budget circle grinds to an end, Nigerians across the divide are anxious to see what next year’s budget holds in terms of opportunities, which is why a lot of people have raised their voices above the din. In retrospect, not a few Nigerians are persuaded that the 2018 budget achieved the desired end judging by the many hiccups that heralded the passage of the fiscal policy of the outgoing year. Budget 2019 President Muhammadu Buhari who last Wednesday formally presented the 2019 budget to joint session of the two chambers proposed a total of N8.83 trillion. Budget parameters Details of the proposed budget showed that it was based on crude oil benchmark price of $60 per barrel of oil and 2.3 million barrels per day. The budget is further predicated on an exchange rate of N305 to $1, a real Gross Domestic Growth of 3.01 per cent and inflation rate of 9.98 per cent. The proposed budget shows that about a quarter of the sum (N2.14 trillion) will be used for debt servicing while capital expenditure is expected to gulp N2.031 trillion. Further breakdown presented by the president shows that proposed recurrent expenditure is N4.04 trillion, statutory transfer is N492.36 billion, there is a sinking fund of N120 billion, while capital expenditure is N2.031 trillion. Comparative analysis of 2018/2019 budget The 2019 budget is about N27 billion lower than the 2018 budget of N9.1 trillion. A breakdown of the budget shows that although there is a marginal increase from 3.95 per cent in 2018 (that is N340.456 billion, out of the total budget of N8.612 trillion) to 4.1 per cent in 2019 (that is N365.77 billion, out of total budget of N8.83 trillion), the money falls short of the sector’s huge requirements. The sum is however close to the 4.15 per cent appropriated in 2017. A cursory view of the budget proposal shows that some key sectors such as Works, Power and Housing was allocated the highest earnings at N408.3 billion followed by Transportation with N194.24 billion and Defence, N158.12 billion. Besides, Agriculture got N80.29 billion; Water Resources, N73.58 billion; Industry, Trade and Investment, N61.07 billion; Health, N50.15 billion; Education, N47.29 billion; Interior, N47.40 billion; Niger Delta, N39.40 billion; and Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, N31.97 billion respectively. On health, the Federal Government failed to meet the recommendation of the 2001 Abuja Declaration that at least 15 per cent of yearly national budget should be set aside for the sector. A further breakdown shows that the president proposed a recurrent expenditure of N315.62 billion and N50.15 billion for capital projects for the ministry of health in its 2019 appropriation bill. This is about a 46.274 billion increase from last year’s recurrent expenditure, which was N269.346 billion. There was however a shortfall in capital expenditure from N71.11 billion in 2018 to 50.15 billion in 2019. Another positive to the proposed budget is the inclusion of the one per cent Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) earmarked for the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF). The budget is also touted as little compared to the previous fiscal policy considering the overtly ambitious projections of the federal government. Mixed reactions trail 2019 budget proposal Apparently wary of the performance of the previous budget, a lot of stakeholders have expressed concern that the 2019 budget need to address a lot of grey areas. Firing the first salvo, the Director General of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry (LCCI) Muda Yusuf in a statement made available to The Nation while noting that the latest Gross Domestic Product (GDP) statistic released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) shows that the Nigerian economy grew by 1.81% year-on-year in the third quarter of 2018 amongst others, he observed that  this performance is lower than the LCCI, IMF and Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) growth forecasts of 3.5&, 2.1% and 4.1% respectively for 2018. While citing data from the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), he said the recent oil price is already below 2019-2021 Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) and 2019 budget benchmark of $60p/bl. “The declining global oil price will likely distort FG’s economic projections for 2019 as well as impact adversely on its MTEF if the trend is not reversed.” Regrettably, the LCCI boss said, “With little progress realized from the ongoing effort by the government to diversify revenue sources, we are constrained to use oil price as the baseline for our 2019 projections. According to estimates by Capital Economics analysts, every $10-per-barrel fall in oil prices boosts incomes by about 0.5 to 0.7% of gross domestic product in major emerging market oil importers. The same discount will cause a 3-5% decline of GDP in most of the Gulf economies, and a slowdown of 1.5-2% of GDP in Russia and Nigeria on an annualised basis. “Given the challenging economic conditions, key policy reforms would be imperative to support and sustain macroeconomic stability. These include, among others, a foreign exchange management framework that reflects the market fundamentals, the acceleration of the economic diversification agenda, normalisation of Lagos ports environment, the oil and gas sector reform, especially the petroleum industry bill; better debt management strategy to ease the burden of debt service, reduction in the cost of governance at all levels;  improvements in the domestic revenue (particularly independent revenue) to reduce volatilities of government revenues.” Echoing similar sentiments, Prof. Uche Uwalaka of the Nasarawa State University, Keffi, while analysing the budget as presented by President Buhari, the don who spoke at television magazine programme monitored by our correspondent faulted the $60 oil benchmark, saying it is overly ambitious. “Even Russia is using $40 per barrel as oil benchmark.  Oil price is around $57-58 and would still tumble down. It is really surprising that we are still going ahead with the $60. That is why I feel $60 per barrel is a little on the high side.” In the view of the chief executive officer of Financial Derivatives Limited, Bismarck Rewane, the $1 billion provision for subsidy is unconvincing, stressing that the allocation would hardly be enough to offset the yearly subsidy on fuel thus raising the possibility of a supplementary budget. The managing director of Cowry Asset Management Limited, Johnson Chukwu, on his part, said the projected revenue from crude oil, based on production and price, was cause for worry. “I think the oil price benchmark is too optimistic. We have never reached 2.3 million barrels per day production in the last four years. And now, the oil cartel has cut production level. If you cannot achieve your revenue projection, it becomes difficult to carry out capital expenditure plans. We would surely overshoot our deficit projections again and as usual, we would borrow more.” In the view of Gabriel Ikese, a public affairs commentator, “Presenting the 2019 budget proposals in December should not be an excuse to delay the passing of the bill within reasonable time. 2017 and 2018 budgets were presented November, fairly reasonable time frame but still lingered for over 5 months at the National Assembly.” Members of the legislature, he stressed, “should be patriotic enough to put aside personal interests and frivolous allegations from any quarters for the overriding national interest in passing the budget expeditiously. With commitment and adequate capacity, the budget can be passed in 30 working days.” The 2019 budget proposal should be expeditiously considered and passed in record time as a test of integrity and attestation of a responsible legislature. This would change the negative perception of lawmakers and the hallowed institution of the National Assembly. While citing Sergius Ogun, a lawmaker representing Esan North/East Constituency,  who said on National Television that the Nigerian Financial Intelligent Unit (NFIU) bill was passed in eight working days when the Egmont Group suspended Nigeria and threatened expulsion from the group over lack of autonomy, he therefore said there is no reason the 2019 budget bill will not be accorded with such attention and speed. Also speaking in an interview with The Nation, Sola Fijabi, Managing Director/CEO, Brookes and Blakes, a media relations company with expertise in the emerging economies, said the sign at the macroeconomic level hardly shows any promising except in the microeconomic levels. Light at the end of the tunnel It is however instructive to note that the ongoing 2018 fiscal spending plan has recorded 30 per cent of capital budget (mainly infrastructure) implementation. The Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udoma Udo Udoma, made the disclosure last Tuesday while providing insight into details of the N8.83 trillion budget. He also revealed that N820 billion was released last week for the implementation of the capital component of the 2018 plan. Udoma said, in line with the federal government’s reviewed Economic Recovery and Growth plan (ERGP), priority areas have been identified for attention under the plan. These would require over N1.3 trillion of the proposed N2.03 trillion capital vote for the period under review. Setting agenda for government In an article entitled, ‘Where is budget 2019’ by Henry Boyo, renowned economist while taking a retrospective look, recalled that the 2018 budget received Presidential assent as late as June 2018; i.e. over seven months after the National Assembly received the appropriation bill on November 7, 2017. While noting that “The consolidated annual budgets have steadily risen from $8.2bn (N705.036bn @ $1=N85.98) in 2000 to well over $31bn between 2011-14, the social welfare of our people may have only been marginally impacted; incidentally, the claim of marginal improvement is, however, not supported by a Washington based Economic think-tank, in the Brookings Institute’s recent report, which identified Nigeria as the World’s Poverty Capital, where the number of people who earn below $2/day increase by up to six persons every minute! Indeed, despite public expectation that the present Administration would tilt the consolidated budget, in favour of relatively larger capital budgets, so as to fast track rapid development, regrettably however, recurrent expenditure, such as wages/salaries and general consumables, have remained largely closer to 70% of total budget.” Notably, however, in the absence of such a definitive Act that makes it mandatory for the National Assembly to receive the Appropriation bill before, say, 30th June every year, there may be no end to the extended delays that impede implementation of annual fiscal plans; in this event, there would be no reprieve, either, from the increasing challenge to rising unemployment, poverty reduction or indeed, to any significantly improved social welfare for more Nigerians. “Instructively, if the arms of government remain loyal to the established Medium Term Expenditure Framework, (MTEF), which derives from the umbrella of the Economic Recovery & Growth Plan (ERGP), is strictly complied with, the process of budget preparation and assent will certainly become facilitated so that implementation would properly commence as from the 1st of January of each Fiscal Year to achieve the progressive goals of government!”