In the last few months, Nigeria’s political firmament has witnessed a frenzied overdrive, as different partisan camps seek to position themselves ahead of the 2019 general elections. The presidency, 29 governorship seats, and hundreds of state legislative seats will be up for grabs. In acrimonious primaries, political parties nominated and presented their standard bearers for the many vacancies in public office. Ostensibly, the political actors are asking the Nigerian people to hire them as the best persons to do the job of bringing about good governance, and impacting the lives of citizens. For serious minded system reformers therefore, there is no better time to interrogate the content and character of the current brand of national politics, its outcomes and where it will take the country. Many indices point to the fact that Nigeria is not heading in the right direction. The fundamental question facing voters in 2019 and beyond therefore, is not just about the political party or candidates who would occupy these vacant public offices; the main governance question in the polity as at today revolves around the key issue of our national survival. How do we get 13.5 million out of school children back to the classrooms? What should we do to reverse the undesirable tag of poverty capital of the world? What concrete ideas do we need to put forward to address the serious deficit in electricity and our ramshackled health systems? A corollary to these questions is to ask if the current crop of political leaders angling for various offices have what it takes to take Nigeria out of the woods. Do they have the commitment, drive and passion to think deeply and craft solutions to the most pressing issues facing the people of our country? Since the reality of the dismal outing of the current political class has already been well advertised, the logical thing to do is to search for credible and viable alternatives. This task requires a healthy dose of hope and optimism. Although the Nigerian situation could make any die-hard optimist rethink the belief that things will get better, hope is still an absolute necessity if we must grapple with the very many challenges confronting us as a people. The quantum of hope citizens generate will certainly reinforce the notion that at the level of leadership and followership, things can be done differently. It is only on the basis of hope and a disciplined engagement of the democratic process, that we the people can push for a new governance order, driven by ideas, and the passionate pursuit of what is in the best interest of the vast majority of citizens. Above all, the ingredient of hope will fire the imagination of active citizens towards a realisation that a crop of transformative leaders, backed by engaged followers, can become a constant feature of our civic life. In this nexus between hope and a different approach to governance lies the potency of the model of transformative leadership. This model of leadership, especially in the context of Nigeria is largely driven by hope, not despair. The push for transformative leadership is motivated by the optimism that our national situation will change, if we have the passion, drive and resilience to confront the challenges facing us as a people. Also, the transformative leadership model avoids the fixation on one super position as exemplified by the Presidency in the case of Nigeria. This model goes to the grassroots to demystify the challenges there and proffer practical and sustainable solutions to them. In other words, not every governance problem we face as a people would be solved by occupants of the presidency. There are many local issues requiring governance, not at the presidential level, but at the grassroots level where governance should be closest to the people. In 2019 and beyond, this is the kind of leadership paradigm Nigerians should be aiming to put in place, if they are truly tired of the direction, which the current political class has taken the country. The task of identifying, recruiting and supporting this kind of transformative leaders, across all party platforms, is one of the cardinal objectives of Shift Nigeria. Shift Nigeria, is an organisation, which has irrevocably committed itself to the rise of transformative leaders, who would take over the politics and governance in Nigeria. However, the task of building transformative leaders is too important to be left to just one organisation. It is, therefore, critical for citizens with transformative ideas, who are keen to reject the current self-centred model of governance to pull together and engage the political process, beginning from the ward level. One can imagine the quantum of change that would be achieved, if good leaders with transformative ideas are elected into the various legislative chambers at the local government, state and federal levels. This is the sense in which many would have expected the multitude of young and exciting aspirants running for the position of president, to strategise and organise to take control of key democratic institutions at the all levels. Control of those institutions, particularly the legislature, would be in turn used to shape policy and build popular support for a push for the highest office in the land. On a strategic level, Shift Nigeria is looking forward to supporting vibrant and committed Nigerians to explore the exciting opportunities available to change the narrative of failed leadership and governance in our country. Almost two decades since the return of democracy in Nigeria, our country has operated the current leadership model driven by corruption to disastrous effect. There is no better time to travel a new road by adopting the paradigm of transformative leadership.