Chelsea vs Man City (6:30pm) Date: 8/12 Stadium: Stamford Bridge Referee: Michael Oliver. Chelsea have played fantastically well this season until two weeks ago where they have played three Epl matches, won one and lose the other two against Spurs and shockingly against Wolves. Unbeaten this season, Sarri’s Chelsea team then put in their first really poor performance of the season and were thoroughly beaten by Tottenham. They returned to winning ways but that didn’t last long; they suffered their second defeat at the hands of Wolves in the midweek. City can’t stop winning, even at the expense of some last minute show from Watford which almost ended the game in a draw. City held their own but not like they use to usually put teams off their way. Chelsea were unable to cope with the pace of the game against Spurs, the question is will they be able to cope with Man City vibrants attack? Or should we expect Man city unbeaten run to come to an end. Bournemouth vs Liverpool (1:30pm) Date: 8/12 Stadium: Vitality Stadium Referee: Lee Mason As we all expect Bournemouth to pick all three points during the mid-week game and they did so with a hard fought victory over Huddersfield. The fixture list isn’t kind to the Cherries over Christmas and this is perhaps their most difficult match. However, they scored against Manchester City and pushed the champions, so they go into this one with nothing to lose. Jürgen Klopp make use of the game against Burnley to rest some key members of the squad.he offered rest to two of his first three attackers while one misse the game through injury. Roberto Firmino and Mohamed Salah both came on as substitutes, with the game proving tighter than hoped, but the Reds got the win in the end. They big guns are expected to return back to the lineup against Bournemouth tomorrow. Arsenal vs Huddersfield (4pm) Date: 8/12 Stadium: Emirates Referee: Paul Tierney There is cause for optimism in the Huddersfield team. They are finally finding the net and picking up wins. This could be a reality check for them though, with the Gunners perhaps the most inform team in the league. Just keeping Arsenal out will require a monumental effort. Arsenal are fantastically okay at the moment and they earned a hard fought draw at Old Trafford in what could have been a victory for the team. They  are scoring for fun, but are still somehow disjointed defensive wise. That match may have some lingering after effects though. Man u vs Fulham (4pm) Date: 8/12 Stadium: Old Trafford Referee: Lee Probert The draw against the gunners  was united third draw in as many games and are currently without a win in their four matches, though there are positives from those games that Mourinho will be hoping will spur them to victory that might ignite or kick start their season. Paul Pogba is back fit and rearing to go, united can only get better. Fulham earned a hard-fought draw against Leicester on Wednesday. Ranieri has picked up four points from his last three games as new boss, which is a marked improvement on before. While United are hadly in-form, it will be a big ask for Fulham to leave Manchester with any points. Liecester vs Tottenham  (8:45pm) Date : 8/12 Stadium: king Power stadium Referee: Craig Pawson Leicester are enjoying the moment in the best way they can by going six games unbeaten as Claude Puel seems to have steadied the ship at the King Power. This is the toughest test they have faced for a while though, so it will be interesting to see how they cope. Tottenham and Harry Kane are hitting their stride. Spurs made easy work of Southampton on Wednesday and will look to do the same here. Spurs have a little breathing room in third place and will be looking to extend the gap between fourth place over Christmas. With Kane, Eriksen, Son, and many others hitting red-hot form, you wouldn’t want to bet against them. Other games that will be coming up his weekend are as follows; Saturday Cardiff vs Southampton            4pm West ham vs Crystal Palace      4pm Burnley vs Brighton                  4pm Sunday Newcastle vs wolves                4pm Monday Everton vs Watford