The Lagos State Coordinator, National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Prince Mohammed Momoh, has said the scheme would present a list of over 19,000 corps members to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to participate in election duty today. In an interview at the closing of the orientation programme for Batch C Stream II corps members yesterday, Momoh said once corps members who apply for redeployment to Lagos are settled, the list would grow to over 20,000 that would work as ad-hoc staff of INEC for the 2019 elections. “INEC has said we should send the list of corps members on December 14th but we are sending it tomorrow (today) because we worked well ahead of time.  Before the election we will have well over 20,000 that can be deployed for the election.  Even those that are being relocated to Lagos, the moment they settle down, we will upload their names and send to them,” he said. The NYSC Coordinator said during the camp, the Batch C Stream II corps members got preliminary training on the roles they would play during the election, including how to use the card reader.  He said more training would follow soon, assuring the corps members of their safety during the elections. “Here on camp, you have been given preliminary training by INEC on the conduct of electoral processes and the use of the card reader.  As soon as you settle down in your different places of primary assignments, you will be given further detailed training to equip and enhance your capacity in delivering a hitch-free and credible election in 2019.  I want to assure you that the election secruty committee headed by the Commissioner of Police, has put in place specific and strategic plans to ensure your safety and security during the elections,” he said. Highpoint of the ceremony was the presentation of awards to corps members and camp officials who distinguished themselves during the three-week orientation programme, notably Dr Anya Onyedikachi and Dr Olawale Ogedengbe. Momoh said the corps medical doctors helped save the life of a fellow corps member whose heart stopped beating after a seizure on their way to the hospital. “They went above the call of duty by volunteering to accompany the corps member to the hospital even though they were not on duty.  During the trip to the hospital in our ambulance, they said he had a seizure and his heart stopped.  One of them had to apply the mouth to mouth resuscitation while the other pressed his chest.  That saved the corps member’s life,” he said.