Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa state has explained that he is fully aware of the sufferings of the Tiv people in the state as a result of the herdsmen attacks on them. He stated this on Tuesday at the government house Lafia while distributing 10 trailer-load of relief materials and N5 million cash to 10 Tiv communities in the state who were affected by the Farmers/herdsmen clashes. He said that he is a living witness to the plight of the Tiv people in the state who have suffered in different forms as a result of the herdsmen attacks. The governor vowed to do everything within his powers to ensure that peace permanently returned to their areas of abode and regretted the unfortunate incident of herdsmen attacks on their communities which has claimed lives and properties. He thanked them for the patience and understanding with his government and promised to continue to come to their aid in their movements of  trial, and urged them to always find means and ways of resolving crisis within themselves rather than resorting to violence. He explained that even though the IDPs are not physically present in the camps in the state, he was aware that most of them are staying with their kinsmen whose houses were not destroyed during the crisis. Also speaking, president of Tiv Development Association (TIDA), Nasarawa state,  Mr Boniface Ifer, thanked the governor for identifying with the Tiv people during their time of needs and urged him to do more for the Tiv people. Earlier in the day, the governor chaired the APC expanded caucus meeting of all stakeholders of APC in the state to strategize ahead of the 2019 elections. Speaking after the meeting, chairman of the campaign council in the state, Hon Ahmed Aliyu Wadada, said the party would win the 2019 general elections in the state as there is no meaningful opposition to the party. Hon Wadada who was the governorship aspirant of the party said all the campaign members are people of proven integrity who are committed to deliver APC in Nasarawa state. 