The factional Speaker of the Ondo State House of Assembly Olamide George has urged the National Assembly to intervene in the crisis rocking the House to prevent the liquidation of the democratic institution. He maintained that 18 of 26 lawmakers had impeached the former Speaker, Oloyeloogun, and his deputy, Iroju Ogundeji, over allegation of weak leadership and some inadequacies, stressing that there is no going back on the decision. George said: We have written to the National Assembly. We want the National Assembly to rise and save Ondo State House of Assembly members. We are crying for help. They should allow the rule of law to prevail in Ondo State. We want to protect the institution of democracy.” Lamenting that Governor Rotimi Akeredolu (SAN) has not visited the three injured lawmakers in the hospital, he complained that other lawmakers are still being threatened by thugs and hoodlums who previously invaded the Assembly. George and the Majority Leader of the House, Olugbenga Araoyinbo, spoke with reporters in Lagos on the protracted crisis and the arrest of the Chairman of the Ondo State National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Jacob Adebo Idajo by the police from Criminal Investigation Department (CID), Alagbon, Ikoyi, Lagos. They feared that the House may nmot be able to discharge its democratic responsibilities in an atmosphere of insecurity. According to the legislators, the agents of destruction who invaded the Hous and disrupted its activities did so on behalf of powerful people who instigated them. They lamented that Ondo State became a laughing stock when lawmakers were mishandled and threatened by hoodlums acting the scripts of their paymasters. George maintained that the National Assembly has a duty to preserve the integrity of the House of Assembly as a vital institution of democracy. He said no meaningful deliberation can be done when lives and property are not safe in the state. Araoyinbo said the lawmakers will need police protection as they prepare to resume their legislative duties this week. He alleged that thugs brandishing dangerous weapons were instigated by some political leaders and government staff to invade the House and cause bodily injuries to lawmakers, Assembly staff, reporters and visitors and destroy vehicles worth millions of naira. Hailing Idajo’s arrest by the police, the Majority leader said the suspect wielded the power to hold the entire state to ransom due to his nefarious activities. Araoyinbo said the suspect and “his gang of hoodlums” should be prosecuted and punished according to the law to free the state from brigandage and ‘terrorism.’ He added: “Some of our colleagues are still receiving treatment for one injury or another and we continue to pray for their full recovery. We request for police protection for ourselves and family members as we have received death threats after we decisively and collectively changed the leadership of the House, a situation which has been worsened by the arrest of Idajo. We state categorically that his minions are at work again.” 