 HEWLETT-Packard (HP) and men of the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) have identified and closed down over 12 criminal operations, trading in counterfeit cartridges across the country. The police raided counterfeiters’ hideouts in Abuja, Lagos, Edo and Rivers states. The sites included stores and hidden manufacturing sites for fakes with 67,000 illicit print cartridges being impounded. HP’s Director, Global Anti-Counterfeit Programme, Glenn Jones, warned of the dangers counterfeiters posed to users. Jones said: “Counterfeiting is a crime. For users, such illegal imitations can cause a multitude of problems that could cause performance and reliability issues. “Should your printer break because of using counterfeit printer ink or toner, you could also have issues with your manufacturer’s warranty becoming not applicable. “In contrast, original HP products are designed to meet HP’s strict quality and reliability standards, based on a long history of inventing and testing. “Original HP LaserJet and HP inkjet cartridges, unlike counterfeits, benefit from superior performance and consistent results.” He said the firm is proud of its continued work with local authorities, especially the police in Africa, to combat the sale of counterfeit print supplies. Glenn added: “We thank the Nigerian Police authorities for their cooperation and swift action in this successful seizure and their determination to apprehend and prosecute counterfeiters who break the law. “Through our unwavering efforts and commitment to removing counterfeit products from the market, we continue to focus on the protection of our customers through our Anti-Counterfeiting and Fraud Programme.” Jones said across Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) over the last five years, approximately 12 million counterfeits and components have been seized by local authorities, supported by HP. He said the firm had conducted over 4,500 audits and inspections  of partners’ stocks or suspicious deliveries to customers. Through HP’s Anti-Counterfeiting and Fraud (ACF) Programme, it educates its customers and partners to be vigilant against fake printing supplies. It also cooperates closely with local and global law enforcement authorities to detect and dismantle illegal operations that produce counterfeit HP printing components. 