The immediate past Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic),  University of Ilorin (UNILORIN), Prof. N.Y.S. Ijaiya, has disclosed that there is a policy that excludes physically challenged persons from writing the post-Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) before gaining admission into the institution. Prof Ijaiya, who spoke at the 11th Moulid Nabiyy celebration, organised by the UNILORIN Muslim Ladies Circle for pupils of the Kwara State School of Special Needs, Ilorin,  encouraged physically challenged admission seekers to consider the university as their first choice institution. Speaking on behalf of the group’s President, Hajia Simbiat Akanji, Prof Ijaiya also counseled the special needs pupils not to be discouraged by their physical condition. She said the event was to support the pupils and let them know that Almighty Allah was always with the believer no matter their challenges. Prof. Ijaiya said there were some physically challenged students currently studying Accountancy, Engineering, Law, Education, Social Works, Psychology at the university and advised the pupils to study hard to obtain credits in English, Mathematics and three other relevant subjects in addition to scoring 180 and above in the UTME. She, however, frowned at a report by the school management that some parents had abandoned their wards in the school while some did not want to be associated with them. She said those parents had stopped paying the levies and buying of materials, while most of the students found it hard to pay for their Senior School Certificate and JAMB/UTME examinations. In a goodwill message, Director, Centre for Supportive Services for the Deaf (CSSD), UNILORIN, Dr P.A.O. Etejere said since the Centre’s inception, 50 hearing impaired students had graduated from various departments of the university. She said the hearing impaired graduates were able to distinguish themselves in their various disciplines due to the quality of support services provided by the Centre. The Director said: “The University of Ilorin occupies the privileged position of being the first institution in sub-Sahara Africa with a Centre for Supportive Services for the Deaf with the sole aim of providing tertiary education for deaf students in Nigeria in particular and Africa in general.” Earlier, in her address, the Principal of the school, Hajia Fausat Aroyehun, praised the UNILORIN Muslim Ladies Circle for their consistent support for the school. Aside from feeding, the Principal said the group pays the West African Senior School Certificate Examination (WASSCE) fees for some of the pupils. The highlights of the celebration were  quiz  competition, special presentation by the pupils, and donation of gift items to the school.