The maiden Lagos All-Sail Championship has come and gone but the excitement that greeted the three-day tournament brought clamour to water sports in Lagos State. Winners have also emerged in various events as the tournament went down as one of the country’s most keenly contested  water racing championships in recent times as contestants coloured that Lagos lagoon with exciting   and unforgotten performances in three categories of rowing, jeskying and boat racing.
The event kicked off at the BICS Jetty venue of the championship in Lekki, Lagos  on Friday with a horde of  skilled rowers from the 36 states including the FCT, Abuja  taking to the waters.
at the end of the tournament, it was Bauchi’s duo of Benjamin Kunumen and John Fasim that emerged as winners, posting a time of 9.56secs  to clinch the Harbour award for contestants in the traditional rowing on canoe category.
in the most prestigious prize of the day — the King of the Sea award was won by Lagos State Waterways Agency (LASWA) crew which  beat all other contestants  to clinch top place in the speed boat racing category, while  the boat named Quantum of Solace of the James Bond fame, breasted the tape to finish as the Queen of the Sea.
Youthful Sunday Adeboye who thrilled the crowd with his skill and dexterity on the jesky (Wave Runner) carted home the Prince of the Sea  prize after beating  three other contestants in a keenly contested race.
For the initiator of the championship, Maleek Shehu, the contestants deserved accolades for their courage and athleticism, adding that they  symbolised the  essence of the race itself.
” We salute the courage, skill, competitiveness and athleticism of the participants because they symbolise the essence of this event. We are glad that we have, in our own small way added value to water sports in the country, as well awakening  a  new consciousness  to the many untapped potentials of the huge body of water Lagos is blessed with. We are therefore committed to sustaining this noble objective as we look forward to a bigger and more exciting event for next year,” he said.
Nigeria’s former Chief of Naval Staff and now President of the Nigeria Rowing, Canoeing and Sailing Federation, Rear Admiral Festus Porbeni ( rtd) was on hand to do the presentation of the trophies and medals while popular TV presenter and talk show host, Frank Edoho was the event’s MC. The duo of Ben Kunumen and John Fasim( Bauchi state ) celebrating their win of the rowing event at the just concluded  Lagos All Sail Boat Race in Lekki, Lagos at the weekend.