The Federal High Court sitting in Abuja has ordered the Independence Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences ICPC, to unfreeze the account belongs to a private firm, Pinnacle Communications Limited domicile in Zenith bank. Delivering the ruling in Abuja, Justice Nnamdi Dimgba cautioned anti-corruption agencies against taking actions that could jeopardize thriving of private organisations. Justice Dimgba pointed out that the anti-corruption war was as beneficial to the society as flourishing private enterprises, adding that scuttling the operation of private businesses like Pinnacle Communications Limited sends negative signals to the international communities about Nigeria’s business environment. Emphasizing frozen account without establishing a prima facie against the defendant, the jurist likened such action to ‘using a sledge hammer to kill a fly’. He noted that even after six months the case was instituted against the agency by the company (Pinnacle Communications) with numerous adjournments, the anti-graft body could not file any charges against the company. The judge warned anti-graft agencies against basis their actions on rumours or ‘beer parlour stories’ without carrying out thorough investigations that could sustain judicial process. It would be recalled that some months ago, ICPC had claimed it was investigating an alleged N2.5 billion fraud levelled against the DG of Nigeria Broadcasting Corporation NBC, Dr Moddibo Kawu and other top officials of the corporation. The anti-graft agency through its spokesperson, Rasheedat Okoduwa, stated that the money involved was a grant released to the NBC by the Federal Government for its digital switch-over programme. The agency alleged that Kawu fraudulently recommended a private company, Pinnacle Communications to the Minister of Information and Culture, Lai Mohammed, for the release of the money against the guidelines contained in the white paper. However, the NBC debunked. ICPC’s claim, saying the corporation is not aware of any fraud case involving its DG, Moddibo Kawu. The spokesperson of the corporation, Hajia Maimuna Jimanda, said the NBC had been carrying out the digital switch-over programme with utmost diligence and transparency and would continue in that light until the project is completed across the country.