Annabel Mbonu is a Nollywood actress and film producer. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about her humble beginning, achievements, challenges and more Who or what inspired you to go into acting? I would say that acting is an innate expression for me, because I enjoy every bit of it all the way. I started when I was young, from my teens and stretching till now. I guess I had grown up wanting to be part of media and entertainment. This was inspired back then by TV soap-operas like “The New Masquerade”, “Tales by Moonlight” and the likes. Then I took time to observe these acts and their delivery and presentations. Hence, I had to inculcate such notions of act within me. What was it like at the beginning? At the beginning of this journey, the road seemed bizarre and there were so much distractions. This was coming from left, right and centre, but being someone who knew what she wanted, I had to make “Focus” the focal point in my life. I kept gluing my eyes on the prize because I knew there wasn’t any retreat for me, hence my determination. What were you doing before this and what was the experience like? Well, my penchant for acting had come with an attachment of my emotions. Nevertheless, my experiences prior before professional acting roles had indeed been wonderful. For me, education comes first – as being the pivotal for disciplines. Then I ventured into fashion and style, supplies of building items but all these did not affect the burning desire in my acting career. Let’s talk about some of the memorable moments in your life and career One memorable moment in my life was when I met God. In addition, I must say that my career has continued to give me that passionate appeal on a daily basis; the passion that I needed to steer my wheels of progress on and on. Also, I cannot forget in a hurry moments that I have shared on set with movie veterans like Richard Mofe Damijo, Patience Uzokwor, Stella Damasus, Desmond Elliot, amongst others. I must say that such moments were exciting to the fullest though nostalgic and with apprehension. Interestingly, I have been watching them doing their thing on screen; those interesting movie roles while I was growing. So you would understand that sharing such movie space must come with a price, being my first then. What were some of the challenges? For challenges, I would say that there were a lot but that did not stop me. Some of the challenges I encountered had to do with the fact that when I started actively, the crowd behind the camera was an issue for me. Of course, that is something you would expect naturally as humans. Anxiety gets in the way and being nervous comes with a price. It was as if I was shy then, but once I broke that, everything changed. Now, acting becomes a sip even in the midst of the assemblage of a multitude. I just do my things because I understand that the camera is retentive and never forgets. So, it is better to always put in your best. How did you cope with the challenges? I coped with these challenges through words of encouragement from reliable senior colleagues and I was poised towards my stand to triumph. The challenges actually made me more determined to succeed. I therefore became more focused as a goal-getter. Those experiences made me stand out and make a difference in whatever I found myself doing. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? Firstly, God has been and will always be everything to me. This has been a standard and yardstick for the things I do; for nothing is impossible with him. Next would be my family; they are my greatest treasure and my biggest cheerleaders. They support and influence every positive move I make, such that I am thankful especially to my parents and for which I am most grateful. Let’s compare when you started doing this and now; what has changed? A lot has really changed, because it can only get better. First, I am no longer camera shy and coupled with the fact that I have upgraded in a number of ways; moving into new areas like content development as a producer today. Having started from a humble beginning, all I see now is grace as the skewed journey was worth the pace. What are new things that you would like to see in the sector? First, I would want to applaud and appreciate the initiatives that have gotten us this far. And for the better, I would like to see better legislation and bills aimed at revamping the acting sector. Something that would help guide us, as a torch bearer for both acting roles as well as better platforms for distribution and consumption. Also, I would like to see a change in the Nigerian film industry towards tackling the menace of piracy as a priority with top-notch productions. In addition, I would also like to see better improved story lines, something that portrays and showcases African stories to the world using professionals as qualified artists rather than quantities to achieve that marketing cum viewers’ consumption in Nollywood and film industry. What are some of the lessons learnt over the years? Looking back now, I would say that the lessons in the industry don’t come handy. This is because learning is a daily practice for me. However, some of the lessons I learnt is to work harder in improving my skills, believing in myself and to be the very best. I also learnt to accept constructive criticism as it has helped to benefit my weaknesses while I care less about jealous snoopers and most importantly believing God for excellence in the industry. Your definition of style? For style, I believe in keeping it dope and modest at best. Simplicity is my hallmark though. Things that you treasure most in life? I treasure a whole lot but one of my prayer points daily is never to be found outside my purpose and fulfillment. Nevertheless, my family is my greatest treasure because we have been through hell in different situations together; yet in all of these, love has kept us together. How do you relax? Well, I relax by watching movies, reading great books, listening to good and cool music within a serene ambience. What are some of the principles that you hold onto in life? I strongly believe in self discipline, modest integrity and for which none of these could be traded for fools’ treasure. Can we talk about the people that you admire and your role models? My sweet mother. Yes! I have never seen such a resilient and strong woman as her, for I call her the biblical strong woman of the 21st century; such is the woman I call mother. However, Angelina Jolie, Meryl Streep, Viola Davis, Taraji Phenson, these and more are my Hollywood-inspired. In Nigeria, I admire Joke Silva, Rita Dominic, Genevieve Nnaji, Nse Ikpe Etim, Stella Damasus and Uche Jombo. I really appreciate these super independent women, for their strides are unrivalled and for many obvious reasons. If you have to advise young people today, what would you tell them? My advice would be to pray hard, work purposely hard with a target. At the point of target, there is no need looking back when there’s so much more ahead of you. Stay positive always and ignore that deceptive tiny voice that comes with the naysayers, for what they know best is distraction. Mind you, the universe is aware of your existence and is already waiting to celebrate you. Lastly, follow your dreams and the earth would lift you higher into the upper most sky in celebration viz-a-viz from “grass to grace”.