The 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu has set up a general court martial to try erring soldiers within its area of responsibility. The court martial, inaugurated by the GOC in charge of the division, Major General Emmanuel Kabuk, has a 10-man membership with Col. Edward Aboreý as its president. Eleven soldiers including a female were billed for trial for various undisclosed offences and were arraigned before the military court during the inauguration. Major General Kabuk, while inaugurating the court, said the importance of discipline to the success or failure in battle for troops cannot be over emphasised, hence the trial. He said, “Disciplinary measures in the military to which court martial belongs are aimed at guaranteeing, a highly disciplined and battle ready army. In line with the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt  General T. Y. Burutai which is to “have  a professionally responsive Nigerian Army, in the discharge of its constitutional roles,” trials in the NA must be organised and administered in accordance with the provisions of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (CFRN) as  amended. “As we commence these proceedings, let me assure you that no accused person here should have any reason to fear or panic as the Court martial shall observe all the principles of fair hearing as enshrined under Section 36 of the 1999 CFRN as (amended). “At this juncture, it must be borne in mind that justice as confirmed by the eminent late justice of the supreme Court of Nigeria, Hon. Justice Chukwudifu A. Oputa, is not only to the accused. It is three-weay traffic, justice to the accused, justice to the victim of the action or inaction of the accused. “It is equally imperative to recall that both Section 36 of the 1999 CFRN(as amended) and Section 122 of the Armed Forces, Act, CAP A20, Laws of the Federation of Nigeria 2004,do emphasize the fact  that expeditious and speedy trial form the basis on which fair trial must rest. “This is one of the most important   advantages of a Court. I therefore enjoin all the parties in the cases to ensure that they avoid unnecessary technicalities that would delay the trials as there are two concepts of justice. Some believe that justice delayed is justice denied while others believe that justice delayed is not justice denied. What is important is that let there be justice . “With these few remarks, President of the GCM and members, ladies and gentlemen, I Maj Gen Kabuk GOC 82 Div hereby declare this General Court Martial inaugurated. God bless and good luck. Also speaking at the occasion, the president of the court martial, Col Abore assured the accused soldiers of justice. “You should not entertain fear or panic as justice will be dispensed judiciously, “ he told the accused soldiers. CAPTION: President of the Court Martial, Col Abore (with mic) with other members of the court