Nnewi, the industrial city of Anambra State, was agog following the release of 33 traders who were arrested and detained on the presumption that they were members of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB). The arrest took place during the recent clash by the group and the police in the town. The traders, arrested from different markets in the area and subsequently detained after being paraded by the police, were reportedly released last Saturday after spending eight days in police custody. No fewer than 5,000 traders from the major markets in the area converged on the Agboedo motor spare parts Nkwo Nnewi market, where they offered praises to God in appreciation for the release of their members. Speaking to The Nation shortly after the event, Chairman of Agboedo Motor Spare Parts Dealers Association (AMSPDA), Chief Gabriel Chibueze, said the gathering was essentially to appreciate God for the unconditional release of their members. He said the traders were arrested from the eight major markets in the industrial city, expressing worry over the eight days they spent in police custody, regardless of their innocence. He said the detained members could have spent longer time with the police if not for the relentless efforts of members of his executive and other relevant stakeholders. He said, “Ever since their detention, the entire executive have not rested and were fighting for their release. We wrote letters to all authorities concerned, including the IGP, the commissioner for Trade and Commerce, our representatives in Abuja, among others. “We also had to shut the entire markets in the town for three consecutive days in solidarity with our detained members.” Chibueze refuted reports alleging that one of the traders died in police custody, saying all of them were released hale and hearty. Also speaking, Vice President, Amalgamated Markets Traders Association (AMATA), Gozie Akudolu, disclosed that no money was paid for their release, though he regretted that some went ahead to engage the services of lawyers contrary to his instructions. “I’m happy to announce to you that we didn’t pay any dime for their release because I instructed that no lawyer should be engaged in the process. “Those who defied the instructions and paid should find a way of going after their money,” he added. He appreciated those who contributed towards ensuring the release of the traders, praying God to reward them abundantly. “I’m overwhelmed with joy today. Special thanks go to the IGP, leader of police delegates from Abuja, the state governor and commissioner for Trade and Commerce, state CP, AC Nnewi, and a host of others.”