One person was feared killed as irate youths of Edunabon in Ife North Local Government Area of Osun State on Wednesday set ablaze the town’s palace over kingship tussle. The youths were protesting the selection process of a prince to become Salu Edunabon after the passing away of the immediate past traditional ruler, Oba Elijah Agunbiade on August 4, 2017. The youths allegedly rejected Prince Nasiru Adebayo as their new king, faulting the selection process that worked in his favour. The angry youths went on rampage when it dawned on them Prince Adebayo was set to occupy the palace after his seclusion rites. The identity of the man, who was reportedly killed, could not be ascertained. Also, Prince Adebayo is said to be hospitalised following the beating he received from the angry youths. For two weeks there had been tension in the town as Prince Kehinde Oladepo and Prince Nasiru Adebayo, from the same ruling house, were laying claim to the vacant stool of Salu of Edunabon. The two princes were said to have undergone seclusion rites reportedly on separate recommendations of Ooni of Ife, Oba Adeyeye Ogunwusi and Osun State government. While the community and the kingmakers were said to have fovoured Oladepo after series of spiritual consultations, the Ooni of Ife allegedly preferred the candidacy of Adebayo. A community leader, Chief Morakinyo Oyebayo, told reporters the Ooni faulted the selection process of the kingmakers in a letter dated November 22 on the ground they failed to carry him along in the choice of Prince Kehinde Oladepo in accordance with Customary Law. He said before Ooni’s preference, Prince Kehinde Oladepo had spent up to a week in seclusion and the kingmakers had announced him the new Salu of Eduabon. This was before Prince Nasiru Adebayo was given consenting authority to proceed on his own seclusion last Friday by the Ooni. Oyebayo further explained Oladepo’s emergence was announced after rigorous meetings that involved the warrant chiefs and executives of the Ife North West Local Council Development Area. One of the warrant chiefs, Seye Oyelade from Ile Akunran in Edunabon, said the process that led to the emergence of Oba-elect was transparent and fair. He thereby urged the people of the community to join hands with the new monarch. Chairman of Ife North West LCDA, Edunabon, Hon. Ademola Olabisi Olabamigbe, said the process witnessed a lot of challenges but ended peacefully. It was further learnt that Oladepo, who hails from Amoloye Compound in Isiboni ruling house, emerged as the 2nd beaded-crown Salu of Edunabon after the two warrant chiefs assigned by the state government unanimously voted for him. He was said to have defeated six other contestants including Prince Oluwafemi Akinropo, Olawale Adeboye Isaac, Odunlade Samson, Adeyeye Samuel Oluwaseye, Adebayo Nasiru and Onifade Rapheal. When Prince Adebayo allegedly felt unsatisfied, he was said to have mobilised his supporters to force himself into the palace. But the youths resisted the move and allegedly chased him away. They later set the palace ablaze. The state police command through its spokesperson, Folasade Odoro, said normalcy had returned to the community after the police intervention. 