Students of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) Ile Ife have expressed fears over the exams date for the rain semester of the 2017/2018 academic session. They told our correspondent the ongoing Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) strike will impact negatively on the examinations slated for January 14, 2019. In separate interviews, they appealed to the institution’s authorities to postpone the exams to give enable the lecturers prepare them for the exams. The students complained the strike has not enabled lecturers to cover many grounds or allowed them to prepare well. An OAU student Ilara John said: “For over 5weeks that the strike has been commenced, I have never had any lectures. “All our lecturers are part of ASUU and they have not been coming to classes at all. “I am afraid as I don’t even know maybe we would do exam or not because I don’t even understand the materials given to us before the commencement of the strike. “I have just been staying in my hostel, without going for any classes.” Another student Ayanfe Temiloluwa said: “This ASUU Strike has caused a lot of harm.  I have just been sitting at home not going for any classes. “I am almost forgetting everything we have been taught.  How are we going to do exams for the classes we have not been going? “How does the school wants us to pass when we don’t have anybody teaching us?” “I implore that the school management should do something about this and that the Federal Government should heed to the call of Academics Staff Union of Universities (ASUU) and give them what they demand so that we can have better educational system.” Adejare Oluwatobiloba said: ” The ASUU strike here has not been that effective due to non- compliance of some lecturers. “Nevertheless, students have been thrown in a state of dilemma as to whether the rain semester academic calendar will be extended” “Academic activities in some departments especially some science related course have been on hold right from the beginning of the strike while in other departments, the strike has been partial. “The truth is that students have been at the receiving end of strike. The management should therefore consider us students by extending the school calendar.” OAU vice chancellor however maintained the exams will hold as scheduled on Jan, 14 2019, insisting the academic calendar will not be extended. He said: “We have had several senate meetings and it has been going on well. “We have ordered our lecturers who want the progress of the academic calendar to take up the courses been taken by the ASUU members. “There is nothing like shifting the academic calendar. They are rumours.”  