The presidential candidate of All the Progressives Congress, APC, President Muhammadu Buhari, has been described as the best option for Nigeria in 2019. Making this assertion in an interview in Lagos, a former deputy governor of the state, Alhaja Sinatu Ojikutu, urged Nigerians to support President Buhari for a second term, adding that there is no better alternative to the APC candidate as we speak. She also urged former vice president, Abubakar Atiku, against being too desperate to replace Buhari. Ojikutu also spoke on other national issues. Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, reports. Excerpts: Restructuring has become a subject of debate among different individuals, groups and organisations in the country with differed opinions on it, what’s your stand on it? I believe in restructuring. But it should be done in a way that it will not lead to disintegration of Nigeria. There has been too much struggle for the control of power at the centre, but with restructuring there will be devolution of power and a return to true practice of federalism which in turn will help to diffuse tension. It was military intervention that led to the introduction of the unitary system of government which we are practising now but with genuine restructuring the nation will return to true practice of federalism as it was being done in the First Republic before military intervention which disrupted the system that was already in practice. During the First Republic, everything was going on very well with the parliamentary system of government we were running. Cost of governance was not too expensive like what is happening to us now that we are running presidential system of government. What elected public officers including members of the National Assembly are earning today is too much. What are they doing or what kind of work are they doing to be collecting such jumbo pay? The salaries and allowances they are collecting is stupendous, it can’t be justified. Elected public officers are being overpaid. But once there can be a drastic cut in salaries and allowances of these people, inflation will come down. There is bitter struggle for political power because of this jumbo pay politicians are collecting as salaries and allowances. What are these people even doing? I mean the so-called lawmakers who are supposed to be representatives of the people? They are doing nothing as we don’t feel their impact in the locality or in the community. We don’t see them at all. I’m residing in Eti-Osa local government area of Lagos State but I don’t see or feel the impacts of my so-called representatives. How many lives have these representatives touched? It is only when elections are approaching that you see them erecting bill boards all over the place. If they empower anybody at all, may be it is only a few of their acolytes they empower. The way Nigerians are seeking political power at all cost and by all means is frightening. It is this their acts of desperation that eventually lead to do-or-die politics. Nigerian politicians should realise that ultimate power belongs to God. It is also God that is the owner of our souls and lives. Not only that, it is also Almighty Allah that determines who to give power to. For all these politicians who are boasting, struggling and making permutations about 2019, they should remember that Allah is the owner of our souls and it is only Allah that knows what will happen within the next second, hours or days, who among these politicians who will live to 2019 or what will happen tomorrow. Only Allah knows who will live to 2019 or beyond. He is the owner of our souls; we should all have the fear of Allah. It is a shame that despite all these desperation for political power and jumbo pay that our leaders are earning that Nigeria today can’t boast of one standard hospital that is world class. All our hospitals are in shambles. It is a shame that with all the billionaires that we have, and also with all the billions of naira that have been illegally acquired through stolen oil money that Nigeria can’t boast of a standard hospital. Why can’t all those who have illegally amassed the nation’s oil wealth money come together and build a world class hospital? This is one of those that I expect those that have illicitly enriched themselves with the nation’s oil allocations to have done. These people have the money and wealth but yet they have all refused to do the needful. I believe that the time has come when we should all put on our thinking caps and think of how Nigeria can become a great nation. Of recent you have been canvassing the setting up of a Truth, Restitution and Recovery Commission, what’s this commission all about? From all indications, the gang up against President Buhari is because people are afraid that what they have looted will be exposed by his administration, and that he may be ruthless with them as 2019 is fast approaching. So the intense drive to get Buhari out of office has become deeply intense. This is even not limited to the people at the top but also include civil servants and every other person that has collaborated in destroying Nigeria. All these people don’t want Buhari to be there come 2019. So what I’m proposing is that we should set up this commission, and this commission should be fashioned after the Truth Reconciliation Commission in South Africa where those people that did wrong during the apartheid period came out to confess to their evil deeds, and made restitution. In the same line, people who stole Nigeria money and are afraid that they may be caught, and don’t want to be caught, jailed and be shamed will come to that commission and be given immunity from prosecution after they have coughed out what they have looted. Membership of the commission should cut across all divides; it should be all-embracing. An eminent Nigerian should head the commission. Aside that, I’m also proposing that we should have an economic team that will be made up of pure professionals that will be saddled with turning round our economy. If we continue with this way we are going there will continue to be tension and anxiety over the economy. There has been a lot of anxiety as 2019 is fast approaching, what is your take on the presidential contenders? It is not desirable that President Buhari should hand over this country to those who will loot this nation. It is not that Buhari is 100 percent but with Buhari we can see a silver lining for Nigeria. Those people whose hands are tainted don’t want Buhari back in 2019. But some of these people can’t come out openly to say so. If this kind of commission can be set up, then the 2019 general elections will be less of a do-or-die affair. I know that PDP presidential candidate and former vice-president, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar, is desperate to become president at all costs, but Atiku should realise that it is not a do-or-die affair. Atiku should not be desperate. Then if at all he wants to become president of Nigeria, Nigerians should have a belief that he has turned a new leaf. Right now most Nigerians believe that Atiku is tainted. Right now, Atiku is not the man for the job unless we want Nigeria to be classified as a nation of thieves. Atiku is even regarded as a wanted person in another country. Is it such kind of person you want to become president of Nigeria? It is one of the reasons why I’m proposing this commission. I’m not in PDP or APC. I’m not a member of any political party but I believe in Buhari. But I also wonder at some of the things happening under Buhari’s administration. I wonder whether he is the one condoning some of these things. I remember there was a time during Jonathan’s period as president when it was reported that the newspapers Jonathan was reading were different from the ones Nigerians were reading. I hope this is not what is happening now. We still have the time for this commission to be set up to take care from the way things are now, I don’t see any of these people who have been perceived as looters going away quietly. They are desperate to get power across the divide. Some people are ready to take over power at all cost in 2019. I have great fear over 2019. We have to pray very well that it should not be bloody. Any right thinking Nigerian should be afraid of what 2019 general elections portend for Nigeria. On your reservations about Atiku Abubakar, some Nigerians are saying that it has only been cases of allegations and no proof of corruption yet against him, what’s your take on that? Let Atiku come out and tell Nigerians how he became stupendously rich. So far he has not done that, but this is the time for him to do it. He should explain to Nigerians why he can’t travel to the United States of America. Then how did he become a billionaire after retiring as a Customs officer? Did he get bank loan? People are alleging that Atiku sold Nigeria off during the privatisation era when he was the nation’s vice-president. Most of the nation’s companies were sold to people who couldn’t manage them when Atiku supervised the privatisation exercise. Some of these companies were sold off when they still had funds and were still viable. The facts are there as to what happened during the privatisation under Atiku’s watch. All these are in public domain. There are so many of these companies, and this is why many people believe that Nigeria is not safe if Atiku becomes the president. Under Atiku’s watch, Eleme Petrochemical Industry was sold off. It was also under his watch that Nigeria Fertilizer Company, NAFCON, was sold off. Aluminium Smeltering Company, NICON Hilton, Sunti Sugar Limited, Nigeria Machine Tools Limited Osogbo, Bacita Sugar Company, some of these companies if they are still being run by the government would have provided a lot of jobs for the unemployed. Some of these companies are dead. This is why I get annoyed when some people claim that it is under Buhari that many Nigerians are out of jobs. This is not being fair; the problem has long started before Buhari came on board. The rot has been there. It has been building up over the years. Under this commission I’m proposing, we should also list all Nigerian companies and projects that could have make Nigeria great but which were grounded. Who are the officers responsible? Who are the architects of the problems of these companies? Everybody involved should come forward and release whatever is in their hands. Although I also have my reservations about ways some things are going under Buhari’s administration. But he is still far better to lead Nigeria. The way some retired Nigerian public officials live when they travel outside the country, how they spend money you wonder whether they were once salary earners or whether they were retired civil servants. We need to address some of these issues in order to save this country.