As the world marks Christmas today, governors, senators, ministers and other prominent Nigerians have called for the emulation of Jesus’ message of love, peace and humble living. Oyetola Osun State Governor Gboyega Oyetola has urged Nigerians to emulate Christ’s message of love and peace. Oyetola, in a statement yesterday by his Chief Press Secretary Adeniyi Adesina, rejoiced with Osun indigenes and Nigerians. The statement reads: “I rejoice with you fellow citizens of the State of Osun as you celebrate Christmas, the birth of Jesus Christ. “We should allow Jesus’ message of love, peace and humble living to be our guiding light. “I urge our citizens to continue to live in harmony because Jesus Christ is the Prince of Peace, with a message of peaceful co-existence among the people. “As the year 2018 gradually winds down, I promise to continue to run a credible and an all-inclusive government that will make life more abundant for our people. “This can only be possible in an atmosphere where everybody is free to contribute their quota to the economic development of our dear state “I urge you to show love to your fellow citizens as you go about celebrating the birth of Jesus Christ “Let us keep the peace and be orderly as candidates canvass for votes ahead of the 2019 elections.” Obaseki Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki has enjoined Edo people and residents to emulate Jesus Christ as they celebrate Christmas. In his Christmas Message issued yesterday in Benin City, the state capital, Obaseki said: “On behalf of the government of Edo State, I rejoice with all Edo people, at home and in the diaspora as well as residents, as we celebrate Christmas. “Christmas season is an auspicious occasion to show love and reflect on the life of Jesus Christ, whose birth we are commemorating. “As we celebrate with our friends, relatives and neighbours, I enjoin you to spread the message of oneness, love, generosity and hope for greater things as demonstrated by Jesus Christ.” He expressed the state government’s gratitude to the people for their support for his administration. “As a government, we are grateful to all Edo people and residents who have stood by us in our pursuit of a united and prosperous state, where we all can realise our dreams. It is with great joy that I wish you a merry Christmas.” Senator Tinubu Lagos Central Senator Oluremi Tinubu yesterday reminded urged her constituents not to allow the reason for the season to be lost on them as they celebrate Christmas today. Mrs. Tinubu described the season as a period for Nigerian to pattern their lives after Jesus Christ, who came into the world as a mark of God’s compassion and love for mankind. She also urged Nigerians to remain steadfast and committed to the cause of a better Nigeria which, according to her, the All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration “is working towards”. In her message, the senator urged Nigerians to show love and kindness to their neighbours. The message reads: “I rejoice with the people of Lagos Central Senatorial District, Lagos State and Nigeria for another season of festivities to commemorate the birth of our Lord Jesus and God’s love to mankind. “Christmas is a time of celebration, joy and love. However, it is also a time to reflect on the purpose of the birth of Christ and ensure that our lives model the exemplary sacrifice of God’s love for mankind. “In addition, it is a time to show love and extend helping hands, especially to the less privileged amongst us. It is my hope that we can carry on the culture of giving beyond the festivities and apply these tenets in our everyday lives as Christ enjoins us to. “Regardless of whatever challenges we may have faced this year which is fast coming to an end, I urge you all to remain steadfast and committed to the cause of a better Nigeria which the All Progressives Congress (APC) led administration  is working towards. “With the campaigns in full swing and the general elections fast approaching, we are confronted with choices or decisions to be made as individuals and a nation. I implore you to choose the path of peace for the greater good of our collective future. “Whatever you nurture will yield good results. Let us choose to nurture our heritage, communal history and our beloved Country Nigeria. I am certain that if we persist, it will pay off eventually.” Kashamu The lawmaker representing Ogun East Senatorial District and governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Buruji Kashamu, has urged Nigerians, especially the good people of Ogun State to pray for a successful general election. In a statement yesterday, Kashamu expressed gratitude to God “for preserving our lives to witness another Christmas. Despite the challenges we face as a people, we should be grateful to the Almighty God for the relative peace in the land.” The lawmaker added that, “As we make merry and celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ, let us remember to pray for God’s continued guidance, mercy, grace and favour even as we go to the polls to elect a new set of leaders who will preside over our affairs in the next four years. Let us pray for a peaceful election in Nigeria, in general, and Ogun State, in particular, because it is only under a peaceful atmosphere that we can pursue our individual and collective goals.” Kashamu reiterated his commitment to the cardinal principles of transparency, inclusiveness and renewal, if elected, adding that it was by transparently involving all the stakeholders in the policy-formulation and decision-making process that the hope of the people would be renewed. “That is how we can collectively take Ogun State to greater heights,” he added. The Governorship candidate urged the electorate to vote PDP and its candidates during the 2019 general election. Ashafa The senator representing Lagos East, Gbenga Ashafa, has urged Christian brothers and sisters in Lagos East, Lagos State and Nigeria to have a joyous Christmas. His statement reads: “The yuletide season commemorates every good, precious and pure ideals that we share. I encourage each and every one of us to allow ourselves be infected by the spirit of joy this beautiful season as you mark the birth of Christ. It is important that we all remember that behind Christmas is the idea that we are to be our brother’s keeper and our sister’s keeper; that we should treat others as we would want to be treated and to share our love with all and sundry. It is my hope that this Christmas reminds us of these values as we keep them even after the celebration. While we are in the festive mood, let’s all be consciously reminded that the 2019 general elections is just around the corner. It is on this note that I implore each and every one of us for the good of our dear state Lagos State and great Nation Nigeria to go out enmasse to galvanize support for the All Progressives Congress (APC) from the Ward to the National Level. As we celebrate, it would be a good platform to equally share our support for President Muhamadu Buhari and Vice President Osinbajo, the APC candidate for Lagos State Gubernatorial election Mr. Babajide Sanwo-olu and his running mate Babafemi Hamzat as well as all other candidates running on the platform of the APC. Once again I wish us all a merry and joy filled Christmas.” FCT Minister Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister Malam Muhammad Bello yesterday pleaded with Christians to pray for President Muhammadu Buhari for God to continue to grant him wisdom and good health so as to take the country to the next level. Bello, in his 2018 Christmas message to residents of the FCT, advised Nigerians to use the occasion of this festive period to meditate and give expression to the teachings and lifestyle of Jesus Christ to neighbours and to humanity. His statement reads: “On behalf of the Administration and residents of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Abuja, I sincerely convey our felicitations to all FCT residents, especially our Christian friends, on the occasion of the 2018 Christmas celebrations. “The occasion also, offers us a unique opportunity to pray for our country Nigeria and our leaders, especially, our President, His Excellency, Muhammadu Buhari, for wisdom, courage and good health as he works to take Nigeria to the next level. This becomes more necessary, as we approach the 2019 elections. “I enjoin all residents to rest assured that the FCT Administration and law enforcement agencies are doing their best to guarantee the security of lives and property both during and after the festivities. You are therefore, to go about the celebrations and your lawful duties without fear. Residents are, however, requested to keep watch over their neighbourhoods and to report all suspicious movements to the law enforcement agencies nearest to them.” Lagos Speaker Lagos State House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa has urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of love, tolerance, and sacrifice which made the life of Jesus Christ worthy of emulation. Obasa, in his Christmas message, stated that these are qualities essential for the development and growth of the country. “Jesus Christ was an embodiment of peace, love, tolerance and sacrfice in his entire lifetime hence he is referred and adored throughout the world. For us to be great as a nation, we must not only imbibe these qualities but we must also put them into practice,” the Lagos Assembly Speaker said in the statement by his Chief Press Secretary,  Musbau Rasak. According to him, “throughout his life, Jesus Christ was tolerant even against his most bitter enemies, preached and shared love and peace and ended up sacrificing his life on the cross Calvary which was the biggest supreme price one can pay for others to survive. “Vigilance should be our watchword all the time hence we must be wary of any unusual action in our neighbourhood, so that we continue to nip crime in the bud,” he said. Globacom Telecommunications giant Globacom yesterday congratulated Nigerian Christians on the celebration of Christmas which commemorates the birth of Jesus Christ. The company, in a statement in Lagos, urged them to pray for peace and unity of the nation, especially as the next general election comes up in two months’ time. According to Globacom, “no time is more auspicious than now to seek and pray for peace, unity and love for one another, because these are the virtues Christ symbolised”. It added: “As our brothers and sisters in the Christian faith celebrate Christmas, we rejoice with them and appeal to them to use the occasion of the celebration to seek the face of the Lord and pray for continued peaceful co-existence among the different groups in the country. If all Nigerians imbibe the virtues of Jesus Christ and demonstrate these in their lifestyle, the nation will remain united and make more progress.” Adeola The chairman of the Senate Committee on Local Content, Senator Solomon Adeola, has called on Nigerians to renew their faith in Jesus Christ and pray for a peaceful and rancor-free 2019 General Elections. In a Christmas message to felicitate with his constituents and Christendom, Adeola said Christmas symbolised the celebration of the birth of a new dawn for the salvation of souls for all humanity. A statement by his Media Adviser, Kayode Odunaro, said: “While acknowledging that Nigerians in general are going through a difficult gestation period for sustained economic growth that is mercifully not compounded by the usual fuel scarcity as witnessed in time past during Yuletide, the senator urged all Nigerians to be patient and look forward to a better future adding that with abiding faith in Jesus Christ all our challenges will be a thing of the past as we move to next level of our development.” Osun APC The Osun State chapter of the All Progressives Congress yesterday urged Christians to love fellow countrymen and women. A statement by its spokesman, Kunle Oyatomi, in Osogbo said: “As we celebrate Christmas,  the dominant spirit should be that of love, for the birth of Christ was and is the manifestation of God’s love for mankind, regardless of race, tribe or country. “Until we cultivate that love and make it shine through this earthly life, we may not have the full benefit of the grace that God’s love provides. “Although we have set a specific period for Christmas  – or the outward celebration of God’s love for us – it should not end with the physical activities of that period alone.” Ajibola Basiru The All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate for Osun Central Zone, Dr Ajibola Basiru, has felicitated with Christians on the occasion of the celebration of Christmas. Basiru, in a goodwill message, urged Christians to imbibe the lessons of Christmas which symbolises humility as Jesus was born in a lowly place. The former Osun State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice stated that: “As we celebrate, we shouldn’t forget that the birth of Jesus Christ is more of sober reflection than of outright merry making as the celebrant chose to come to the world in a manger and not a princely place. Therefore, we have to celebrate in moderation”. He said celebration of the birth of Christ should accommodate giving and sharing as Jesus is believed to have given his life for salvation of man. He urged people irrespective of faith to live in harmony. The APC senatorial candidate also enjoined his teeming supporters to go about their campaign peacefully, avoid and ignore any act of provocation from any quarters to ensure a resounding victory for all APC candidates in next year’s general elections.