The 24-man Reform Committee set up during the Annual General Meeting (AGM) on October this year was yesterday in Lagos inaugurated by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF). Speaking at the event, NFF President, Amaju Pinnick said the committee becomes necessary to fill the missing link in Nigeria football, while assuring that the recommendations of the committee would surely be implemented to the later by the federation. “Our dream is to make Nigeria football better and we acknowledge that there is a missing link and correcting this missing link will help put Nigeria football on the right pedestal. I want to assure the committee that we will implement the recommendations of the committee to the later because we need to create a football economy that will outlive us,” he said. He however, charged the committee to eschew bitterness and rancor but to work together for the betterment of the country’s football. “I want to charge the committee to bury their hatchet and work together as a team for the good of Nigeria. To right the wrong in our football, harmonious relationship must be ensured by the committee members. We must put away our personal interest and work for the good of Nigeria football and I am really happy to have the quality of people in this committee. These are Nigerians that are passionate about football and we must all work for the common interest of making Nigeria football a bride to the world,” the NFF helmsman said. For the chairman of the Reform Committee, Seyi Akinwunmi, the setting up of the committee is indeed a new dawn in Nigeria football. “This committee is committed to progressive change because stakeholders want change and the time has come for us to catch up with the rest of the world. This committee will be unique and everybody will be involved in the outcome and that is why we must all see ourselves as change agents that will leave legacy for generation unborn. We must be ready o change how things are done in the past and use benchmark from various successful nations to carry out this reform,” the NFF Vice President said. Responding on behalf of the committee members, Abba Yola thanked NFF for considering them to be part of Nigeria football history, while promising that the committee would work assiduously to come up with workable recommendations that will change the face of football positively in the country. The 24-man committee is headed by Akinwunmi while the NFF 2nd Vice President/LMC Chairman Shehu Dikko will serve as Vice Chairman.