After its production kicked off in Graz in May, the new G-Class has become one of the most demanded passenger cars. This new model has been hailed as the “biggest transformation” in the G’s 39-year-old history, as it raises the bar in all relevant areas while maintaining familiar and popular features from its design icon. Weststar Associates Limited, the authorised distributor of Mercedes-Benz in Nigeria, has recomended the new “G” to Mercedes-Benz customers and enthusiasts. Its Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr. Mirko Plath: “Mercedes-Benz lovers and off-road enthusiasts in Nigeria can now enjoy the revolutionary attributes of the new G-Class model. This is a product that speaks for itself as its design is considerably more robust and suitable for off road operations in its segment. This means an SUV that is capable of handling any type of road condition.” The exterior of the new G-Class has classic features, such as the distinctive door handle and the characteristic closing sound, the robust exterior protective strip, the exposed spare wheel on the rear door and the prominent indicator lights. While the exterior maintains the iconic classic look, the interior of the G-Class has undergone a fundamental modern redesign which reinterprets the genes of the classic vehicle to reflect the exterior. Getting in the G-Class reveals that numerous design features from the exterior have been transposed into the interior. The shape of the round headlamps, for instance, which is reflected in the side air vents or the design of the iconic indicators, is found again in the shape of the loudspeakers. Hallmarks of the G Class include the grab handle in front of the front passenger and the chrome-highlighted switches for the three differential locks. Both have been optimised and retained as characteristic features. Another highlight is an instrument cluster in the form of a large display showing virtual instruments in the driver’s direct field of vision and a central display above the center console available as an option. In this case the two 12.3-inch displays blend visually into a Widescreen Cockpit beneath a shared glass cover. Drivers can choose between three different styles for the displays – “Classic”, “Sport” and “Progressive” and also select relevant information and views, according to their individual needs. The seats in the G Class are equipped as standard with numerous convenience functions and are ergonomically designed to provide enhanced seating comfort and lateral support. The new G-Class performs even better off-road, while on the road it is more agile, dynamic and comfortable than its predecessor. This new suspension emerged from the collaboration between Mercedes-Benz G GmbH and Mercedes-AMG GmbH. The result is an independent suspension with double-wishbone front axle in combination with a rigid rear axle. As part of their work, the engineers had the task of fighting for every millimeter, because off-road capability not least, also means maximum ground clearance. The raising of the axles makes a decisive contribution in this respect, while requiring a strut tower brace in the engine compartment to achieve the ruggedness objectives. The specification for the G-Class not only included solidness and superiority in terrain, but also greater driving dynamics and comfort on paved roads.