President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday appealed to the Nigerian National Merit Award, NNMA, to establish new policies on how best to solve issues pertaining to the nation’s diversity. This statement was made on behalf of the President by the Permanent Secretary on Social Duties, Mr. William Alo, at the 11th Annual forum of the Laureates of Nigerian National Order of Merit termed ‘The Imperative of Unity in Diversity’ which took place in Abuja. Acknowledging the role NNMA has to play in amalgamating the diversity of the country, Alo also commended the NNMA and the 2018 sole awardee in Humanities, Mr. Olu Obafemi, declaring the forum open. “As we gather here, the Office of the Secretary of the Government of the Federation is very proud of the governing board in its achievements so far since its inauguration.” “To harness individuals who have excelled in one endeavor or the other and have contributed a lot to the development of this country,” he said. “Today we are kicking off with an award lecture to be delivered by the only person to win this year’s award, Mr. Olu Obafemi. “The NNMA board I the only organization known for excelling in the area of transparency, organization, and in the area of identifying people who are non-questionable in character in any form. Also speaking at the occasion, the Chairman, NNMA Governing Board, Prof. Shekarau Yakubu, solicited for the building of a multilateral car park at the NNMA in order to increase the group’s revenue base as a response to inadequate funding. He petitioned to the Presidency to make available “timely and adequate funding to the agency given the financial constraints faced by NNMA.” “It is with this in mind that the NNMA planned a project for the extension of the building with a multilevel car park so as to enlarge the revenue base of the NNMA,” he stated. “If approved and sponsored, it will go a long way in making the NNMA self-sufficient in the near future thereby making the NNMA less dependent on government for budgetary funding.” The Chairman also pleaded with the Federal Government to give legal backing to the proposed NNMA Policy Group in order to assist Federal, state, and other government agencies in the implementation of the nation’s policies and programs.