Annually, the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND) organises Niger Delta Development Forum (NDDF) through which it plans and reviews strategies for the development of the Niger Delta region. South-south Regional Editor, Shola O’Neil reports that this year’s edition tagged “preparing for the future through long-term, strategic development plans brought together high profile government officials, top players in the private sector, development experts to evolve ways of harmonising strategies for impact, sustaining a strategic vision between governments and implementing state-led development in the Niger Delta, among other issues. For two days, across two states in the Niger Delta region, the 2018 edition of Niger Delta Development Forum (NDDF) organised by PIND Foundation, brought together high profile government officials, top players in the private sector, development experts and people from various walks of life. It was a motley crowd of individuals making their marks in diverse fields, and they were gathered towards “Preparing for the Future through Long-term, Strategic Development Plans.” The events were for the seventh edition of the Niger Delta Development Forum, an annual event by the Foundation for Partnership Initiatives in the Niger Delta (PIND), with the support of a host of partners and various donor organisations: from the European Union (EU), Market Development in the Niger Delta (MADE), Department for International Development (DFID), and Faculty for Oil Sector Transformation (FOSTER), to Development Alternatives Inc. (DAI). The 2018 edition of the forum was unique and different from past events as the deliberations took place across the two states between Tuesday, November 27, and Thursday, November 29. The theme of the event was “Delivering Results: Executing a State-led Plan”. It was three days of brainstorming and peer-to-peer learning, of collaborating, and of sharing ideas geared towards improving governance and advocacy in the Niger Delta. The edition, building on the successful engagements of the previous year, was held with the objective of strengthening skeletal road maps developed by the various states and helping to tailor strategic approaches to local realities. The event which featured plenary sessions focused on harmonising strategies for impact, sustaining a strategic vision between governments, implementing state-led development in the Niger Delta, and where the private-sector may come in when it comes to state-led development planning. Francis Ntamu, Chief Economic Adviser to the Governor of Cross River State, and Seun Akinsanya, Director of Economic Planning at the Lagos State Ministry of Budget and Economic Planning, were among the panellists invited to share insights on and lessons from development plans currently in operation in their respective states. Other experts in attendance included Joe Abah, former Director-General, Bureau for Public Service Reforms (BPSR) and now DAI Nigeria Country Director; Mohammed Aliu Momoh, Facilitator of the Investment Working Group of the Nigerian National Assembly Business Environment Roundtable (NASSBER); Chichi Aniagolu-Okoye, Country Director of Water Aid; Toyosi Akerele, founder and Chief Executive Officer of Rise Networks; Abel Akeni, Head of Innovation at BudgIT; and Seun Ojo, Head of the Nigerian Economic Summit Group’s Public Policy Intelligence and Reform Management Unit. Dara Akala, the foundation’s Executive Director, delivered PIND’s welcome address. He thanked the foundation’s development partners and allies from the civil society sector and the media for their support. He noted, jokingly, that the inaugural first edition of the forum was held at exactly the same venue (Novotel Hotel, Port Harcourt) back in 2012. The PIND Executive Director further stated that the 2018 edition of the NDDF forum was focusing on development planning as way of consolidating on the resolutions reached in the previous year. “The purpose really is for us to harmonise and discuss key development issues, and what we are always trying to achieve is to influence government policies of the region, to foster partnerships through this forum, and to attract investment into the region. “We do know that there is a school of thought that believes that we don’t need plans, that it is not plan that is our problem, it is execution. But we simply defer from that. We need execution no doubt; but we also need very clear, comprehensive and coherent plans that will underpin development efforts at the sub-national level In Nigeria and, in particular, in the Niger Delta. “There are several kinds of agendas in the states, but what is often missing is that long-term strategic plan that will transcend the life of any administration,” Dr Akala adds. “That is where we want to get the states to be.” A striking feature and achievement of the 2018 forum is the long-term development planning pitching competition, which saw seven states of the Niger Delta engage in a battle of ideas. The participants included those from Edo, Ondo, Delta, Bayelsa, Imo, Abia and Akwa Ibom states. Top government officials from the states were invited to pitch their states’ long-term roadmaps for human and economic development and, together with development experts, among other key stakeholders, they came to well-thought-out conclusions on how best to approach the issue of sub-national development planning. In order to develop up-to-the-minute and inclusive development plans, for instance, it was agreed that there was need to actively involve young minds as well as consult vulnerable persons, including people with disability and such class of citizens who ordinarily do not have access to government decision-making. After various deliberations on the presentations of the state representatives about their visions, cross-sector opportunities and challenges, stakeholders and discussants observed that the plans of the states were not adequately aligned with their budgets and generally not informed by fiscal policies and strategies. The communiqué released at the end of the deliberations also observed: “That a strong level of political support at every stratum of governance is very critical to the formulation and implementation of development plans, projects, and programmes.” To this end, the document recommended that state plans should be data-driven and therefore, states should determine how best to collect data locally and/or make use of that available from the Nigerian Bureau of Statistics and other agencies for quality planning. Citizens’ participation in the planning process was also identified as important, as the communiqué stated that states should strive towards this to drive the allocation of resources and implementation energy to where they are most needed. “There is need to include young people in the process of development planning to pool fresh ideas and radical thoughts that will drive economic development. That the Niger Delta states need to commence meaningful discussions about inter-state integration within the region; for instance regarding how to ensure transportation linkages through the waterways, rail connectivity, exploration of deep-sea potential and others. “As political buy-in is extremely critical for effective implementation of plans and budgets as currently being practiced in states such as Lagos, Niger Delta states should ensure this in formulating and implementing development plans, projects, and programmes. The state–led development plans (should) be linked to global goals such as the sustainable development goals, regional developmental efforts, and others and focus particularly on education, the environment.” Others include: the need for more highly-effective organisations such as PIND, which has strong convening power, to pool regional players into the discourse, reviews for the design, development, execution and monitoring in order to achieve  “a collective Niger Delta regional competiveness”. To improve the quality and value of good governance, states are encouraged to improve on honouring agreements, which stakeholders, including Dr. Akala, Tunde Oderinde and Kingsley Fossu of MADE and Team Leader, EU Niger Delta Support Programme C4, who signed the communiqué, noted “forms the bedrock of attracting local and international investors. “That states should improve the focus on monitoring and evaluation and feedback systems via periodic independent citizens’ survey of plans. They need to show greater clarity on projected outcomes and impact (i.e. qualitative changes), and not just figure. The sustainability of development plans should be looked at from a funding perspective, maximising the various options available for revenue mobilisation in the state,” the communiqué recommended. In conclusion, it states: “Developing state-led planning with a strong element of sustainability would help address underdevelopment in the Niger Delta. Such plans as were deliberated upon at NDDF 2018 should engage all stakeholders (including the youth, women, physically challenged) and encouraged the effective use of existing resources. “It is also important for states to diversify and maximise internal revenue potential, seek regional integration and alignment for financing development plans that can be achieved mainly through private equity and venture capital while institutionalising legislative and operational frameworks.” Meanwhile, while speaking development plan pitch by the various states, Mrs Aniagolu-Okoye, who was one of the judges, congratulated the participants and said all the presentations were impressive and well-researched. She advised governments to prioritise their policies wisely, while also paying attention to how the civil service and civil society may help in executing noted plans. “It’s important that the states pay attention to their comparative advantage. I know that, if you are a state government, there are so many competing interests. Ask yourself what are the three things that if you do, you will be able to catalyse development; for instance, electricity. “A lot of the plans we heard were really quite external; they were not looking internally. We should ask: How do we restructure the civil service to be able to deliver on the plans because part of the reasons our plans have not worked so far is because the structure to deliver them are very weak,” she said. For Dr. Akala, this whole process (contest) is not a winner-take-all game. It is true that we shall support those two states, Edo and Abia states, with partners at the same level we supported Cross River State government; but we will still find ways, through which we can provide one assistance or the other to these other states, depending on their level of interest and willingness to take things forward.” As the forum dispersed, the ball of a well-structured development had moved into the court of the state governments; next move is also up to them. They may fritter the golden opportunity, or they could use it to open a new chapter to a new Niger Delta where nothing is arbitrary and every action is both pragmatic and strategic, one that plans decades ahead and looks to the future of astonishing results and where there are abundant resources available for all classes of people and where ‘lack’ is a reality locked in the past.