Sokoto State Police Command has killed two notorious kidnap, cattle rustling and robbery suspects, including a ward head of Gidan Bunu village in Rabah Local Government. Nineteen suspects, including a woman, were arrested in villages across Goronyo, Rabah and Illela local governments. Items recovered from the suspects include 251 sheep, 69 cows, 29 camels, 98 blankets and seven wrappers. The deceased ward head, Alhaji Adduwa, was the group’s armourer, who engaged the police in a shootout and got killed while attempting to escape. The other deceased suspect, Aliyu Abdullahi, who also attempted to escape at Gawon Fulani village in Rabah Council, died in hospital. Briefing reporters yesterday in Sokoto, spokesperson for the command, DSP Cordelia Nwawe, while parading the suspects, said the deceased ward head died in hospital while receiving treatment from gunshot injuries he sustained during the gun battle with the police tactical operations team. “Abdullahi was arrested at Gawon Fulani village in possession of AK47 rifle loaded with 30 rounds of live ammunition and extra magazine. He was nabbed while attempting to escape and eventually died,” she said. Nwawe also confirmed the arrest of a gunrunner, Lawali Aliyu, at Araba village in Illela Local Government. The suspect, she said, was nabbed in possession of AK47 rifle while trying to smuggle it to Sokoto, Zamfara and Kebbi states for distribution to members of his gang. “He confessed receiving the arms from one Dankani, aka America, to deliver to Ramatu Muhammad of Tursa village in Rabah Local Government. He gets his stock from Ibrahim Galmi in Niger Republic and has been involved in a number of kidnapping and robbery operations. “Ramatu is an elderly woman, who is the custodian of the arms used by the gang.” Nwawe said Madugu Haruna was arrested for being in charge of transportation by giving out his bike to the late Adduwa to move with the products. She said the command remained resolute and combat ready against criminals, adding: “We will continue to make Sokoto difficult for criminals to find comfort for their operations.”