Some members of the  late Moses Ogunyinde  family have asked Inspector-General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris to investigate the demolition of their house at Ebute-Meta, Lagos. They alleged that it was pulled down by over 40 thugs, in defiance of a court order. They accused the police of not stopping the thugs. The complainants – Mrs. Bukola Akeredolu, Mr. Olusegun Olawunmi and Mrs. Feyishade Saula – petitioned the IGP through their lawyer, Mr. Olaniyi Kareem. They said the bungalow and boys quarters at 38, Babani Street, Ebute-Meta West, is the subject of a suit between them and four others before Justice Kazeem Alogba of the Lagos High Court. The defendants are Mr. Michael Adebisi Ogunyinde, Mr. Tolulope David Ogunyinde, Mrs. Oluwaseun Busayo Akindele, Lookman Muhammed Owoegbe and the Probate Registrar, Lagos State High Court. The complainants, in a December 3 letter, to the IGP, said the thugs forcibly entered the property, assaulted the occupants and threatened to kill them before demolishing the place and carting away valuables. Kareem said: “Our client as a law-abiding citizen instituted a court proceeding against Lookman Muhammed Owoegbe, who was the purported buyer of their family property…challenging the purported sale of the property to him without their consent.” He said on November 26, Justice Alogba ordered “both parties to maintain the status quo, while the substantive suit shall be given accelerated hearing.” “But on November 30, hoodlums forcibly entered the property and demolished it without any lawful authority, while also threatening to kill and or kidnap our clients if they refused to vacate the premises or make any attempt to stop their men from working on the property.” Kareem said the thugs acted “with total disregard to the laws, which specify the procedures for demolition of developed buildings and eviction of occupants of the building, and disobedience of court order. “Our clients were forcibly ejected from their apartment, violently sent out of their apartment, while their properties and other valuables were destroyed and stolen.” The lawyer said on November 30, the complainants “lodged two complaints at the police station, but the police  refused to act.” He said after the demolition, the complainants returned to the station and “the police reluctantly got involved and caused certain individuals to be arrested, but they were immediately released on bail. “Our clients were asked to come back on Monday, December 3, for possible prosecution and charge of the suspects to court, but all to no avail, as they were informed that the suspects had refused to come to the police station. “It is very clear that the men of Nigerian Police have taken sides with the suspects.” The complainants urged the IGP to set up an impartial team to investigate the matter.