•Police arrest 35 Seven persons have been feared killed, others injured and belongings looted after hoodlums went on the rampage in Lagos. It was gathered that the incident occurred last week at Badia, a Lagos slum, during a bloody clash between rival groups, the Suara Youths and Railway Boys. Although the cause of the incident was yet to be ascertained, it was learnt that it was not unconnected to the money allegedly given the hoodlums by some politicians. Suara Youths, armed with guns and shooting sporadically, were said to have invaded the railway line area of the community. The Nation gathered that the Suara Youths injured residents, but were later repelled by the Railway Boys, who allegedly killed two of the invaders. Angered by the death of their colleagues, the Suara Youths were said to have regrouped last Monday, attacked the rival group and killed Ejima and Noah. It was learnt that the Railway Boys chased the invaders and they ran towards Baale and Church streets, where a gun war ensued. “They shot Muyideen and Wasiu (aka Orobo) in the stomach and Yusuf in the leg. While Wasiu died instantly, Muyideen died at the hospital the following day. “They raided people’s homes, stealing money and household items. The fight continued till Tuesday. Community leaders have engaged the services of members of the Oodua People’s Congress (OPC) to partner the police to protect the community,” said a source. The Nation gathered that among those killed in the clash that lasted three days were a marketing staff of Leadway Assurance Company identified as Muyideen Saka, Wasiu Ajani both residents of 30B and 42 Baale Street, an unnamed trader said to be resident at Sura Street, one Ejima and Noah. It was learnt that Ejima, Noah and two others killed belonged to the gangs that went on the rampage. A source said Wasiu Yusuf sustained gunshot injuries and was taken to Baraka Hospital, adding that the 36, Church Street home of Wasiu Jimoh was looted. Also looted was the home of a cleric, Primate Ayanfe Ikuyinminu, located behind Ajeromi Primary School. The Nation gathered that 16 suspects were arrested by a team led by Badia Divisional Police Officer (DPO) Idyar Apev, a Chief Superintendent (CSP). It was learnt that operatives from the Anti-Cultism Unit of the Police Command were deployed in the community and they recovered expended cartridges at the railway area. The suspects, it was gathered, were being interrogated and might be paraded soon. Police spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent said detectives discovered three bodies after the batle on Tuesday, ading that they took the victims to the hospital where they were confirmed dead. He said the police arrested three persons directly linked to the murder and handed them over to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) for investigation while 32 other suspected cultists in the area were apprehended. Oti said: ‘‘We received distres call that cultists were involved in supremacy battle and policemen were swiftly deployed to the area.  When they got to the scene, three bodies were found on the ground. They took them to the hospital but eh victims were confirmed dead on arrival. ‘‘Three person directly linked to the murder have been arrested and handed over to SCIID Panti. 32 others were arrested. Some of them are being held at the Anti-Cultism Unit while others are at FSARS Ikeja. 