President     Buhari has promised  to establish regional geriatric centres at the tertiary health institutions for clinical care in line with the declaration of plan of action on Healthy  Ageing by 2020. Represented by the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole, President Buhari made this declaration in Abuja at the first National Summit  on  Healthy ageing  with the theme: ”Promoting the healthcare agenda of the present administration on vulnerable populations with focus on the aged.” He noted that there would be training of healthcare workforce through effective collaboration and technical support of international organisations. According to him, there would be research on chronic diseases of the aged and community-based health-social support. “We would ensure that resources and support are provided to enable us achieve the desired results.We are aware that some states give free healthcare services to under-fives and women; we hope to extend these services to people over the age of 60 years.We must make healthcare services available to our senior citizens as part of the government  appreciation and social responsibility and a way of recognising their immense contributions to national development,” he added. The President, therefore, urged the Federal Ministry of Health to continue with the implementation of healthcare for the programme for the aged in addition to providing leadership in their work with states and development partners. Earlier , Adewole, who was represented by the Director, Hospital Services, FOMH, Dr. Joseph Amedu, pointed out that the national policy on healthy ageing was the first in sub-Saharan Africa and it would serve as a policy model for the provision of healthcare to the aged in Africa. Adewole pledged that the policy would be integrated into the Universal Health Coverage strategy,  to achieve and sustain healthy ageing among rural and urban geriatric population in Nigeria. In his welcome address, the Chairman, Nigeria Health Institutions, Dr Sam Jaja, said the aim of the summit was to discuss the truth and beauty of healthy ageing, with emphasis on geriatric medicine. He said: “Nigeria ranked 86th among 96 countries in the global age index 2015, which ranked countries by how well their older populations were faring. The index covers 91 per cent of the world’s population of those aged 60 and above.”