Senator Godswill Akpabio has criticised Governor Udom Emmanuel for not performing. Akpabio said his successor had failed to initiate and complete any project since he handed over to him. The senator spoke at the weekend while addressing supporters at his campaign kick off and inauguration of the All Progressives Congress (APC) office in Ukana, Essien Udim Local Government. He said he was disappointed in Emmanuel for insulting him despite bringing him from Lagos and making him governor He said: “I gave him the platform which he contested the election and became governor, though he was not a member of any political party. Today, he has the temerity to call a conference to insult me. Only God could have made it possible to make someone who was never a party member to become a governor. Only God could have made somebody who has never had a party card or know what is called ward to become a governor. “Only God could have made someone who could not have stood election on his own, even as a councillor and win, to be brought from somewhere and made governor. Only God could have made a man who has never helped anyone to become anything to become governor.” Akpabio urged the people not to bother about the insults on him but rather respond through the ballot by sending PDP packing in 2019. He said Ikot Ekpene remained a hot bed for APC and so the people should ensure they vote for the party. The former governor hinted that the Vice President would visit the state to launch the Trader Moni where market women would benefit from the scheme with cash grants by the Federal Government According to him, Akwa Ibom appreciate President Muhammadu Buhari’s efforts in infrastructural development, and the appointments the APC administration had offered Akwa Ibom sons and daughters. But Commissioner for Information and Strategy Charles Udoh has refuted allegations of non-performance on Emmanuel, saying no first term governor could beat Emmanuel in performance. He said: “Despite the challenges of a receding national economy, Governor Emmanuel has recorded landmark achievements. “Today, Akwa Ibom is the fastest developing state in Nigeria. With over 12 industries in just three and a half years, upgrade of secondary healthcare across the 10 constituencies, roads and infrastructure, agriculture and food sufficiency, to improvements in education, it has been a harvest of achievements. “These would not have been possible if the governor had succumbed to the “blood sucking” antics of the former governor who, despite leaving so many phony uncompleted projects, enjoys all the largesse befitting a former governor and much more.”