Elders of Abak, Etim Ekpo, Ukanafun, Ika and Oruk Anam local government areas of Akwa Ibom have adopted Governor Udom Emmanuel as their sole governorship candidate for the 2019 election. The elders premised their decision on Emmanuel’s efforts at sustaining peaceful coexistence in the state, which has led to the economic and infrastructural developments currently enjoyed in the state. The elders made their position known in a resolution signed by Arc. Okon Obot, Chairman Board of Trustees, Chief Soni Udom, Chairman, Hon. Uduak Essien who is the secretary and Hon. S. Oyomette among other political bigwigs in the area. They deplored the shameful act exhibited by the ousted members of the Akwa Ibom State House Of Assembly led by Hon. Nse Ntuen,  member representing Esssien Udim state constituency. They also urged Governor Emmanuel not to relent in his efforts in making sure there is lasting peace in the State, irrespective of distractions from proponents of violence, and congratulated Hon. Onofiok Luke for the matured manner he displayed during the House of Assembly crisis, which they said was handled to the shame of the opposition. The Abak 5 elders expressed gratitude to Governor Emmanuel for the honour done the father of the modern Akwa Ibom and former Governor of the State, Arc. Obong Victor Attah, during his 80th birthday recently, and said that the naming of the Akwa Ibom International Airport after him is a honor well deserved. They added that Obong Attah did not only design the foundation of modern Akwa Ibom but built and defended the rights of the people through the resource control War he fought and won, of which the people are enjoying the fruits of his labour. The elders echoed the demand of the people of the state for the redeployment of the state Commissioner of Police and the Commander of Quick Response Squad, Akwa Ibom State Command due to their alleged complicity in the recent crisis in the State, which they said was a threat to peace and democracy. They unanimously adopted the Governor as their sole candidate and reiterated their support to preach the gospel of Gov Emmanuel and to ensure that the governor returns to the Hilltop Mansion come 2019.  