The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday challenged the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the Buhari Media Organisation (BMO) to face issues rather than attacking its presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar. It was in a reaction to the condemnation of the PDP allegation that the ruling party was planning to use the police and the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to manipulate next year’s elections. In the reaction by its spokesman Kola Ologbodiyan, the PDP described the APC and the BMO as fixated and afraid to tell Nigerians what it achieved in three and half years. Ologbondiyan told our correspondent on the telephone: “President Buhari and the APC have imposed a referendum on Nigerians with the 2019 general elections. “Their failure in the education sector, in the health sector and the general living condition of Nigerians, is manifest before every Nigerian. And Nigerians have resolved across the board to vote out President Muhammadu Buhari in February 2019. “The expectation of Nigerians is that President Buhari and his APC would come forward and tell Nigerians why they think they deserve their votes in 2019. “Because they have nothing to showcase, because they have failed woefully in every ramification of governance, they have no choice left than to become fixated on our presidential candidate and our party leaders. “But we are not going to go that low with them. We have determined to campaign based on issues. We are determined to tell Nigerians how our candidate will turn the economy around. “We are determined to tell Nigerians how our candidate will unify our nation. We are determined to tell Nigerians how our candidate will put an end to the killings across the nation. “So, these are the issues and we would like to appeal to the APC and their leaders to come and meet us to discuss these issues ahead of the 2019 elections. “Getting fixated, attacking the character of our presidential candidate, who is adjudged the best for the situation we have in the country today, will not help their cause. “As such, the earlier they begin to campaign on the basis of what they have achieved, the better. Enough of the looting of the resources of our nation that they are engaging in. “This suffering, this hunger, this starvation, this deprivation that they have imposed on Nigerians are clear manifestations that Nigerians will reject them in 2019”. 