The Ayangburen of Ikorodu, Oba Kabiru Shotobi, has assured the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu, and his running mate, Dr. Obafemi Hamzat, that his people will not betray them in their quest for the leadership of Lagos State. The monarch, whose people welcomed Sanwo-Olu and his team with music, dance and jubilation on Monday when the APC candidate visited the palace for a consultative meeting, said Ikorodu residents would vote for APC. Other monarchs in Ikorodu Division, who were at the palace of the paramount ruler, unanimously endorsed and pledged their support for the Sanwo-Olu and Hazmat ticket in next year’s election. On behalf of the monarchs, Oba Shotobi urged Sanwo-Olu to make provision for more infrastructure and improvement of social services in Ikorodu, if elected. He said: “The people of Ikorodu are behind you, but we want you to take the state to a greater height… “We don’t have to sweat so much because I know the two of you personally and I know that you understand what our needs are in Ikorodu Division. Ikorodu is one of the five divisions of Lagos. Existing infrastructure need to be expanded to accommodate increasing population and we need new ones. We want improvement in our public schools and health facilities, among others.” A political leader, Olorunfunmi Bashorun, promised the APC massive votes from Ikorodu. He said the division is an APC domain and the leadership had started the groundwork to return a huge margin for Sanwo-Olu. Sanwo-Olu promised the monarchs that he would run an all-inclusive government. He said: “I came here to seek guidance and prayers from our royal fathers. I am happy I have received your blessings. I am happy with the warm welcome you gave me and my running mate, Dr. Hamzat, who is my friend and brother. The kabiyesi has listed what our people in Ikorodu want government to do. “Let me assure the Ayangburen and our royal fathers from Ikorodu Division that we will do what you asked for and much more. We know the importance of Ikorodu and we will work to develop every part of Lagos. I appreciate your support and the prayers offered to me and my deputy. Our primary aim is to take Lagos to a greater height.”  