The Peoples Democratic Party ( PDP ) has joined other Nigerians to congratulate President Muhammadu Buhari on his 76th birthday. The party said at the age of 76, President Buhari has attained a father-figure position and should do everything to respect the aspirations and will of the Nigerian people on all issues, particularly as the nation heads for the 2019 general elections. It urged the President to leave a lasting legacy by doing all within his powers to ensure that the nation he leads knows peace; to ensure that rules are obeyed and that the sensibilities of the people, in their diversities are fully respected. A statement Monday by the spokesman for the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the 2019 general elections placed a heavy responsibility on the shoulders of President Buhari. The main opposition party charged the President to guarantee peaceful, credible, free and fair elections, particularly, the presidential election. It urged the President to ensure that all electoral laws and rules are obeyed; that opposition members are not molested; that the amendment to the Electoral Act is signed; as well as to declare like his predecessor, Dr. Goodluck Jonathan did in 2015, that his 2019 re-election ambition is not worth the blood of any Nigerian. Continuing, the PDP said, “If President Buhari looks at the state of the nation today, he will discover, and we believe he is aware, that the situation has become horrendous for the average Nigerian. “Therefore, the PDP urges President Buhari to use this occasion to reflect on his administration and do all to ensure that posterity does not remember him for violation of human rights, suppression of opposition and dissenting voices; disobedience to court orders, nepotism and divisiveness; escalation of violence, bloodletting and concealment of corruption under his administration. “In all, the best gift President Buhari can give Nigerians is, having openly agreed that he lacks the capacity to manage our economy, to allow a credible election to enable Nigerians to vote our presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who understands the nuances of our national challenges and who has a blue print for economy recovery, to come and turn things around for all our people, while he withdraws to Daura for a well-deserved rest. “On this note, the PDP congratulates President Buhari as he turns 76 and prays that the Almighty Allah grant him good health and many more years ahead”.