A commercial bus driver was Tuesday morning lynched by a mob for allegedly stabbing a passenger to death. The incident occurred around 7 am at Five Star Bus Stop, along Oshodi-Apapa Expressway. It was gathered that the bus driver had allegedly stabbed a passenger who demanded his N 50 change by a bank near Isolo Local Council Development Area (LCDA) office, along Osolo Way. He was alleged to have hit the male passenger with a spanner before stabbing him with a knife on the stomach over N 50 disagreement. According to witnesses, the said passenger disembarked from the bus and requested his N50 change but the conductor said he did not have change. It was gathered that the driver made to move the bus when the passenger dragged the conductor from the bus which led to an argument. Another account indicated that the driver had boarded the passengers from Ikotun en-route Oshodi but refused to proceed when he got to Aswani. He was said to have told the passengers he could not continue the journey and offered to refund N50 from the amount collected so that the passengers can continue their journey. But some of the passengers allegedly refused the condition and insisted that the bus must carry them to Oshodi which led to a scuffle. It was gathered that as soon as the driver stabbed one of the passengers, he sped off but was caught up at Five Star by a mob that chased the bus on motorcycle. “As soon as the mob saw them. They descended on the driver and his conductor. Beat them up but the conductor managed to escape. The driver was set ablaze, the bus burnt by the mob. “The conductor fled because he ran across the expressway to the other side and mingled with the crowd,” said a witness. Another witness told The Nation that the mob prevented the police and fire service officials from rescuing the driver, adding that the officers were pelted with stones. “The people were angry. They stoned policemen and fire service officials who came to rescue the driver. They even broke the windscreen of police vehicle. “People were just running in different directions. It was a horrible sight to behold. A human being burning alive and no one could help,” he said. Confirming the incident, police spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP) said several people have been arrested and investigations were ongoing. Oti confirmed that police patrol vehicle was vandalized and three cops injured while trying to rescue the victims. He said: “The police rescued the conductor from near death. From his account, trouble started after the driver told passengers he could not proceed to Oshodi. He said the driver appealed to the passengers and offered to refund some of their fare but some of the passengers turned down the offer. “An argument soon led to a fight and in the process, hoodlums hijacked the situation. They set the driver and conductor ablaze. The driver was badly burnt as of the time they were rescued. He was rushed to LUTH where he was confirmed dead. “We have made a number of arrests and investigation is ongoing. It is true that the police suffered a lot while trying to rescue the victims. About three policemen sustained injuries and their vehicle windscreen was shattered. “We do not have any report that someone was stabbed to death or even stabbed. Although the conductor said his driver used a knife to defend himself at a point, no one has come forward to report a death or injury arising from stabbing in that axis. “The command frowns at jungle justice. Lagosians have been warned to desist from such practices. Why should anyone set another human being ablaze and then prevent officials of government from rescuing the victims? The hoodlums practically prevented the police and fire service from proceeding to the location in order to douse the flame.” 