The controversy over the sequence of elections has been on the front-burner since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) released the timetable for the 2019 general elections. ONYEDI OJIABOR reports that the dust kicked up by the reordering of the timetable by the National Assembly will take some time to settle. The crisis of election sequence tearing the political class apart may not be unexpected. The discordant voices trailing the amendment of the Electoral Act which engendered the crisis of confidence in the polity is also not new. What may be new is whether the controversial amendment that altered the order of elections will stay or not. Observers say the amendment is, no doubt, one alteration of the Electoral Act that is bound to change the course of elections in the country, whichever way it goes. It all started with the adoption of the conference report of the two chambers of the National Assembly which gave nod to change established election sequence in the country. The amendment placed the National Assembly election first, followed by governorship and House of Assembly election. The presidential poll, which hitherto was first, was placed last in the order of elections. The new order adopted by the Eighth National Assembly was first proposed by the Fourth National Assembly in the 2002 Electoral Bill. It was later amended by merging the presidential and National Assembly elections. The National Assembly conference committee on Electoral Act (amendment) Bill which met in Abuja insisted that the reordered sequence, which places the presidential election last, is the best for the country. In its amendments to the 2010 Electoral Act, the House of Representatives Committee on Electoral Act (amendment) Bill had included Section 25(1) into the Act by reordering the sequence of the elections to start with the National Assembly, followed by governorship and state assembly election before the presidential election. INEC fixed presidential and National Assembly elections for Saturday, February 16, 2019 and governorship and State Assembly elections on Saturday, March 2, 2019. The National Assembly, however, changed the arrangement, demanding that the National Assembly elections come first and the presidential poll last. Adopting the reordered sequence as contained in the House of Representatives version of the amended Electoral Act, the Chairman of the joint committee, Senator Suleiman Nazif (Bauchi North), put it to a voice vote. The 12-member committee unanimously answered in the affirmative to pave the way for the report to be presented to the two chambers for final ratification. Apparently fearing a backlash, Senator Nazif promptly declared that the bill did not in any way violate any provisions of Section 76 of the 1999 Constitution which empowered INEC to fix dates and conduct elections. To him, the provisions that empowered INEC to fix dates and to conduct elections were duplicated in the bill, just as the power that confers on the National Assembly by Section 4, sub-Section 2 of the Constitution were exercised in relation to rescheduling of elections. Nazif said: “For the avoidance of doubt, this bill with the inclusion of Section 25(1) which makes provision for sequence of election different from the one earlier rolled out by INEC has not in any way violated any provisions of the laws governing the operations of the electoral body.” Chairman, House Committee on INEC, Edward Pwajok, on his own said what the House did and concurred to by the Senate was very necessary in giving credibility to the electoral process in the country. Pwajok said: “The sequence of election provision in the bill is not targeted at anybody but aimed at further giving credibility to the electoral process by way of giving the electorate the opportunity to vote based on individual qualities of candidates vying for National Assembly seat. “On whether it would be assented to or not by the President, as far as we are concerned, remains in the realm of conjuncture for now but if such eventually happens, we will know how to cross the bridge.” Other members of the committee include; Senator Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central), Gilbert Nnaji (Enugu East), Abiodun Olujimi (Ekiti South), Peter Nwaoboshi (Delta North). Before the adoption, Senate President Bukola Saraki told his colleagues to remember that they would not be senators forever. He said: “We will come and go, but the institution will stay. We need to come up with laws that will build strong institutions. “Let us not be personal about this. Let us behave like statesmen. We have procedures on some of these things. There are many bills we have passed. If there are issues, there are mechanisms we can use to resolve them.’’  But as events unfolded, those who thought the amendment was a done deal when the conference report was adopted may have to think again as its adoption unsettled the upper chamber. The acrimony, bickering and internal strife could not be contained even at a closed session of the chamber. Ten members of the chamber, led by Senator Abdullahi Adamu, stormed out of the chamber to open what appeared a Pandora’s Box of crisis. The 10 senators left nobody in doubt about their opposition to the amendment. At a news conference, they vowed that the amendment would not stand. To them, the alteration was targeted at President Muhammadu Buhari’s electoral success in 2019. The other senators in Adamu’s camp are: Ovie Omo-Agege, Abu Ibrahim, Benjamin Uwajumogu, Ali Wakil, Abdullahi Gumel, Binta Masi Garba, Yahaya Abdullahi, Andrew Uchendu and Umaru Kurfi. Omo-Agege went further to say that the dissenters who were ready to do battle to restore the old order were actually 59. The Delta Central senator was so sure of the number of those opposed to the amendment that he asked those who may be in doubt to take the figure to “bank.” Not to be out-played in its own game, the leadership of the senate has not folded its hands. The leadership appears set to weather the storm even if it means whipping dissenters into line. Those tagged “senate undertakers” positioned in various key committees, are also said to be waiting on the wings to do in “recalcitrant and intractable” senators. The recommendation of dissenting senators for investigation, observers say, has given the inclination that there might be more to the amendment than meets the eye. Senator Omo-Agege has not only been recommended to face the Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions committee for allegedly over shooting his bound. Before Omo-Agege could face what has been described as “foreclosed investigation”, the election sequence crisis has already consumed its first casualty. Senator Adamu, a former Nasarawa State governor, perceived as the ring leader of the “rebels in the chamber”, has been hit in a hard way. Not only has Adamu, a ranking senator, been unceremoniously sacked as the chairman of the Northern Senators’ Forum, the Nasarawa West Senator was accused of mismanaging N70 million belonging to the forum. The sack of Adamu and the recommendation of Omo-Agege to face investigation, some say, is just the precursor of what is to come. Relying on a letter said to have been endorsed by 49 members of the forum, counter-signed by Senator Dino Melaye, the forum’s spokesman, Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu announced Adamu’s removal as chairman of the forum for alleged “financial mismanagement and misadministration.” Adamu, a third-time senator and an ally of President Buhari in the Senate, was replaced by Senator Aliyu Wamakko (Sokoto North). A letter addressed to the “The President of the Senate, Federal Republic of Nigeria,” detailed reasons for Adamu’s removal. Entitled: “Announcement of removal of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as chairman, Northern Senators’ Forum” the removal read in part: “This is to inform the Senate that the majority signatories of members of the Northern Senators Forum; we have removed Senator Abdullahi Adamu as chairman of the Northern Senators Forum for financial mismanagement and misadministration. “We announce his replacement with Senator Aliyu Wamakko immediately. Find the attached names and signatories of members.” Melaye signed the letter on behalf of the Northern Senators Forum.” At a news conference by the Chairman, Senate Committee on Media & Public Affairs, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi, accompanied by senators Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central) and Isah Hamman Misau (Bauchi Central), the drama of Adamu’s removal further played out. A comical vent was added to allegation as if the alleged mismanagement of N70 million was not troubling enough. Asked to explain the meaning of “financial mismanagement and misadministration” levelled against Adamu, Sani took the stage to throw more light on the allegation. The Kaduna Central lawmaker said: “Abdullahi Adamu is a distinguished senator and an elder statesman. There are some things that some of my colleagues cannot say but I’m not used to holding back what is the truth. “When we resumed as senators, when we assumed office, Senator Ahmed Lawan (Senate Leader) tendered the sum of N70 million to the Eighth Senate that is, N70 million was monies gathered by Northern Senators from the Seventh Senate. So, it was handed over to the Senators from Northern Nigeria under the Eighth Senate. “The rumours going round whether it is true, but I believe most of the senators know is the fact, there were allegations that some monkeys raided the farm house of some of the executives in Northern Senators Forum and carted away some of these monies. “I think this country is becoming a huge joke, first of all, it was the rodent that drove away the President; we now have snakes consuming about N36 million; and now, you have monkeys carting away N70 million from a farm house.” Apparently to mitigate already bad situation, Sani underscored the need for Adamu to speak on the issue, saying: “I support that it is very important that the distinguished senator who is a respected elder statesman, should be around to protect and defend his integrity.” Melaye said: “All I will just say is simple; that the decision of the majority of the Northern Senators’ Forum is that they want to have a change of leadership. “The allegations investigated and found out to be true are that there was financial mismanagement; that monies were spent without the consent of members and members of the Executive were not contacted; and that the organisation is becoming moribund and ineffective. “We are not doing the things that we are supposed to do and we need to inject some vibrancy into the organisation, and that many positions have been taken without consulting with the Exco and other members of the organisation.” Initial efforts to get Adamu’s side of the story were unsuccessful. He was said to have insisted that the time was not ripe for him to speak on the issue. Those in Adamu’s camp were not amused by the development. “The attack on Adamu is just the beginning. Information available to some of us is that all those who participated in the walkout to address the press on the amendment of the Electoral Act may not escape sanction one way or the other. Recall that Omo-Agege has been referred to the Ethics committee for investigation. His apology may not save him”, one of them declared. But the former governor broke his silence yesterday while addressing thousands of All Progressives Congress (APC) members and leaders from all wards in Nasarawa State who paid him a solidarity visit. He urged aggrieved APC National Assembly members to quit the ruling party instead of plotting against President Muhammadu Buhari. Adamu, who spoke in Keffi, berated APC senators and representatives for allegedly sitting on the fence in order to sabotage Buhari. According to him, such lawmakers “are cutting the umbilical cord between them and their party. Senator Ali Wakil, however could not hold back his frustration over the treatment meted to Adamu. The Bauchi State senator told the Senate in plenary that at no time did the northern senators’ forum met to resolve to sanction any of its leaders. Wakil said told his colleagues that neither the forum’s secretary, Senator Barau Jibrin nor Melaye called for a meeting where disciplinary issues were discussed. Wakil came short of declaring the sack of Adamu null and void but ended up asking the presiding officer to take a judicial notice of what he said. On the recommendation of Omo-Agege to face disciplinary committee, Melaye cited Order 14 of the Senate Standing Rules and prayed the chamber to refer Omo-Agege’s submission that President Buhari was that target of the amendment to the Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions committee to investigate the claim. Melaye said: “I am heavily worried. President Muhammadu Buhari is not only my party man. He is a president we all laboured to vote for. My colleague, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege addressed the media last week. He said the decision taken by this Senate is targeted at President Buhari. “I cannot be part of any group of persons to move against the President. The allegations are weighty. I followed President Buhari to 35 states of the Federation during the campaigns. “When I was following the President round the country, Omo-Agege was in the Labour Party. To now alleged and put the integrity of the Senate under check that the amendment was tailored towards the President is unheard of. It is in bad taste. “I want to ask that this statement made by Omo-Agege, among other statements, be investigated by the committee on Ethics, Privileges and Public Petitions. They need to find out if our actions were targeted at the President. Another interview was granted by the same senator.” Subjecting the prayer to a voice vote, the Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided over the session, said: “Melaye came under Order 14, is it the wish of the Senate that the issue be referred to the Ethics committee for investigation.” What followed was a near unanimous ‘aye.” In March 2017, Melaye raised a Point of Order against Mohammed Ali Ndume over alleged unsubstantiated claimed on the purchase of exotic car for the Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki and alleged certificate forgery by him (Melaye) Ndume was hurriedly investigated and eventually suspended for six months. It is not clear whether the Borno South lawmaker has fully recovered from the effect suspension. The implication of referring Omo-Agege’s comments to the Ethics Committee is to establish Omo-Agege’s claim. It may also be instructive to ask why Omo-Agege was singled out to face the committee especially when he is not the arrowhead of the group. However the Senator representing Katsina South, Abu Ibrahim, insisted that the amendment of the Electoral Act remained illegal, a waste of time and resources by the National Assembly. Ibrahim recalled that an attempt to reorder the sequence of 2019 elections which INEC has already decided cannot stand. He explained that by virtue of Section 75, 118, and item 15(a) of the 3rd schedule of the 1999 constitution, INEC is the only organ vested with powers to regulate, conduct, supervise, direct, organise and fix dates for elections in the offices of the President and his vice, governors and his deputy as well as the National and state assemblies. Ibrahim who is the Chairman, Senate Committee on Police Affairs, believes that “the purported amendment Act is purely an encroachment on the powers granted to INEC by the 1999 constitution more especially as INEC has already taken its decision on the same issues.” He went on: “In the haste to carry out their self-serving interest amendment on the matter, they have ignored those constitutional provision and previous court judgement by the Federal High Court and Federal Appeal Court on the same issues in 2002. “Specifically, an Act of National Assembly passed in the House of Representative and which was concurred by the Senate on 26/2/2002, was transmitted to the President on 24/6/2002 but was eventually refused assent by the then President Olusengun Obasanjo.” “However, on 26/9/2002, the House of Representative and Senate respectively, through a motion of veto, override the purportedly passed Act because 30 days had elapsed without the assent of the president to the bill. “INEC was aggrieved by that development and went to Federal Court in Abuja seeking declaration whether National Assembly can enact electoral Act on matters which INEC has adequate constitutional provisions to deal with such issues. “In its judgement, the Federal High Court held that the National Assembly Act passed by the two Houses but which was not assented to by the President was unconstitutional and illegal because it was an encroachment on the power vested in INEC by the 1999 constitution. “National Assembly not satisfied with the Federal High Court Judgment, went to Federal Appeal Court for further determination in its ruling on 29/11/2002 delivered by Justice George Adesola Oguntade, supported by two other Judges upheld the decision of the lower High Court and declared that the Electoral Act of 2002 encroached in the power vested on INEC by the 1999 Constitution. “Since the 2002 judgement has not yet been set aside by any superior court, the Federal High Court decision on the matter still subsists,” Ibrahim said. In his view, “unless and until it is set aside by a superior court order, any attempt to usurp the power of INEC on matters of elections is a waste of time and resources which the President will not honour with his assent.” The puzzles that must be unraveled are: why has it suddenly become imperative for the National Assembly to tinker with the sequence of elections? In whose interest is the reordering? Is the amendment actually targeted at President Buhari? 