Happenings at the seat of power in the last few weeks, to many Nigerians, are fast pointing to the beginning of cracks in the Presidency. Many Nigerians have continued to wonder if the ‘father’ – ‘son’ relationship between President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo is still intact. Severally in the past, the two leaders have maintained that the relationship between them is more than just ‘cordial’ but ‘father – son’ relationship. The good relationship was clearly exhibited when the President was on medical vacation for over 100 days in the United Kingdom last year. During the period, Osinbajo’s loyalty was total, which had never been seen between the past number one and number two citizens of the country. But one of the recent issues that is giving the impression that a division is fast taking place in the Villa, is last Tuesday’s reinstatement of the suspended Executive Secretary of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof. Usman Yusuf. Osinbajo, who was the Acting President when the President was in London last year, had approved through the Minister of Heath, Prof. Isaac Adewole, the suspension of Yusuf on 6th of July, 2017 over allegations of fraud. Yusuf, whose suspension was based on allegations of abuse of office, nepotism and insubordination, was accused of buying a brand new Toyota Sports Utility Vehicle with number plate, NHIS 12Y-01 FG, for N58m. The amount for the vehicle was said to be above his spending limit of N2.5m and without the express permission of the Health Minister. In total, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) was alleged to be investigating Yusuf for over N900 million fraud. Apart from being accused of awarding contracts to his cronies without following due process, Yusuf was also said to have favoured northern Muslims while many Christian southerners were often treated denied. In order to get to the bottom of the matter in line with the administration’s anti-graft battle, the EFCC and ICPC stepped in and began investigation on the matter. But before they could finish their investigations and make their findings public, a letter from the office of the Chief of Staff to the President, Abba Kyari, reinstated Yusuf last Tuesday. Many Nigerians, who noted that the government, as at last weekend, was yet to disown the Kyari’s letter or disown the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice, Malami Abubakar, over recall to service of former Chairman of the Presidential Task Force on Pension Reforms, Abdulraheed Maina, have continued to criticised the latest action by Kyari. Apart from claiming that the government is paying lip service to the fight against corruption, they believe that some northerners in the good books of the President are becoming untouchable irrespective of fraudulent allegations leveled against them. In a statement last Wednesday, the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCSN) signed by its Secretary-General, Alade Lawal, said “This is one intervention too many and as such Mr. President should allow Yusuf to retire from service to have time to run his personal business. How can a government official being investigated for a whopping sum of N919m fraud by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission be reinstated by the government that came to power promising to sanitise the system? “This is very unfortunate. We, therefore, urge President Buhari to rescind his action and allow Prof. Yusuf to leave the system in peace. “Thus, if Prof. Yusuf resumes as the Executive Secretary of NHIS, it will amount to passing a vote of no confidence on the Minister. “What type of a government are we claiming to be running that anyone who is close to the President will become lawless, will not obey public service rules, nor report to the supervisory Minister and running a government agency as his personal estate because he is close to the powers-that-be? “This is the type of action that continues to give the likes of the United States President, Donald Trump, the effrontery to be deriding Africa and its leaders. ”The Investigative Panel set up by the Minister of Health to look into the alleged atrocities of Prof. Yusuf, including engagement of a consultancy firm in which he had vested interest to be ripping off the NHIS is a serious public demeanour that should not be condoned. ”It is also on record that Prof. Yusuf had recruited persons from his primordial constituency who are on Grade Level 10 in the State Public Service and imposed them on the staff of the NHIS by placing them on Grade Level 15 and above. ”As of the time of going to the press, the workers in the NHIS have become restive thereby setting the tone for a series of trade union actions that will be deployed if Yusuf is eventually reinstated.” he added Based on the reinstatement, Constitutional and Human Rights lawyer Mike Ozekhome (SAN) said “This is one more exemplication of the truism that this government fights corruption within the government with sweet – smelling Sasarobia perfume while it fights corruption against opponents and critics of government with a powerful insecticide. “That is why the government will order the arrest of Kassim Afegbua for merely advising the President not to seek re-election. “That is why a whole Minister will remove a person after a panel of enquiry has found the person culpable and the President will reinstate that person. “It shows again and again the issue of corruption being fought is a ruse to hoodwink the unwary and ignorant members of the society. No corruption is being fought at all.” he stated The seemingly tribalistic trend, according these Nigerians, is fast encouraging impunity and in-subordinations in the system. Workers union at the NHIS has also protested last week against the reinstatement of Yusuf. Also some Nigerians have started to warn the Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun, (a Southerner), whose Ministry has supervisory role over the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) headed by Hameed Ali (a Northerner), not to expect different treatment from what Adewole experienced in his ministry and NHIS. It is really hoped that all Nigerians will be able to see clearly the current fight against corruption to be non-selective, non-bias, and without any ethnic or religious consideration. Nobody, irrespective of his or her position or state of origin, or closeness to the power-that-be should be above the law. The same set of law in the same circumstances or situations should be applied to all Nigerian, irrespective of ethnic or religious factors. Also upturning the decision of the Acting President, when he was in the saddle, without conclusion of investigations to give Yusuf a clean bill, is definitely sending a wrong signal to Nigerians, if the Presidency is still one united family. Only a united Presidency can stand together and withstand the storm coming in 2019. 