•FG invokes no work, no pay policy There are indications the ongoing strike by non-teaching staff of universities may not end soon. It was gathered the federal government has concluded plans to invoke the no work, no pay policy despite efforts by the Senate to mediate in the industrial face-off. Non-teaching staff of universities have been on strike since December 4, 2017 over failure by government to implement the agreement signed by both parties in September 2017 as well as the Memorandum of Understanding(MoU) signed by the unions and government in February 2017. The three non-teaching staff union under the auspices of the Joint Action Committee comprises the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), the Non Academic Staff Union (NASU) and the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT). Our correspondent gathered exclusively that the Minister of Labour, Senator Chris Ngige, who is the Chief Conciliator in all industrial disputes,  has written to the Federal Ministry of Education to invoke the no work, no pay policy on the striking workers, describing their action as illegal. The minister last year warned that government will invoke the policy on striking workers as it will no longer fold its hands and watch workers embark on strike at will to disrupt government programmes. The letter from the Minister of Labour may jeopardise efforts of the National Assembly to intervene and resolve the matter amicably. Although our correspondent could not gain access to a copy of the letter, a competent source close to the minister confirmed the development. The source said:  “Yes, the minister has written to the Ministry of Education as well as the Ministry of Health to invoke the no work, no pay policy on striking workers. “I don’t have the details of the letter. But I can confirm to you that the letter has already been dispatched to the relevant ministries.” When contacted, National Chairman of the Joint Action Committee of the non-teaching staff and President of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Comrade Samson Ugokwe, said the unions were yet to be informed about the existence of such a letter. “We consider that as a rumour because we have not been informed. We have official means of communication with the ministry and they have not informed us. “We have been talking with the ministry of education. But when they inform us about the directives, we will then know how to handle it. “For now, we will assume that such a letter does not exist because if it does exist, we will know what to do.” General Secretary of the Non Academic Staff Union (NASU) and Deputy President of the NLC, Comrade Peters Adeyemi, described it as an act of intimidation against workers to abandon their legitimate demands. Adeyemi, who accused the minister of abuse of power and taking sides with the academic staff against the non-teaching staff, said that it was ridiculous for Ngige, who has the responsibility to ensure industrial harmony, to suddenly declare the strike as illegal after almost 60 days. “If the minister feels that this strike is illegal, let him go to court. We are not going to be intimidated about that,” he declared. 