FT: Man Utd 2-1 Chelsea Jose Mourinho and Lukaku has granted interview just after they defeated Chelsea 2-1 at Old Trafford on Sunday afternoon. While Mourinho his side beat a good Chelsea side Lukaku feel they hard to wonj hard for the victory. They both granted SkySport the interview Man Utd 2-1 Chelsea Manchester United Manchester United Jose Mourinho speaking to Sky Sports: “We beat a fantastic team, for some reason they were the champions last season, and for some reason they played well against Barcelona, and for some reason they started the game very well. So, we beat a very good team, we had to be organised, everybody had to follow the game plan and have spirit. We beat a very good team. “They started very well and when they hit the post, I was looking at my players, what can we do, who can I blame, but it was such a lovely move, we couldn’t stop it. “But we found a way to play against them, and we had a good control of Eden Hazard. Willian is an amazing player and he killed us with the goal. But we had more control of the game than them, without creating lots of chances.” Manchester United goalscorer Romelu Lukaku: “We had to work really hard for that win, we were well prepared and we we did our best today. “At the end of the day I just want to work hard for the team, and if I improve I’m really satisfied.” Does the critisim affect you? “Not really. I always work hard, so to get the three points is great for us.” Teammate Scott McTominay added: “I’m fearless, and I just want to get on the pitch as much as I can now. They’ve got brilliant players all over the pitch but I think everyone of us put in a massive shift today. “When we went behind, we had to chase the game a bit. But in the second half we were completely in control. “I’m really enjoying my football at the moment, it’s great to be playing in the Premier League and the Champions League regularly, but at the end of the day it’s a really good three points for the team.” Coming from behind after Willian’s opener. Lukaku scored the leveller and set up the winner for Lingard. United move back up to second place. Chelsea remain outside the top four. Stay tuned for reaction and highlights.  See match commentaries below GOAL – Man Utd 2-1 Chelsea Jesse Lingard That will do it! Romelu Lukaku steps up not just with a vital goal but how about an assist, too? He bullies his way into space on the right wing, cuts inside and drifts a left-footed cross into the box. It’s the perfect height to attack and Jesse Lingard’srun from deep is doing just that. Lingard steers the ball home, a cushioned, composed header. MAN UTD 1-1 CHELSEA HT: If this was a boxing match, Chelsea would be ahead of points but United have been their usual ruthless self. Willian powered his team in front but Lukaku silenced the doubters with a tidy finish. How they Scored the Goals Romelu Lukaku Romelu Lukaku takes the chance when it matters! It’s a lovely goal. First of all Lukaku battles brilliantly to keep possession, then there is a quick three or four passes to take out the Chelsea bodies blocking the path to goal. Anthony Martial takes it in and lays off to Lukaku running into the box and the big man plants the ball home. Composure 20. What’s that about struggling in the big moments?  Willian Chaos at the back as Chelsea counter quickly from United’s free-kick and Eden Hazard totally bamboozles the home defence, spinning a through ball forward for Willian to chase. Confusion as to who should be tracking him – there is nobody there and the Brazilian has so much space as he drives towards goal. Willian takes a peek at David de Gea and smashes a drive beyond the keeper. You have to say, Chelsea deserve it.  