The National Council of States on Thursday assured Nigerians that the end of the perennial farmers/herdsmen clashes in different parts of the country was in sight. The Council was briefed by the National Security Adviser Babagana Mongunu on the security situation in the country. Gov. Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa told newsmen that council decided to segment and deal with the matter based on the peculiarities of states. ”Farmers and herdsmen clashes were discussed thoroughly and we learnt that this takes three dimensions. “First, is the real farmers/herdsmen clash where normal herdsmen move around with cattle and get into farmers’ land and eat up their crops. “In some situations it is pure banditry; some of the Fulanis that are not herders attack, steal and kidnap and that has to be defined as such. “Some of them rustle cattle and move into the deep forests that we have and because of the thickness of the forest, responses are usually very difficult. “This was also discussed today and solutions were proffered on how to get deep into the forest to check those bandits that hide in the thickness of the forest and continue to commit havoc. “The third aspect that we usually classify as farmers/herdsmen clashes is also the settlers and indigenes clashes, like in the Southern Kaduna. “Some migrant farmers or herders stay in an environment for too long and when you have such clashes they are also being called farmers/herdsmen clashes.’’ The governor said that Agriculture Minister Audu Ogbe gave suggestions on how to solve the real farmers and herdsmen clashes involving actual migrating herdsmen. He said that the ministers paper ranged from states which had already gazetted routes and grazing reserves to ensure that herdsmen and farmers could live in harmony. He added that for states without designated grazing reserves and have intention to create such, the state would ensure that the livestock producers stayed in a particular place with the support of the Federal Government.  According to Badaru, Kaduna state government had visited Denmark, taking along Fulani leaders, and understudied its livestock production with the aim of establishing same in the country. “We believe it is profitable and possible and those states that would want to key into this option will key into it. “Generally, what we believe is that every state has its peculiar problems, peculiar situations and each state will be analysed and solutions proffered so that this farmers/herdsmen clashes will be a thing of the past,’’ he said. Badaru noted that with the commitment and zeal displayed by the Council as well as the commitment of the governors to work together, the problem would soon be over. He stated that the council also deliberated on ​how to ​enrol more children in school, engage youths in profitable agriculture and create more employment opportunities. He said that challenges ​being ​faced by the military, police and other agencies were ​also ​discussed and it was expected that all would be well. On Niger Delta, Badaru said ​there was a decision to have sustained peace in the region to curb militancy​.
​
​Also commenting on the ​​recent Yobe school abduction, the governor said though there was no comprehensive report, the council ​had ​decided ​that ​security ​should be tightened around vulnerable schools​. (NAN)