The Nigerian Society of Engineers (NSE), Ibadan Branch have raised an alarm that foreigners are fast taking over their jobs vowing to resist this development with all arsenals at their disposal. Accusing fingers are being pointed specifically at Chinese, Lebanese and such other foreign nationals who often claim to be expatriates doing the job which many Nigerian engineers have the expertise and skills to do. Addressing a press conference in Ibadan, Oyo State capital, the Chairman, Nigerian Society of Engineers, Ibadan Branch, Engr. (Prince) Adedamola Falade-Fatila asserted saying “there is no denying the fact that Nigerian engineers, as at today, have not been properly and fully taking their pride of place in nation building and infrastructure development of the country, and this is quite saddening. “This is not where we should be.  Foreigners, notably Chinese, Lebanese, etc. have taken over virtually all these jobs, even the obstinate part of these projects.” Engr. Falade-Fatila who was recently inducted as the 25th Ibadan branch chairman, while briefing journalists as part of activities heralding the 2018 Engineering Week of the branch, remarked that “the NSE, Ibadan Branch, known as the Premier Branch or the mother of all branches, would take up this challenge and pursue it.” He said: “The Nigerian Society of Engineers, Ibadan Branch, under my leadership, will pursue vigorously everything it will take for Nigerian engineers to own the engineering profession in the country. We will engage government more meaningfully to possibly enact laws that will empower the engineers more and give back to Nigerian engineers what is rightfully due to them. It is not the best that can happen to Nigerian engineers for us to sit back in our homes or at the Secretariat, fold our arms while foreigners – Chinese, Lebanese, etc. take over virtually all these jobs, even the obstinate part of these projects. It is so unfortunate. No nation develops meaningfully this way. “And so it is one of my visions, as Chairman of this Branch at this time, to do everything we can to engage government at all levels to take our rights back. It is my belief that if we do this in Ibadan, someone does same in Osogbo, we replicate it in Yenagoa, Kafanchan, Owerri, etc., before you know it, the fire will go round and thing will improve for the engineers.” The NSE Chairman however commended the Federal Government on the recently signed Presidential Executive Order 5 which deals with planning and execution of projects and promotion of Nigerian Content in the award of contracts on Science, Engineering and Technology saying it is like a dream come true. He however enjoined Government to manifest the will and zeal required to see it to fruition. He said: “For us at the Nigerian Society of Engineers, Ibadan Branch, it is long overdue. But it is indeed a laudable achievement for the Federal Government of Nigeria as the NSE has always been canvassing for the Nigerian content. It gives us an assurance or some level of confidence that indeed the government is listening to the engineers. It is only our prayer that the Government will back it up with the will and every zeal that is needed to see it to fruition. The Government should not only say it, but should walk the talk.” 