•As NCC reportedly annuls return of Okoroji Following the ongoing leadership tussle between supporters of Chief Tony Okoroji and Mr. Efe Omorogbe in the Copyright Society of Nigeria, COSON, the Association of Music Artiste Managers of Nigeria, AMAMN, has said the time is ripe to mend fences. This was just as reports say the Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) has annulled the return of Okoroji as Chairman of the society. Okoroji was returned as COSON chairman at an extraordinary general meeting held on December 19, 2017, days after Efe Omorogbe was installed by the board of COSON. Qed.ng reports that the annulment is contained in a letter dated February 19, 2018 with reference number NCC/DG/I/66 signed by the commission’s Director General, Afam Ezekude. The regulatory body added that it will act within its oversight function to examine the books of COSON and advise as appropriate. According to a statement from AMAMN, the association, on a fact-finding mission, met on Tuesday, February 13, 2018 with Chief Tony Okoroji and his team. A week later, it met with Efe Omorogbe and Mr. Joel Ajayi on ways to resolve the ongoing crisis. It says: “Despite the fact that Mr. Efe Omorogbe is not only a bona fide member, but a founding member of our association, we decided to adhere to the principles of “Audi Alterem Partem” (let the other side be heard as well) and give both sides a chance to present the facts as they see it.” The association therefore implores both parties to comply with the position of the Nigerian Copyrights Commission (NCC) in the matter. “The regulator has finally spoken and we are grateful.  We implore all parties to please adhere to the ruling of the NCC and allow the proposed probe and forensic audit that the NCC has asked to be carried out. “As a body, we have resolved to follow this situation to a legal and logical conclusion and ask all artiste managers, to join in this agitation. We don’t get paid if our clients don’t get paid; let us therefore secure the rights and livelihood of our clients.” AMAMN says.