No fewer than 3,000 repentant bandits have surrendered their arms at the instance of the state’s Dialogue, Reconciliation and Disarmament Committee, Deputy Governor Ibrahim Wakkala said yesterday. Wakkala who is the committee chairman spoke in Gusau at an interactive session with the Governor Dave Umahi-led National Economic Council (NEC) Committee on Farmers/Herdsmen Clashes. The NEC committee was in Zamfara on a fact-finding mission over insecurity challenges faced by the state where 31 people were killed by hoodlums during a recent attack on some villages. The deputy governor said that the committee also succeeded in restoring peace and stability among communities in the state. “With these efforts, our communities are now leaving peacefully and cooperating with security agencies in sustaining peace in the state,” he said. “Our economic activities at local communities who were displaced are now improved, our local markets are now functioning.” The deputy governor commended the state government, security agencies and traditional rulers and all other stakeholders for their efforts. Also exchanging views with the visiting committee members, the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Alhaji Sanusi Rikiji, said that 1,321 people have been killed and 1,881 others injured in bandits attacks in the state over the last seven years. One hundred and eighty-five cars and motorcycles were lost to the attacks during the same period, he said. Rikiji, who is the Chairman of the state government Damage, Assessment and Relief Committee, added that over 10,000 cattle were lost to rustling and 2,688 hectares of farm lands and 10,000 houses were destroyed within the period under review. The speaker said the state government established the committee to ascertain the number of dead and injured persons as well as properties lost to banditry and cattle rustling with the aim of assisting victims. “Within the period under review, the state government has, through the committee, spent huge amount of money in providing cash, food items, as well as assistance to families of deceased, and sponsoring medical bills to victims of disasters in the state,” he said. In his remarks, Gov. Abdul’aziz Yari urged the federal government to address the problems of shortage of security personnel in the state which he described as the major challenge to government efforts in tackling insecurity in the state. He said the state, with over four million people, has only 2,000 policemen, 315 soldiers, 400 mobile policemen and less than 100 Air Force personnel which he described as ‘highly inadequate’. In his response, the Chairman of the visiting committee and Ebonyi State Governor, Chief Dave Umahi, thanked the state government and all stakeholders who contributed during the meeting. He said that the committee had identified major issues concerning security challenges in the state and would present its findings to the federal government for further actions. Various stakeholders including farmers/herdsmen associations, women groups, members of the National Assembly, Council of Ulama and vigilance groups presented papers at the meeting. 