Nigerians and reporters have been advised not to discriminate against people suffering from mental illness. They spoke at a workshop for reporters and members of the Suicide Research and Prevention Initiative (SURPIN) of Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), Idi Araba. They said the workshop was aimed at reducing the rising rate of suicide across the country. The experts, which included Dr Babatunde Fadipe, Dr Bola Ola, Dr Peters Nubi, Dr Raphael E. Ogbolu and Dr Oladipo A. Adepoju, Dr Alero and Miss Titi Tade of LUTH’s Socia Welfare Unit praised LUTH’s SURPIN, saying it is the first of its kind. Stigma, the experts said, makes sufferers of mental illness to be maltreated by friends, relatives, neighbours and employers. It has aggravated their rejection, loneliness and depression among those with the illness, they said. They also said those with the condition are often denied participation in family life, normal social networks and productive employment. According to the psychiatrists, stigma can be defined as a mark of shame, disgrace or disapproval, which results in an individual being shunned or rejected by others. The stigma associated with mental illness is strong, but increases more if an individual’s behaviour differs from that of the ‘norm’, they added. Stigma, especially the one associated with mental illness, they said, has a negative effect on any mentally ill person’s recovery, ability to access services, the type of treatment and level of support received and acceptance in the community. Rejection of people with mental illness, they said, also affects the family and caretakers of the mentally ill person and leads to isolation and humiliation. Major causes of stigma, according to them, are myths, misconceptions and negative stereotypes about mental illness. They said the number one factor, which drives suicide or mental illness, is stigma, and that it could be reduced by  talking about mental illness in the community. It could also be reduced by providing accurate information on the causes, prevalence, course and effects of mental illness and countering the negative stereotypes and misconceptions surrounding mental illness. Providing support and treatment services, which enable sufferers to participate in community activities and ensuring the existence of a legislation to reduce discrimination in the workplace, access to health and social community services, is another way of reduce the stigma. The experts pointed out that mental illness have both economic and diminishing effects on the society. This, according to them, is because it affects the thinking of the individual and diminishes his or her social role and productivity. Also, they said mental illnesses could disable one and last for many years, as they take could reduce the emotional and socio-economic capabilities of relatives, who care for sufferers, especially when the health system is unable to offer treatment and support at an early stage. The experts listed some of the  costs to include lost production from premature deaths caused by suicide (which most times are under reported, hence, generally equals to and greater than deaths from road accidents); loss of production from people with mental illness, who are unable to work; loss of productivity from family members caring for the mentally-ill person, reduced productivity from people who are ill while at work and cost of accidents by people who are psychologically disturbed, especially dangerous in people like train drivers, airline pilots and factory workers. Also, supporting dependants of the mentally ill persons, financial costs for families caring for the mentally-ill persons, unemployment, alienation, and crime in young people whose childhood problems, e.g., depression, behaviour disorder, were not sufficiently well addressed  to benefit from the education available, poor cognitive development in the children of mentally ill parents, and the emotional burden and diminished quality of life for family members.