POP stars Tiwa Savage and Wande Coal gave spectacular performances at the Adron Homes Valentine’s Day party which held at the Grandeur event centre, Ikeja, Lagos, last penultimate Wednesday. The kicked off at about 7pm with a live band performance before proceeding into a gaming session among some of the audience. Black Diamond Record’s CEO Wande Coal came on stage and rolled out a mix of some of his songs on the ‘Mushin 2 Mohits’ album, down to his latest single “Turkey Nla”. Guests at the event couldn’t contain their excitement as they trooped to the front of the stage to dance and take pictures of the Asimapeyin crooner. Just after Wande’s performance, Mavin Record’s female lead, Tiwa Savage came on stage to wow the audience with her soothing voice. Dressed in a black ensemble, the gorgeous-looking singer performed her various hits back to back with dancers giving pet to her show. Actress and comedienne, Helen Paul gave a select audience a task to play a drama scene about valentine. The winners – a male and female – won N50, 000 each. CEO of Adron Homes, Oba Odetola Emmanuel King, during his speech, stressed that love should also go along with investment. He said while Valentine is a day to celebrate love, lovers should also remember to invest in landed properties and leave something worthwhile behind for the children. He added that a house that sold for 20million few years back is now valued at over N50million, urging all not to delay their plan to invest. Adron Homes’ ambassador Faithia Williams also urged people to invest in landed property, revealing that her personal house is near completion. “I have my own house I am building now, very soon I will invite you all to come celebrate with me,” she said. Comedian Seyi Law also didn’t disappoint in the course of doing what he knows how to do best. The comedian who co-hosted the event with Helen Paul cracked up the audience with hilarious jokes. Other celebrities spotted at the event include; Saidi Balogun and DJ Big N.