Arsenal 0-3 Man City All over at Wembley, it has been for the last half an hour. Manchester City swat Arsenal aside to win the Carabao Cup. It is Pep Guardiola’s first trophy as manager. You would expect a few more to follow The Manchester City fans waving their blue flags at Wembley. This is going to be a procession for their side. Still over 20 minutes remaining. Vincent Kompany First trophy incoming for Pep Guardiola. Vincent Kompany wins the corner and pokes home Manchester City’s second goal himself. Kevin de Bruyne plays a low pass to Ilkay Gundogan on the edge of the box, the German shoots first time but the ball is diverted into the net by a clever Kompany finish. The Belgian’s first goal since May and what a time to get it. He wheels away in celebrating in front of his own fans. Sergio Aguero BBC Claudio Bravo assist. Embarrassing defending from Arsenal and Manchester City take the lead. After that Mesut Ozil free-kick, goalkeeper Bravo plonks the ball down and pumps it up field. Sergio Aguero nudges Shkodran Mustafi off the ball in a challenge, races through into the box and clips a gorgeous finish over the onrushing David Ospina for the opener. City goal number 199 for the Argentine. Arsenal 0-1 Man City Sergio Aguero’s goal the difference at the interval.  GOAL! ARSENAL 0-1 MAN CITY (Aguero, 19) Simple as you like for City. It’s awful defending from Mustafi, who misjudges Bravo’s goal kick. Is there a nudge from Aguero? It looks like there’s not much in it and the ball goes over the defender’s head. Aguero’s in on goal. Ospina comes off his line and the striker lifts the ball over the goalkeeper and into the back of the net. Sergio Aguero BBC Claudio Bravo assist. Embarrassing defending from Arsenal and Manchester City take the lead. After that Mesut Ozil free-kick, goalkeeper Bravo plonks the ball down and pumps it up field. Sergio Aguero nudges Shkodran Mustafi off the ball in a challenge, races through into the box and clips a gorgeous finish over the onrushing David Ospina for the opener. City goal number 199 for the Argentine. 