GE Power and Marinus Energy has unveiled a pilot project to capture Isopentane gas to generate electricity. The Atuabo Waste-to-Power Independent Power Project will be the first in sub-Saharan Africa to use Isopentane gas, which will run on GE’s latest TM2500 gas turbines. The Isopentane gas would have been flared. Strategic Advisor of Marinus Energy, Mr. Fred Asamany, said: “Not only is the Atuabo waste-to-power plant enabling our company to lead in innovative energy solutions in Ghana, but by using a fuel source which would otherwise have been flared as waste, we are further reducing emissions and costs. This is good for our business, the climate and eliminates the potential environmental hazards facing the local community. GE is offering an innovative solution which gives us the confidence to move from pilot to commercial operations.” In the first phase, Atuabo will convert the Isopentane fuel into to about 25 megawatts (Mw), generating enough electricity to supply power to more than 100,000 Ghanaian households. As additional gas is brought onshore, the plant is expected to add about 100Mw. Additional Isopentane fuel will eventually be stripped off an offshore gas supply and processed at Atuabo by the Ghana National Gas Company. The gas turbine will start on lean gas and transfer to the Isopentane mix over time, and the power plant is intended to operate at base load throughout its life. “The TM2500 unit will provide unrivalled speed to deployment and flexibility to support the immediate needs of our customer – Marinus Energy, and then seamlessly transition to deliver capacity over the long term as they expand their operations,” said Leslie Nelson, Chief Executive Officer of GE’s Gas Power Systems in Sub-Saharan Africa. The Atuabo project will add yet another TM2500 gas turbine to the existing fleet of ten units in the country earlier deployed in 2016,” Nelso added. With over 200 units deployed and over five million operating hours, GE’s TM2500 has proven flexibility can help bridge the power gap for short-and long-term energy planning, stabilise the grid, or reach and power remote locations. The TM2500 mobile power plant – a trailer-mounted gas turbine generator and containerised balance of plant – can be relocated to other power plants, and maintenance outages, or to remote areas. It can also achieve full power within 10 minutes, making it ideal for providing a base-load bridge to power installations or generating backup power for factories and industries. Last year, GE released several announcements reinforcing its commitments to strengthening the power sector in Ghana. The 400Mw Bridge power project will be the first LPG fired power plant in Africa and the largest LPG fired power plant in the world, while the 200Mw Amandi power plant will be one of the most efficient power plants in the country and will generate the power needed to supply more than one million Ghanaian homes. In addition, GE will set up an M&D (Monitoring and Diagnostics) centre in Ivory Coast which will provide the digital data and analytics service to improve the performance of GE equipment in the region.