The Warri Southwest Political Alliance has attributed the need for justice, equity and lasting peace in the oil-rich Warri Southwest local government area of Delta State as the reasons it is backing Ogbe-Ijoh leader, Chief Favour Izoukumor in the race for the Delta State House of Assembly. Speaking with The Nation shortly after massive rally for the re-election of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in Warri, the National coordinator of WSWPA, Comrade Solomon Eyione, said Izoukumor has proven himself as a public-spirited politician. He said, “We want to unequivocally move a motion for endorsement of Chief Izuokumor for the House of Assembly seat in Warri. We have strong confidence in his ability and pedigree as a genuine lover of the people and one who would use his seat to better the lives of people of the constituent irrespective of tribe.” Other members of the group, comprising both Ijaw and Itsekiri of Warri South-West council area, touted Izoukumor’s “sterling performance as the current Commissioner Representing Ijaw ethnic nationality” in the Delta State Oil Producing Areas Development Commission. They therefore urged him to throw his hat into the ring for the 2019 House of Assembly election in the state, stressing that the group was solidly behind him as it is behind the Okowa/Otuaro re-election bid. Eyione explained: “WSWP is a socio-political organization geared towards bringing the Ijaws and Itsekiris in Warri South West local government areatogether, with the supreme aim of adopting, endorsing and working for the election of credible personalities and/or candidates into political offices in the local government, Senatorial district as well as Delta state. “We want to unequivocally say that in spite of the economic recession and paucity of funds for governance, Sen. Ifeanyi Okowa and his deputy, Barr. Kingsley Otuaro, have done well and therefore, deserve a second term. “This is premised on the fact that Warri South West today has an overwhelming presence of the state government in terms of projects, which was not the case in the past. “We are unanimously saying that Okowa’s ‘Smart Agenda’ is working, therefore adopt Senator Okowa and his deputy, Barr. Otuaro for second tenure,” he added.