Syphilis is one of the most dangerous sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) that could destroy man’s sexual power,  an expert has said. It is usually contracted through indiscriminate sex. And if not properly treated, the disease could make a man impotent and the woman barren.  Worse still, if you become pregnant while you have untreated syphilis, you have a 50 per cent chance of miscarriage or stillbirth. According to Dr Olanrewaju Balogun of Kukab Nature Therapy Nigeria Limited based in Omole-Ogba, Lagos, syphilis is a sexually transmitted infection (STI). It is not as common as some sexually transmitted infections, but if left untreated, it can cause very serious health problems in both men and women. Symptoms Balogun said out of ignorance,  many victims of syphilis often mistake the disease for gonorrhea, but the first symptom when you contract syphilis is a sore that looks like pimple, boil or blister on your genital organ, three weeks or more after sex with  a carrier. “This sore disappears under one week, giving the victim the impression that he is okay but he is not. Weeks after, sore throat, fever, skin rashes, serious itching and joint pains begin to manifest,’ he added.  Effect And if left untreated or poorly treated, syphilis could cause weak erection, paralysis, watery sperm, low sperm count, premature ejaculation to the sufferer and all these will make him to be unable to impregnate a woman. And in case of woman, she won’t be able to take in. even if she manages to take in, the baby could end up with deformity, he explained.  Treatment According to Balogun, the best thing to do when you notice any symptom of syphilis is to see an expert who will diagnose and cure you properly. “Kukab is a well-known expert, who has been treating serious sexual diseases for some years. Before treatment, he will first make sure you are tested to reveal your real sexual problem. For proper treatment of your syphilis and other sexual problems, we use indigenous herbal traditional medicines. With Kukab, your sexual problem is gone for life,” he assured. 