•Police chief parades 67 suspected cultists LAGOS State Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal yesterday paraded 72 suspected cultists including five who allegedly killed a  Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) official, Bolaji Monsuru. Muyideen Bello aka  17, Wasiu Adio aka trouble,  Nurudeen Odofin, Rokeeb Adebayo and Balogun allegedly led others, at large, to kill Monsuru last week in Surulere, Lagos Mainland. According to Edgal, 57 of the suspects were rounded up during an initiation rite of the Black Axe group at a hideout in Elemoro, Ajah. He said henceforth, suspected cultists would be charged with armed robbery and illegal possession of fire arms. The commissioner said the command had started to  clamp down on cultists, appealing to parents to prevail on their children to renounce cultism. He said: “It is no more business as usual as we are serious on this issue of war against cultism. We have started pressing for stiffer punishment. Before now, it used to be lesser charges against cultists but now we are going to charge them with armed robbery and illegal possession of fire arms. “We want to appeal to parents to advise their children to shun cultism as we are serious in charging any suspect with armed robbery and we will not hear any plea from any parent.” Edgal said he was happy with the speedy arrest of the suspected killers of the LNSC official, adding : “The deceased’s enlistment into the Corps sent jitters down the spine of most cult members because he knew most of them. Hence the suspects, Bello, Adio, Odofin, Adebayo and Balogun along with other accomplices now at large attacked and killed him at Umunede Bar, Mallam Isa Close, Aguda where he had gone to watch soccer at the close of work. “The suspects have confessed that they participated in the killing of Bolaji. An axe and a knife with blood stains recovered from the suspects have been sent to the forensic unit of the police for analysis.” Edgal said Trouble also confessed to being a senior member of Eiye Confraternity, adding that his group killed one Timothy last October. On the suspected Aiye members arrested, Edgal said: “Based on credible intelligence that members of Aiye Confraternity were performing their initiation rites at a shrine in a forest at Ajah, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) mobilised his men. They were assisted by undercover operatives of Area J, Elemoro and men of the Anti-Cultism unit of the command and they stormed the area and arrested 57 members. “Two locally made guns, three live cartridges and 22 expended cartridges were recovered from the suspects. Other items recovered from them were two Suzuki mini buses marked LND893XV, and EPE189XV, a Volkswagen bus – EPE580XA, a Mitsubishi space wagon – SMK455AL, and two Toyota Camry. The suspects would be charged to court at the conclusion of investigation.”