 Paris Saint-Germain goalkeeper Alphonse Areola admits he is worried about the severity of Neymar’s injury after the Brazilian appeared to twist his ankle on Sunday. Neymar rolled his ankle with 14 minutes remaining of PSG’s 3-0 win over Marseille in Le Classique and had to be taken off the pitch on a stretcher. The 26-year-old appeared in severe distress as he was brought off the field but his manager Unai Emery insisted he wasn’t overly concerned, saying the club were hopeful the injury was ‘nothing serious’. But Neymar’s team-mate Areola was not as confident, telling reporters via FourFourTwo: ‘Of course, I’m worried about Neymar. His ankle was pretty swollen. ‘He is an important player for us and I hope he will come back soon. I do not know much more, there were a lot of people around him.’ The former Barcelona man took to Instagram in the early hours of Monday morning to show off his heavily strapped right ankle as he looks to make a speedy recovery. PSG face Marseille again on Wednesday night in the French Cup quarter-final before a trip to Troyes on Saturday precedes the visit of Real Madrid in the Champions League last-16 second leg on March 6. The Madrid tie, which PSG trail 3-1 after the first leg in the Bernabeu, represents the most important game of their season so far with success in Europe likely to define Emery’s reign as manager. Neymar’s injury overshadowed a comfortable victory for PSG at the Parc des Princes as they emerged 3-0 winners over their fierce rivals. Meanwhile, Zinedine Zidane is praying for Neymar to be fit just in time to face Real Madrid in the Champions League re-match of March 6. While the absence of Neymar would undoubtedly weaken PSG’s star-studded attack, Zidane whose Madrid side lead 3-1 from the first leg ahead of the return tie in Paris expressed a desire for the Brazil star to play. “No, I don’t like it when players get injured,” Zidane told reporters on Monday at a news conference ahead of Madrid’s LaLiga trip to Espanyol on Tuesday. “I’m not happy if Neymar is injured. Hopefully he can play. I’m never going to want an opposing player to get injured. “I do not think it influences next week’s game. There will always be a player who plays if it’s not him. “I did not like it when he got injured, I was watching the game. I don’t think everything revolves around Neymar, but I hope it’s nothing serious.”  