Despite several public denials, many political watchers are not sure Senate Minority Leader, Godswill Akpabio, will support the reelection bid of Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, reports Sunday Oguntola UNTIL the New Year Eve, it was more or less a fait accompli. The reelection bid of Akwa Ibom State Governor, Udom Emmanuel, appeared done and dusted as far as his predecessor, Godswill Akpabio, was concerned. Akpabio, who fought tooth and nail to install Emmanuel despite massive protests of heavyweight stakeholders in the state, was convinced the governor deserved a second term in office. He declared severally there was no vacancy in the Government House, clearly stating his successor was doing a fantastic job. But all that changed in December. It was at a get-together by Deputy Governor Moses Ekpo. In attendance were people of the Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District as well as other stakeholders. Akpabio ruffled feathers when he declared his support for the second term of Emmanuel would be conditional. The governor, he stated, had neglected his senatorial district and legacy projects. He specifically pointed out projects he initiated, such as the multi-million naira Four Points by Sheraton Hotel at Ikot Ekpene and the dualised Uyo-Ikot Ekpene road, have become abandoned. According to him: “2018 is less than one year to election and all is not well. Don’t allow anybody to deceive you that all is well. If the hotel in Ikot Ekpene rots after so much money had been expended on the project, would that be a good thing? That road from Uyo to Ikot Ekpene is still the way it was. “In the 2018 budget, what is the percentage for Ikot Ekpene senatorial district? My job is to say the truth because if at this level I cannot say the truth, then I am not doing well. “So, please I want us to start the hotel. Please let us check the budget to know what has been earmarked for that place. I am not interested in what I did and what I did not do. I am only interested in what I am going to do. “The truth is that Godswill Akpabio expects us to set our path straight so that we can take one route. Even when you are going for communion, you must be in a state of grace. “So let us have something from the senatorial district to use in talking about election; to use in convincing the people to stand by us. We are in opposition, we don’t have government, we don’t have police; we don’t have INEC.” The governor’s camp didn’t take kindly to the vituperations from his political godfather. The attacks on Emmanuel, sources close to him said, were carefully planned and executed. They were intended to cause disaffection and portray the governor as ethnically biased, his camp told our correspondent. Besides, it was believed the former governor was cooking a plot to replace Emmanuel with someone from the Oron nation of Eket Senatorial District. The plot, it was gathered, was why Emmanuel quickly moved to sack the former Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Sir Etekamba Umoren. Umoren is a die-hard Akpabio loyalist who served as Chief of Staff to the former governor. Aides close to Emmanuel hinted Umoren was more loyal to Akpabio than their principal, accusing him of leaking official secrets and details to the Senate Minority Leader. To counter the Oron nation option, as it is known among political hawks in Akwa Ibom, the governor settled for Dr. Emmanuel Ekuwem as the new SSG to quickly rally the senatorial district to his sides. The Senator however moved very quickly to quell talks of rift with his successor. In a statement by his Special Assistant on Media, Anietie Ekong, Akpabio expressed pleasure with the performance of Governor Emmanuel. “It is obvious that the concerns raised by the senator during the end-of-year stakeholders’ meeting organised by the Deputy Governor, that all was not well, was misunderstood and political jobbers sought to feast on it. “What the Senator said was that their House should be put in order so that the votes from Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District would be put intact for Governor Emmanuel in the next election. “Akpabio is satisfied that the areas of concern raised by the stakeholders, which were further explained by the governor during the follow-up meeting with him, to the satisfaction of the stakeholders present at the meeting, were receiving the attention of the government. Ikot Ekpene Senatorial District would stand by Emmanuel and pledged the support of the people towards the re-election of the governor with it’s over 500,000 votes.” But the denial will not suffice for the governor’s camp. Checks revealed that strategists close to him have advised Emmanuel to go for the broke once- and- for- all. A source in the know confided: “The governor is not taking anything for granted. He knows his predecessor still have a deep pocket and many political structures. “Besides, there are intelligence reports that he is working on another option for the governor. So, it is either the governor moves now or loses out. He has to become his own man. He has to break loose from the grip of godfatherism. “He won’t go far as long as there is still someone somewhere dictating to him. Akpabio had the peace of mind to do much because he had no political godfather in the state. He used federal might to get the ticket contrary to Obong Victor Attah’s wishes. “The governor needs that kind of political latitude too to survive and succeed. He is seeing reasons with us and will do much more in the coming days to consolidate his grip ahead of the reelection campaign.” It was further learnt that Akpabio reached out to the governor during the foundation-laying ceremony of the 8,500- seater capacity Akwa Ibom State International Worship Centre in Uyo, where they sat side-by-side. A source hinted the Senator reassured Emmanuel of his total support, declaring political columnists were not happy with the hitherto smooth relationship between them. He is also said to have stopped at nothing to pledge support for his successor’s reelection’s bid. Another source stated he had been sending mutual friends to the governor to drum home his unalloyed loyalty. But the governor’s camp is reportedly not buying the I-am-for-you moves of his predecessor. It is believed they are all ploys to send the incumbent into a false sense of security shortly before a deadly blow. A source in the governor’s camp said: “It is hard to trust Akpabio. Truth is he wants to remain relevant in the state. Yet he does not want to allow the governor build his own structure. We believe the constant assurances of support are just lip services. The governor has to take his own destiny in his hands.” Akpabio, on his part, is said to be seriously weighing his options. He knows to take on Emmanuel might amount to a political suicide. This, according to political watchers, is because of the fact that the governor is privy to some financial transactions by the former administration that may spell doom for the Senate Minority Leader. Should he move against his successor, it is believed he may lose out ultimately with his tracks blown up. Yet, Akpabio is uncomfortable with the fact that the governor is considering a second term without factoring him into reckoning. This possibility, it was learnt, is a big worry to the former governor who is determined to be the de facto godfather in the state. It is in fact a bigger worry to his loyalists in the cabinet of Emmanuel. Many of them, it was gathered, are afraid that the governor might do away with them. The fear of a clean-out for an electioneering cabinet is making many of them to avoid Akpabio and downplay their loyalty to him. The development, according to investigations, is working against the sustainability of the political structure of Akpabio, who more or less practically handpicked all the close aides of Emmanuel in return for the bankrolling of his election. Most Commissioners and political appointees with ties to him are said to be watching their backs and working hard to convince the governor of their loyalty as against Akpabio. This is because they are privy to the political advice to the governor to discard the political structure of his predecessor for a fresh one manned by die-hard loyalists. The Senator, on the other hand, is considering settling for Emmanuel’s reelection. This, according to a close aide, is because it appears like a “lesser devil for now”. The aide told our correspondent last week: “When you are boxed and cornered in a political game, sometimes you reevaluate and choose the lesser evil. Supporting the governor appears more or less like that now because to do otherwise might be seriously counterproductive. “Besides, you don’t fight to the point of irrelevance. So, it is better to give the governor a reality check like the Senator did on the New Year Eve, shake him a little to get attention and establish you are still a force to reckon with.” But the fighter he is, Akpabio might still choose to go against the runs of play for the unthinkable. Whether or not he supports the governor’s reelection bid will remain a constant debate until the contest is over.