Mart-Life Detox Clinic founded by eminent medic Prof Oladapo Ashiru and his wife, Idowu who turned 65 years old over the weekend is five years old. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA reports on clinic’s achievements. Mart-Life Detox Clinic is five years old. Tucked in the serene Shonibare Estate, Maryland, Lagos, people, especially infertile couples, throng the clinic to manage their health challenges, without taking drugs, but natural therapies. Speaking on why he founded the clinic, its Chief Medical Director (CMD), Prof Oladapo Ashiru, said after doing Invitro fertilisation (IVF) for years, he discovered that some patients could not get pregnant. That led him to start the pre-implantation genetic diagnosis. “So, my team and I ended up giving patients embryos that are genetically diagnosed as normal. Meaning, the embryo are not the problem.” So, what is the cause? Ashiru attributed it to something in the mother or in that group of embryos. That is how the toxicology field came about. “So, we start detoxifying the mothers, because there is something in them that is not allowing the implantation in the mother. We started measuring things in the mother called immune pannier (immunological testing for any level of anti-bodies in the mother.” He said there was IgE (Immune globin E) with allergies, and intolerance. It means the woman has some things that have created allergies or intolerance. Allergies mean you have taken something that does not go well in your system e.g. cashew nut, pea nut, some oil that cause rashes. There are various levels and grades of these allergies. Food allergy occurs when the body mistakenly makes an antibody (IgE) to fight off a specific food. When the food is eaten recurrently or, in some cases, it comes in contact with the skin, it triggers an immune system response, which results in the release of histamine and other substances in the body. For instance, in milk allergy, when the body has made antibodies to milk protein; it causes an immune reaction when you drink milk. Your immune system mistakenly treats the proteins found in food as a threat. So, Mart-Life was set up to remove such toxics from the body like heavy metals – lead, titanium, mercury (mostly found in people that take meat, shell fish or black fish) or arsenic from not properly cooking rice, or aluminum foil/wrapper that can result in the ingestion of aluminum. All these are toxic to the embryo. “At Mart-Life Detox Clinic, we help identify food allergies and intolerances with the use of our bioenergetic test, which detects and specifies whether a person is fructose, lactose, histamine or gluten intolerant. It also helps to determine the food generating allergy and intolerance.The bioenergetic testing uses Interfacing Resonance Analysis Technology. “We set out with tools to detoxify using body-detox, colon – hydrotherapy, and avant-garde lymphatic drainage. We drain all these heavy metals out of the body. When we are through with these women, they lose weight; look better and finer and fit for conception. They go back to the Medical Centre and take the residue embryo that are frozen, and that are not as good as the first ones that were initially transferred, and they yield results,” Ashiru said. Ashiru said any couple, regardless of health, must clean his body before conceiving. For the incoming embyo is an important guest. This is a new field in infertility. “Pesticides, paints, sprays, petrol, affects embryo. So, if a grandmother is exposed to pesticide before getting pregnant, she can transfer the effects to the second generation of her lineage. I recommend that people that work in oil and gas industry should detoxify once a year. To remove the toxins from their body. Also, a lot of imported food affect conception. Likewise big weight, hypertension all play huge roles in conception,” he explained. He advised that any one who wants to live long should detoxify once a year, 10 days to two weeks or on the average a day in a month to detoxify. “People can get toxins from food. Like rice that is not chewed very well. Food is supposed to stay in the mouth for one minute to 90 seconds, depending on what you are eating. Soups should be in the mouth mixed with saliva for 30 seconds.  Meat without chewing can stay in the body for one month and ferment that can lead to cancer like colorectal cancer.” Ashiru continued: “We are created in for a reason. The food is provided by the Almighty. “For instance, as a nation, we are wasting a lot of natural resources on wheat import. The Whites planted more food that they needed and go ahead to African countries with large population to cause troubles. During crises, they exported those wheat and milks freely, for 10 months yearly. This is because those excess foods are destroyed in their countries.  After a year, they would have settled the crises. Within that one year, Blacks have acquired that taste, and the food is then part of us, leading to importation. Ninety per cent of Blacks have lactose intolerance. Seventy per cent have gluten intolerance. A lot are becoming fructose intolerance because they are eating imported apples, and grapes. These lead to serious diseases because these two foods are alien to us. Creating various things, such as heart pressure, food intolerance. This is a fact. Do you know how much that can be saved alone, from wheat importation?” The clinic’s Managing Director Mrs Idowu Ashiru said: “After the biogenetic test, the patient is advised to start an exclusion diet, which excludes the food that gives them allergies and stress. The patient is instructed to stay off the intolerant menu for three months. ‘’After this time he or she can introduce the food slowly into the diet and eat it occasionally, not more than once  weekly or once every two bi-weekly. “Usually, most people can tolerate eating these foods sometimes without bringing back the negative symptoms. However, frequent consumption of them will bring back the signs.  Individuals will need to establish their tolerance threshold. After weeks or months of not eating the food, you may start eating the food again without getting adverse reactions. ‘’At this stage, an individual can tolerate the food and maintenance depends on frequency and the quantity that he or she can establish. Food hypersensitivity is purely individual. So, working this out and not restricting the diet beyond what is necessary is significant.’’ She added: “Our strength is based on long-standing research, scientific and clinical publications and international collaborations with the reputable Viva-Mayr (Mayr modern medicine) of Austria, the bio-identical Sabre Sciences Laboratory, and Nutrivital Bioenergetics. We have combined all these modern technologies and customised them for the African environment  to provide an outstanding, cutting- edge, reliable and reputable holistic healthcare and medical spa.” What were the challenges when the clinic took off? Mrs Ashiru said she and her husband founded the centre when she turned 60 , five years ago, and happy it is running well: “Power generation remains the first and huge challenge because of the high-tech machines we work with. Another is the mind set of Nigerians. Most do not believe they can get standard health care at affordable prices here. ‘’Some prefer to travel out spending foreign currencies on accommodation, medical treatment, fares, without actually getting expected results. But here, testimonies abound, and they are pretty surprised at the affordability and the outcomes.’’