Ondo State governor, Mr. Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), says the people of the state have no excuse to wallow in abject poverty. He says his administration will make the state a commercial hub that should be taken seriously by genuine investors. The governor, who spoke on Friday during the flag-off of egg powder production mechanized factory at Emure in Owo Local Government Area of the state, insisted that his government planned to make the people the central focus of all his actions. The flag-off of the egg powder factory is part of the activities marking the first  anniversary of Governor Akeredolu in office. A one-week filled with activities to celebrate the achievements of the administration in the last one year were lined up for the celebration. As part of the celebrations, many projects, including the re-constructed Oke-Oka section of the Akugba-Lokoja-Abuja, the Iwalewa and Abusororoads in Akure and Bajare and Oke Lisa roads in Idanre among several other roads spread across the three senatorial districts were commissioned. Other fresh projects, including a N15bn international industrial park in Ore, Odigbo Local Government Area of the state were also flagged-off. Speaking on Friday during the flagging-off of the egg factory, Akeredolu reiterated that his administration’s intention was to develop the state. He said: “We have been able, in our modest ways, to showcase the possibility of making things work for our people in real terms, devoid of grandstanding. “We are insistent on making the people of this state the central focus of all our actions. We will not accept the narrative of despondency as our lot. All of us must be resolute in our determination to effect positive change. “Our administration promised to create jobs for the teeming unemployed and disoriented youths in the state. Our intention has never been to deceive. “The flag-off of the egg-powder production in our state will serve as a tremendous boost to poultry farming business. “The country’s inability to process eggs to egg powder, in spite of egg glut, is a colossal loss to the country.”