Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Chieftain Pastor Osagie Ize-Iyamu is not giving up on his quest to govern Edo State. His supporters said he is still interested in seeking the ticket to contest in the 2020 governorship poll. His attempt at occupying the Osadebey Avenue  in 2016 failed. He challenged the outcome of the election to the Supreme Court. What perhaps Pastor Ize-Iyamu is hoping for the defeat of the ruling All Progressive Congress (APC) in next year’s general election. Ize-Iyamu started nursing ambition to be Edo governor since when he served under the administration of Chief Lucky Igbinedion as Chief of Staff and Secretary tô the government. Having fallen out with the powers that be in the Pastor Ize-Iyamu and others formed the Grace Group, which later metamorphosed into the defunct Action Congress of Nigerian and now the All Progressive Congress. He left the APC for the PDP after it became clear to him that former Governor Adams Oshiomhole would not support his ambition. He realised the game plan of Oshiomhole when he failed to get grasp of the party machinery in the party congresses. Pastor Ize-Iyamu said he left the APC because Oshiomhole promised to support his candidacy as his successor, adding that he joined the PDP because he believed the party was the best vehicle to reach his destination. He said: “Oshiomhole himself publicly and privately has come to me to say Pastor I appreciate the support you have given to me. I know how competent you are. When the time comes I will support you to become the governor. If he denies it, it will completely show he is not a man of his words. “The issue is somebody has consistently promised me to become the governor but with the way Comrade has been going, by 2016, I don’t think there will be any APC for somebody to say he wants to run the ticket on. “The APC today has become an animal farm. Everything we condemned is now in place. The governor wanted the conduct the congress in an undemocratic way by asking me to take five wards and the deputy takes five wards. He was so petrified about Pastor Ize-Iyamu being in control that he wanted me to become a minority.” On why he did not emerge governor in 2007, Pastor Ize-Iyamu said, in 2015, he rejected a plot to be installed as a successor to Igbinedion because he felt it was wrong for him to succeed a fellow Benin man, based on his belief in equity and fairness and that wanted somebody from another senatorial district to be made governor. He said: “I could have been governor in 2007 but I said a Benin man has been governor for eight years. I said a Benin man cannot become governor again. “I said we must look for someone in Afemai to become governor. We now founded our group and finished everything when they brought Oshiomhole. They said we must help him. So I asked Oshiomhole if he wanted to become governor and he said yes, but that he didn’t  know anybody since he came from Kaduna and Abuja. “The election was so tough that three people died in the election. When he became governor, we realised that he had a different thing in mind.  People were angry and came to tell me that we have sold a ‘bad market, to them. “I however did not want to truncate Edo North’s two term and said that God will touch his heart in the second term. To be sure that I was with him, he made me the director general of his campaign. The moment he won, he said: “this Pastor who has been doing anyhow, I must drive him away. That was how he (Oshiomhole) started to fight me.” However, since his petition was thrown out by the Supreme Court, Pastor Ize-Iyamu has been strategising on how to win in 2020. He has managed to keep his followers within the PDP. His supporters threw a welcome party for him after the Supreme Court verdict and they staged a road show to showcase their strength Pastor Ize-Iyamu begged his supporters not to leave the party but to remain focused and committed to the growth of the party as four years of the APC in the state was not forever. His words: “We belong to one family. The PDP must not scatter. Don’t lose up. Don’t give up. Let us be united. Let the other side be scared of our unity. “Our party people, I want to tell you that you have not been defeated. Edo people knew how the election went and I believed that they can hold their heads high. Four years is not the end of the world. In the next three, four years, we will do an election again in the state,” he said. As a way of testing his popularity within the PDP, Pastor Ize-Iyamu joined the state PDP leadership in its recent tour of the 18 local government areas. He was allowed to address party members in all the meetings. The Chairman of the PDP, Chief Dan Orbih, explained that Pastor Ize-Iyamu remains the party’s candidate, until the court rules on a suit challenging the qualification of Governor Obaseki. Orbih, who said he cannot abandon Ize-Iyamu in the middle of the river, said that until Pastor Ize-Iyamu gets into that position (governor) he would not be tired of supporting him. He added: “Even if I am no longer chairman of the PDP, I will still support him. It is proper for me to do what I am doing now. This is because we still have a pre-election matter in court challenging the qualification of Governor Obaseki. Until the case is decided, he remains a candidate of the PDP. Until that case is decided, we will accord him all privileges.” Assuring PDP supporters that the 2019 general election is the time for the party to return to power, Pastor Ize-Iyamu noted that the focus should be on the presidential election as according to him, if the PDP gets the federal government, the state government will fall. Ize-Iyamu however, warned that, for the PDP to secure victory, its members must reconcile and forgive one another, reorganize and rededicate themselves to the values of the party. He said: “Let us forgive ourselves. We made mistakes but we must reconcile. If we continue to quarrel, the unity we need to achieve victory in 2019 will not be there. “We need to rededicate ourselves to the values and principles of the PDP. The moment you hear PDP has won in February, just know that Edo will become a PDP state.” 