An Igando Customary Court in Lagos yesterday dissolved the 25-year-old marriage of Lukmon and Blessing Adeosun. The dissolution followed the  persistent cry of the woman that she was tired of the marriage. She described her  husband, a pastor,  as a deadbeat, who was not good in anything. Blessing, 49, claimed that  Adeosun had abandoned his responsibility as a husband and father since he received ‘’pastoral calling’’. “For the past three years, Lukmon abandoned us to live in the church all in the name of pastoral work. I shouldered all the responsibilities of paying house rent, children’s school fees and feeding,” she said. Blessing, a nurse, said her husband also accused her of infidelity. “He accused me of having an affair with a pastor, who I always invite to pray before taking delivery of pregnant women.” She said Lukmon was now trying to claim a house she  built  because of her desire to end the marriage. Adeosun explained that he hardly stayed at home because of his missionary work, alleging that Blessing started acting strangely when he became a pastor. He said: “My wife’s attitude suddenly changed, she started attending clubs and other social events. As a pastor’s wife she always absented herself from church activities,’’ adding : “I accused her of having an affair with another pastor because that pastor had told me several times to send my wife away that she is an agent of the devil. So, when I started seeing them together regularly, I concluded that they are having an affair.” Adeosun, 51, said he was claiming his wife’s house because what belonged to her  also belonged to him. He, however, begged the court not to dissolve the marriage because he was still in love with her. In his judgment, the court’s President, Mr Akin Akinniyi, noted that the petitioner was adamant, despite all efforts to save the marriage by the court and their family. “The petitioner refused to shift ground after several interventions, which indicate that the marriage has broken down irretrievably. Therefore, the court has no choice than to grant the prayer of the petitioner; in spite of the fact that the husband still claims he loves her. The court pronounces the marriage between Blessing Adeosun and Lukmon Adeosun dissolved today. Both parties henceforth, cease to be husband and wife. Each of you should go in your separate ways unmolested. The court wishes both of you well in your new journeys of life. “The first two children, who have attained the age of maturity, are free to stay with either parent but the other two, who are under 18 years of age should remain with their mother,” Akinniyi ruled.