Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) Director General Osita Aboloma has described the SON Act as “a revolutionary document”, which has assisted the organisation in delivering on its mandate of sanitising the country of unwholesome products. Aboloma stated this at a stakeholders’ sensitisation workshop on SON Act 2015 in Yola, the Adamawa State capital. According to him, within the last few months, the standards body has confiscated fake and sub-standard products worth billions of naira across the country. He maintained that it had since embarked on arraignment and trial at the various courts of some of the suspects linked with the impounded goods. “We are not resting on our oars. We, therefore, appeal to all to be aware of the Act, comply with its provisions, particularly areas dealing with how operators should do the right thing for their businesses to grow,” he advised. He, however, stated that the work of standardisation was to grow Micro, Small and Medium Scale Enterprises (MSMEs), promote agro-allied sector, as well as ensure industrial and economic development. This, according to Aboloma, became imperative to engage stakeholders in different sectors of the economy. “We need to use the instrumentality of SON Act NO.14 2015 to attain economic development. We are spreading our tentacles to the states and geo-political zones. Product counterfeiters have no place to hibernate. With the re-invigorated monitoring and enforcement strategies we are putting in place, our dragnet will get economic saboteurs anywhere, anytime,” he said. He noted that the theme of the workshop: “SON Act 2015: Catalyst for economic development”, was germane and quite in tune with the current efforts by the Federal Government to turn around the nation’s economy. “We decided to conduct nationwide stakeholders’ sensitisation workshops on the Act not only in order to enlighten people on the provisions of the Act but equally to strengthen stakeholders’ engagement and collaborations. The positive outcomes and impact of the sensitization exercises in places where they have been conducted so far have been so encouraging. This forum would therefore not be different in eliciting attention and challenging participants on the issues to be raised by our competent facilitators and resources persons,” he stressed. A Principal Partner, Agbonhese, Agbonhese & Co, Dr. James Agbonhese, in his presentation tagged “SON ACT 2015: Vehicle For Quality and Standard Products” explained that the new Act was a remarkable improvement on the old Act ,which gave SON extremely limited powers to pursue its mandate.