There was tension yesterday at the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Ikorodu, over the killing of an expelled student suspected to be a cultist by security men. Ahmed Amoo, 20, was expelled five months ago for alleged cultism and examination malpractice. It was gathered that Amoo, who was a National Diploma 11 student in the Department of Mass Communication before his dismissal, stormed the school on Tuesday evening with people described as his gang members. Amoo and his gang, a source said, went to a gathering of Business Administration freshers, who were having their orientation night, and robbed them of their money, phones and other valuables. A source said: “As the cultists were robbing the students, the security men were alerted and they rushed to the scene. When the robbers saw the security men, they fled but they were chased and two of them, Ayewunmi Daniel and Rilwan Adewale were arrested. “The security men went after Amoo and they tried to disarm him. He was holding a battle axe and when he resisted, they shot him on the leg. “He was eventually taken to Ikorodu General Hospital where he died early  yesterday. Some of the items they stole from the students were recovered.” The source said Amoo’s parents were invited to the school and briefed. “There has been tension in the school since Tuesday night. Students are scared that Amoo’s gang members might launch a reprisal attack. There are rumours that the cultists have started grouping. They attacked the school yesterday but the police dispersed them.  The case was reported at Shagamu Road Police Station, Ikorodu.” The school’s spokesman, Lanre Kuye confirmed the incident, saying : “Around 6pm some hoodlums stormed the school to extort, kidnap and steal from students. Security men in the school were alerted and they stormed the scene. “They chased the hoodlums up to the first gate of the school. On getting there, they realised there was another batch of hoodlums. There was an exchange of gun fire and one of the hoodlums was shot. “He died Wednesday (yesterday) morning at the general hospital. He was discovered to be an expelled student of the school. Most of the hoodlums are rusticated students from the school.” Police spokesman, Chike Oti, a Superintendent (SP) said those arrested had been moved to the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) in Ikeja. Normalcy, he added,  has returned to the school.