One person was killed while several others were wounded on Tuesday following a bloody attack on Ikorodu Campus of the Lagos State Polytechnic ( LASPOTECH ) by suspected cultists. The deceased, identified as Ahmed Amao, was a former LASPOTECH student who had been expelled from the institution. We gather that the groups of hoodlums invaded the Ikorodu campus from different directions on Tuesdacy evening, chasing the students around the polytechnic with guns, machettes and knives. LASPOTECH spokesman, Olanrewaju Kuye, told our reporter that the terrified students alerted the institution’s security personnel on sighting the hoodlums, comprising some former students of the polytechnic. “So, we had to chase them out the campus via the polytechnic’s first gate; but when we got there, we discovered another set (hoodlums) approaching from the adjourning village to attack our students. “Upon sighting our security men the gang began to shoot at will and our security men had no choice but to retaliate. “Unfortunately, we hit one of the hoodlums, Ahmed Amao, a former student who had been expelled for examination malpractice. We learnt he died on Wednesday,’’ Kuye said. He added that but for the prompt response of the institution’s security personnel, many students could have lost their lives in the attack. Kuye assured parents of the safety of their wards following the attack on the campus by suspected cultists, saying “this will never be allowed to happen again. “They should go on with their normal duties because nothing untoward will happen to them. “Our security men now wield firearms too and our students have our phone numbers for prompt response. We will not take chances,’’ said the LASPOTECH spokesman. Confirming the incident, Chike Oti, Spokesman, Lagos State Police Command, said that the attackers were on revenge mission following an attack on one of their members. Oti said two suspects were arrested with a locally made pistol following the incident. There was heavy presence of gun-wielding security personnel comprising the police, Oyabo (local vigilante) and private guards when our correspondent visited LASPOTECH Ikorodu Campus on Wednesday. Calm is gradually returning to the institution as students and other members of the polytechnic community were seen going about their normal activities on Wednesday. NAN