SEVILLA 0-0 MAN UTD Goalless, and advantage United. You could have predicted this after around half an hour. In the main it has been a good example of how to control play as an away side in the first leg of a Champions League knockout tie, aside from five minutes before the break, where Sevilla should have gone ahead. David De Gea has a 19th clean sheet of the season, another fine show from him, and Mourinho looks pleased with himself. Manchester United defender Chris Smalling on BT Sport: “It opened up in the second half. Bar the five minutes at the end of the first half, they didn’t have clear-cut chances. “It’s in our hands at home. We have to win at them to go through. The atmosphere was very loud and emotional here and we had to dig in at times. “They tired in the last 20 mins and we tried to pressure them. It was open in the second half.” Former England striker Ian Wright says Paul Pogba would be in a better frame of mind if he was playing his football for Pep Guardiola at Manchester City. The Manchester United midfielder was dropped to the bench for the Champions League last-16 first-leg tie away to Sevilla, amidst rumours of breakdown in his relationship with manager Jose Mourinho. Speaking before Pogba came off the bench, Wright says he understands fans being critical of Pogba’s recent form, but believes the Frenchman needs to be better managed. See Match Commentary Below Sevilla v Man Utd (19:45 GMT) Getty Images Speaking yesterday, United boss Jose Mourinho said he did not buy into the theory that Paul Pogba needed to justify his £89m price tag in huge games – like the Champions League knockout stages. The former Juventus midfielder’s form has been questioned and he missed their last game against Huddersfield through illness. “I don’t think it’s fair to speak about the responsibilities of a player,” Mourinho said. “I don’t even like the fact that the player that cost X millions doesn’t have the same responsibility as the player that cost three times X. “I think the responsibility is for everyone, so I don’t like that kind of approach. I understand for you [the media], but not for me. “When I decide a team to play, I don’t look to the age, I don’t look to the salary, I don’t look to the transfer fee, because I think that’s not also fair.” Sevilla v Man Utd (19:45 GMT) Ever Banega returns to the starting line up for Sevilla, who include former Manchester City winger Jesus Navas in their side. Former Blackburn and Stoke midfielder Steve N’Zonzi also starts. Sevilla XI: Sergio Rico; Navas, Mercado, Lenglet, Escudero; Banega, N’Zonzi; Sarabia, Vázquez, Correa; Muriel. . Paul Pogba being named on the bench is the big news for Manchester United, who otherwise name a strong team. Jose Mourinho makes just three changes from the side that beat Huddersfield in the FA Cup at the weekend – David de Gea, Antonio Valencia and Ander Herrera come in for Sergio Romero, Luke Shaw and Michael Carrick. Man Utd XI: De Gea, Valencia, Lindelof, Smalling, Young, Matic, Herrera, McTominay, Mata, Lukaku, Sanchez. Mark Lawrenson BBC football expert on BBC Radio 5 live He’s not going to get confidence with his backside on the bench. Players like Paul Pogba, they need loving, literally carrot and the stick. I don’t think he’s been the same since his hamstring injury [in September]. He started to look good early in the season. Big players and big games show why they are big players. It’s a risk today. Scott McTominay is starting, he’s only made eight starts before – it’s a big night for him. If United win comfortably, fine, but if they go further, they need Pogba at his very best. 