Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Tuesday attributed the disagreements between the executive and the legislature to greed, self-interest and hypocrisy. He said despite the principles of separation of powers, there were still tensions and conflicts among the arms of government, especially between the executive and the National Assembly. He said: “Various factors can be identified as the causes of conflicts between organs of government, especially between the legislature and executive who have to constantly interact in the course of discharging their respective constitutional duties. “Conflicts could arise from misunderstanding of constitutional responsibilities, inordinate foray or venture by one organ into the territory of another organ, inordinate ambition or domineering attitude by one over others, power struggle, greed or self- interest, hypocrisy, lack of patriotism and corruption.” Osinbajo spoke in Abuja at a “Dialogue of Organs of Government on Reform of Justice Sector and Campaign Against Corruption” involving the Executive, Legislature and Judiciary. It was organised by the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC) in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Justice and held at the State House Banquet Hall. The vice president, who was represented by the Deputy Chief of Staff to the President, Mr. Ade Ipaye, said while absolute separation of powers may be unattainable, the three arms of government must cooperate to maintain a workable government. “When this cooperation happens, it strengthens the democratic process, promotes good governance and responsible leadership, promotes transparency and accountability in governance, assists the executive to be focused and committed to delivering good governance to the citizens and helps the legislature to make efficient laws that will promote good governance and curb corruption,” he said. Osinbajo said for there to be harmony, each arm must carry out the functions assigned to it by the Constitution effectively and within the limits of its power. Usurpation of the others’ power, he said, would lead to friction. 