 Arsene Wenger has fired back over doubts surrounding his future as Arsenal manager Wenger has refused to confirm he will be Arsenal manager next season as uncertainty over his future mounts. In an intriguing press conference, the Frenchman grew tetchy at questions about his job, ultimately declining to confront assertions that his time at the club is drawing to a close. The under-pressure boss claimed he is ‘amazed’ his job is under such scrutiny given he has ‘turned down the world’ to remain in north London. Wenger has rejected approaches from Real Madrid, Paris Saint-Germain and Bayern Munich during his tenure at Arsenal. But Sportsmail revealed this week that the club will review Wenger’s position this summer with the prospect of ending his 22-year reign emerging as a genuine option. And in response to the scrutiny over his job and the pending review, Wenger said: ‘My position is my position. ‘Honestly, that’s the last worry I have at the moment. My worry is to focus, to get the team ready for tomorrow’s game (against Manchester City).’ When asked to confirm whether he has been informed of the end of season review, Wenger continued: ‘I just told you, I just gave you the answer of what my way of thinking is. ‘It’s the next game. We are in that kind of situation where you want to focus on the next game. I don’t ask you if your position is reviewed at the end of the season. ‘My job is to focus on performing and my job is to perform. It’s for other people to judge me; it isn’t for me to evaluate that. Meanwhile the club have  announced that they made a huge profit from their summer transfer dealings, as the club struggles to make the Premier League top four. The club sold Alex Oxlade-Chamberlain, Wojciech Szczesny, Kieran Gibbs and Gabriel in the summer, leaving the club with a massive financial surplus. In their financial results for the six months until the end of November 2017, Arsenal revealed they have made ‘profits on sale of players, amounting to £58.4million’.