The coming of the Lagos State Yoruba Language Preservation and Promotion Law may impinge on admission into state-own tertiary institutions. Applicants must possess a credit pass in Yoruba Language to secure admission.  Some educationists say the law has come at the right time, but others warn of a backlash, report KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE and ADEGUNLE OLUGBAMILA. Mrs Sade Agu (not real name) is married to an Igbo man. All her children were born in Lagos, but do not speak Yoruba.  Living very close to the Lagos State University (LASU) influenced the family to choose the institution for their first child, Adaku (not real name) who is writing the Unified Tertiary Matriculation Examination (UTME) this year. But, Lagos State has come up with a new law, requiring all applicants seeking admission into its tertiary institutions to have, at least, a credit pass in Yoruba Language in their Senior School Certificate Examination (SSCE). Part of the law also stipulates that “all state-owned tertiary institutions are to incorporate the use of Yoruba Language in their General Studies (GNS) courses” apart from making the language the acceptable means of communications for business and government, meaning translating all laws into Yoruba Language. If enforced, it would mean that without a credit pass in Yoruba, LASU and other state-owned institutions such as the Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH), Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education (AOCOED), Michael Otedola College of Primary Education (MOCPED), Lagos State College of Health Technology, would not admit any candidate seeking admission. This has got Mrs Agu worried. Adaku missed the chance of securing admission for the 2017/2018 academic session.  The new law may be a stumbling block for her as Yoruba Language was not one of her O Level subjects. “She does not even speak the language.  I cannot read Yoruba myself.  We may have to consider a change of institution once it can be done,” Mrs Agu said. The introduction of the law has thrown up some serious debates among educationists,  while the state seems determined to make the law work, going by what its Commissioner for Information, Kehinde Bamigbetan, said. According to him, the law is a deliberate effort by the state to promote Yoruba Language and recognise its importance “as a vehicle for development”. But some others think the approach may be wrong. Edumark Consult CEO Mrs Yinka Ogunde, who manages a Facebook Page, Concerned Parents and Educators (CPE) network, which focuses on educational issues, thought the law would create more problems. “The problem is that we sometimes don’t think things through and we want to solve serious problems by making unrealistic rules.  What is the objective of this?  I guess it is to promote our language.  The issue we need to look at is how this can be done. It is not about creating a bottleneck that people will seek ways of circumventing.  It is about looking for ways to make people embrace the idea. “You can look at it again. Lagos is a place where we have millions of non Yoruba, does that mean they have no business seeking admission into our tertiary institutions?” she asked. A proprietress, Mrs Olamide Alalade, felt the law may escalate examination malpractice by desperate admission seekers.  She suggested instead that the language should be promoted at family level. “This policy may not help matters. It may give room for examination malpractice because people will do anything to get their children into these tertiary institutions and of course, some persons will just read to pass. The purpose is defeated. We cannot change or influence anything without going through the ROOT- family.  The family is where we should inculcate this.  In our school, Friday is our language day. Everyone is free to speak their dialect,” she said. Thinking about global competition, to Mrs Edna Agusto, a technology expert whose firm, Readmanna Ventures, organises ICT competition for secondary school pupils and undergraduates, such language imposition may be the wrong approach. She said: “Is this the best approach? They have to sit down and discuss.  I have gone for conferences abroad where  countries like Sweden, China, Taiwan, where they speak their own languages feel so left behind because they have to start looking for translation softwares for new technology, which comes out six months after the release.  Countries like Nigeria, Canada, Australia are far ahead. “If a book is released today in America, every Nigerian can read it.  But when you now start saying you want to teach somebody in Yoruba first, you have to wait for the translation to come out. “Singapore is a leading country in Asia today because they speak English.  Instead of leveraging our English Language we want to start speaking Yoruba.” Mind Builders School Chairman Mr Tunbosun Falore advised the government to implement the law gradually. “It is going to be a difficult thing. I will say that there are some things they need to do.  The foundation should be laid at the primary and secondary.  Let us start at age two and continue to age 10 by which time they should have learnt the language.  We should start from the beginning and make it gradual.  We can make it a 10-year or 15-year plan,” he said. However, not everyone agreed that the law is a bad idea.  Some others said it came at the right time. A parent, Mr Olayiwola Akinola, who lives in Ojo area of Lagos, praised the government for the initiative. To him, the law would never be a hindrance to non-Lagosians. He said if non-Yoruba people have made successes  living in Lagos, then they should be able to learn the language at least, to compensate a state that aided their success. ChristHill School proprietor Mr Francis Lawson, who spoke in Amuwo Odofin area of Lagos, said it was a good policy and his school was ready to implement it. “We have never neglected Yoruba in our scheme of work because I am quite aware that in countries where they use their own language to teach, they have good education system,” he said A public school teacher and West Africa Examination Council (WAEC) examiner, (name withheld), has pitched his tent with the government. According to him, there is a great disconnect between children, who speak English Language well and their performance in major examinations. “As a WAEC examiner of the English Language for nearly a decade, this issue continues to baffle me. The truth is most of the children these days speak English at the expense of their mother tongues. The most shocking thing is that the same young people have continued to fail English and Mathematics in WAEC and NECO. That is simply to tell you that if they have in-depth knowledge of the subject, which they speak, they wouldn’t fail some subject in exams. That is to tell you that something is fundamentally wrong,” he said. Dr Adesanya Ahmed of the Department of Language, Linguistics and Communication Arts, LASU, urged other states to emulate Lagos, describing the step as good for Nigeria’s technological advancement. “This step is extremely expedient especially for technological development,” Adesanya began. “Look at technologically-developed nations, their native language has played a significant role in their development. “I have a colleague who travelled to France to do his post graduate programme in Sociology. He had to spend the first two years learning French Language before he eventually started the programme because he wrote his thesis in French. “The ultimate goal is that this will rejuvenate the dying Yoruba culture and values because, in every society, language is the vehicle with which culture is driven,”he said. As a member of the committee that drafted the law, Dr Ahmed allayed the fear of non-Yoruba speakers, saying the law provides concession for them. According to him, newly admitted students, who are non speakers must take a proficiency course in Yoruba Language, while those already in the system will take theirs as part of their General Nigerian Studies (GNS). Ahmed added that the committee recommended a Centre for Yoruba Studies in LASU to take care of this. Provost of AOCOED Dr Aina Ladele said the college was ready to key into the initiative. “We are very prepared,” she said confidently. We have a department of Yoruba. As a college, the course will also be introduced in our Department of General Studies. Appraising the initiative, she said: “The law is good because Lagos State is situated in a Yoruba-speaking area. Nigeria’s education policy also says children should be taught in the language of the immediate community from basic to primary level, and here (Lagos) the language is Yoruba. Therefore, the law will expose those within Lagos to the spoken language. Most importantly, it will be a vehicle for reviving our culture, which is fast going moribund.” 