Troops last night rescued Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC) Dapchi, Yobe State, pupils who were reportedly kidnapped by Boko Haram. The school was attacked on Monday night by the terrorists, who took away some of the girls. The state government put the figure of the girls that were missing at 50. A statement last night by Abdullahi Bego, Spokesman to Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, said:  “The Yobe State Government hereby informs the public that some of the girls at Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC) whose school was attacked by Boko Haram terrorists last Monday have been rescued by gallant officers and men of the Nigerian Army from the terrorists who abducted them. “The rescued girls are now in the custody of the   Nigerian Army. “We will provide more details about their number and condition in due course. “Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, who is very grateful for the gallantry and hard work of the officers and men of the Nigerian Army involved in the operation, is monitoring the situation closely and will make a statement in due course.” President Muhammadu Buhari directed security agencies to take immediate charge of the situation in Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, Yobe State where 50 pupils are missing following  Monday’s attack by Boko Haram terrorists. Dapchi is 100 kilometres from Damaturu, the Yobe State capital. It is 75 kilometres south of the Nigerian border with Niger Republic. Minister of Information Lai Mohammed told reporters after the Federal Executive Council (FEC) meeting that the President also directed the Minister to Defence Mansur Dan-Ali, Minister of Foreign Affairs Geoffrey Onyeama, and himself to proceed to Yobe State today on a fact-finding mission. He said: “Mr. President has directed military and other security agencies to take immediate charge and control of Government Girls Technical College, Dapchi, and inform him of developments. The Yobe State Government, in an initial  statement by Governor Ibrahim Gaidam’s spokesman  Abdullahi Bego, said: “Following the incursion of suspected Boko Haram terrorists into Dapchi, headquarters of Bursari Local Government Council and the Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC) there, the Yobe State Government is working with the Nigerian Army and other security and law enforcement agencies to ensure that all students in the school are fully accounted for. “As the public is aware, the students were helped by their teachers to escape through the night to the surrounding bush and villages as the terrorists stormed the town last Monday. “Out of the 926 students in the school, over 50 are still unaccounted for as of the time of this statement. However, the Yobe State Government has continued to receive information about some of the girls being found in the general area to which they escaped. “The state government is coordinating with the army and law enforcement to ensure that those girls are returned safely. “The Yobe State Government has no credible information yet as to whether any of the schoolgirls was taken hostage by the terrorists. “His Excellency Governor Ibrahim Gaidam is deeply saddened and outraged by the unfortunate event and has directed that all relevant personnel and agencies work closely with the army and other security organisations to address the situation. “The Yobe State Government assures parents and the school community that it will do everything necessary to ensure that all the missing girls are found and returned to their school and families and that security is improved in the area.”