 Nigeria born England international Eniola Aluko has been handed a condition if she is to return to the fold of the Three Lionesses. Aluko has not played for the Lionesses since April 2016, and was at the centre enquiry which involved the Football Association and the former national coach Mark Sampson leading to eventual sacking of the coach. New coach and former Manchester United ace Phil Neville has told the Chelsea Ladies star to play more regularly for her club on one hand and score more goals on the other to earn a place in the national team. The 102-cap striker has only played 90 minutes once for Chelsea in the WSL this season, with four goals in the kitty in seven appearances. Neville told reporters: “In terms of being selected for the squad, she’s not played for Chelsea regularly. If she starts scoring goals and is playing well, then she is no different to anyone else. “First and foremost, is she good enough to play for England? Is she scoring goals and playing well? “Those are the first main factors and then you have to look at the bigger picture with who else is in her position – have we got competition for places? “Ultimately, for me, if she is playing well, she’s scoring goals, she will be considered. It is as simple as that.” The FA offered Aluko a formal apology after evidence proved that former Lionesses coach Mark Sampson made remarks that were “discriminatory on the grounds of race”, Aluko having registered a complaint about comments allegedly made to team-mates. Sampson was sacked during the probe into his behaviour as England coach over “inappropriate and unacceptable”relationships with players in a previous role. Ghana born Aluko’s Club-mate Anita Asante who was equally critical of sacked coach was however named in Nevilles first squad for four nation championship in USA. Nivelle said Asante was invited purely based on her performance and opinion of her expressed by other players. Asante during the wave making probe suggested there was an “environment” of silence around the England women’s team. Neville said: “She wants to be playing, and I spoke to other players in the team and she is a very popular figure. I told her, ‘Anita, I’m picking you on your ability to play football… your performances have warranted this call-up’.”It’s a clean slate and everyone is delighted.”