When we go on a walk with Mother Nature in her wondrous healing gardens, we are never in want of remedies for all kinds of ailments. That is one of the lessons taught in those parts of this series on GLAUCOMA and CATARACTS of the eye lens. We set out, for example, on the healing effects of  Magnesium on such ailments as sleep disorders, muscle spasms and pain, brain fog and depression, constipation and indigestion and the likes of them, and we were to end up on the radiance of its healing rays on glaucoma and cataracts of the eye lens before moving on to some other healing remedies which made a positive impression on our health or ideas of health last year. The fact that Magnesium and other herbs or food supplements may help in the natural management of cataracts sparked enquiries about whether it is possible to resolve cataracts of the eye lens without ophthalmic surgery. Last week, we received two positive contributions. One was by Dr. Edward Kondrot, an ophthalmologist for 20 years, who says he no longer employs surgery to cure these cataracts except, perhaps, in extreme cases. Two incidents persuaded him to drop the knife. One was a growing body of scientific and medical knowledge which shows that more than half of the people who undergo cataract surgery may end up with macular degeneration, a cause of blindness. The second is the discovery from about 1978 that certain nutritional supplements used as eye drops may reverse cataracts. The second contribution came from a woman with eye problems which took her to many consultants. Medication after medication worsened her eye condition and devastated her health in many ways. But in only one month of being on Magnesium dietary supplementation, her health problems dramatically cleared. In the following feature, these possibilities are explored. Welcome, once again, to the thoughts of Dr. Kondrot, and the ideas of many researchers on this subject…  Natural cures for eye cataract I promised to return to a natural cataract cure, based on the enquires of some challenged readers. There are some products in the Nigerian market. These include Cataract clear and Glutarakt. Listen again to Dr. Edward Kondrot: “The traditional treatment that Western ophthalmologists do is to remove cataract. They do not look at the underlying cause. They insert a plastic lens to take the place of natural human lens. You have been hearing all sorts of things about the danger of plastics. I think it could be a potential problem to plot a plastic device inside your eyes. Although rare, there are complications, infection, loss of vision, corneal swelling, glaucoma and, interestingly, an increased incidence of muscular degeneration. I am not totally against cataract surgery. In some situation, you should have cataract surgery where it is advanced to the point where it is obstructing your vision. In most cases, when the cataract is at the earlier stage, you should consider the alternative treatment I am going to talk about. “There is a published five-year study looking at the incident of macular degeneration in a group of people who had cataract and cataract surgery. The study demonstrated that there was a three fold increase in macular degeneration after cataract surgery. This statistic is shocking. Most eye doctors, including myself, at one time thought the person is just getting older. They are going to develop macular degeneration, anyway. This is false. You should take the steps to find out what is causing the cataract, and try to reverse it with more natural means. These are the three causes of cataract, and each one of these areas needs to be addressed. The first one is aging. The clock is ticking. There is not much we can do about that, but we can begin to change our lifestyle to help reduce the ill effects of aging. “A big area I want to talk about is nutrition. There is no question that cataract is linked to nutrition. The bottom one is HEAVY METALS. There is no question cataracts are related to LEAD. If you have elevated LEAD, you need to have this taken care of. These are some of the essentials to treat cataracts: Nutrition, proper hydration and reduced stress. “Physiologically, in the eyes when you develop a cataract, researchers have found that the ASCORBIC ACID and GLUTATHIONE levels in the AQUEOUS that surrounds the CATARACT becomes decreased. It makes sense if the elements are decreased that we need to replenish them in the body to help slow the progression of the cataract, or in some cases reverse it. GLUTATHIONE-containing foods: Spanish, Broccoli, Brussel Sprouts, Parsley, Avocado, Asparagus, Grapefruit, Strawberries and Milk thistle. “These are some Glutathione-containing foods. Grandmother was right…more important are foods to avoid. White sugar is first on the list. Another is fructose … there is also sucrose and fruit juice concentrate. All are high in sugar, which help the cataract grow. Proper hydration is essential. If you do not drink enough water, these toxins will accumulate and cause adverse changes in your body. One of them is CATARACT… “There was a study done out of HARVARD UNIVERSITY that links low-level LEAD exposure to the development of CATARACT…there is no question all of us have been exposed to LEAD. When I was growing-up, we had leaded gasoline, leaded paints and leaded pencils. It is in our environment, water and food. I believe this is the biggest contributory factor to the development of CATARACT. We need to be tested for heavy metals. The only accurate way is a six-hour URINE PROVOCATIVE TEST. You could be dying of lead poisoning and your urine would be negative for lead…the lead goes into your bone, brain, eyes, muscles and fat…the best way to remove the lead is CHELATION THERAPY. Dr. Robert Rowen, the Editor of SECOND OPINION, stated that IVEDTA chelation a month can prevent cataract. “…I am interested in reversing the cataract and actually improving your vision. There are two prescription eye drops that can do this. The first one is OCLUMED. The second is an eye drop developed by Dr. Rowen. It is a mixture of DMSO, ASCORBIC ACID and GLUTATHIONE. Earlier, I commented that the Ascorbic Acids levels and Glutathione levels are reduced when you get a cataract, so it makes sense to have an eye drop like this …The Oclumed has a great combination of key ingredients to help reverse the cataract. One is L-carnosine, which immediately neutralises existing free radicals. N-Acetylene-Carnitine provides a long-term protection because it lasts longer in the cell. This eye drop also has Glutathione, which is one of the most important antioxidants in the lens. It also has CYSTEINE ASCORBATE, which is a water-stable source of Vitamin C and L-Cysteine, which are very important antioxidants. We need to get the Glutathione and Ascorbic acid, or Vitamin C in high concentration to reverse the cataract changes. L-Cysteine is use to regenerate or reduce the oxidised form of L-Glutathione in the eyes.” (For more information about the impact of glutathione on health, read the post in www.olufemikusa.com entitled CELLGEVITY, SENIOR CITIZENS AND THEIR PECULIAR CHALLENGES). Dr. Edward Kondrot mentions many more nutrients good for the eyes, and lays out some products he has developed and used to reverse cataracts in 20years of work in this field. Someday, we would return to him, given the high rate of cataract occurrence in Nigeria and the wish of challenged people to resolve their condition naturally.  L-carnosine L-carnosine is “big” news to many people. But to scientists and workers in the medical field, it is not. L-carnosine, also called carnosine, is made by the body from two non-essential amino acids, ALANINE and HISTIDINE. Non-essential amino acids are produced by the body from ingredients in the diet, whereas we have to consume essential amino acids because the body cannot make them through transformation of one amino acid into another. Carnosine is an antioxidant amino acid with many health benefits in the body. The body can make lots of it if the diet provides Alanine and Histidine. As an antioxidant, carnosine helps to neutralise free radicals. These are molecules which damage cell membrane and DNA, the genetic code of the cells. Cells damaged by free radicals become weak or tired, are unable to function properly, may becomed diseased and even die prematurely. Our eyes are attacked everyday by free radicals, especially by the blue rays in the wavelength of the sunlight we require to see. Mother Nature is not unaware that this may happen and, so, has fortified the eyes with antioxidants to protect the eyes against free radicals. Among these antioxidants are Glutathione, the body’s master antioxidant, Vitamins A, C and E, Alpha Lipoic Acid (ALA), Zinc, Magnesium, Selenium and, from the carotenoid family, Lutein, Zeazanthin and Astazanthin. The bioflavonoid family provides arsenal which include Rutin and Quercitin. There are also Ginkgo biloba and Bilberry. All these and more are present in the eyes. But, under stress or over exposure to free radicals or even poor nutrition, poor in the sense of antioxidant deficiency in the diet, the eye may not obtain enough antioxidants from the diet everyday, and gradually, unknown to us, become damaged by free radicals. Some medical studies have shown that L-carnosine improves nerve function, even in autism, and protects muscles.  Cataract types There are three types of cataracts, generally speaking. Cortical or diabetic cataract begins in the periphery of the lens and grows inwards. Cataract in the middle of the lens is called Nuclear cataract. Sub capsular cataract are often found at the back of the lens and called posterior sub-capsular cataracts. They often affect diabetics, steriod ulcers, people challenged with retinitis pigmentosa and severely short-sighted people, that is people who can see very near objects but may not see beyond their “noses”, literally speaking. Symptoms may vary among the various types and the degree of challenge, but they all tend to exhibit cloudness of vision and sensitivity to light. Retinitis pigmentosa is characterised partly by swelling of blood vessels in the retina which may leak into it and/or growth of new blood vessels in the retina.  Carnosine therapy Carnosine abounds not only in skeletal and nerve tissue but also in the lens of the eyes, where there is still no evidence of its production. Thus, it is still assumed that carnosine is produced elsewhere in the body and transported to the eye lens. This is not the end of the story. In the eye lens, as elsewhere in the body, Carnosine is degraded by an enzyme named Carnosinase into Histidin and Alanine. Carnosinase is resident in the lens. As carnosine is not in the lens for decoration purposes, and as it is being degraded by Carnosinase, and as low levels of Carnosine would appear to be present in cataract of the lens, researchers began to think of ways to pump more to carnosine into the lens. N-Acetyl Carnosine (NAC) provided an answer in NAC eye drops. NAC was found to be a precursor of Carnosine in the eye. When it is dropped into the eye, NAC is protected against Carnosine degradation and safely delivers L-carnosine into the lens to do battle with cataract. The battle is with an army of chemical substances which, individually, in combinations or as a group can obstruct proper vision in what is known as cataract. Just to name a few, there are Reactive Oxygen Species (ROS), Advanced Glycation End products (AGEs), peroxides and Aldehydes among others. ROS are “singlet” oxygen free radicals. We all know that we need oxygen to live. This oxygen has two molecules (O2). When it is used for our living processes, such as the production of energy, it produces a waste know as singlet oxygen (O), or ROS. This waste attacks the membranes of cells to steal electrons from them in other to stabilise itself as O2. The attack put holes in cells through which there contents links out and through which they may become infected and damaged. AGEs are produced when excess blood sugar, as in diabetes, damages fat and protein molecules. Hydrogen Peroxide damages fats in the cell membrane. The damage they cause disperse light rays and inhibit healthy vision. In 1978, Allen Babizhayeb and his colleagues told the world that L-carnosine could reduce lipid peroxides within the lens. Many studies have confirmed the hypothesis. Indirectly, L-carnosine activity also reduces or blocks conversion of the gelataneous protein fluid in the lens sac to a stony substance, which prevents light travel to the retina. Many studies have found, also, that in cataract formation, there are depletions of enzymes such as Superoxide Dismutase (SOD) and Catalase. SOD destroys the superoxide, a major poison to the cells, by breaking it down into hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) and oxygen (O2). There are about three lines of SOD. These may be formed from with Zinc and Copper or from Manganese or from Iron or from Selenium. Each line protects a different part of the cell. Thus, SOD defence for the cytoplasm is different from SOD defence for the cell nucleus and from SOD defence for the mitochondria, where energy is produced. Thus, again, a deficiency of a particular SOD ingredient may expose to danger the area that ingredient is expected to help protect. SOD, formed from Zinc, inhibit ROS. Catalase inhibits hydrogen peroxide. One molecule of catalase may destroy millions of hydrogen peroxide molecules in one second. Naturally, the nuclear area of the lens depends on the diffusion of Glutathione, the master antioxidant, from the cortical region of the eye. But aging is said to slow the diffusion rate, exposing this region and the nuclear region to harm. L-carnosine is credited, also, with vanquishing ROS forces as well as neutralising AGEs. In addition, L-carnosine is reported to chelate heavy metals from the eye, thereby preventing them from wreaking damage. As an anti-oxidant, it swallows up excess blood sugar which causes glacation (damage) of fat and protein molecules in the eye. L-carnosine also prevents protein molecules from cross linking and forming that stony material in the lens known as cataract. Interestingly, L-carnosine has been shown to dissolve this formation. Even in laboratory rats induced to develop cataract of the lens, L-carnosine eye drops slowly dissolved the stone, the cataract, in the first eight weeks, followed by a more aggressive action in the next five weeks. Dogs featured in some of the controlled experiments. In one such study, 30 dogs of various breed challenged with lens cataracts were treated with a combination proprietary product, as L-carnosine is said to work better when combined with other antioxidants. The proprietary combination administered in this experiment comprised two percent NAC, Glutathione, Vitamin C, Cysteine, L-Taurine and Vitamin B1 (thiamine). The blend came from OCLUVET of Arizona. The eyes of the 30 dogs were checked. Some had mature cataracts, some immature cataracts, some cataracts and eye inflammation and nuclear sclerosis. Improvement were significant in the immature cataracts and nuclear sclerosis groups. About 80 percent of the dogs recorded improvements. In a human study involving 49 subjects challenged with senile cataracts, 76 eyes were affected. Of the 76 eyes, 41 eye were administered one percent NAC eye drops two times a day. Eighteen patients (21 eyes) formed one control group. They received eye drops of all ingredients except NAC. There was an untreated group of 10 patients (14 eyes) who received no eye drops. Six months after, 90 percent of patients in the treated group were seeing better than before the experiment. About 89 percent improved on glare sensitivity. At 24 months, no members of this group suffered any vision decline. Generally, there was a decline in the control groups. In other human trials, there were significant statistical improvements. These were attributed to the attributes of NAC as an antioxidant, anti-glare agent, heavy metals chelator, Aldehyde scavenger, Carbonyl scavenger, producer of Nutric Oxide (NO) etc. I would like to suggest that, while NAC may be given a try, everyone challenged with one vision disorder or another should not forget to fill the medicine cabinet with some, if not all and even more of the following.. ‘.. .Zinc, Vitamin A, Vitamin B-complex, Vitamin C, Vitamin E, Selenium, Alpha Lipoic Acid, Bilberry, Magnesium, Taurine, Lutein and Zeazanthin, DTA, Cellegevity, Noni, Grape Seed Extract, Lion’s Mane Mushroom, CoQ10, tissue or cell salts, and greens such as liquid chlorophyll, Spirulina, Kale, Chlorella for chelating heavy metals, Asparagus, Red Kidney Bean pod tea (for lowering blood sugar). Spirulina and Kale provide alk the amino acids, including HISTIDINE and ALANINE from which the body manufactures Carnosine.