…as NCFRMI distributes materials in Uhogua camp  Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki, has lauded the Federal Government’s role in assisting with welfare packages for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) across Edo State. Obaseki gave the commendation when the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) donated educational materials and food items to the IDPs in Uhogua Camp in Ovia North East Local Government Area, Edo State. The relief materials include branded bags; food flask and water bottles; notebooks; cartons of biros and pencils; mathematical sets; bags of rice and beans; vegetable oil, among others. The governor, who was represented by his Special Adviser on Special Duties, Yakubu Gowon, said, “The role of NCFRMI in resettling refugees, migrants and IDPs across the country is commendable. The commission has remained committed in catering for social welfare for these categories of persons. “Edo State government appreciates the efforts of the commission in consolidating the state’s campaign in receiving, resettling and reintegrating victims of human trafficking and illegal migration through its active involvement in organising the return of these persons to Nigeria.” Commenting on the donation of educational materials and food items to the camp, he said “The state government expects the exercise to be sustained even as we anticipate that circumstances that led to the displacement of persons living in this camp will be resolved as soon as possible, so that they can return to their normal lives.” Obaseki noted, “We promise to commit resources so that those living in the camp have fond memories as our guests, even after they return to their homes. Federal Commissioner for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, Hajiya Sadiya Umar Farouk, represented by her Special Adviser on Media, Hajiya Halima Musa, said, “The commission whose responsibility is to ensure solutions are provided for refugees, IDPs across the country already had intervention in 28 states, including the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) where humanitarian crisis are identified.” She said the commission provides both short and long-term plans to help the people regain themselves, “In this area, we have provided in the short-run maintenance materials to alleviate the suffering of people of concern while in the long run, we plan to provide durable solution to alleviate their plight.” She said the commission is in Edo State to flag-off the distribution of the relief materials to make life better for the IDPs, adding that the commission’s gesture was the result of reports from desk officers’ assessment of condition of children at the camp. Responding to the gesture, one of the displaced persons, Grace James, thanked NCFRMI, Edo State government and other non-governmental organisations for their continuous support to the camp, urging them not to relent as God will continue to bless them and their families.