The clash has led to residents of the community fleeing for fear of attack from herdsmen. It was gathered that herdsmen from Mpu, Enugu State invaded farmlands in Akaeze and destroyed farm crops which angered some farmers and led to one being butchered. The farmer confronting the herdsmen was what led to the rampaging herdsmen inflicting serious injuries on his body with their machetes. He is now reported to be unconscious in the hospital. The incident forced the State Governor David Umahi  to ban grazing in the entire Ivo local government area until investigation into the matter is concluded. Umahi who summoned emergency security meeting with security chiefs in the state, Leaders of Herdsmen, local government Chairmen and
stakeholders of Ivo local government, set up 10-man committee to investigate the attacks. “This issue is becoming complicated because if we had seen cow, we will now believe that he attacked cows and they butchered him. I want the CP, the Army and the SSS to set up committee. It should be 10- man committee to investigate the matter and we will convey another emergency security meeting on the matter. “The investigation should commence immediately. But I am banning any Herdsman from entering Ivo local government until this investigation is completed and I want the security men to carry out my instruction. No Herdsman should enter the place, no cattle should enter Ivo local government again until investigation is completed”. ‘I want you people to note it down that any herdsman that is coming into Ebonyi must follow the procedure and must not carry animals late into Ebonyi. You bring in animals by vehicles, knowing there is no cattle routes, no grazing reserve or colony Ebonyi. “So, no animal should come to Ebonyi by routes, it should be by vehicle and before coming, the Ardo should do a letter informing us that they are coming in here. You cannot come into somebody’s farm without his permission, you can’t do that. “My prayer is that the victims will all be alive. At the end of the day when the report is completed, whoever is the first aggressor will go to prison, I will send the person to prison no matter whom the person is. “I am banning any form of entering anybody’s farm in Ebonyi state, anybody that does it will be arrested. Any cattle that goes into farmland should be arrested immediately. I have said it severally that there is no cattle routes in Ebonyi, there is no grazing routes and there is no colony. “Anybody that kills the cows of a Fulani man, should go to prison  for one year and also pay for the cattle. Any Fulani man that destroys the farm of a farmer, will go to prison for one year and pay for the cost of the farmland”, Umahi stated. Governor Umahi after brokering peace in the community on assumption of office created two additional communities from the Ezilo community which now has the Izo autonomous community for the Ezza clan and Ameze community for the Ezilo people. He commended the State legislature led by the Speaker, Francis Nwifuru for their commitment and role in sustenance of peace in every part of the state and described them as worthy partners in development and enthronement of lasting peace. Ends 