 The romance between Coach Jose Mourinho and Paul Pogba seems to be over. Considering that both men have big egos, the rift between them may tear Manchester United apart and derail their aspiration of finishing in the top four. PRECIOUS IGBEDION talked to fans of European football on the issue. Noah Taiwo: Pogba coming in from the bench in the Champion League game against Sevilla was due to his illness before the match. And every player has issue with their coaches. The problem at Man United is that Pogba feels he is being played out of position. Sunday Festus: The major problem between Jose and Pogba is wages. The French international feels that he should be getting as much as new-signing, Alexis Sanchez if not more. He also wants to be the main man in the team who will dictate proceedings on the pitch. Kingsley: As far as I am concerned, there is no issue between the two of them. Pogba is warming the bench due to poor performance. He needs time to regain his form and Sanchez would help him improve and become a better team player. John: Pogba began the game on the bench against Sevilla due to injury and when he was introduced into the tie he proved his worth. I don’t think he has any problem with Mourinho. Bello Kehinde: The issue between Mourinho and Pogba is power tussle. Both are the best in their jobs. I don’t agree with the coach keeping him on the bench, he is a fantastic player and should play so he’ll be able to justify his huge transfer fee. Austin Mordi: The problem between Mourinho and Pogba is ego, both are proud men, and till they come to understand that the club is bigger than them, this issue would linger. Alex Anyafulu: This is not the first time Mourinho is having issues with his players. He did same at Real Madrid and that was the beginning of the end for him. Pogba also have to change his attitude, football is not all about fashion, dance and crazy hair styles. It’s a business and team play is the answer, which could be seen in Manchester City.        