The Inspector-General of Police,( IGP), Mr Ibrahim Idris, has directed Commissioners of Police of all the State Commands and the Federal Capital Territory to commence the recovery of prohibited firearms in the country. The Force spokesman, CSP Jimoh Moshood on Thursday said in a statement  in Abuja, said that the categories of the prohibited are: Artillery, apparatus for the discharge of any explosives of gas diffusing projectile, Rocket weapons, Bombs and Grenades. Others are: Machine-Guns and Machine-Pistols, Military rifles, those of calibers 7.62mm, 9mm, .300 inches, Revolvers and Pistols whether rifled or unrifled (including flint-lock pistols and cap pistols), Pump action gun of all categories and any other firearms/lethal weapons fabricated to kill. Moshood said that a police Joint Task Enforcement Team has been constituted at the Force Headquarters to coordinate the order. He said that the commissioners of Police and the Assistant Inspectors-General of Police in the States and Zonal Commands have been mandated to also set-up similar teams. “The operation will equally include Cordon and Search and Raid, Seizure from any premises, hideouts, dwelling houses or buildings or sites (completed or under construction),”he said. He said that all categories of  people bearing arms in the name of vigilante group, neighborhood watch among others have been given 21 days from today to surrender them to commissioners of police in their states. “This Operation which among other purposes, is aimed at the full enforcement of the Firearms Act, mopping-up and recovery of all prohibited firearms and illegally acquired,”he said. He said that this action would enable the Nigeria Police Force deal decisively with herders and farmers clashes, kidnappings, armed robbery, cattle rustling, militancy and terrorism. “The Commissioners of Police in charge of State Commands are under strict instruction of the Inspector General of Police to enforce and carry out these directives in totality. “They have also been directed to convene a security stakeholders meeting immediately to sensitize and educate the members of the general public. ” No licence will be given or recognized in respect of prohibited firearms and ammunition except granted by the President and Commander-In-Chief of the Federal Republic of Nigeria upon the recommendation of the Inspector General of Police,”he said. He warned that anyone found with prohibited firearms after the expiration of the 21days would be arrested, investigated and prosecuted. “The Police will not hesitate to apply the full weight of the law on any individual or group under any guise whose conduct runs contrary to the law of the land. “The renewed commitment of the Nigeria Police Force to guarantee protection of Lives and Property across the country remains unequivocal and unwavering,”he said. The News Agency of Nigeria ( NAN) reports that The Minister of Interior, retired Lt.-Gen. Abdulrahman Dambazau, on Wednesday in Abuja, called for the strict enforcement of the law against the possession of illegal firearms in the country.( NAN)