Ijaw youths are not happy that gas flaring still goes on in the Niger Delta. They want the practice stopped. Indeed, they are angry that oil companies are still flaring gas in their territory despite sustained global campaigns to end the practice. However, the youths under the auspices of the Ijaw Youth Council (IYC), Worldwide, appreciates efforts of the Federal Government to end gas flaring in 2020. The Perotubo Oweilami-led IYC appealed to the government and oil multinationals to work together and ensure the realisation of the deadline. The Spokesman of the group, Mr. Daniel Dasimaka, told the Niger Delta Report that the youths were monitoring the development and would not tolerate gas flaring beyond 2020. “Despite efforts to curb gas flaring in Nigeria, the issue remains a major problem, bedeviling the Niger Delta people”, he said. He said that poor regulation and poor oil field practices led to environmental, health, social and security problems in the Niger Delta region and the country. Apart from the economic wastage in flaring, it also contributed significantly to global warming. “To this end, the IYC worldwide is calling on the Federal Government to stop Gas flaring in the Niger Delta”, he said, calling on the government to ensure the success of the Nigerian Gas Flare Commercialization Programme (NGFCP). He described the NGFCP as  part of the National Gas Policy approved in June, 2017 and domiciled in the office of the of the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Ministry of Petroleum Resources (MPR), and the National Gas Policy approved in June, 2017. He said: “The Federal Government should effectively utilize the commercial benefits of the gas that is being flared in the region, premised on the fact that gas flare reduction is amongst the solutions in government programmes for improving the environmental, health, social, economic and security problems in the Niger Delta region. “Additionally, the IYC applauds the strong political will to harness these gas resources and end flaring by 2020. Specifically, the government ratification of the Paris Climate Change Agreement (PCCA), is an indication of its seriousness in this regard”. He pointed out that the agreement included gas flaring reduction as Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions mitigation in the Nationally Determined Contributions (NDC). He said the country has also shown commitment to the environment through her recent signatory to the Global Gas Flaring Partnership (GGFR) principles for global flare-out (Zero Routine Flaring Reduction) 2030 Initiative and had agreed to a national flare-out target by year 2020. Dasimaka reminded the government that the people of the region had not forgotten the its Niger Delta Strategic Implementation Work Plan. He urged the Federal Government to take advantage of some provisions in the Petroleum Act. He said the Petroleum Minister could invoke Sections 9 and 11 of the Act in the interest of the public to allow the government the rights to take all flare gas free of cost and without payment of royalty in line with Paragraph 35(b)(i) First Schedule of the Petroleum Act. The spokesman further advised the government to ensure that all flares taken by the Government are subjected to competitive and transparent bids in line with the NGFCP framework without politicising it. Dasimaka said: “IYC is also calling on President Muhammadu Buhari to quickly sign into law the, ‘Flare Gas (Prevention of Waste and Pollution) Regulation 2017’, which will underpin the implementation of the government’s gas flare-out programme. “To ensure the success of the NGFCP, the IYC is calling on all oil multinationals to wholeheartedly support these laudable government initiatives since this is the first of its kind and of this magnitude globally. “As a caveat, the IYC further assert that it will henceforth monitor the government’s gas flare programme and in particular how much support and cooperation the oil producing companies are giving the programme. “If the IYC finds out that the oil companies are playing the Ostrich and sit-on-the fence approach, they will mobilize against any oil company found and/or seen to make the NGFCP a failure. “There is no gainsaying that gas flaring has impacted negatively on the environment and health of the people of the Niger Delta for over five decades. This was one of the major reasons behind the Kaiama Declaration of 1998. “It has been ignored so far and it has impacted negatively on the National Interest of Nigeria. Presently, there are over 178 gas flare sites in the country, mainly Niger Delta, that flare over 800million standard cubic feet (mmscuf/d) of gas daily. “This is a huge loss of revenue, employment generation opportunities and power generation inputs to Nigeria. According to our research, the country needs less than $4bn worth of investment to stop gas flaring and meet its gas commercialisation targets by 2020. “This is why we are calling on the Federal Government to make the investment to stop gas flaring in Nigeria in pursuit of our national interest. It is unthinkable that majority of households in Nigeria and the Niger Delta in particular still use kerosene and/or fire woods for their cooking needs when we waste this amount of gas daily.” He further implored the government to give opportunity to Niger Delta youths and communities to participate in the programme in line with the goal of the NGFCP in a competitive open bidding process. “Undoubtedly, the bulk of gas flaring is substantial, and is capable of powering hundreds of thousands of Nigerians’ homes as well as industrial areas with electricity access yearly.” 