•School holds 10th matriculation The Vice-Chancellor (VC) of Salem University in Lokoja, Kogi State, Prof Dorcas Oluwade, has enjoined students to participate in leadership training, saying the institution has mission to become a breeding ground for problem solvers and global leaders. The VC made spoke at the institution’s 10th matriculation held on the main campus in Lokoja. Prof Oluwade lamented the situation where students graduate to become job seekers. She said though the school is a faith-based institution, it would take the issue of leadership training for its students important to build responsible leaders. The VC listed corruption, maladministration, lack of integrity and value system among others vices responsible for the challenges facing the nation. She said the school’s training would provide value re-orientation, with the aim to promote godliness, integrity, accountability, diligence, resourcefulness and synergy for the development of the nation.She said: “We believe that, by the time we release these leaders to the larger society, they must have imbibed positive values. There is no leader with integrity that would want to engage in any form of corrupt practice. Good leaders are also innovative, diligent and accountable.” Prof Oluwade, who emphasised that entrepreneurship remained a cardinal programme in the school, said the university focused on free enterprise to make its graduates self-reliant. She said the school would equip the students with adequately skills to provide solutions and create jobs. She said: “We are training people that will not wait for the government to provide them with jobs. Those who have already graduated from here are living testimony to the achievement of the school. Our graduates are trained in a way that mentally prepares them for leadership whenever they graduate.” The VC warned the fresh students against absence at lectures, saying the institution frowned at malpractices and misconducts. She added that noncompliance with the dress code and disobedience would not be tolerated. While congratulating the students and their parents, the VC urged for support in helping the school attain its aim of breeding future leaders and make them the globally competitive. The students pledged their commitment to the school rules and regulations, promising to help the faith-based institution achieve its vision. A fresher, Uchechi Elijah, expressed optimism about her desire to build  and acquire knowledge that would make her self-reliant and contribute positively to the society. Another student, Raymond Dechi, promised to aim for excellence in his academic pursuit. He appreciated his parents for supporting his ambition to get university education. 