A coalition of Civil Society Groups has scored the Vice Chancellor of Federal University, Oye-Ekiti (FUOYE), Prof. Kayode Soremekun, high on execution of capital projects. Acting under the aegis of the Civil Society Groups for Good Governance, the activists visited the university to ascertain whether funds earmarked for them are well utilised. Led by Mr. Olufemi Lawson, Secretary, Movement Against Corruption (MAC), the group paid visits to sites of projects, including the Central Administration Building (over 80 per cent completed); 500-Seater Lecture Theatre built with Internally Generated Revenue (IGR); 3-In-1 Central Laboratory and the Multipurpose Arts Theatre. Lawson explained that their mission was to clarify allegations against the institution in a petition to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), copy of which came to the body in respect of breaches of procurement and contract award procedures. The activists explained that the visit was in agreement with Federal Government’s campaign for transparency and accountability as citadels of learning are should be models in fighting graft. Other members of the delegation were Mr. Muktar Akosile, President, Africa Youth Patriotic and Development Mission (AVPDM); Basat Mohammed, Director of Communications, Transparency and Accountability Initiatives; Nelson Osaieze, Executive Director, African Leadership Strategy and Transparency Development Initiative; Lilian Cosmos, Network of Young Female Leaders of Excess Community; Omokhagbor Michael, Bureau of Public Service Initiative; and Olubayo Fisayo, Public Service Watch. Lawson’s words: “This visit is not about exposing or witch-hunting anyone. It is about the integrity of Nigerian education system. “In all fairness, the impression I had was the conventional Nigerian university at the early stages of development, still battling with makeshift structures. But here I met a very well advanced Institution. “I have been to other similar institutions, but here you have structures that you can put forward anywhere and they will stand as evidences of achievement and performance.” Responding, Soremekun explained that infrastructure deficit in the Institution could be closed faster only if the IGR was being applied in the direction. The VC said it would not make any point to abandon such critical projects, which were mostly at their infancy in the name of paucity of finances. The VC stressed that his administration adheres strictly to procurement law with all contracts going through normal processes before being awarded on the basis of competence and track record of performance. 