A civil society group, the National Coalition on Gas Flaring and Oil Spills in the Niger Delta (NACGOND), recently convened a one-day round table in Port Harcourt, the Rivers State capital, to make inputs to the proposed National Oil Spill Detection and Response Agency (NOSDRA) bill. Defects in the existing Act, agreed participants are responsible for the ineffectiveness of NOSDRA and the impunity, high handedness being exhibited by oil producing companies in the Niger Delta. They agreed that the sections of the Act be amended and the agency be given more funding, autonomy and other necessary tools that would enable it regulate the oil industry without compromise. Some of the participants bared their minds to Niger Delta Report on the amendment issue. For  Eze Edemini of Ogbaland in Omoku, Anthony Ahia: “NOSDRA has since existed without portfolio,  and impact but hopes that the amendment would strengthen it to assist communities get their devastated farms and water sources back. ‘’ The round table today is a welcome development; I must thank the organisers and the convener of the meeting. I must say that NOSDRA has been unproductive we see them as entertainers, who put on their safety gears to oil spilled sites and yet nothing is done to help the communities. “NOSDRA has put most of the blames on lack of adequate funding which is also suspected to be the reason they compromise with oil companies against impacted communities. “Example is Omoku area where I come from, my community has for more than 32 years been subjected to unabated pollution of our environment and river bodies, the only source of water in my place without any hope of cleaning them up. “We have made several efforts, dialogued, made complaints officially and unofficially to the Spillers, the Nigerian Agip oil company limited to see reason to clean up the environments but nothing has been done. “It is a welcome development that NOSDRA is now looking for more power and better funding to enable it carry out its statutory mandates effectively, we are in support of that but hope that this will make it rise up to its assignment, withdraw the romance with polluters who they supposed to regulate, and instead assist communities suffering from oil spill problems regain their environments back to their natural form.” King Okpoitari Diongoli, Opu-Okun IV,  Ibedaowei of Opokuma in Kolokuma Local Government Area of Bayelsa State said: ‘’ I aligned myself totally with the views that have been expressed in the meeting,  but going forward, I would say that the entire frame work for establishing either the DPR or NOSDRA all the regulatory body should be made rigid. “But I want to believe that when the PIB is passed into law, it will address some of these issues. “I raise this concern because often time when the issues of  the multinationals are raised,  we are always refer to the joint venture(JV) partnership agreement, in which the Federal government  owns  45 percent of the total shares. “With this, the multinationals would always want to shift their responsibility on the FG and the FG is far away from the host communities and most times we don’t even see governments to respond to the yearnings  of the people. “I think the national assembly should make haste in order to pass the PIB so that the president can sign it to make it an act. “Government should consider a rigid frame work for institutions that are regulating activities of oil companies, and I also think that there is too much duplication we need to harmonise all of them possibly with government establishing one agency to regulate the activities of multinationals and possibly withdraw itself (Federal Government) from petroleum management responsibilities. “The NNPC has too many responsibilities it has taken on, DPR cannot be effective because when you are being  supervised by ministry and then with all the bureaucratic bottlenecks there will be too many issues; we need to strengthen the institutions but for now NOSDRA is in the best position to do that,” he concluded. The Director General (DG), NOSDRA, Peter Idabor, who was represented by John Lalu, said: ’”The meeting was at the instance of the ongoing review of the NODSRA act in the national assembly. We wanted to take inputs from stake holders from oil producing communities. “A lot of views were brought to bear before the participants and it was very clear that everyone wants the NOSDRA act to be reviewed to empower the agency to make the necessary regulations on the oil spill environment in view of the petroleum industry bill that was just passed by the house of assembly it shows that some rights of NOSDRA has been taken away which is not supposed to be. “Our efforts is to make sure that NOSDRA is accorded its role in the environment to ensure a safe and healthy environment to avoid self-regulation by certain agencies and to make sure that the environment is being handled by independent agencies  who can take actions without fear of anybody.” The agency’s spokesman, Kenneth Aro, said:  “We do know  that NOSDRA has been working tirelessly to ensure that the mandate for which it was established is virtually followed sincerely and am assuring that all aspect of strategies are followed to make sure that the environment is safe. “They key area that we felt requires amendments are issues that have to do with stream lining operations of regulatory agencies, to ensure adequate funding of the agency and in making sure that the compensation regime is actually well spelled out just as we have in advanced countries. “When they have a repository of funds they make use of that fund to take care of the environment this is very important but our own system is very silent on good structures that will ensure us getting funds to take care of issues that has to do with compensation and others.” “We also have the issues coming from the International Oil Companies (IOC’s)  trying to seek allegiance to another regulatory agency based on the feelings that they are sub-servant to regulatory functions and also having the feelings that the other agency has the monopolistic tendencies in oil and gas regulation, this actually defeats a multi stake holders approach in ensuring that we have a very well regulated oil and gas environment. “We are not saying that other regulatory agencies should not come in, they can come in but on the issues that have to deal with self-regulating, it is completely out of question because we can’t be your operator and also ensure that you have the transparency in trying to regulate yourself it’s not done. “So you need to have an agency that is independent and also have there over sight in such activities we can stay regulating the operations that is domicile in oil and gas but the issue of environmental regulation let it be sited and allow NOSDRA to perform its functions.” The National Coordinator NACGOND, Rev. Father Obi, relieved his concerns on the on the pending bill. “We came here together because we as concerned Nigerian citizens, stake holders of different categories have come together because we are aware there is a bill in the national assembly to amend the establishment law of NOSDRA. “We are bringing our concerns knowing that over time we have noticed that NOSDRA is not able to fulfill its mandate because it has not been sufficiently empowered to fulfill that mandate, there are lots of issues arising today and people have pointed to so many different things like bureaucratic, logistics and politics and so many others that are hampering the possibility of NOSDRA in making any headway. “We think that amendments to some certain clauses in that law will strengthen them as this will empower them more in carrying out their duties fully. If you are regulating somebody and you don’t have the power to sanction that person even when they err then you will be as good as a toothless bull dog, we think that NOSDRA should have the capacity and the power to sanction and also enforce their action and if that is done I think that will make NOSDRA become a better agency.” Participants agreed that to ensure a better environment requires commitment, focus and determination, as well as strong institutions. 