Call it two lethal blows to the solar plexus – it must have been a hard time for an administration that swept into office on the chariot of change to watch everything it has labored so hard for vaporize at the speed of light. On Monday, February 19, Nigerians woke up to the terrible news of the abduction of 110 Dapchi schoolgirls by suspected Boko Haram militants. The insurgents, said to be dressed in military camouflage reportedly stormed the Government Girls Science Technical College (GGSTC), Dapchi, Yobe State in two 4-wheel drive vehicles painted in military colour. Firing into the air to create an atmosphere of bedlam, the hapless girls, most of who, ran into different directions for safety, were said to have run into the Boko Haram militants posing as helpers. In the siege said to have lasted for two hours, 110 schoolgirls were ferried into the unknown. And so here we are being forced to relive the horror of Chibok some two months into the fourth anniversary of an abduction that shook the entire world. Of course, that five and half score schoolgirls could vanish without trace has only showed how very little has changed in any real sense as far as the insurgency war raging in the northeast goes. Not only has the myth of the invincibility of the fortress occupied by the Boko Haram despite the military’s claims to the contrary persisted; the possibility of our dear country, Nigeria, still harbouring vast, ungoverned spaces, far beyond the reach of the military has again been reinforced. If anything, that knowledge ought to provide citizens something to chew upon for a long time. So also are nearly half-a-dozen uncomfortable truths. Of course, the governor, Ibrahim Geidam, has since apologised for misleading Nigerians about the occurrence. While that is pardonable considering that the governor could only have echoed the information supplied him by his aides, but then, his attempt at finger-pointing merely exposes the age-long hypocrisy of his ilk. His words: “I blame the whole attack on Dapchi on the military and the defence headquarters who withdrew troops from Dapchi. The attack occurred barely a week after the military withdrew the soldiers from there… Before then, Dapchi has been peaceful, there was never such incident. But just a week after they withdrew the troops, Boko Haram came to attack the town”. Well said. The governor unfortunately has, up till now, not told us why no lessons appears to have been learnt by his government – nearly 10 years into the battle that has engulfed a huge chunk of the territory under his watch. None of basic structures of intelligence appears to have been in place not to talk of security architecture to match for a region that has been volatile all this while. Nothing of the synergy between the local authorities and the security and intelligence communities as one would expect given the peculiar security challenges facing the state as indeed the entire northeast. Yet, the governor could talk of the billions of naira spent to assist the military. The point certainly bears stating: Had basic structures of intelligence been in place and so appropriately nourished over time, it would seem inconceivable that the chief security officer of the state would be in the dark for the whole of the two hours that the siege was said to have lasted. One can only therefore presume that the huge sum said to have been spent precluded investment in critical intelligence. If the truth must be told, the situation, more tellingly, speaks to the calibre of men occupying our various government houses, their understanding of the rationale of governance and their fitness for the office. Which takes us to the role of the military in the entire saga. Expectedly, the military has since denied that there were any soldiers stationed in Dapchi before the attack. The closest military outpost, according to Defence Spokesman, John Agim, a brigadier-general, is about 30 kilometres away. Now, even if we take the statement by the military on its face value, and if we agree that the military cannot be everywhere at the same time, it still does not excuse the slow response time, the inability to track the movement of the terrorists several days after, and its appalling overall intelligence. Finally, the only point that needs to be added is that, the Buhari administration, in announcing that the Boko Haram has been vanquished, apparently rejoiced too soon. Far from being over, the war has merely revealed how far the armed forces have to go to modernise itself as a fighting force, particularly one suitable for these difficult times.