Soldiers fighting the Boko Haram insurgency in Borno State have killed five of the terrorists and captured a top commander of the group in the ongoing operation in Sambisa Forest and the Lake Chad basin. Colonel Onyeama Nwachukwu, Deputy Director, Army Public Relations of Operation Lafiya Dole, said in Maiduguri that troops also rescued three civilians and recovered vehicles as well as high calibre ammunition over the last few days. Besides, the troops reportedly engaged and neutralised a number of insurgents while attempting to escape the military blocking position in one of the cleared enclaves ‘Sabil-Huda’, deep in Sambisa Forest. Nwachukwu said that the troops recovered one G-III rifle magazine, one life jacket, a light machine gun metal link, four rounds of Anti-Aircraft ammunition, four rounds of 7.62mm (NATO) ammunition and three rounds of 7.62mm (Special) ammunition. “Unfortunately, two soldiers were injured in the process; they had been evacuated by the Nigerian Air Force and are responding to treatment,” he said. Nwachukwu said that the troops on Friday launched offensive targeting a terrorist’s hideouts up ‘CAMP ZAIRO’, and neutralised a number of insurgents in spite of initial damage caused to their Armoured Fighting Vehicle by Improvised Explosive Device (IED) planted beneath the ground. He said that the troops killed five insurgents; with several others wounded and recovered ammunition at a hideout in Parisu, Sambisa Forest. Troops of 151 Battalion in conjunction with “7 Division Support Group’ also cleared nine terrorists’ hideouts along Frigi-Izza area. The director added that the troops also recovered one motorcycle, two bicycles, 10 bicycle tyres, one bicycle, three Boko Haram flags, a solar panel, five drums filled with grain, two mattresses, two grinding machines, three bags of metal scraps, two motorcycle tyres and two underground grain silos. Also recovered are one AK-47 rifle magazine, 1 dummy rifle, a round of 12.7mm ammunition, 12 empty cases of 7.62mm ammunition, assorted IED materials and a tool box. 