The Lagos Neighbourhood Safety Corps (LNSC) yesterday paraded six suspected cultists accused of abducting and gang raping school girls. Yinka Adewuyi, 18, Kayode Damilare, 20, Aigoro Muyideen, 20,  Idogun Yinusa, 21, Laguda Kamal, 18, and Quadri Ajala, 22, – all former students of King Ado Senior School, Lagos Island East Local Council Development Area (LCDA), were paraded by the agency’s board chairman, Israel Ajao, a retired Deputy Inspector-General of Police (DIG) at the safety arena in Bolade, Oshodi. According to Ajao, the suspects were apprehended over the weekend following intelligence report that they had held an SS3 pupil hostage for four days. He said the efforts of the agency to contain criminality, especially the menace of cultism in secondary schools were yielding results, adding that the latest suspects were apprehended using covert and overt operations. According to Ajao, the suspects were in the habit of ambushing teenage girls around their schools and raping them. He said they would coerce their victims into joining their cult, Supreme Boys Nation, blindfold and take turns in raping them. Ajao said gang raping their victims was the climax of the initiation, adding that they told the girls they would become angels and threatened them not to disclose their ordeal or they would be killed. Appealing to parents to be watchful of their children, Ajao said the agency would not relent in containing cultism because cults were breeding grounds for criminals. He said some of the victims were rescued from the suspects’ hideout and that medical examinations were done on them to ensure they had not been infected with Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs) and were not pregnant. Narrating her ordeal, a victim said the boys  had been raping her since the last Ramadan. She told reporters that it was Damilare who first lured her to a park in their neighbourhood, adding that she was forced to kneel down, stripped and raped. Saliu said: “Damilare is my senior in school. We used to play together. So, I did not suspect anything the day he told me to come to the place. I followed him there but the next thing, he and three of his friends surrounded me and forced me to kneel down. “They blind folded me and spat a peppery substance on my body. They now said I should pull off my clothes and they raped me one after the other. Then, they warned me that if I should tell anyone, they will kill me. “This was last year. Since then, they have been raping me. Most times, they would come to my school gate and threaten me to follow them. They will lock me up for three or four days and they will be raping me. I was afraid to tell anyone because they threatened me. They have other gang members who have not been arrested. Those one usually threatened me in school everyday.” The other victim said only Adewuyi did not rape her. She said  Adewuyi  removed her blindfold, while Damilare and two others at large raped her. However, the suspects denied the allegations, claiming that the victims were their lovers and they had consensual intercourse. The suspects also claimed they never slept with the victims at once, insisting that each slept with them at different locations and times.