To eliminate HIV&AIDS by 2030 and support healthy living in workplaces, the Nigerian Business Coalition Against AIDS (NiBUCAA) has visited Nestlé Nigeria Plc to seek its cooperation. Advocacy, one of the pillars of the coalition, is a strategy for reaching member-companies to enhance the implementation of health-based programmes that will boost workforce productivity in corporate organisations. NiBUCAA Executive Secretary  Gbenga Alabi, praised the organisation for its support to the coalition since 2004. He congratulated Mrs. Victoria N’dee Uwadoka on her appointment as Nestlé Corporate Communications & Public Affairs Manager. Mrs. Uwadoka then urged the coalition to redefine its focus on HIV and AIDS and other complementary health programmes. She said: “As a responsible corporate player, Nestlé Nigeria is committed to maintaining a healthy enabling environment for our workforce. We actively promote and support healthy living in line with our purpose, which is enhancing quality of life and contributing to a healthier future.  We are open to explore areas of collaboration with the coalition where relevant to support our objectives.” In another development, NiBUCAA also  visited the head office of Dantata & Sawoe Construction Company (Nig.) Limited and lauded the organisation’s support for the coalition, assuring that more value-driven programmes would be made available. “Over the years, Dantata & Sawoe has been very supportive to the goals of the coalition. With your support, we have carried out a couple of programmes centred on healthy lifestyles that have improved the effectiveness of employees in the workplace. “This year, we’re focusing on the facilitation of insightful programmes that will act as supplement to programmes in the workplace. The 90-90-90 global target set by Joint United Nations Programme on HIV&AIDS to eradicate the epidemic by 2020 will receive increased support. Commitments from member companies will make these programmes achievable,” Alabi said. Dantata & Sawoe Executive Director, Nasiru Dantata, affirmed the organisation’s continued partnership with NiBUCAA to bring health benefits to its workforce with sustainable enlightenment programmes and campaigns. Dantata said: “NiBUCAA has positively impacted its members with thoughtful, insightful campaigns and programmes to boost the quality of lives of workers in industries and organisations. We’ll continue to work assiduously with NiBUCAA to facilitate programmes that will better the lots of our workforce and improve their wellbeing.”