The National Chairman of All Progressives Congress (APC), Mr John Odigie-Oyegun has said that the outcome of the meeting of the party’s national caucus had shamed those prophets of doom who predicted his removal from office. The party chairman stated this when he briefed State House correspondents after the APC national caucus meeting which was presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Monday night. Odigie-Oyegun, who described the outcome of the meeting as `beautiful and pleasant’, allegedly accused the media of manufacturing and exaggerating issues within the party. According to him, the meeting did not discuss any of the issues being speculated in the media contrary to what he has been reading in the social and traditional media outfits in recent times. “Absolutely beautiful as usual. You find that must of the problems that are supposed to exist. “In fact I want to ask the media where did they dig them out (of) because we just had a pleasant meeting and all what I have been reading in the media none of it (happened), All the prophecies of doom none of it even came near for mention,’’ he said. Odigie-Oyegun also dismissed the assertion that the caucus discussed his exit date as party chairman, describing it as mere media speculation. He said: “It is the media we should ask where do they get those stories from, where do you get them? Nothing like that ever happened; nothing like that was ever discussed; nothing like that came up – beautiful, pleasant, intellectual, deep reasoning today about issues.’’ He announced that the APC convention would be coming up in June. Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos and his Kogi counterpart, Yahaya Bello, who also spoke on the outcome of the meeting, said the party had no plan to effect changes in its leadership as being speculated in some quarters. Ambode described the meeting as `very successful’, adding that the party had succeeded in addressing major issues capable of promoting harmony and understanding among its members across the country. He said: “No, basically there are no cracks. What you called cracks are family issues and again caucus meeting like this tends to resolve family issues.  “We had a very successful meeting; issues of major interest in the nation were discussed and also in the spirit of the reconciliation to make sure that the party becomes stronger and then we prepared ourselves for the major elections coming up and to make that the NEC meeting is also successful. “Those were the basic things that we discussed.’’ Bello also lauded Buhari for exhibiting leadership qualities, saying members of the party had come out of the meeting more united and ready to conduct free and fair congresses at all levels nationwide. (NAN)