•As LABCA commences building recertification Eleven persons yesterday sustained varying degrees of injury after a two-storey building collapsed in Lagos. The incident occurred around 3am at 1, Community Road, off Old Otta in Alagbado. It was gathered that the fence of the building caved in on Friday night after it rained heavily. According to residents, the structure was defective and only had occupants at the topmost floor. It was gathered that those who sustained injuries were rushed the hospital before the arrival of emergency workers and 10 of them were discharged after receiving treatment. The last victim, it was learnt, was transferred to the General Hospital after doctors recommended scans, advance observations. According to the General Manager, Lagos State Building Control Agency (LABCA), Lekan Sodeinde, the structure was substandard and the owners did not get permit to erect it. He stated that the building was also erected on a land that had an existing structure. Sodeinde said: “The building is an existing structure, it was not under construction. Obviously, the owner did not build well because the structure was defective. “From our findings in the neighbourhood, the owner is not someone that is known to always abide by the law. The structure was built at the back of another existing building and it appears substandard materials were used for it. It collapsed completely. That building had no approval. “The debris of the building showed that it was weak. People need to understand that building collapse can only be avoided during construction and that is by doing the right things. “When you have constructed and you see depreciation in the strength of the building, you need to work on repair. I advise Lagosians to be mindful of where they live. The rain will definitely weaken any poorly constructed structure. “The state government is working to ensure that all buildings are recertified. Owners of buildings are expected to come forward for the evaluation of their structures and issuance of certificates. “Any building that is considered unsafe for habitation would not be issued the certificate and would be tested to ascertain the extent of work that is needed to be done on it or whether it would be pulled down. “Even if you are a tenant and you are living in a building that you are not sure of, you can come to us and we will take it up from there. We have started the revaluation of buildings. We will ensure that the recertification reaches all parts of the state.”