Two injured THREE men were yesterday killed and a woman severely injured after a tanker laden with vegetable oil upturned at Odogunyan, Ikorodu in Lagos State. It was gathered that the incident occurred inward Sabo Garage in the early hours shortly after it rained heavily. Our correspondent learnt residents had rushed to the scene thinking the fallen tanker was laden with petroleum products. They were said to have been scooping the oil when the tanker’s head, which was facing the major road, suddenly turned and crushed the deceased instantly. According to a source, a woman and another man were badly injured and were rushed to Ikorodu General Hospital. He said: “A tanker that was carrying vegetable oil fell at Odogunyan. Its head was detached from its body but the tanker was still standing. “When people saw it, they thought it was carrying fuel or diesel and they rushed it. But they discovered it was vegetable oil and were still scooping when the tanker fell on them. “Three men were killed on the spot. A woman’s leg was almost cut. She was in critical condition and another man also sustained serious injuries. They were rushed to the hospital. I do not know their names.” Confirming the incident, the General Manager, Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), Adesina Tiamiyu, urged motorists to obey traffic rules and check their vehicles before hitting the road. He said aside the Ikorodu accident, the agency’s response averted calamity along CMD Road Magodo after a 45,000 litres tanker laden with Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) skidded off the Express and rammed into flowers displayed by horticulturists. Tiamiyu said: “Who knows what might have happened if we had not responded early? “After pulling off the tanker with the help of the crane, we had to ensure that the gridlock that built as a result of the accident was cleared. “Then, the accident at Ikorodu was the second yesterday morning. Our men at Onipanu responded to it and they were able to prevent further damage. “They were assisted by LASTMA, NSCDC, soldiers attached to Op MESA, fire service, FRSC, police, LASAMBUS and SEHMU. We also managed traffic, recovered the tanker.”