Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima yesterday recounted the 2014 Boko Haram abduction of the Chibok schoolgirls in his state. More than 100 of the girls are yet to be rescued. Shettima, who is also the chair of the Northern States Governors Forum, paid a sympathy visit to neighbouring Yobe State where pupils were abducted last week. Shettima cautioned against mixing politics with security matters. He told his host: ”Your Excellency (Gov. Gaidam), I have been in your shoes since 2014 when schoolgirls were abducted in Chibok. I know exactly how you feel. When our daughters were abducted in Chibok; only God understood how I felt and I can imagine how you also feel, and the trauma you are going through. The parents of these girls would always look up to you with hope in the midst of agony. I know you are pained but I also believe that Insha Allah, these girls will be rescued very soon. “It is unfortunate that we have faced yet another abduction but that only reminds us about the difficulties of fighting insurgency. Oftentimes, they strike where you least expect. Before Boko Haram attacked Chibok, that Chibok had the least threat of Boko Haram in the Northeast. No one expected them to even think about Chibok because it is a mostly Christian community where Boko Haram was hardly an issue. “In the same vein, I don’t think anyone ever expected an attack in Dapchi. This incident, however, reminds all of us not only in Borno and Yobe but perhaps across the northern Nigeria to be on guard. I think the difference between the Chibok incident and this one, is that the Federal Government didn’t react in denial, doubt or formed a conspiracy theory. The Federal Government assumed responsibility which we hope will lead to rescue of the schoolgirls. When schoolgirls were abducted in Chibok, some people said there was no abduction because Borno was in the opposition. Those who admitted there was abduction, came up with a conspiracy theory that the APC leaders perpetuated it in order to win the 2015 elections. Now, this abduction took place in an APC controlled state under an APC led Federal Government. What this reminds us, in very painful way, I should add, is that as political actors, we should learn to separate politics from issues of security. Human lives are very precious in the sight of Allah” Shettima said. 