One of the  senators being probed for opposing the reorder of the 2019 elections yesterday admonished his colleagues and members of the House of Representatives “plotting”  against President Muhammadu Buhari to quit the All Progressives Congress (APC). To him, there is no point using a party platform to win elections only to be disrespecting the party in the name of legislative immunity and to be plotting against the President. Senator Abdullahi Adamu (APC Nasarawa) who spoke in Keffi, Nasarawa State while addressing party members, also condemned some APC Senators and Reps for sitting on the fence in order to sabotage Buhari. He berated such National Assembly members for cutting the umbilical cord between them and their party. The Nasarawa APC members and leaders from all wards in Nasarawa State were on a solidarity visit to him. The ex-Nasarawa State governor was removed last week as the Chairman of the Northern Senators Forum without a meeting of the group. But, looking unruffled, Adamu told the crowd: “You don’t want the party for any reason, you feel you are not part of it, get out of it. We know who we are, we can count our heads, that you stay in a party and you are grumbling, and you are doing anti-party activities, you are sabotaging the party. “Sabotaging President Muhammadu Buhari by any APC Senator or House of Reps member or House of Assembly member or Local Government Council member is sabotage against the government. I can understand if a PDP person doesn’t want to be supporting, he should find a means of drawing that line between loyalty to the constitution of the country, and his anti-government mentality. “Even if you are PDP and a member of the National Assembly, there are situations where you are supposed to be bipartisan, meaning there is a limit to where you can go by being anti -government because the person occupying the presidency is not from your party. “Only those who know such limits, and are ready to abide by such limits are the ones who can answer their father’s name in the national assembly. “If you want to oppose, go, come with your manifesto, tell us what you will do differently if you are the one there and let Nigerians decide. “But don’t hide under the immunity, parliamentary immunity and misbehave. Some of us cannot live with it, we will fight it. “ I was not elected in the national assembly, I was elected in my constituency, and to my constituency I will return. If you are a member of the National Assembly, the Senate or the House of Reps, the State Assembly, you are elected by a constituency and you don’t go to the National Assembly and behave like the proverbial masquerade which late Nnamdi Azikiwe talked about, that goes to the public square with a rope tied to its waist, and when he cuts the ropes off, the masquerade is on its own. That  is how some of these National Assembly members are now doing. “They are now cutting the umbilical cord between them and their party, between them and their constituencies. We do not want to be counted among them.” “What has brought the situation you have come to talk about is because we do know what our mission is and we do not want to mix our personal interest to undermine national interest. We will not do this, no matter the cost, no matter the pain. The ex-governor asked APC members in all the 36 states to pay keen interest on what their representatives are doing in the National Assembly. He added: “I’m not alone, and I hope states, are observing what their members are doing in the National Assembly. I hope they can support those who are with the government, to support those are with the party. “We are already in the election year, because the first election is just about 10 months and 15 days away. We cannot afford to be divided. We cannot afford to see sabotage and we turn away. If we see sabotage we call it sabotage. If you want to support, don’t sit on the fence, be straight on any issues, be counted among the people there. This fence sitting doesn’t do. This government, this party needs everybody’s support, particularly members of our great party.” Adamu said it was wrong to be elected into the National Assembly on the platform of a party and be engaging in anti-party activities. He said since God has chosen to make Buhari to lead the nation at this time, those opposing him should be careful or else they may carry curse. “And today as we talk, the person God has chosen to be the president of this country, the symbol of the sovereignty of this nation is President Muhammadu Buhari. “Those who don’t accept this are being ungodly. Those who don’t accept this reality are deceiving themselves more than any other person, and they should be careful of the wrath of God Himself. Power belongs to God, power comes from God, not anybody. Speaker of the Nasarawa State House of Assembly Hon Ibrahim Balarabe said any action against Buhari will be treated as “pure disloyalty.” He said: “We won’t take any negative comments by any APC member in the National Assembly or anywhere against the party and most especially against President Muhammadu Buhari as mere criticism, but will be viewed as pure disloyalty to the party and what it stands for. “President Muhammadu Buhari has done well in office, and only those who are too bias to see the good works he has done in office are the ones castigating him. Nigerians who want this nation to develop are solidly behind Mr. President for tenure in 2019 and I say with confidence that Nigerians will vote President Buhari again come 2019.” “We say it loud and clear that we have adopted President Buhari for a second term in office come 2019 just as we say also that anyone seeking to contest against Senator Abdullahi Adamu in 2019 is also wasting his time”. Nasarawa APC Chairman Philips Shekwo, said: “We are proud to associate with our Senator who has represented us well, and is still representing us well in the hallowed chamber of the Nigerian Senate. “We are openly saying that he has our total approval to support President Muhammadu Buhari for another term in 2019, and we say openly that he didn’t just come into the open to support President Buhari, but have the mandate of the APC in this state to do so.”