The stake has been high in Kaduna State in the last few days and it is obvious that things have fallen apart between Governor Nasir el-Rufai and his hitherto trusted political associates/co-conspirators, especially Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi.  Yusuf Alli, Managing Editor, Northern Operation provides rare insights into how hitherto friends have become enemies overnight. FOR the resilient Governor Nasir el-Rufai of Kaduna State, this is not the best of times for him because his political roof is leaking. Although he is a veteran of many political battles, the fury of political fire in the state is a litmus test for his career. History has been kind to el-Rufai having won slippery battles against ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar, the late President Umaru Yar’Adua and ex-President Goodluck Jonathan. The only outstanding is the cold war between him and ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo. Neither the governor nor his erstwhile godfather could say where their ‘war’ over his controversial book, Accidental Civil Servant will end. At the gubernatorial level, he has had to cope with internecine attacks on hapless citizens in Southern Kaduna;  the arduous task of managing the restiveness of the Islamic Movement of Nigeria(IMN) over the death of about 600 of their members and the detention of their leader, Sheikh Ibrahim El-ZakyZaky; the aftermath of urban renewal drive in Kaduna and Zaria which has led to the demolition of 100 houses; and the political consequences of the sack and the recall of over 21,000 teachers who failed competency test. While trying to navigate all the gubernatorial challenges, events in the state took a new dimension on Monday with the demolition of a property of one of his new political rivals, Senator Suleiman Hunkuyi. The house was situated at 11B Sambo Close in Kaduna. The controversial demolition has added a new vista to the ongoing consolidation of Nigeria’s nascent democracy which was birthed in 1999. In the First and Second Republics, the elements of axing of opponents (even hiding under the law) were prominent with such cases bordering on killings at rallies;  the jailing of political opponents; putting opposition leaders like the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo in the dock for treasonable felony; and the deportation of the ex-Speaker of Borno State House of Assembly, Alhaji Abdulrahman Shugaba from Nigeria by the government of the defunct ational Party of Nigeria (NPN). But the Kaduna State Government, led by el-Rufai, upped the ante by taking full advantage of the laws to strike at Sen. Hunkuyi who was his political ally barely four years ago after many years of subterranean relationship. The National Vice Chairman (North-West), Alh. Inuwa Abdulkadir (who was a Minister) was the first victim on April 6, 2017 but his plight was consigned into the dustbin. With the bulldozers of Kaduna State Urban Planning Development Agency, he lost a four-bedroom duplex, a two-room chalet by the left hand side of the house and another four-room chalet behind the duplex. It was learnt that the structure was demolished because it was constructed without approval despite notices to stop work. El-Rufai had earned the ears of Abdulkadir as part of the permutations for a second term for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019. With a heavy investment in Abdulkadir, el-Rufai was sure of hijacking the structure of the party and dictating the pace in the North-West on who gets what. But the hitherto compliant Abdulkadir suddenly asserted party supremacy and shifted loyalty to Governor Aminu Tambuwal, whose measured presidential ambition is giving Buhari’s strategists like el-Rufai some sleepless nights. How the crisis started The historic merger of parties into a coalition which brought about the All Progressives Congress (APC) led to the cohabitation of strange bed fellows in the new party at the national and state levels. Kaduna State was no exception with many respected but ambitious politicians coming under an umbrella. The list of APC stalwarts (mostly ex-this, ex-that) in Kaduna is legendary. These include: Nasir el-Rufai; ex-Rep Isa Ashiru; Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed (a former SSG and presently Chief of Staff to Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki); ex-Commissioner for Finance, Sen. Suleiman Hunkuyi; a Rights Activist, Sen. Shehu Sani; Sen.  Danjuma Leah; Tijani Ramalan, Tom Matamaki Maiyashi, Yero Manama Rigachukwu (he has since left the party for PDP), Barnabas Bala Bantex, and Uba Sani. Others are Alhaji Idi Farouk, Husseni Dembo, Chief JD Ephraim, Ibrahim Bello Rigachukwu, Jibrin Adamu, Vice Admiral Ikwo Ibrahim (former Chief of Naval Staff), Auwal Gote, Alhaji Kabir Umar, Alhaji  Haruna Sa’eed, Hafsat Baba, Sheba Kura, Elias Kazah Aduwak, Kabiru Salihu, Murtala Mohammed, Alhaji Aminu Sani Gyallesu, and Alhaji Kabiru Ajuji. Initially, there was stress over who will be APC chairman in the state with eight leaders seeking the slot including Bala Bantex (who won the contest), Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed (the favourite who lost the race); Maitamaki Tom Maiyashi and others. Some party chieftains fingered el-Rufai for installing Bantex as chairman more so when he eventually emerged as the State Deputy Governor. Even at that, the governor was given the benefit of doubt because of the larger picture of winning in the state and at the federal levels. In line with precedent, the governor has emerged as the leader of the party and he is calling the shots while other chieftains are plotting either how to rescue the party from his claws or undermine APC in Kaduna State before defecting to the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) or any coalition. With the party at his beck and call, it was easier for Kaduna APC to suspend Sen. Shehu Sani, Sen. Suleiman Hunkuyi and 28 others. In retaliation, Hunkuyi and others in Restoration Group faction of APC queried el-Rufai, suspended the governor’s Special Adviser on Political Matters and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Comrade Uba Sani and the Commissioner for Finance among others. The battle line has been drawn between the governor and the Restoration Group which believes that the National Headquarters of the party is backing el-Rufai. The presence of these heavyweights in the party accounted for the tension which also beclouded the December 5, 2014 governorship primaries of APC in Kaduna State. The results of the primaries were: El Rufai (1,965); Isa Ashiru (1,379); Haruna Saeed (127); Shamsedeen Abdullahi Ango (25); and Salihu Mohammed Lukman (22). Like every governor in his generation, el-Rufai was alleged to have adopted the winner-takes-all syndrome including a total control of the party’s structure.  It was gathered that he was disturbed by the cold attitude of some stalwarts to his campaign, especially his closest rival, Isa Ashiru. Although Ashiru produced the Director-General for el-Rufai’s campaign, he was accused of being more interested in the Sokoto Governorship Election than Kaduna’s. No matter the pretence of all the APC stakeholders in Kaduna State, the wounds of the governorship primaries and the 2015 poll have not been healed. In fairness, el-Rufai initially tried to carry all the chieftains on appointments but the romance did not last as he became the butt of attacks with the most biting being the appointment of some Katsina/Yoruba technocrats and associates as key aides. The appointment of Ms. Hadiza Bala Usman as Chief of Staff, Jimi Lawal (Deputy Chief of Staff) and Muyiwa Adekeye as the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity created much sensation in the state. To compound the frosty relationship between the governor and APC leaders in the state, el-Rufai floated an austere policy which led to drastic cut of wasteful spending, aggressive tax/revenue drive;   a strict procurement process, the cancellation of feeding during Ramadan, ban on sponsorship of pilgrimage to Hajj and Jerusalem, stoppage of stipends and financial patronage of the past; urban renewal leading to a ban on hawking/ street trading  and what his opponents described as ‘contract award to some favoured clique.’ An opponent of el-Rufai said: “We felt his government has been tightening the noose on us ahead of hanging the poor man in the state. The middle class is barely breathing and the rich are surviving but cringing too.” An aide to el-Rufai said: “It is not true that the state economic policy is harsh, In May 2015, the monthly allocation to Kaduna State was N2.5billion and by June, it dropped to N2.2billion. It has been difficult for all states to survive. Yet, Governor el-Rufai has been paying workers’ salaries as and when due and he is carrying out massive infrastructural developments in the state. These were achievable through a human face revenue drive and El-Rufai’s anger with Hunkuyi More than any APC stalwarts, Sen. Hunkuyi was the toast of el-Rufai and he was allegedly central to the divide and rule policy of the governor.  He was rated as the largest beneficiary from el-Rufai. Apart from a “disputed N126million personal campaign assistance which an aide to the governor claimed to have showered on Hunkuyi, records indicated that he was luckier than others. Some of his relations who secured appointments under el-Rufai are Alh. Idris Othman (a Honourary Advisor to the Governor); Hassan Usman Mahmud (Commissioner for Rural Community Development), who was formerly in charge of Ministry of Works; Alh. Hamidu Othman (Commissioner in Kaduna State Civil Service Commission); and Dauda Hunkuyi who is presently the chairman of Kudan Local Government Area in the state. As a benefactor, el-Rufai wielded influence to ensure the election of Hunkuyi as a Senator. Prior to el-Rufai’s intervention, Hunkuyi has never won any election despite his cash war chest as a former Commissioner for Finance in the state under ex-Governor Ahmed Makarfi. He was said to be emerging as a serial election loser until a political lifeline came from el-Rufai. Hunkuyi contested and lost governorship to Makarfi in 2003 and left the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In 2007, he returned to PDP and lost the primaries to ex-Governor Namadi Sambo (who later became Vice President) and in 2011, he suffered a similar fate with ex-Governor Ramalan Yero securing the party’s nomination. But in 2015, with the backing of el-Rufai, he became a Senator by securing 447, 919 votes to defeat his former boss, Makarfi, who had 136,197 votes in the race for Kaduna North Senatorial District. The audacity of forming a faction of the All Progressives Congress(APC) and the use of his company’s office at 11B Sambo Close, Kaduna allegedly angered the governor who explored “legal infractions” of Hunkuyi in managing his estate to invoke the laws. A top source said Hunkuyi’s case was “like that of a man living in a glass house and throwing stones. Technically, Hunkuyi violated the law by not paying ground rent on the demolished property for eight years and sheer failure to re-certify the same building. Politically, if there was no crisis of confidence between him and the governor, it would have been expedient to give Hunkuyi a second chance to comply with the laws. But the Kaduna State Government did not give him a breathing space because of the change of use of the property to serve as a secretariat for a faction of APC in the state. El-Rufai saw Hunkuyi as an ingrate because when he was to be recalled as Senator, el-Rufai stuck out his neck and resisted the plot.” On the surface, a statement by the Director-General of the Kaduna Geographic Information Service (KADGIS), Ibrahim Husseini, attributed the demolition to the long arms of the law. The statement said in part: “…The Kaduna State Urban Planning and Development Agency (KAPSUDA) is currently undertaking operations across Kaduna metropolis in compliance with its mandate. In partnership with sister agencies, KASUPDA is clearing illegal structures, tackling street hawking and restoring order across Kaduna. “This morning (Monday) a building on 11B Sambo Close was removed for flagrant violations of land use and non-payment of ground rent since 2010. This illegal violation of use had begun to distress neighbours who were being forced to endure an influx of thugs and blockage of the road. “The Kaduna Geographic Information Service (KADGIS) issued a revocation notice of statutory right of occupancy No. KD. 16712, that covers 11b Sambo Close in the Ungwan Rimi area. The appropriate notice of revocation was delivered at 28 Inuwa Wada Road, the registered address of the company that held the title to the property. The notice was also delivered to the building in question, and sent by post to the registered address of the previous title holder. “The land has now been allocated to KASUPDA for the purpose of developing and maintaining a public park that will provide a green area and a serene place for recreation in that residential neighbourhood. “KADGIS wishes to remind all title owners to be fastidious in complying with the terms of their allocation. The purpose of allocation of land cannot be wilfully altered; neither can title holders lawfully neglect to pay their ground rents. “Since 2016, the government has been taking action on various land related matters, including revoking all undeveloped land titles in the state and directed that all abandoned buildings be developed within three months of the notice. “The Kaduna Geographic Information Service (KADGIS), as the government agency charged with ultimate responsibility on land matters in Kaduna State, calls for the utmost cooperation by the public with all our agencies.” On his part, Hunkuyi said the demolition was the 12th time he would suffer persecution in the hands of el-Rufai. He alleged on the floor of the Senate that he had been attacked by thugs about 11 times. He said: “I stand to formally and officially report that this morning as early as 4:30am, the Governor of Kaduna State, Nasir-el-rufai, led a team of soldiers and policemen to 11 Sambo Road where he personally supervised a demolition of our new APC office which happened to be the property belonging to Sen. Suleiman Hukunyi. “This comes a year after the same governor demolished the residence of Alhaji Inuwa Abdul-Kadir, the National Vice Chairman Northwest of the APC. This is a series of arbitrariness of tyranny perpetuated by the governor against dissenting opposition voices in the state. “It is of concern that the governor of the state is in the habit of name dropping the name of Mr. President. There are reports and claims that the Governor has been saying and has been acting with the authority and on behalf of the President. That his action has the official stamp and go ahead of the president to eradicate and dislodge and at the same time bring an end to opposing and dissenting voices within the party. “My constituency office was attacked by violent thugs more than 11 times and it has also even been very clear that armed military police men have been consistently used by the governor to intimidate and harass people who don’t agree with him. “It is of concern that after 20 years of military that a man with such a rapid ambition and arrogance of power can appropriate for himself the power to act outside of the law. How can a democratically-elected governor demolish a house without notice? Simply for the fact that we have set up office different form the one he has personalized himself as a so-called party man. “It is of concern to us that these actions by the governor have been done in the name of Mr. President who he believe he is his son and that he so much loves. Governor Nasir el-Rufai is an affliction on the people of Kaduna State and a curse to us. “We will use this opportunity to call on Mr. President to caution his beloved son who has unleashed a reign of terror and has behaved in the most despicable and irresponsible way.” Why the governor is at daggers drawn with Sen. Shehu Sani? The struggle for the “common man” was the common front which el-Rufai and Sen. Shehu Sani pretentiously assumed to have shared. Disputably, el-Rufai’s group had been calling that the governor bankrolled the 2015 Senatorial election of Sani (a bare-handed and poor Rights Activist) with about N109million and they are in shock that he has not reciprocated the gestures. Since July 2015(two months after el-Rufai was inaugurated), the two leaders had been fighting. A reliable source said: “The problem with Shehu Sani began in July 2015 when he started attacking the government over our stand against hawking at strategic locations and  banning of some destitute from the streets following July 2015 bombings in Sabon Gari Local Government Area during teachers verification. He ignored the fact that the action of the government followed security reports which turned out to be true. He opposed the measures on the ground that he is protecting the talakawas. “Sani kept attacking the all policies and actions of the government. He was involved in several activities that undermined the party, the government and the governor. He joined the group of those accusing the governor of forming a government of people who are not indigenous to Kaduna State forgetting he is also not indigenous in Kaduna State.” Senator Sani however explained why he has been fighting el-Rufai based on principles. In an interview with Premium Times, he said: “What is going on in Kaduna State is not personal, but more ideological, particularly the way our people are treated and governance is going on. I wanted to contest the governorship of the state in 2015. I opened offices in the three senatorial zones of the state. Later, there were pressures on me to step down by people who said there was a preferred candidate, who was Nasir el Rufai. I listened to them and stepped down. I went on to contest for the Senate. But, there was incumbent Senator, that contested the primaries, and I ejected him, by winning the ticket. “Nasir did not contest against an APC governor. He contested with others who were also not governors and won. Nasir and Isa Ashiru were the two major contenders out of the five that contested the primaries with Nasir.  Nasir got about 1,600 votes in the primaries from the three senatorial zones. I got over 920 votes from one senatorial district. If I had contested the governorship, he could not have beaten me. I contested the Senatorial election and won. And the two gubernatorial candidates all have their preferred senatorial candidates.  Nasir had his own preferred senatorial candidate, who was the incumbent, General Sani, whom I removed. The other candidate also had another preferred candidate, Sani Suleiman, the former local government chairman. One can see that the two gubernatorial candidates had their own senators they want to work with. And I combined both Nasir and his opponent and thrashed all of them in the election. “I told them that I was going to win this seat without giving anybody any kobo. I challenge any politician in Kaduna under APC to come and say that he did not give people money to win elections in the state. Having won the primaries and general elections, we decided to say let’s work together for the success of the party. I won my senate elections before Nasir won his gubernatorial elections. After the victory, Nasir set up a transition committee and put all the other senators, and even the senatorial candidate who lost the elections, without my name there.  I had to draw his attention to that omission. As a sitting senator, there is no way a transition committee would be set up without my name there. “He said it was an oversight and assured me that my name would be included. During his inauguration and swearing in, I was there.  We went round during the campaigns. After he won, it came to the point of sharing positions, he asked me to send the list of my people for appointment, which I did. But he threw the list away and decided to allocate some Commissioners to the other senator representing zone 1, and from my zone, he gave it to the person I defeated in the primaries. Even my local government, no appointment, not even a councillor was considered. “Will Nasir el-Rufai be happy for the President to be giving appointment to the person he defeated in primary elections without consulting him? Will he be happy for the President of our country to be asking his opponent to give the list of ministerial and Board appointments, only for it to be thrown away? “So, what he was doing was simply gathering opposition and empowering people who are determined to fight me.  He never knew that I am an old fighter. He said he is stubborn, but he cannot be more stubborn than a person who spent so many years in jail. I believe Nasir’s men came to the political scene in 1999, whereas I have been in the trenches even before anybody heard of Nasir’s name. You go back to Abacha and Babangida eras and see how we stood up against military dictatorship and tyranny. “Kaduna is a place I was born, live and won my election. I never lived in Abuja. All my family are in Kaduna. There is no street in Kaduna that I don’t know people and people do not know me. Since 1998, when we came out of prison, I have never stepped out of Kaduna for more than one week. So, one can see how entrenched I am there. That is why I said I will win election without giving anybody any kobo. And people never believed. But, by God’s grace it happened. I did. “The second issue is the way he is running Kaduna State since he took over. First, he appointed about seven party executives into his government, namely the state Chairman of the party, who is now the deputy governor; State secretary, who is a Commissioner; the auditor, also a Commissioner; assistant Legal Adviser, now also a Commissioner; Financial Secretary, organizing Secretary, now the Chairman, Publicity Secretary, Auditor, ex-officio members are all Chairmen of local government councils. You don’t do things like that and expect people to keep quiet. You must separate the party from the government. Effectively today, in Kaduna there is no APC executive, because all members of the executive are in Nasir’s cabinet. “Three, on the issue of demolitions, I could not have said anything if Nasir said he was recovering lands from hospitals, schools, and the affected persons have been given alternative lands or where to go. When you see a house, one is talking about the entire family, consisting husband, wife, children, grandchildren and livelihood tied to the family. “Nasir simply gave them two weeks to vacate before sending bulldozers to pull down everything. Abuja of 2007 is definitely not the same thing as Kaduna 2015. In a democracy, whatever you want to do people must be carried along. “Now, Nasir sent bulldozers to demolish houses belonging to families, rendering them homeless, particularly women and children, who were scattered everywhere. Nasir does not know Kaduna, because he has spent so much time in Abuja to the point that he does not know what Kaduna is about. He does not know the sensitivity of those places, and the problem that action is going to generate. “On the hawkers, students of political science and political economy would know that whatever policy direction is taking place, one must decide which side one belongs. Nasir belongs to the ultra-conservative rightist reactionary group. They are for privatization, elite, bourgeois and bourgeois reforms and capitalist ideas. They see people as statistics for GNP (gross national product) and GDP (gross domestic product). Nasir is a man, who, all his life, has espoused capitalist ideas and conservative rightist philosophy. I am from the political left, rooted with the masses. In all our ideas, we are concerned about how we can carry the people along. “The hawkers we see on the roads are the by-products of an exploitative and repressive socio-economic system to which the likes of Nasir el Rufai have propagated all the years. You don’t address the problem of beggars by packing them in a vehicle and sending them to their state of origin. The same people in the North who cried that Lagos, Port Harcourt and other states in South were throwing away beggars are the ones now doing same in Kaduna. “For me, before one takes an action there must be an alternative. For those he demolished their houses, he never gave them an option. For the beggars he sent out of the streets, he never gave them an alternative means of livelihood, by giving them capital to start their business. All the three attempts he has made have failed.  The beggars are back in the streets. The hawkers are back to business. His demolition cannot proceed. This is to show you that if that policy was actually in the best interest of the people, they could have been effective. External factors in the crisis Apart from local forces, the PDP and some APC bigwigs from outside the state are really fighting him. Some have accused him of being obsessed with the second term ambition of President Muhammadu Buhari and he has used the project to fence off many friends, associates and stalwarts of the President from the presidency. Strategists of the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki had implicated him in the trial of their principal at the Code of Conduct Tribunal. At a point, it was discovered that he was listed as a witness against Saraki by the Code of Conduct Bureau. Following the leakage however, el-Rufai’s name was later struck out. In a subtle diplomatic way, Saraki pulled a fast string by appointing Dr. Hakeem Baba-Ahmed, who is a political “opponent” of the governor as his Chief of Staff. This is a signal of the battle ahead for el-Rufai. Saraki may also fight a proxy war having defeated a former Secretary to the Government of the Federation,  Babachir Lawal who was alleged to be part of the  Code of Conduct Tribunal saga. El-Rufai’s contempt for ex-Vice President Atiku Abubakar is discernible. Those loyal to Atiku within APC are only bidding time to pay the governor back in his own coin. It was also gathered that some members of Buhari’s cabal and APC governors are not on the same page with el-Rufai. They are suspecting him of having a presidential ambition if there is any political slip. He is also said to be working in tandem with 13 APC governors on Buhari’s project to the political detriment of others. A member of the cabal said: “We are only watching his footsteps and watching our back too. It can be goodnight in Abuja but in el-Rufai’s Kaduna, it may be good morning.” To the PDP, it is suspicious of el-Rufai to allegedly be sponsoring the presidential ambition of Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State to create discontent in the party. Options before el-Rufai, Hunkuyi, Sani, and Kaduna APC stakeholders The governor and his team are of the opinion that since the nation is in a democracy, whoever is aggrieved on any issue including demolition should go to court. A three-man delegation of the state government which was led the Special Adviser to the Governor on Political Matters and Inter-Governmental Relations, Uba Sani made the government’s position known  in Abuja. Others in the team were the Special Adviser to the Governor on Media, Mr. Muyiwa Adekeye and the Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Media and Publicity, Mr. Samuel Aruwan. Sani, who spoke on behalf of the delegation, said Sen. Hunkuyi was deceiving the public because he allegedly violated the law and it caught up with him. He also described Hunkuyi and Shehu Sani as “paper weight politicians who have lost relevance politically.” He said: “This demolition is legal because the terms of use were violated by Sen. Hunkuyi. On Wednesday last week, a private property in a residential area was converted to a non-existing factional party office. Then, all sorts of characters started menacing the neighbourhood with streets blocked and access denied innocent residents. The Certificate of Occupancy is clear that you cannot change or violate the use. “You cannot hold brief for Hunkuyi on this matter at all. The demolition was done without malice or political motives. The state government, through the appropriate agency, has demolished over 100 houses in the last one year including 40 in Kaduna and dozens in Zaria, which is part of Hunkuyi’s Senatorial District. “But because the houses belonged to poor people, there was no noise and the public did not hear of it. Even Hunkuyi did not come out to defend these poor citizens in his district. “Also, on the same property, Hunkuyi has not paid the ground rent in the last eight years. It is clearly stated in the enabling law that if you don’t pay your rent, the C of O will be revoked. “The property in question at 11B Sambo Close is a residential apartment. The title wax properly revoked and the revocation notice served, pasted and sent through Express Post. “The Kaduna State Urban Planning and Developing Agency (KASAUDA) has been issuing notice o owners of houses to pay ground rent. “The notice affected me as a house owner in Kaduna. I did not sit down to say I am a Political Adviser and I won’t pay ground rent or do recertification. I have paid my ground rent and did the recertification of my title.” Responding to a question, Sani said the timing of the demolition was not wrong. He added: “As far as the timing is concerned, it is perfect, there is nothing wrong with the timing. The demolition was not persecution at all. Hunkuyi can lie about the facts like he did but the truth is that the state government enforced the laws. “We have the laws on our side. If Hunkuyi feels aggrieved, let him go to court. Anybody that thinks the demolition is illegal should also go to court. The Judiciary is there as the final arbiter on this matter. “You cannot be in violation of the law and when action is taken, you will now start complaining of persecution. We are going to do the right thing no matter whose ox is gored. If the people of the state think what we are doing is right, they will re-elect us back to power and if they feel what we did was wrong, they will not. “I am quite sure that none of us will argue that if you become an opponent of the government, you have acquired immunity to violate the law.” On its part, the APC believes that it could still resolve the impasse through dialogue. On Thursday, it raised a committee to look into the crisis. A  statement by the party’s National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Bolaji Abdullahi said: “After its executive session which held yesterday, the National Working Committee of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has decided as follows: “That the unfolding situation in Kaduna State is 