Homto Zaida Dokpesi is a wave-making fashion designer. She is daughter of AIT founder, Chief Alegho Raymond Dokpesi. The CEO/Creative Director, Duchess H Couture, has been fortunate to have graced runaway shows and also gotten accolades and awards both locally and internationally.
The young Dokpesi has first degree in Accounting from the Igbinedion University, Okada. She later went to the University of Westminster, London, United Kingdom for Masters in International Business Economics. She speaks with Adetutu Audu. Homto Zaida Dokpesi           is a wave-making fashion designer. She is daughter of AIT founder, Chief Alegho Raymond Dokpesi. The CEO/Creative Director, Duchess H Couture, has been fortunate to have graced runaway shows and also gotten accolades and awards both locally and internationally. The young Dokpesi has first degree in Accounting from the Igbinedion University, Okada. She later went to the University of Westminster, London, United Kingdom for Masters in International Business Economics. She speaks with Adetutu Audu. the wonderful world of fashion began. Where do you draw your inspiration from? I draw my inspiration from paintings, the wonderful art of nature, from designs on a fabric or even from just looking at an individual. What were your initial challenges? My initial challenges were getting quality fabric locally, good tailors to interpret the designs I come up with. Can you recollect your first piece of clothing? My first piece of clothing was a nightwear I designed during my Home Economics assignment when I was in JSS3. In what way has your being Raymond Dokpesi’s daughter affected your brand? Being the daughter of a rare gem like my father who has recorded a lot of firsts in his endeavours gives me a strong desire to be an achiever, to dream and push myself way out of my comfort zone. My joy knew no bounds in August 2012 when my brand won its first award at the MSM in Abuja as the best tailoring/fashion designing. He being a risk taker gave me the courage to expand my brand into the United Kingdom without fear of failure and by God’s sheer grace I was at the Baltimore Fashion Week in August 2013 to test the American market as well. So, being his daughter has given me one choice and one choice only: to be successful in all I put my mind into. One would have expected you to work in your father’s chain of businesses, why did you chart another path? I did work in one of my father’s company’s right after I got done with my NYSC. I have done TV shows; I used to be on Ray power 100.5 FM Soul serenade. I used to be the Executive Assistant to the MD (DAARSAT Services), but I have always had an adventurous mind and the entrepreneurial stint in me. I am that girl next door that can be described as a lady that can sell a dead corpse to you and you would buy. After carrying out a thorough analysis on my person, I knew I had strengths that would create a path for me that I would be proud of and be fulfilled. When would you say the breakthrough came? My breakthrough, I would say, came after I was opportune to meet Mr. Lexy Mojo Eyes who gave my brand a lot of exposure in fashion shows and events. He believed in my dream and before you know it, others followed suit. What would you say has been your key to success? My key to success would be being mentored by a great man like my father; being focused, determined, ability to persevere, the zeal to want to succeed and above all being patient because I have come to learn it is not how fast or how slow you climb the ladder of life but how it eventually turns out. Failure to me is the first ingredient to success. What defines a woman is not how many times she has failed but how she has been able to pick herself up every time she has failed. How has your growing up shaped your life? The experiences, both good and bad that I have been fortunate to have had in my pilgrimage of life, have helped shape me into the delectable, smart, gorgeous, confident, intelligent, strong, ambitious and independent woman I have grown into. Apart from designing, what else do you do? I am a lifestyle writer, motivational speaker and a perfumista. I also run my foundation, the Homto Zaida Dokpesi Foundation. When I am not designing, I am engaging deep in mentoring and public speaking. My last speaking engagement was at the Gotni Leadership Centre, Maitama, Abuja, where I had the rare opportunity to speak to an amazing audience on aligning their passions. I have also been fortunate to speak at the friendship community and a host of other events as well. Mentoring is a side of me that I am exploiting as much as I can. I do volunteer every Easter at the Living Faith Church, Lokogoma, where I teach as much as 70 kids on arts and craft; little things they can do to fetch them an income. I believe if we get it right even with the young ones, eventually we would all live in a better place. I also write either on my blog or authoring a book. I have published two books to my credit, both available in offline stores and the e-book in all amazon stores nationwide. Looking forward to churning my latest piece “Living under the Veil”. A tale of a woman whose life may have dealt her blows too many but determined to make success out of life, giving life a fighting chance. What is the foundation all about? I reach out to widows and single mothers and try to set up little businesses with them, mentor them along the way, train them sometimes and generally ensure that they eventually get it right. What is your personal style? My personal style, I would say, is playful, colourful and audacious. What is your beauty secret? My beauty secret would be I drink lots of water, love to exercise to keep my body in shape. I love to massage my skin with shea butter and sea salt every other day and body steaming once a week. What’s your favourite part about conceptualising a design? My favourite part would be seeing it worn by an individual and it actually puts smiles on the client’s face. What are some of your accomplishments as a designer? Creating awesome pieces that create a revolution in the fashion industry and the world at large. I have been fortunate to have graced runaway shows and also gotten accolades and awards both locally and internationally, the last being the Most Influential Female Entrepreneur and the Excellence Award by the retail, automotive and fashion industry where I was rated in the top three of all Nigerian executives based on company size and international business strength. How would you define the style your line exemplifies? Sophisticated, chic attitude. Describe yourself I am an adventurous thrill seeker who is courageous to give life a fighting chance.  I am an intelligent, quiet, yet gentle woman who can be likened to an onion with many layers. I am a mother to an adorable son, a multiple award winning serial entrepreneur, accountant cum business economist, and a digital currency consultant.