The Lagos State government and a leading original equipment manufacturer (OEM), HP, have collaborated to protect shoppers from the menace of counterfeiters. Lagos State Police Command, under Commissioner of Police I.O Edgal and HP officials swooped on  a large-scale international counterfeiting operation in the state. As part of the raid, there were several seizures in the Lagos and and also Abuja, in shops, warehouses and at manufacturing sites. The Nigerian officials were seized 142,000 illegal items, which were primarily components for manufacturing counterfeit toner and ink cartridges. Counterfeiting is a crime. For users, such illegal imitations can cause a multitude of problems that may lead to performance and reliability issues. Should your printer breakdown because of using counterfeit printer ink or toner, you could also have issues with your manufacturer’s warranty becoming not applicable. In contrast, original HP products are designed to meet HP’s strict quality and reliability standards, based on a long history of inventing and testing. Original HP LaserJet and HP inkjet cartridges, unlike counterfeits, benefit from superior performance and consistent results. Country Supplies Business Manager, Nigeria and Ghana, Olatunji  Itiola, said: “HP is thrilled to continue its success working with the Nigerian government and authorities, to close down these illegal counterfeit operations. We are proud that the collaboration is working to reduce counterfeiting operations in the region, and bring the associated criminals to justice. With our unwavering efforts and commitment to end these counterfeit operations with local officials, we continue to focus on the safety of our customers through our anti-counterfeiting and fraud programme.” Across EMEA over the last five years, approximately 12 million counterfeits and components have been seized by local authorities, supported by HP. HP has conducted over 4,500 audits and inspections (CPPAs and CDIs) of partners’ stocks or suspicious deliveries for customers. Through HP’s Anti-Counterfeiting and Fraud (ACF) Programme, the company actively educates its customers and partners to be vigilant against fake printing supplies. It also cooperates closely with local and global law enforcement authorities to detect and dismantle illegal operations that produce counterfeit HP printing components.