Management of the Edo Fertilizer Plant and Chemical Company Limited in Auchi, Estako West local government area, has explained why it temporary stopped production of fertilizer. It said its production plant stopped because its stores were filled with over 30,000 bags of fertilizers. The plant was commissioned in August last year by Vice President Yemi Osibanjo and being the only fertilizer blending plant in the region, it is expected to produce 60,000 metric tons of fertilizer for Edo and other neighboring states After 17 years of being moribund, the fertilizer plant was revitalized last year under the Presidential Initiative on Fertilizer (PIF) with a view to selling fertilizers to farmers in the country at N5,500 per bag. State Chairman of the People’s Democratic Party, Chief Dan Orbih, had last week challenged the state government to bags of fertilizers produced from the plant. However, the fertilizer plant management who took journalists on a fact finding visit tour of the plant said the plant was still operational. Factory manager of the plant, Mr. Iyere Okhun, who spoke on behalf of the management said it was wrong for people to say the plant has stopped working when produced products have not been sold. According to him, “For the few days, we were able to produce more than 30,000 bags that is about 51 trucks of a 600 bags truck. As at yesterday, we have loaded out six trucks. “We are expecting order for 11 trucks so that we can start production again. We stopped production because of space constraint. Our stores are filled. “Now that, we are getting orders for supply, we are getting the space back and the plant will start again. What is stopping us is not lack of raw materials but space for storage. We can do 60,000 metric tons per annum. “We are getting power 15 hours daily but we want them to give us more. As the farming season has started, we are receiving orders from farmers. We are set to load out 18 truckswithin two weeks. Our plant is running but we reduced the two shifts to one interchanging them because of space.” Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on Agriculture, Prince Joe Okojie, said there are abundance of fertilizers for farmers in the state. His words, “I came to see what they have in stock. We are getting our farmers ready to go to the farms. They have been are producing and storing fertilizers. I came to make sure fertilizers are available for our farmers. You can see that there is abundance of fertilizers. They will be made available as we need them. There is no doubt about the plant’s working ability.”