At a point he was invincible; no amount of opposition and name calling – especially from Julius Malema – could deter the African National Congress (ANC) from standing behind their man. Even when the constitutional court ruled that he used state funds to renovate his country home, he still won an overwhelming vote of confidence at the South African parliament. So, like the late Ugandan dictator, Idi Amin, he would’ve confidently believed he was indeed “invincible.” But suddenly, the tide changed for former South African President and life-long anti-apartheid warrior, Jacob Zuma. Zuma, who had been in power for nine years, and has been under intense pressure to resign for the last three years had held on to power insinuating that calls for his resignation was “unfair” since he still had one year left of his term to serve as President. It wasn’t his intention to resign. However, things happened so fast and last Thursday, February 15, Cyril Ramaphosa was sworn in as the new president. As is often the case, there are lessons to learn from Zuma’s fall just like in every situation about life. One of the weaknesses of African democracy is the penchant of incumbent presidents to always determine who their successors should be – whether he/she is popular or not does not often count. It is tempting when you are the incumbent president to try to pave a way for your preferred successor. It doesn’t often work. This was one of Zuma’s undoing. He campaigned unceasingly for Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma at the last ANC congress. It didn’t end well for him. President Thabo Mbeki before him, tried to intervene in the succession. However understandable his intention, it failed dismally. Tragically, Zuma failed to learn from it. Former President Thabo Mbeki himself didn’t learn from President Nelson Mandela who had failed to get his preferred successor, which happened to be Ramaphosa. In Nigeria, we can count the number of political succession relationships that are still going strong, the honeymoon doesn’t last long. Another lesson is this: when a reputation is ruined no amount of whitewash can cover the stains. Zuma dragged the integrity of the ANC and many of its members in the mud and it will be an uphill task in trying to fix the mess in the run up to critical elections next year; an election which the opposition is getting stronger. By their actions, the opposition parties – DA, EFF UDM, IFP, ACDP and others have shown that it is patriotic to stand your ground and no amount of labelling should dissuade you from doing what you believe is right in the service of your country. They’re aware that democratic South Africa doesn’t have differentiated citizenship. All citizens have a role to play and no citizen is more important than the other regardless of political affiliation. By their stand, they have been vindicated and need to keep on doing what the Constitution demands. The country is heavily indebted for the excellent work the opposition has done. Another critical lesson from Zuma is to never allow your family and children to get involved in state or public office matters. Even spouses who enjoy certain entitlements, including travel and spousal allowances, should understand that they are not public representatives. Equally too, they are not spokespersons in matters of public affairs. Zuma’s children were involved in scandalous arguments with members of the public, journalists and in some instances with ANC officials. They regarded the elevation of Zuma as a family entitlement. They failed to learn one fundamental lesson: South Africa is a constitutional democracy and not a dynastic republic. The fall of Zuma also taught another lesson: citizens should not be quiet when there are proven cases of lack of integrity by their leaders. It is instructive to note that not for once was Zuma’s ethnicity, religion or other extraneous reasons given for his removal. He was removed over allegation of corruption. We never saw demonstrations by his “people” saying he was being “victimised” because he was from a certain part of the country. Nigerians should learn from this. Though it came a bit late, civic-minded citizens began marching to the Union Buildings and other places demanding Zuma’s resignation after he became reckless with Cabinet changes. Their action shows that no amount of civic action is insignificant. When are we going to learn from the South African action? ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule, speaking the party’s mind prior to Zuma’s ouster, said it was inevitable to assure South Africans “at a time when the economic and social challenges facing the country require urgent and resolute response.” The ANC looked itself in the mirror, read the mood of the nation and that of the opposition and came to the conclusion that with a Zuma candidacy, the party may likely lose next year’s election. This action clearly stands South African politics and governance out. The superiority of political parties and institutions to all in authority or power is understood loud and clear. Nine years ago, the ANC passed a vote of no confidence in Mbeki, asking him to resign from office. Mbeki obeyed. Again, the ANC demanded that Zuma must resign. The former president had no option than to quit.  This shows that South Africa has strong institutions than strong leaders. It also shows that the southern African country’s institutions align with the people and the nation and not with people elected or appointed to offices.  This is another lesson for Nigeria. That the ANC on two occasions had the courage to tell sitting presidents who came to office on its platform to resign is quite instructive. The party felt embarrassed about the controversies dogging the erstwhile presidents. And in order to preserve its dignity and retain its integrity, the ANC asked them to quit office. Though our constitutions and party structures may not be the same, Nigeria’s political parties seldom reprimand their members in positions of authority. The reason is not farfetched, those in authority hold the keys to the vaults, and you cannot “effectively” operate in Nigeria without what is inside the vault. This is the Nigeria way that needs to change. Where the political parties are expected to side with Nigerians and the country, they play politics and often stand by their men even when allegations are as glaring as daylight. They shirk their patriotic responsibilities thereby allowing the country to sink deeper in the quicksand of mediocrity. Nigerian political parties and other institutions need to learn from their South African counterparts. The parties – since they control the platform – should know that they are superior to those in government. They should know when to stand for the nation instead of their members, whose actions and inactions are inimical to the progress of the country. It can be done with strong party leadership and structures. Nigeria’s weak party structures which allows cross carpeting at the slightest “provocation” by politicians without consciences also need to change. What happened in South Africa was a revolution without firing a shot. As a Nigerian who witnessed his country’s role in the liberation struggles in the whole of Southern Africa, both in intellectual, financial and military terms, I was proud of South Africa. It shows that the black man is not incapable of progressive decisions, especially a system that allows for the unseating of an unpopular and incompetent President through the mechanics of politics – outside the framework of a general election. Better still, without the shedding blood, a past time of most parts of Africa. The maturity with which it was handled is also something to behold for a country that gained its independence from white rule barely 20 years ago. It does put Nigeria’s loose talk of being the “giant of Africa” in the box that it belongs. I went to the University with over a dozen South Africans whom the federal government gave full scholarships as part of Nigeria’s contribution to the liberation struggles; what would they be thinking about the Nigeria of today? Finally, Nigerians have complained about the situation of things in the country, but just like the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) before it, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has never agreed that the government is not doing well in certain areas. This unfortunately is the Nigerian way that needs to change.