Veteran Nollywood actress Gloria Anozie Young is set to play Nwanyeruwa, a lead role in a new stage play on the emancipation of women. Entitled ‘August Meeting’, the play is set to be staged on March 2 and March 3, 2018 at the Agip Hall, MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos. Speaking to The Nation, Gloria who became popular when she starred in ‘Glamour Girls’ says the play “is like a continuation of the Aba women’s riot. The Aba women came together, fighting the white man because they thought the white man wanted to tax them. Meanwhile, all he was trying to do was to conduct census, from what we hear. But the women now thought, this one is tax ooo. Where are we going to get the money from? And so, they quarreled. So this play is a continuation of the Aba Women’s Riot, what happened afterwards, the aftermath, that’s what the ‘August Meeting’ is all about.” Nwanyeruwa, the character played by Gloria was a widow who mobilised women to confront the white colonial masters in what later became known as the Aba women’s riot of 1929. Highlighting issues affecting women to include ‘sexual violence, domestic violence, widowhood and genital mutilation,’ among others, Gloria said the play examines how women can come together and forge ahead. “Every single thing that affects women is encompassed in it. It is talked about, and sorted out. And almost every play, seminar brings this up. They’ve even started talking about cervical cancer, breast cancer, all of that. I don’t think Nigeria is behind at all when that (women issues) is concerned because we have a lot of educated women, well-informed women in this country. They are not keeping quiet and they are talking.” On how she feels about being part of the production, the actress said, “I feel blessed. I especially love history. So, I’m doing what I love.” Written by Paul Ugbede, ‘August Meeting’ which is staged in English is produced by Chioma Onyenwe and directed by Kenneth Uphopho. Other actors are Ego Ogbaro, Ijeoma Aniebo, Inna Erizia, Odera Orji and Deola Gimbiya.