The Managing Director of Procter and Gamble, (P&G)  leading Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) Company, Mr. George Nassar has reaffirmed the company’s commitment to contributing to the Nigerian economy. He made the pledge at an event to mark  the 25th anniversary of the company held in Junior Secondary School, Karu, Abuja last Tuesday. In the last 25 years, Nassar said the company has been committed to investing in Nigeria and  providing  superior products that satisfy the needs of its  consumers. “We have dedicated ourselves to 25 years of product innovation and manufacturing  to provide our consumers with the highest quality of household products. At this stage, it is important for us to take a look at where we started, what we have accomplished, and what our plans are for the future,” he stated. As part of activities to mark the 25-year milestone, P&G announced its partnership with MercyCorps, an international not-for-profit organization, through its Always Keeping Girls in School (AKGIS) programme. This intervention is targeted at enhancing girls’ knowledge and practice around reproductive health through life skills training, provision of emergency sanitary kits and mobilization of stakeholders’ support for Menstrual Hygiene Management (MHM) for girls in schools. Speaking on the company’s brand activities, Director of Brands for P&G Nigeria Tolulope Adedeji said: “We are proud that over the years, not only have we introduced great brands for the satisfaction of our consumers, we have also engaged in projects that address social issues, like our Always School Program through which has equipped millions of young girls within ages 10 – 12 with information about personal and puberty hygiene. “This has resulted in the reduced rate of their absence in school and an increment in their confidence level and we are excited about our partnership with MercyCorps to educate more girls on Menstrual Hygiene Management” Among dignitaries and stakeholders  in attendance at the event were  the wife of the Vice President of Nigeria, Mrs Dolapo Osinbajo, Dr. Zainab Shinkafi Bagudu, First Lady of Kebbi State and Zainab S. Ahmed, Honourable Minister of State for Budget and National Planning.