This week’s defection of Labour Party’s only House of Representatives lawmaker, Segun Ogunwuyi, to APC, has evoked fresh fear over LP’s survival as a national party, reports Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu FOLLOWING continuous loss of its major elected officials there is fear over the dwindling fortunes of the Labour Party as political parties prepare for 2019 General Elections. Since the last general election in 2015, unending intrigues and leadership crisis, leading to defections, have continued to weaken Labour Party, considered once to be the second leading opposition party at the National Assembly. When the Labour Party (LP), in 2017, lost its only representative at the Red Chamber, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, to All Progressives Congress (APC), concerned observers blamed it on unnecessary leadership crisis, warning the party to put its house in order, if it hopes to be considered a serious participant in future general elections. The defection of the senator, from Delta Central Senatorial District, had, among others, helped the ruling APC then to raise the membership of its caucus to 65, giving it a more comfortable lead as the main opposition party, PDP, had 43 caucus members then. Between that historic defection last year and now, so much have happened to further affect the fortunes of LP in the forthcoming general elections in 2019. This week’s defection of the only House of Representatives member of the Labour Party (LP) also to APC may have further refracted the status of the party as a major player ahead 2019 elections. The lawmaker, Hon. Segun Ogunwuyi, representing Ogbomosho/North/ South/Orire Federal Constituency of Oyo State, like Omo-Agege, announced his defection in a grand style, ensuring that the defection letter was read on the floor of the House by the Deputy Speaker, Hon. Sulaimon Yusuf Lasun, himself. In the letter, Ogunwuyi said he left LP due to its factionalisation at the national level. “I wish to notify you and the entire House that I have defected to the All Progressive Congress (APC). This action and decision is as a result of the factionalisation in the Labour Party that sponsored my election into the House of Representatives. “Presently, there are two persons laying claim to the position of the National Chairman of the party with its attendant factional National Executive Committees (NEC). Also addressing the media after the plenary, Ogunwuyi clarified that his constituency asked him to dump the Labour Party and join the ruling party in order to attract more federal projects to the state, emphasizing that he was leaving the LP with all his supporters.  LINGERING LEADERSHIP CRISIS: As Ogunwuyi pointed out in his letter, LP’s major albatross seems to have remained the unending leadership crisis both in the states where it has managed to make appreciable impact and at the national level. In Oyo State for example, leadership crisis led to the initial challenges against the election of Ogunwuyi at the House of Representatives. It would be recalled that shortly after his election, a faction of the party in the state challenged his eligibility notwistanding that he was the only one the party could boast of in the house. A factional chairman of the party then, Adeola Adepoju, had publicly disowned Ogunwuyi’s election to the federal legislative seat. Addressing a press conference in Ibadan, Adepoju alleged that the lawmaker “was not properly nominated to vie for the position.” According to him Ogunwuyi did not resign his membership of his former party, the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP), before contesting the federal legislative election on the platform of LP. He also said: “Also, we use this medium to state that Hon. Wumi Ladeji, Kayode Akande, Joshua Olagunju Ojo, contesting for Ogbomoso North, Ogbomoso South, Oriire state constituencies, respectively, and all other candidates on the platform of LP for the April 11 election, are not known to our party in the instance of our constitution. Proof of this is the litigation in a Federal High Court, Abuja, challenging all those parading themselves as members, chieftains and candidates of the party in Oyo State. “It is bizarre and it is only in a Banana Republic that a person or persons would not join a party of his choice properly and be parading themselves as members, chieftains and candidates of a party.” During last year’s elections in Anambra State, the party also suffered as a result of factionalisation and leadership crisis. Just when it mattered most to be united, a faction of the state chapter of the party announced the immediate suspension of its Chairman Mr. Uche Ugwuoji for alleged anti party activities and seven other members for allegedly “collaborating” to endorse the candidature of Gov. Willie Obiano of the All Progressive Grand Alliance (APGA) in the governorship election. Eddy Okoye, the Publicity Secretary in the state, who announced the suspension at a news briefing in Awka described the action of the suspended members as “selfish, illegal and a demonstration of anti-party behaviour.” He said: “The Labour Party hereby dissociates itself from the purported endorsement of Gov. Willie Obiano by some people masquerading as the party’s executives in Anambra. “The affected members have been suspended immediately for insubordination, gross indiscipline and anti-party activities,” he said. Reacting, the suspended chairman said “The allegation is not true, we have our own candidate; how can we endorse another party’s candidate? “This is frivolous, baseless and handiwork of people who want to start up another crisis in Labour Party,” Ugwuoji said. Reacting to the intrigues that have continued to reduce the Labour Party, Dr. Tunde Olusegun, told The Nation last Friday that the party has suffered from the hands of “unserious elements masquerading as leaders. At every point, they have betrayed the party, sabotaged every effort of genuine members because of their selfish political interests. As you can see, the party today has no serious national representative. It is a shame given the enviable prospects of this great political association.” The misfortunes of the Labour Party can be traced back to 2014, when Governor Olusegun Mimiko of Ondo State finally dumped the party. It was a rude shock that Thursday in Abuja, when Mimiko formally announced his defection from Labour Party (LP) to the then ruling PDP. Labour has not fully recovered since then. Mimiko did not only move over to the ruling party then, but went with the state elected officials. “Since then, Labour Party has remained a pawn in the hands of the ruling political parties,” Dr. Olusegun lamented, even as he blamed leadership crisis and selfishness for the misfortunes. Even more than the states, the national leadership of the party has remained a major source of struggle. At a point, the Independent National Electoral Commission, INEC, had to dispel reports of leadership change in the party, saying it recognised only Alhaji Abdulkadir Abdulsalam as the authentic National Chairman of the party. But as the House of Representative member said in his defection letter, that statement from INEC has failed to resolve the confusion. Just last month, Abdul salam in the statement said that Omotosho had been dismissed from the party for anti-party activities after the 2015 general elections. The Nation investigation shows that the toll on the states has been tremendous, leading to fears that before 2019 elections, Labour Party may account to little except something more concrete is done to reposition the party. For example, there is still disquiet within the ranks of the Labour Party (LP) in Delta State, no thanks to the leadership tussle threatening to tear the chapter apart. It would be recalled that factional leaders, Chief Tony Ezeagwu and Emeka Nwaola, had been in court over the rightful person to lead the party. So, as political parties prepare for the 2019 General Elections, observers are worried over defection of major elected officials of the party at the centre and the unending internal quarrels in the party’s state charpters. The question today is, who will save the Labour Party?