In a bid to enhance the leadership skills of students’ leaders, the president of Benson Idahosa University (BIU) in Benin City, Edo State, Bishop F.E.B. Idahosa, has launched a club for presidents of departmental associations in the university. Speaking at the ceremony, Bishop Idahosa said the objective of the club was to equip the students’ leaders with modern leadership techniques, which would help them create morally upright followership. He said: “Mentoring students’ leaders is one    bv  key objective for creating this club. We want to mentor you on how to lead in modern way. We want to mentor you personally so you can be good leaders and also use your ability to create morally upright followers that will add values to the society at large.” According to him, leadership goes beyond training just a generation. He said he would meet members of the clubs monthly to deliberate on leadership matters. He said: “Leadership should not be based on one generation alone. Nobody wants to raise leaders for one generation and another generation comes to thrash the values created. Leadership should be for three generations in order to create progression of leadership skills. “We will be meeting monthly and after our interaction, I want you to teach somebody, who will teach another person. If I am able to impart valuable leadership skills on you, then I expect that you teach two generations.” Idahosa said the club was not created to replace the existing Resident Advisor (RA) system in place in the school, adding that the platform was initiated to raise responsible leaders who will promote value-based leadership. The Deputy Vice-Chancellor, Prof Sam Guobadia, said the club’s establishment was line with the school vision of training leaders who would lead the positive changes in the country. He said putting group of young people together to bring out ideas on leadership and how to change the society was the best legacy any institution could bequeath to the society. He said: “The club will be of benefit to everyone, because it is a platform for young people to build their leadership traits and most importantly, life skills. Remember, to be a great leader, one has to exhibit certain qualities. These qualities can be learnt at home, in schools or in a forum like this.”