Following Nigeria’s 148th position in Transparency International (TI) anti-corruption index, the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, on Wednesday advised the Federal Government to strengthen the anti-graft institutions and adopt more holistic approach to winning the fight against corruption. Saraki disclosed this at a 2-day roundtable discussion organized by the Savannah Centre for Diplomacy Democracy and Development (SCDDD) in partnership with Arewa Research and Development Project (ARDP) and Centre for Democratic Development, Research and Training (CEDDERT), in Abuja. He said the low ranking index accorded the country should be considered as reason to remain determined to strengthen the anti-corruption institutions and processes. The senate president, who identified clear difference between fighting corruption and asset recovery, explained that it might be politically difficult to empower the institutions but insisted it was the only way to go to make it almost impossible to steal public funds. “The institution needs to be strengthened, until we understand that those are the issues that needs to be strengthened, not individuals, we will continue to run into this problem. “For us to fight corruption, we must as I emphasized have a very deep holistic plan. I believe there is a different between fighting corruption fully and what I call asset recovery. In this roundtable, I can see a lot of people who have capacity and can separate real issues from what I call grandstanding. If we continue to go on that path, we will not achieve anything because we are not attacking the major issues,” Saraki said. According to him, the system lacks sustainable action plan for anti-graft institutions to strive, stressing that the tenets of anti-corruption should be built on platforms where issues are addressed holistically without bias. He said the National Assembly (NASS) has provided much needed supports to the President’s anti-corruption campaign through the whistle blowers bill, mutual assistance on criminal matters bill among others, adding that as lawmakers, corruption should be fully combated. “I have spent some time thinking about the root causes and multifaceted manifestation in the polity. One thing that has become clear to me is that the problem of corruption is far from linear. This is why a forum like this is crucial so we can evolve a more cohesive, future forward approach to battle the scourge, as we know; it has a pertinent bearing on the spheres of all developmental challenge. “As we approach the milestone of second decade of Nigeria’s fourth republic next year, the time is ripe to work-up an achievable roadmap run by competent officials and instruments unfettered by external political influence or interference,” he added. He tasked the lawmakers to ensure fairness, equity and judicious use of resources in the public’s interest, stressing need to build strong relationship with the executive. “The time has come for us to develop a non-partisan approach towards rescuing the country from the stronghold of corruption.” In his remarks, former Director General, Inter-Governmental Action Group against Money Laundering in West Africa (GIABA), Prof. Abdullahi Shehu, described corruption as a national tragedy that deserves a holistic approach. He said there was need to select the right people to drive desired change in the current administration. Prof. Shehu in his paper titled: “The Fight against Corruption in Nigeria: Old Wine in a new Bottle” described the TI rating as a statement of fact. According to him, a lot of looted funds have been recovered but still fall short of public expectations. However, he called for strong political will that will translate into actions and need to implement national anti-corruption strategy for benefit of the masses. “The greatest expectation on President Buhari was and still remains in the ability of his government to stem the tide of the monster called corruption. So far, president Buhari has demonstrated through his body language and actions that he is a man of the highest integrity and zero tolerance for corruption,” Shehu added. SCDDD Chairman, Prof. Ibrahim Gambari, in his speech said the country is losing the fight against corruption, thus need to seek inclusion in the battle against corrupt practices. He recommended holistic approach, certainty of punishment to culprits and sustainability of the fight including strong participation from the judiciary. 