The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai has assured that, the military will soon stabilize the troubled areas of Zamfara state and Birnin Gwari axis of Kaduna State. The Chief of Army Staff gave the assurance during his routine operational visit to troops in Kafanchan and Kachia in Kaduna state. Buratai who said his visit was aimed at inspection of ongoing projects and assessment of combat readiness of the troops in the field, said plans have already been put in place to restore normalcy in those troubled areas. Speaking to newsmen after the tour, Buratai said, “This is routine operational visit to see the troops, to look at what we have in Kaduna, the school of artillery and to see some of the infrastructure that have been put in place, to see what the troops are also doing in respect of operations. “This place is one of the Nigerian Army’s Forward Based Operations, which we later developed into a full battalion. We just acquired some of the equipment needed by the battalion, which we will soon start using in the area.” Speaking on over 200 motorcycles which he said would be deployed to the area, he said “This is internal security issue going on, and this is something that we must prepare for. The troops have to be on alert to maintain security. When asked the reason why it is difficult to stabilize the troubled areas of Birnin Gwari and Zamfara state, having restored peace in Southern Kaduna, the Army Chief said, “nothing is making it difficult. Be rest assured that those places will be stabilized very soon. “We reinforcing our troops there, we are reinforcing our equipment as well. We are adjusting the deployment in that area. We are getting the relevant platforms to ensure all the security agencies are able to deal with those security threats.” He said. The Army Chief had earlier paid a courtesy visit on the Chief of Kaninkon, Malam Tanko Tete and Emir of Jema’a, Alhaji Muhammadu Isa MuhammaduMuhammadu where the two traditional rulers had expressed appreciation to the army and the government for the restored security in their domains. 