The National University Commission (NUC) has attributed low students enrollment in Nigeria private universities to the basic programmes offered by the institutions. It said it many parents would not be inclined to paying the kind of fees being paid in the private universities only for their children or wards to read the same basic programmes that are obtainable in the public universities at little or no cost. The NUC noted that it was wrong for private universities to insist on commence with basic programmes before mounting programmes like engineering, medicine, law and the likes Executive Secretary of NUC, Professor Abubakar Adams Rasheed, stated this in Bénin City while delivering the 14th convocation lecture of the Benson Idahosa University. Professor Rasheed said private universities would not be adding any value to the higher education landscape beyond increasing access if they are coming up with the same programmes being offered by existing older universities. Rasheed who was represented by NUC’s Director of Accreditation, Dr. Noel Salihu, said the NUC is working towards allowing the private universities to be more innovative in their programme offerings for their growth and development and for the benefit of the country. He noted that the low students enrolment in many private universities in Nigeria  is posing a serious threat to the survival of the universities. The NUC boss said the private sector could deliver quality university education if they maintain focus and stick to the regulations that are already in place to guide their growth and development. According to him, “The violation of the governance structure by the organs of some private universities has continued to constitute a source of friction to the smooth running of the universities. “While it is important to respect the recognized governing structure and academic culture and tradition of the university, it is also important to state that management owes the promoters of private universities the obligation to run the institutions with every sense of responsibility in order to earn the trust of the proprietor and not jeopardize their huge investments in the establishment of the universities.”