All Progressives Congress (APC) National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole spoke yesterday of challenges in the party, saying members of the National Working Committee knew about them before contesting for offices. He called for calm. Oshiomhole spoke on a day a breakaway group announced the formation of  the “Reformed APC”. Speaking while receiving a report of the APC Elections Appeals Committee, he said would not shun the fact that there were challenges within the party, adding that his leadership would  do everything possible to address them. Oshiomhole said: “We can’t claim that we didn’t know. We are not going to lament that we knew, but we didn’t know it was this much.” The APC chairman, who promised to ensure that reports of committees set up by the party are implemented, said: “My appeal to all those who are aggrieved is to be patient. The assurance is that under my leadership, we will make honest mistakes and once our attention is drawn, we will find courage to make up for our mistake. “Some people say how can people eat their words? For me, I will eat my words if it is nutritious enough and if that is what I have to do to have peace in the family. I am not going to be detained by arrogance because I don’t think at this level, any of us will take a position except based on our conviction. “I am very appreciative of the fact that we were elected and, in the case of some of us, we were even unopposed that our members have entrusted us to pilot the affairs of the party at this time. “Like I said in the Senate, we knew there were challenges when we offered ourselves to contest for offices for which we have now been elected. So, we can’t claim that we didn’t know. We are not going to lament that we knew, but we didn’t know it was this much. “To us, it is a huge opportunity to make a difference, not only for our party, but for our country. So, I appeal to people to realise that a blind man can redeem his eyes if he applies the correct medication. But you can’t force it open overnight; otherwise, you will create more problem and damage the eye the more. “But we will do everything possible to sustain confidence and trust. For us, everybody is important; for us, everybody matters and we want to run an inclusive party. “Like I said in my acceptance speech, in a true democracy, there are no losers. If you run the party efficiently and democratically, those who lost will find that their interest and those services they wanted to render are being rendered efficiently and democratically. They will feel a sense of relief. “As they say, if God gives you power, may He not deny you wisdom. I pray for wisdom and courage and I believe that we have it and we will deploy it for peace within the APC family.” National Publicity Secretary Bolaji Adullahi said: “We have a report of a group that purportedly described themselves as a faction of our party. We will be able to give our reaction as soon as we get the full details and have the opportunity to review it” Former Senate Leader Ali Ndume dismissed the new group, saying only God and time could determine the APC’s direction. The senator, who admitted that politics is all about interest and that there was nothing wrong if an aggrieved group spoke out about their displeasure, said movement from one political party to and other was normal in politics. Ndume said: “What is happening is part of politics, especially now in our political days. All of us are Nigerians; we know what is happening. So, politics is about interest and if somebody feels that his or her interest will be more protected by voicing out his dissent, so it is a movement that is normal in politics.” On whether the threat of defection could affect the chances of APC in next year’s general elections, Ndume said: “ No. Let me say that this party is a party of time decided by the Nigerian masses and it is only God that can decide the time of a political party. “A party as bad as PDP ruled this country for 16 years, so we are just here slightly for over 1000 days, and the people that destroyed, impacted or inflicted damage on the country were here for 16 years and expecting the APC to fix the country in less than four years. This building (party secretariat) takes not less than two years to be built, but if you want to destroy it you can do that in 30 minutes. “