The joy of a Benin-based entrepreneur, Mr. David Edehia, knew no bounds when Vice President Yemi Osinbajo collected his complimentary card with a promise to get back to him after listening to how his product works. David was one of the entrepreneurs that showcased their products at the Edo State edition of Micro, Small and Medium-Scale Enterprise (MSME) clinic. His product now only attracted the attention of the Vice President but other persons in his entourage. The uniqueness of his product was that it was a smokeless stove that uses gel otherwise known as ethanol made from cassava. David said he produced the cassava gel and the stove at his factory in Benin City. Osinbajo was in the state to inaugurate the Southsouth innovation hub, visit the Azura Power Plant, perform the groundbreaking for the building of a 1,800 housing units as well as hold town hall meeting with small business owners and entrepreneurs. David said: “I am encouraged that the Vice President has noticed what I am doing. He made me to know that my effort will not be in vain. His appreciation will make me go into more research and produce more from cassava. “This gel stove can employ people. It has no smoke and will help to conserve our forest. I am now encouraged and hoped that it will increase my patronage.” Addressing the gathering, Prof. Osinbajo said traders with small businesses would be empowered. “The policy of the Federal Government is to support businesses, not just big business but particularly small, medium-sized businesses and microbusinesses. The whole idea is that we want to ensure that we give whatever support whether it is cash, advice or even registration to all of our small and medium enterprises. “Apart from the existing GEEP MarketMoni scheme, which targets market women, traders, artisans and enterprising youths, Osinbajo also revealed that the Federal Government is rolling out TraderMoni, a new micro-credit scheme to cater for ultra-micro enterprises. “It is a different thing from MarketMoni because TraderMoni is for the smaller traders. These are the hawkers; those who are doing little things where in many cases their inventory, the whole thing they are selling is sometimes not even more than N5,000 to N10,000. We want to give those kinds of people some credit as well and once they pay back, we will give them some more money.” 