Mr. Kammonke Abam believes he is not your typical Nigerian politician. The youthful media entrepreneur is aspiring to go to the senate in 2019 where he seeks to represent the Central Senatorial District of Cross River State. He recently resigned from his party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), in protest against alleged discrimination and injustice against his people. He spoke to Nicholas Kalu. Excerpts: WHY did you resign from the PDP? My resignation is a statement of protest against the stealthy plan to deny those of us from the Old Obubra axis of the party and particularly Ugep, the opportunity to fly the party’s flag. We believe it is historically justified for the position to be zoned to us. We perceive a surreptitious plan to weaken us out of the race and give the ticket to one of their cronies in Old Ikom even though the senate seat has been domiciled in Old Ikom in the past 19 years. Next year, 2019, would be exactly 20 years of Old Ikom producing senators representing the Central Senatorial District. We believe it is unfair for the party to still want to keep it in Old Ikom. It has become very obvious that the political scale is deliberately and unfairly tilted to favour Old Ikom. The way things are going, some of us have decided to leave the party for them while we seek alternative platforms that respect our wishes and provide a level playing ground for all aspirants. This is after a careful study and analysis of the political patterns and recent history. The case of Ugep, where I come from is particularly disheartening. In the last 20 years, there seems to be a gang up against the political development of the people of Ugep. It happened in 1999; it repeated itself over the years and may happen again next year if we do not wake up from our slumber. We are determined to do our best to scuttle that sad history from repeating itself. We deserve to be treated better. Could you give us more background on this? The background to this development is that the Cross River Central Senatorial District is made up of six local government areas. Three of them, Ikom, Boki and Etung are contiguous to each other and used to be under one local government area called Ikom, while the other three, Yakurr, Abi and Obubra are also contiguous to each other and also used to be under one local government area called Obubra. For political expediency, the senatorial district is clustered into Old Ikom and Old Obubra. That way, political offices are meant to be distributed equitably and fairly. At the emergence of the 4th Republic in 1999, the senate seat went to Old Ikom. Senator Mathew Mbu, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba and now, Senator John Owan-Enoh became senators on account of this arrangement. Next year, 2019, would be exactly 20 years that Old Ikom is occupying the seat and those of us in Old Obubra are saying it is time power changed hands so we can also send one of us to represent the senatorial district. Is it a bad thing for us to say we want to share in what belongs to us all? My brother is it bad? The defence they put forward is that Senator Liyel Imoke represented the district in 1992. Funny enough, just for a little over a year. They also argued that Old Obubra has produced two governors in the person of Chief Clement Ebri and Senator Liyel Imoke. While that is true, the office of the governor is a state-wide office. It is not restricted to the Central Senatorial District. So, that argument does not hold water. In any case, the issue right now is that the party that should look at variables that gives it comparative advantage to win the forthcoming election by picking someone from Old Obubra seems to throw caution to the wind by doing everything to favour a particular candidate from Old Ikom. My quitting the party is my own response against this perceived injustice. Why didn’t you decide to stay in the PDP and try to fight this from within? That is exactly what we have been doing in the recent past. They say it’s a mad man who does the same thing and expects different results. We’ve fought and are still fighting to have these issues addressed but hasn’t received the attention it deserves. That’s why we have changed strategy. You know, it is politics. There are obviously some people benefitting from Old Obubra and particularly, Ugep not having a voice in the National Assembly. It does appear as if there are sworn enemies determined to keep the Ugep man out of the power loop perpetually. And from the look of things, if we don’t put our acts together and we miss this golden opportunity, we may not be able to do so in the next eight years. I will be satisfied if by this act, the leadership of the party rethinks and an Ugep man is given the ticket of the party. As for me, I shall pursue my future political journey in another platform that will be receptive and respectful of the political interest and views of our people. What effect do you think this will have on the polity? Politics is about communication and negotiation. We want to draw the attention of the world to the unfairness against the people of Old Obubra and Ugep in particular. We believe that the people of Old Obubra and Ugep in particular deserve a better deal in the politics of Cross River State and there is no better time to make that statement than now. My interest is to bring this long agitation to the front burner of the political discourse of Cross River State. Attention must be paid to Old Obubra and particularly, to Ugep more than it currently is. We have the numbers to make a difference. Truth is Ugep has been taken for a ride for a long time because our political leaders do not seem to realise the huge political capital that Ugep has or they simply aren’t negotiating well enough. And this just must stop. We have the energy, the numbers, and the resources to take this through You seem very upset by this? Yes, why not. Anyone in our shoes as a people will be. It’s as if there is a deliberate calculation to put Ugep down politically. Since the days of Dr. Okoi Arikpo, those with the privilege of calling the shots of power have deliberately choked my community, Ugep, of political breath. At the level of Ugep, we have been meeting for some time to chart a new political course and order that will restore the political glory that Ugep once had. It’s a move to restore the voice of the Ugep man and woman. We’ve been taken for granted for too long and we cannot continue like this. The fact remains that once we put our act together, Ugep will continue to decide where the political pendulum of the Central Senatorial District will swing. Do you think that your people will support you on this? This matter is not about me. It has nothing to do with my person. It’s a call that well-meaning persons from Old Obubra and particularly, Ugep have been concerned about. I am just accentuating the issues. What next now? We have concluded plans to move to another political party that is more receptive to our interests and the values we stand for.