Two men were yesterday killed and five others injured following a gun war in Somolu, Lagos Mainland. The deceased, identified as Tunde Awokoya, 36, alias Chop-Up and Gabriel were shot at 34, Abiodun Street, around 10:30pm by  suspected cultists. It was gathered that while Awokoya, a developer, was at a beer parlour, Gabriel, an hairstylist, was inside his saloon in the same premises when the bullet hit him. The Nation learnt that six masked armed men had stormed the compound, firing sporadically. They allegedly shot a councillor but the bullet did not penetrate. While two of the five injured, it was gathered sustained foot injuries and were rushed to the Orthopaedic Hospital, Igbobi, three others were taken to an unnamed clinic. However, the lawmaker representing Somolu at the Lagos House of Assembly, Rotimi Olowo said the mask men were sent to assassinate him. According to Olowo, he was at the venue and left barely 15 minutes before the hooded gunmen struck, adding that those killed were his supporters, not cultists. Olowo said: “That is my sister’s place and whenever I want to relax, I usually go there. I was there on Tuesday night and left barely 15 minutes before the incident. “Those they killed were not cultists. They were my supporters. Chop-Up is a developer and Gabriel a hairstylist. It was not a cult war. “My boys, who were still there, said there were six gunmen and that one of them had withered hand. Although they were all masked, my boys were able to see that hand and they knew who it was. “They killed two persons and injured five others. Two are at Igbobi as I talk to you. I do not know where the other three are. “But for divine intervention that made me leave the venue, I would have been dead by now. I have written a petition to the police for investigation, arrest and prosecution of those involved and their sponsors. Lives are involved in this and they must not be allowed to go scot-free.” The council chairman, Abdul Hamed Salawu aka Dullar said it was cult fracas between Aiye and Eiye groups. Dullar, as he his fondly called, said: “Those boys are cultists. They are members of Eiye and Aiye. “I have spoken with the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) and Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS). Let the police carry out their investigation and unmask who’s behind the crisis. Efforts to get reaction from the police command failed, as messages sent to the spokesman, Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP) were not replied.