IT was with joy that the proprietors, staff, parents, pupils and well-wishers inaugurated a  new building at the permanent site of the Grande Oakbridge Montessori  School in Osapa London, Lekki recently. The four-storey facility is bigger than the six three-bedrooms flat that the school used for the first 12 years of its existence. The new building, which  boasts of 27 classrooms, crèche, offices, hall, sick bay, reception, kitchen, staff room, Home Economics laboratory, science laboratory, library, and 26 toilets all connected by three stairwells, was inaugurated by the Lagos State Deputy Governor, Dr Idiat Adebule, who was represented by the Director-General, Office of Education Quality Assurance, Mrs Ronke Soyombo. In her speech, the school’s Executive Director, Mrs Royeke Obalade, shared how she spent 12 years equipping herself to start the school with the support of her husband, Yinka, a trained mathematics teacher-turned accountant. She said the new building gulped  N250,000,000 – N143,000,000 of which was obtained by loan from Meristem after the proprietors ran out of money.  The loan is to be repaid in five years. She said it was erroneous to think that private school proprietors made tons of money from running schools and called for help from public-spirited individuals to equip the new school building. “The school resumed in this new site on January 8, 2018 but still needs to equip and furnish the new building. It is obvious that we cannot achieve this on our own, and so we are appealing for you invited guests’ assistance to sponsor any of the items listed below in order for us to continue to render wholesome education to our students: air conditioners for the hall, interactive white board, piano, drum sets, transformer and its Installation, Home Economic laboratory equipment, science laboratory furniture and equipment, generator, and beds for after school care,” she said. Since January, Mrs Obalade said the school had depended on generator for power because the Power Holding Company of Nigeria (PHCN) had asked them to get a transformer that would cost N6 million. These challenges notwithstanding, Mrs Obalade said the school has been able to deliver on quality education – with parents commending the transformation in their children. Speaking further about the school, Mr Yinka Obalade, who chairs its board of directors, said: “Our education is holistic.  We are not only interested in academics but in the totality of each student.  We have a curriculum for everything.  A child that goes to Grande Oakbridge cannot be compared to others.” Dignitaries at the event included Aare Bashir Olawale Fakorede a business mogul; Mr Alex Okoh, Director-General, Bureau of Public Enterprises (BPE); Mr Oluwole Oduyemi, former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN); Prof Solomon Akinboye, Dean School of Postgraduate Studies,  University of Lagos; Prof Segun Ajibola, Caleb University; and members of Board of Directors, Rev  Samson Adedokun, Mr Lai Babatunde (SAN), and Prof Grace Otinwa.