…picks holes bill’s provision for discretion  Former Minister of State for Petroleum, Odein Ajumogobia Tuesday raised fears over the National Assembly’s delay of the passage of the remaining three components of the Petroleum Industry Bills (PIBs). He said that there was no hope that the bill that was initiated by the Oil and Gas Industry Committee (OGIC) meeting 18 years would come into fruition this year. Ajumogobia was giving a goodwill message in Abuja during the Roundtable on PIB, with the theme: “The Impact of Petroleum Sector Reform on Nigeria’s Global Economic Prospects.” He pointed out that the lawmakers, who ought to process the bill were already concerned about their re-election into the National Assembly. His words:  “This journey is 18 years-old, still we are not sure that we will see light at the end of the tunnel. One of the things we are talking about is that the bill will be passed by the end of this year. The people who are supposed to pass it are going about how to win their election to the National Assembly.” The former minister, who noted that bill will have to be re-presented to the 9th National Assembly, sought the acceleration of the process of the passage. Ajumogobia however picked holes in the bill, stressing that it makes provision for the Minister of the proposed commission to use his discretion in dictating how to give out the marginal oil field to stakeholders. Ajumogobia warned that “once you leave it to discretion it can be abused.” He submitted that even when the bill is passed; it is going to be driven by integrity, consistent policies and implementation of policies. Speaking, a member of the House Ad Hoc Committee on PIB, Hon. Henry Nwawuba, allayed the minister’s fears over failure to pass the bill, stressing that the bill is the topmost agenda that the 8th House of Representatives set for themselves. “We want to be remembered as the assembly that passed the PIB,” he promised. But another stakeholder, Dr. Otive Igbuzor, took the promise of the lawmaker with a pinch of salt, recalling that “Obasanjo, Goodluck Jonathan and their ministers of Petroleum gave commitment and assurance to pass the bill into law before the end of their tenures.” He said that after the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill, President Muhammadu Buhari has not spoken.