BARRING any last minute change, the All Progressives Congress (APC) will on Thursday pick its standard bearer for the Osun State governorship election through direct primaries, it was learnt yesterday. The process will give all members the opportunity of participating in the selection of the party’s candidate for the September 22 election, APC National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole said. Speaking after a meeting of the National Working Committee (NWC) in Abuja, Oshiomhole said the party’s constitution allowed for the conduct of the exercise, either through direct or indirect primary. He said the use of direct primary would prevent the corruption and monetisation of the process. Besieds, it will give every member a sense of ownership of the outcome of the exercise, Oshiomhole said, adding that stakeholders of the party in the Southwest and Osun State were disposed to the option. He said: “Just as we are celebrating Ekiti, we have commenced the process of organising the primary election in Osun State. We have gone through the screening exercise of the 17 aspirants who obtained nomination form and they have been cleared to contest the primary. “We are impressed that the 17 of them are competent enough to effectively govern the state and that we don’t lack competent hands to provide leadership in Osun State after the exit of Rauf Aregbesola. “Over the next couple of days, we will do everything we can to ensure that those that have cleared recognize that even though they have been cleared, we only need one of them to fly the flag of the party. “So, 16 of them have to be able to find some comfort even if they are not favoured through the nomination process because this party can only nominate one candidate. Regardless of who wins the primary, we hope that the rest of them will support the person to ensure that we do our best to retain the governance of Osun State. “We have decided that in other to ensure popular participation, and to deepen democracy in Osun State, in-line with the provision of our party constitution which allow for either direct or indirect primary, we have resolved that the governorship election primary in Osun state will be conducted on the basis of direct primary. “What that means if that every card carrying member of our party will participate in the process of nominating the flag nearer of the party. This for us is the most democratic way to conduct election and is in line with what our critical stakeholders from that part of the country want and we are quite happy to oblige. “The whole idea is that the more we allow our party members to participate in the process of nominating candidates, we will remove the issue of corruption or monetizing the processes of nominating aging candidates, in addition to the fact that party members will have a sense of ownership of the outcome of the exercise. “We have also decided to nominate a panel that will be chaired by the governor of Zamfara State who is also the chairman of the Governors’ Forum. We have no doubt that no one can compromise him and will approach this exercise in line with the spirit and letters of our constitution. “He will be assisted by four others who will work with him to ensure that this direct primary is conducted hitch free and the outcome will lay a foundation for popular mobilisation of the Osun electorates.” Explaining the decision to switch from the indirect system to the direct option, he said: “Our slogan is change, but we have not changed from bad to worse. We have only changed from a situation where only few delegates who fly the flag of the party to one in which all party members have a say and can participate actively. “Our democracy has to grow and our constitution allows for this process and I am proud that the people of Osun state are ready to go through the whole hog of allowing party members rather than allowing party caucus to determine who flies our flag. I think that is more democratic. “We see in America how party leaders go from one leader to another as voting goes on even before they come back to the proper election and I think the beauty in that is those members have a sense of ownership of that person and therefore we have a duty to mobilize for that person so that he wins. “We are not detained by a particular approach but we are doing this in line with the wishes of the real stakeholders in Osun state as we know then.” Speaking on the outcome of the governorship election in Ekiti State, Oshiomhole said: “We are particularly excited not because we won, but like we said the last time, what matter to us is the process rather than the outcome. We just want to make sure that the results of election reflect the will of the people. “You will also recall there were issues about police deployment, I am very happy that all the commentators and observes including the EU (European Union) are happy that the election was free of violence and that the process was free and fair. We cannot ask for more. “We celebrate not just the fact that we won, we celebrate that under President Muhammadu Buhari’s government, we now can see that election can be conducted without people being hospitalized or some finding their way to the grave because they have been killed in the process. “We are very proud of this accomplishment and we have asked Dr. Fayemi to use the intervening period between now and then to reflect on all that he need to reflect on so that by the the he is sworn in formally, he will hit the ground running because the Ekiti people cannot afford to wait any longer to begin to see a renewed and refocused leadership that will ensure the quality of life of the Ekiti people.”