•Parents urged to prevent sexual abuse, rape, others The Lagos State government yesterday called on Lagosians, especially, parents and child caregivers to take note of children’s molestation, sexual abuse, rape and child predators. Its Youth & Social Development Commissioner Agboola Dabiri spoke at the stakeholders meeting with all owners/administrators of daycare and crèches in the state. Discussions were held on ‘Towards achieving best practices in early childhood care in Lagos State’ at the meeting hosted by the Sports ministry. According to Dabiri, parents must give extra attention on care for children, be extra careful and know where their children or wards are per time. He urged them to always leave their wards with respectable and reasonable adults, urging them to secure and ensure safety measures in and around the house. Besides, he advised parents to be vigilant and ensure that their children, especially, young girls, wear modest and descent clothes. Dabiri said: “Watch your teenagers get closer to your children and wards, embrace, pray and play with them.” He noted the meeting was crucial for reasons including, the need for proper registration and capturing of all information regarding the operators of Day Care Centers/ Crèches in the Data bank of the state and to ensure/enforce standardisation of best practices in Child care services across all Day Care Centers in the state. “There is also the need for operators of Day Care to imbibe and implement the principles and content of the state Child Rights Law in their operations as government shall continually update operators on all current regulatory policies of the state. “This meeting is also to emphasise that all necessary safety measures are put in place in Child care services and to let the stakeholders know that we are going to checkmate the practice of different operators of Day Care Centers and Crèches, to know those who have been carrying g out their duties in an unprofessional manner thereby posing threat to the activities of trained and certified operators informer to give a chance to certified and trained operators.” The ministry’s Permanent Secretary, Hakeem Muri-Olunola, urged the stakeholders to corporate with the state government on how best to protect children from all forms of abuses or unwholesome practices. “The state government regards you as partners in progress and thus requires your cooperation and support in the way and manner you carry out your activities. In the light of this, it has not become necessary nor to only monitor but to also streamline the operators in the profession.” He urged the stakeholders to see the profession not just as business, but as a calling and a way of rendering humanitarian services to fellow human being and the society at large. The Director-General, Lagos State Safety Commission, Hakeem Dickson, stressed the need for both Day Care Centers/Crèches, and the entire state to be safe. 