THERE seems to be a general excitement among Nigerians over the prospects of a rapprochement between erstwhile president, Dr. Olusegun Obasanjo, and his deputy, Atiku Abubakar. Of course, it is about 2019. Before now, most analysts suffered an apparent quandary in appraising the prospects of Atiku emerging as the next president of Nigeria, that is, after the 2019 general elections. In one breath, they would endorse Atiku as not only in the best stead to defeat the incumbent president, Muhammadu Buhari, but also possessing the comportment, the experience and the amiability to give the country a lift, especially against the backdrop of the general thumbs-down for the Buhari administration. Yet, some, if not most, would in the next breath go into a lecture on why Atiku Abubakar will “never be president while Obasanjo is still alive”. But beyond this hackneyed allusion, most of the analysts are hardly able to dwell in further details as to why, if other factors are given, the former president will be the only factor to determine Atiku’s fate. As in the aphorism that a lie told several times may become accepted as truth, most analysts got carried away with the vehemence and vociferous manner in which Obasanjo spoke about his aversion to Atiku’s presidential aspiration. At a point, he even took the matter beyond the realm of mortal intervention. He reportedly once said that if he was dead and Atiku was about to be inaugurated as president of Nigeria, he would beg God Almighty to allow him to return to earth to stop the inauguration after which he will return to heaven. As hilarious as that was, it did make Nigerians feel that Atiku’s case was finally sealed as far as Obasanjo is or was concerned. Nigerians agree that Obasanjo was serious in his opposition to Atiku’s ambition but they do not see his position as sacrosanct. In other words, they are optimistic that Obasanjo will, one day, change his mind about Atiku. Thus, even though those sympathetic to Atiku Abubakar’s cause never accepted that Obasanjo has the singular power to stop the former from becoming president, if every other thing is equal, the recent news of a possible understanding between the two should be heartwarming to them; together with several other Nigerians who, for various reasons, believe that President Muhammadu Buhari does not merit a re-election in 2019. But despite the criticism against the Buhari administration and the attendant need to stop his re-election in 2019, it is hard to see any clear cut strategy to affect that. Perhaps the loudest statement on the imperative of Buhari’s ouster in 2019 was the one by Obasanjo himself via his widely read and received open letter to Buhari in February this year. Of course, it is needless going into the details of that letter since they are very well know but it is pertinent to restate that Nigerians liked the posturing of Obasanjo, which, in a nutshell, was that Buhari should not present himself for re-elect in 2019. Obasanjo’s letter came at a period so much was being said about a “third force” that will dislodge Buhari from the Aso Rock Presidential Villa. It was also at a time Obasanjo came up with his pet project named Coalition for Nigerian. Naturally, the euphoria created by all that was palpable but more than six months later, it is difficult to say that the enthusiasm with which Nigerians received that idea has been sustained. Majority of Nigerians believe that Obasanjo means well but their fear is that he may be unable to mobilise enough forces to actualise the defeat of President Buhari at the 2019 elections. Thus, coupled with the vehemence and vociferous manner with which the Buhari administration equally tackled Obasanjo and the idea of a third force, that enthusiasm began to wane. The question has been: how, exactly, will the third force deploy its arsenals against Buhari? This question arose especially because the idea (of a third force) was being canvassed outside the ambience of a political party. As a corollary, the question pointedly became: under which political party will those who want Buhari out do it, given, especially, that Obasanjo wanted Nigerians to go neither for the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) nor the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Initially, there were speculations that the Obasanjo coalition may adopt the Social Democratic Party but for reasons that are outside the scope of this article, not many Nigerians are enamored by that. Of recent, however, the coalition formally announced that it has adopted one of the newly registered political parties, the African Democratic Congress (ADC), as the platform on which it will further its war against Buhari Naturally, the following question has since arisen: Can ADC, a brand new party that is yet to be sold to Nigerians, defeat the ruling APC with an incumbent president (all things being equal) as its candidate, and who is believed to have over 10 million votes waiting for him in some parts of northern Nigeria? The answer is anybody’s guess and inevitably gives rise to another question: Is Obasnjo not merely entertaining Nigerians with rhetoric’s? Given the circumstances and especially the fact that time is of essence, some may be tempted to believe that Obasanjo and his coalition and or ADC may not achieve much in their bid to stop Buhari’s re-election. It is in a bid to find an answer to the above question that pundits have come to aver that Obasanjo may have to review his stance on working with older political parties and, indeed, more experienced politicians, if, indeed, he is serious in putting up a good fight against Buhari. Each time this matter crops up, the easy reference is Atiku Abubakar, the same fellow Obasanjo is said to have vowed to resurrect from the grave to stop from being inaugurated as president of Nigeria. But those who have bought into the Obasanjo agenda to stop Buhari are not discouraged by that. They concede to Obasanjo the right to nurse personal animosity against Atiku but they believe that for the purposes  of achieving the gargantuan task of stopping Buhari’s re-election, he has to put the past aside and work with his former deputy whom majority of Nigerian have expressed readiness to back in his presidential bid. A couple of weeks ago, a group of Yoruba leaders hosted Obasanjo in Lagos, amid speculations that the meeting was the first step towards persuading him to support the presidential ambition of his former deputy. About a week later, the two men met at a function in Abuja where they exchanged robust pleasantries amid widely held belief that the meeting was not just by chance but one that was well targeted and procured. Not unexpectedly, the opposition has expressed satisfaction over the current development, that is, an imminent rapprochement between the two men. The basis of the excitement is that such a development will strengthen it in the battle against APC. The argument is simply that the former president can adopt a Machiavellian approach and liaise with any Nigerian who has the capacity to make the opposition stronger. And here, a resounding approval has been given to Atiku Abubakar, the Adamawa state-born politician whose political reach across the country is said to be legendry.