A Lagos High Court sitting in Igbosere has restrained Veronica Chiugo, wife of Super Eagles player, John Ogu, from taking their two-year-old daughter, Ivanna Adaeze Ogu, outside Lagos without his consent. Justice O. O. Femi-Adeniyi (Mrs) made the order on July 17, following a July 16 ex parte motion Ogu filed through his counsel Olumide Babalola seeking eight reliefs. Justice Adeniyi also authorised Ogu to, among others, pay a monthly maintenance fee of N50,000 for the upkeep of his wife and Baby Ivanna Ogu. The judge upheld all the footballer’s prayers, pending the hearing and determination of the substantive suit, seeking the dissolution of the estranged couple’s marriage. Veronica Chiugo Ugo is the sole respondent in the suit, marked LD/4760HD/18. The applicant’s motion was supported by a July 16 affidavit, signed by “one Daniel John Daniel” of No. 49, Lawson Street, Lagos Island. Justice Adeniyi held: “The applicant is mandated to be responsible for the welfare, feeding, education, health needs, clothing and all other necessary needs of the child of the marriage (Baby Ivanna Ogu). “The respondent is mandated to provide the applicant with the school/crèche’s account details of Baby Ivanna Ogu for the purpose of payment of tuition and all other fees which shall be wholly borne by the applicant. “The applicant is mandated to promptly pay into the school/crèche’s account provided all tuition and necessary school/crèche payments as officially required by the school/crèche for the benefit of Baby Ivanna Ogu. “The respondent is prohibited from changing Baby Ivanna Ogu’s school/crèche without the written consent of the Applicant. “The respondent is mandated to obtain health insurance for Baby Ivanna Ogu at the applicant’s expense which monies shall be paid directly to the insurance company. “The respondent is mandated to submit Ivanna’s American and Nigerian international passports to the registrar of this honourable court for safekeeping. “The applicant is mandated to pay monthly maintenance of N50,000. “The respondent is prohibited from moving Ivanna Ogu out of Lagos State without the written consent of the Applicant.” She adjourned till July 24 for further hearing.