Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode last Friday opened a new vista when he unveiled an agenda to rev up water transportation. It may be the needed game changer in the gridlock in the nation’s financial capital, writes ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE Of the three modes of transportation – land, air and water, the latter has remained the least developed in Lagos State. Since the Second Republic when former Governor Lateef Jakande invested in the sector, charting and dredging water routes and buying seven ferries to ply the waterways, the sector has gone comatose. The establishment of the Lagos State Waterways Authority (LASWA) did not change anything, as it was almost always up in arms against the Nigeria Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA), the federal regulator, over who controls the waterways. But last week, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode unveiled a new master plan for the sector. It was the first water transportation sector roundtable.The event, held at the Eko Hotels and Suites, in Lagos, not only unveiled the plan for water transport, but sought the assistance of multinational organisations in cleaning up the waterways. Ambode said the event  was aimed at identifying new techniques and technologies as well as best practices to sustain water transportation. “The technologies to be deployed,’’ the governor added, ‘’should be such that would contribute to reduction of carbon emissions, improving health and safety of commuters and contribute to the goals of the Paris agreement.’’ He continued: “The objective was to draw policy experts and development partners and investors to the state’s short- term 2012 -2015 Development Plan, with the purpose of ensuring that the state drives a transportation policy that meets the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goal (SDG) Goal II.” Assuring operators, investors and stakeholders that none would lose his space in the sector, Ambode reiterated the government’s determination to pioneer the deployment of new ideas and infrastructure that would enable the water sector to move with ease and plan efficiently. For stakeholders, the event could not have come at a better time, affording operators to know what the state plans to do with its vast water resources that have continued to be a cesspool of waste. From the Badagry Creek, to the Omu River, the state has 210-kilometre creeks and water bodies that have been begging for investment. From Badagry Creek, Ologe Lagoon, Yewa River, Commodore Channel (Lagos Harbour) and Five-Cowrie Creek; and from Lagos Lagoon, Lekki Lagoon to Omu River, Iyagbe, Kuramo, Apase, Epe and Mahin Lagoons, the Lagos wetlands are flanked by tidal wetlands and swamps, with the lagoons, which  are separated from the Atlantic Ocean by a long sand spit of five km wide, which stretched for more than 50 km and three to 13 km wide. Even the governor admitted that water transportation, though neglected for a long time, remained key to resolving traffic congestion in the state. “The chaotic traffic situation in some parts of the state in recent times and the pressure on the road with attendant danger to lives and property, made the need to forge ahead with the reforms in the water sector more compelling,” he said. According to him, “the question to ask is what has brought us to this despicable situation, where the only mode of transportation for over 22 million people is road and the road itself is chaotic. In the last three years, we have been fighting traffic and, unfortunately in the last two weeks, we have seen what has happened in Apapa and what we have been trying to do. Just about three weeks ago, we saw what happened with regards to the Otedola Bridge disaster. “Out of the over 22 million people, almost eight million are walking on the streets every second, and according to the United Nations 2016 statistics, 86 people enter Lagos every one hour, which is the largest in the world. So, if other states are failing, more people would migrate to Lagos and that means maybe right now, there are 120 people entering Lagos not wanting to go back and the only mode of transportation we have for them is just the road. That is why we are coming up with other modes. “1/5th of Lagos is water. We have the smallest geographical space in Nigeria of 3577 square kilometres with 25 per cent of that being water. So, you are asking yourself, why in the history of Lagos and in the history of Nigeria, that we did we not just think of other modes of transportation?” The governor said it was instructive to note that being surrounded by water, many parts of the state could be connected within few minutes. “I was in Apapa yesterday and I looked at the gridlock and it made sense to me that it is just five minutes ride between Apapa and Marina and so the question is can’t we create barges that can take our cars and then push them to Marina and back to Apapa in just five minutes and so in no time everybody is in their offices instead of going through the traffic? “Between Badore and Ikorodu is just 10 minutes. This is something that has been waiting for a long time and I just think this is the right time for us to do it because those coming behind us will not forgive us if we don’t take advantage of all the things we need to do to develop water transportation,” Ambode said. The governor added that major channelisation and dredging, shoreline protection and construction of jetties, among others, were ongoing as part of efforts to boost water transportation. He said the roundtable was basically to come up with sustainable framework to encourage people to adopt water transportation as an alternative and faster mode. Wooing investors to take advantage of the reforms in the water sector, Ambode said it was instructive that in the last 36 months, more Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) had come into the state largely due to the transparency and credibility to encourage investors, assuring that his administration would continually create the enabling environment for businesses to thrive. Earlier, Commissioner for Transportation Mr Ladi Lawanson said the essence of the roundtable was to evolve an effective framework, in partnership with the private sector and relevant stakeholders, to play up water transport to divert pressure from the roads. Also, a major player in the sector, Mr Ganiyu Balogun, who is the managing director of Tarzan Ferry Services, commended Ambode for his commitment to reving up water transport and harnessing its potential for the people. He said stakeholders were aware of the challenges in the sector and were willing to partner the state government to address the issues for the benefit of the state. There were presentations from the University of Lagos, United States Mission in Nigeria, Trade and Investment Department of the British High Commission and Paramount Maritime Holdings of South Africa, which expressed their readiness to partner the government to boost water transport. Meanwhile, the government has  sealed a deal with a consortium of multi-national companies, Food and Beverage Recycling Alliance, to rid the waterways and water bodies of filth with specific focus on plastics. The agreement will also bring about the setting up of a world-class collection and recycling framework for plastic waste. The consortium include the Nigeria Bottling Company (NBC), the 7-Up Bottling Company, Nestle and Nigerian Breweries, among others, who will invest in boats to collect waste from the waterways to protect the ecosystem and boost water transport.