Former Governor of Abia State and chieftain of All Progressives Congress, Orji Uzor Kalu, in this exclusive interview, told Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu, that he has forgiven his estranged successor, Senator T. A. Orji. He also spoke of Buhari’s chances in 2019 and how APC leaders are working behind-the-scene to resolve the crisis in Imo and some other Southeast states. Excerpts GIVEN the mood of Nigerians, what is the prospect of your party, the All Progressives Congress and its candidate, President Muhammadu Buhari, in the 2019 Elections? You can see that many Nigerians are complaining of hardship and hunger. Do you really think you have good prospect? Our prospect is very encouraging. Of course, nothing is ever 100 percent. I know that some people will complain because of the difficult economic situation. That is understandable, but we must all realise that before now, we all operated on a wrong economic boom. What some people do not realise is that when somebody, a nation or a people jubilate over a growth that is not sustainable; such an economic growth is not a growth, it’s a mere boom. What is happening now is that the government is trying to lay the necessary foundation and on that ground, we have achieved so much. We may not have seen the physical result but I can assure Nigerians that this government is laying the right foundations for sustainable economic growth. But how do you intend to market your candidate to a people that are hungry and angry? The people know the truth. They know that the country’s economy has been battered for many years. We all know that so much damage has been done. We know that the damage done for over 15 years or more may not be easily repaired in three years. My grandmother told me that when you buy an adire, a cloth, you will need to cut it into pieces first before you sow it and get a good jumper or adire. I am not saying this government does not have the responsibility to put right what went wrong before its emergence; all I am saying is that the government will need some time to correct such damage. As you know, the situation was further complicated by the global economic recession that set in almost immediately this government’s tenure began. So, we must all admit that President Muhammadu Buhari is a human being; he is not a magician. We should also remember that his health condition at the early part of his administration, which made him to spend some time in hospital did not give him time to tackle these problems as promptly as they should have been done. He is only human and is trying to solve the problems. I know he has done well in some vital areas. Yes, everybody needs food but being human, he may not solve all our problems in one day. We need to be strategic and ensure that the right foundations are laid. That is what this government is doing, and by the time the result will become manifest, Nigerians will be grateful to Buhari and his team. I know Nigerians are not asking for too much. I am a core Nigerian and a student of the Nigerian people. We are not asking for too much from the government. The only thing Nigerians are asking for is to be given the fundamental things that will enable them live good life. They are asking just for power, good roads, fair policies, basic infrastructure and such like. These are what should be given to the people. This government is laying foundations that will boost provision of these basic needs. Take food for example, President Buhari has made it possible for Nigerians to go back to the farms. This is what Buhari has been preaching. For the first time in decades, farming has become lucrative again; farmers are making profits. This is how it should be; such growth is sustainable. I believe that if we use Chinese model, we would successfully fix our economy in the long run. Chairman Mao preached that the Chinese people should produce as much food as they can to feed the over one billion citizens.  According to the model, the first stage is to produce enough food. It is after this that they now go into processing and then to technology. I believe in this model. I believe that every technology is copied. There is nothing like technology transfer. Every technology is copied. That is why I believe that we should encourage the young men and women in Aba, Nnewi, Onitsha, Umuahia and other cities in Nigeria fabricating things. That is how great technologies grow. But in Nigeria, our greatest setback is energy. If many years after privatization we are still using generator sets even in choice areas like Ikoyi in Lagos and Asokoro in Abuja, near Aso Rock Villa, you can see the damage. It has become obvious that we wrongly privatized our electricity. We may need to talk to the Discos; their attitude is worrisome. Members of my community in Igbere are planning to sue the Discos to court because they are giving people bills there when they did not give them electricity at all. However, the attitude of Nigerians to government property must also change. For example, I see people climbing and destroying bridges; that is not good. There must be give and take attitude for Nigeria to grow. I also believe that we should pay attention to small scale enterprises. They should be the backbone of mega economy. But you said the Buhari-led federal government has laid some foundations. What, in concrete terms can be attributed to this government in the past three years? As I said earlier, this government is laying important foundations.  For example, three years ago, I wanted to go to Ibadan from Lagos but I couldn’t because there was no road. Today, you can easily drive to Ibadan. Before this administration, I couldn’t go to Abeokuta by road; today, I can. The same thing is happening in the east. This government is working on Enugu-Port Harcourt express road, Enugu-Awka express road, Second Niger Bridge. These are fundamental infrastructural provisions that will boost economic development. As I said, the government can’t do everything in one day, but if you pay attention, you will notice strategic foundation for the take-off of sustainable economic development. One of the things that may go against your party and your candidate, President Buhari, in 2019, is the spate of killings and the way the herdsmen’s attack is being handled. His critics said he is unable to act because of tribal sentiments. Are you satisfied with Buhari’s handling of the herdsmen’s killings? No leader will be happy to see his people dying; no president will be happy to see his fellow citizens being killed like animals. People giving impression that Buhari does not want to stop the killings are not being fair to him. When I was governor of Abia State, I created a place for cattle dealers in Umunnaochi part of Abia State. That place is still there today. I think we should stop blaming anybody and learn how to tolerate one another. I know we can build a great Nigeria if we put our minds to it. I am a big cattle dealer and I am Igbo. So, I don’t think President Buhari is happy over the killings. It is just unfortunate. It is a problem that should be solved by us and I think our state governors should support the federal government’s efforts. If you look at it well, the killings may have to do with the successful dispersion of the core concentration areas of Boko Haram, leading to these bloody gorrila attacks. Let us be fair to the real Fulani herdsmen who have been with us over the years. From their actions, it seems these killers are not Nigerians. For us Nigerians, let us learn to accept one another and stop blaming God for creating us the way we are. But cattle-rearing is a private business; so critics of the federal government’s current plans are asking why government should use our common resources and why it must also give out the people’s land and order establishment of ranches for cattle herders across the country when it has not done the same for every other private business being carried out by common Nigerians? I don’t think this is the idea. I am a cattle dealer as I told you. I don’t think the idea is for government to acquire land for anybody. It is private business as you pointed out, so I don’t think the idea is for the government to acquire land for anybody. That won’t be right. The right thing would be for any private businessman to acquire own land for his goat, pigs or cattle. Possibly, what the government is trying to say is this is where you are supposed to have ranches or they are trying to enter into partnership with the private businessmen involved in the business of cattle rearing and distribution. The emergence of the political coalition, especially the brake-away R-APC, is poised to affect the fortunes of APC in the forthcoming general election. Is your party aware of the threat? Nobody broke away from APC. For those who said they broke away, I am really sorry for those who voted for them. Why should people change political party every four years? If you have a problem at home with your wife, do you always resort to divorce? There is a major problem with our politicians. You hardly hear them talking about the people. I always see them talking about themselves. Things must change. Look, this is why I respect President Buhari as an individual. I was in Anambra State during the last election there. Buhari insisted that nobody should rig election. That is how it should be. Here, everything was debased for the past 10 years. It is painful; we must correct the system. What are you doing to survive the threat posed by the coalition to your party or do you really think the coalition is not a threat in 2019? I think it is a threat. The coalition is a big threat. I do not share the view that it is not a threat. But let me assure you that APC will successfully fight the threat and become victorious. We are working on it. Ndigbo have continuously cried out that they are not given their due under this administration. What hope would Buhari-led APC government offer them in 2019? The hope is already there. They did not vote for Buhari in 2015 yet he is doing Southeast roads, bridges and other critical things. Former President Olusegun Obasanjo is crying because his neck is on the ground now; he is afraid of EFCC because of the things he did when he was the president. Leaders must be ready to obey the rule of law. When I say leaders I mean all leaders, including Buhari. I am a believer in rule of laws. No matter how ordinary a law is, we must obey it if we want to move forward. Since the return of democracy, Ndigbo have been agitating to produce a president of Igbo extraction. How feasible is it to realise that dream on the platform of APC? I think it is very feasible in the near future.  Ndigbo did not really vote for Buhari, yet he paid the Biafran ex-servicemen their pension and he is doing many other things for Ndigbo. The hope is there. It touches my mind when people say Buhari is tribalistic.  If we work very hard and support the APC government in 2019, I am sure that the possibility of the emergence of a Nigerian president of Igbo extraction in the near future is there. We only have to put our house in order and make the bid. I think if we do that, it is possible. Since you left government as Abia State governor and fell out with your successor, you have stayed away until now when you came back as an APC chieftain. Have you really reconciled with your political son and former governor T. A Orji? It is not easy to rule a state. When I was there, people thought it is easy. I touched virtually every part of the state. Go round in Abia and see. The primary schools I build then, which were roofed with ordinary zinc are still there like that. Remember that when I became governor, Aba was under siege by criminals. It was one of the promises I made and I fulfilled it. By the time I was through, Aba became the safest commercial city you could think of. I tarred almost every strategic road, from Ohanku to Ibadan road; I built the second bridge in Ogbor Hill; I gave 169 communities electricity and I paid salaries to workers up to the month I left office in spite of the fact that Obasanjo seized our money that month. I As for the former governor, Senator T. A. Orji, my conscience is clear. I did nothing wrong to him. I did not offend him in any way. This man was in jail and I insisted that he should succeed me as governor. To achieve that, I fought everybody, including the then President Obasanjo. At a point they asked me to put my younger brother’s name as governor instead of T. A Orji and I refused. I made him governor, yet he said all sorts of things against me. I have forgiven him. I have nothing against him in my mind. I have moved forward. I thank God that I am alive today to tell this story. I thank God that I was able to stand and help someone. He never knew how the battle to make him governor was fought and won. I think the greatest problem in Igboland is envy. Do you think it is possible for Abia APC to produce the government? Yes, that is what will happen. All we have to do is to produce the right candidate. They said I was the one that picked T. A Orji, so what I decided to do now is to leave our people to choose our candidate.  The process was very democratic all through the ward congress and other state congresses. As soon as our candidate emerges through popular votes, we will back the candidate and ensure victory. To the glory of God, we are very popular in Abia State. The reception we have been getting is very encouraging. How are the leaders of APC resolving the crises in most of the state chapters in the Southeast, especially Imo State? Is it true that some of you have taken sides? Initially I never knew the problem in Imo APC was so deep. I only knew few weeks to the national congress. My belief is that people should be sincere in their dealings. Recently, Prince Eze Madumere narrated to me what happened. I advised him to go and make peace with the governor. I believe people should show gratitude to those who mentored them. I also believe leaders should be fare in their dealings. So, I believe we are a family and should work together. But allegation about siding one side is not true here. People should be sincere. I am not for or against any side in this matter. What I want and what the leaders of APC in the Southeast want is peace and fairness in the family so that the party will win elections. I can assure you that our leaders in the Southeast zone like, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Senator Ken Nnamani and the others, are on it. They are now working round the clock to settle the frictions in Imo, Enugu and so on. It is a family destined to win, so we will work together and win.