Anchor University Lagos (AUL) may be just be about three years old, but a parent, Mr Olu Ayela, has expressed confidence in its ability to deliver its vision to be “a citadel of learning for holistic human transformation and development anchored on the tripartite wheels of Character, Competence and Courage.” The school owned by the Deeper Christian Life Ministry, is in its second academic calendar and has established a number of collaborations with international agencies and universities to boost learning in various fields of endeavor. Ayela said he was already seeing the school’s impact on his son, Samuel, who gained admission this session to study Economics. Ayela, secretary of the Parents’ Forum of the university, said his older children attended other private universities but AUL stood out for him. He said: “I chose this school because I heard a lot about the school.  even before registration of the school, I was there myself.  I saw the environment was conducive for learning – everything was up to standard.  The facilities were state of the art – the structures, the lecture rooms powered with air conditioners and the quality of lecturers.   It is also faith based university. All these attracted me to the school. “My first two daughters graduated from private universities.  When you compare and contrast, you can see the difference. When you are here (at AUL), it is like you are not in Nigeria.  Again, the quality of lecturers listed on their website makes me convinced. I have been in jouirnalism for 34 years and you get to hear of these people. Ayela said the Parents’ Forum, which was inaugurated at the beginning of the 2017/2018 academic session, backs the management in running the university. He said, for instance, the forum ratified the university’s decision to punish students who flouted its rules on drug use. “Our own is to meet from time to time to discuss issues relating to the school, how we can improve it. We have met twice. We discussed especially in the area of discipline.  We hear what transpires in the school.  For instance, we heard about three students were involved in certain drugs but they have already taken the issue up. One has been rusticated the others are on suspension. “Before you are admitted, you read through a code of conduct and choose if you are ready to abide by the code of conduct. So you have a choice whether to stay on or to go,” he said.