The Nigeria Civil Society Situation Room, a coalition of 70 election observer groups, has urged the political parties that are taking part in today’s governorship election in Ekiti State to shun violence. The group also called on security agencies to ensure the safety of election observers, voters and other stakeholders who have constitutional roles to play at the poll. It also advised security agencies not to avoid acts of intimidation, inappropriate use of force and other acts capable of undermining electoral process. Addressing a press conference in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, yesterday, the Convener, Election Situation Room, Mr. Clement Nwankwo, urged security agencies to curb vote buying. He recalled that vote buying occurred in the governorship elections previously conducted in Edo, Anambra and Ekiti states, describing the act as an electoral offence which should not be allowed to occur in Ekiti. The civil situation chief said the group observed that sensitive materials sent to   local government areas by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) had gone well and were under control. The situation in the state, Nwankwo noted, had been calm and peaceful even as he urged security men to exercise restraints in their dealings with voters. Nwankwo said the body had released dedicated phone lines to members of the public to give information on any electoral infraction noticed at any polling unit. He said the Election Situation Room would be relying on its field observers, networks, partner organisations and observers deployed in the 16 local government areas. Nwankwo said: “The Situation Room calls on the political parties to conduct themselves in a manner that does not encourage violence by their supporters, as they will be held liable for their activities that trigger violence. “The Situation Room also calls on security agencies, including the Nigerian Army, the police and other arms to assure election observers and the electorate of their personal safety and urges voters to go out and peacefully cast their votes in exercise of their constitutional right to be part of the democratic process. “We reiterate that all elections must demonstrate the highest possible commitment from the security services to support INEC in completing its constitutional role of organising credible elections that can inspire continued process.”