OSINBAJO, Gowon, Obasanjo, Namibian president, others pay last respects as ex-ECA scribe Adedeji is laid to rest Ernest Nwokolo, Abeokuta Former Executive Secretary of the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) and pioneer chairman of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Prof. Adebayo Adedeji, made his final departure to the world beyond yesterday amid eulogies from many African leaders. Among other words of eulogy, he was described as a “colossus” who worked for the economic emancipation of the African continent. Prof. Adedeji, the Asiwaju of Ijebuland, passed on last April 25 at the age of 87. Past and present African leaders, including Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo; Namibian President Hage Geingob; former head of state General Yakubu Gowon; former President Olusegun Obasanjo and Governor Ibikunle Amosun, who were at the Cathedral Church of Our Saviour, Ijebu-Ode, Ogun State for the funeral service of the late professor of Economics, were unanimous in their view that his life impacted positively on Nigeria and Africa. In his tribute, Vice President Osinbajo recalled the immense contribution of the late Adedeji in the post- war planning and reconstruction of the nation’s economy, submitting that he was an “unusual human being.” Osinbajo described the former Executive Secretary of ECA as a fair minded and objective person whose death was announced in several languages because of the various capacities he had served at different times nationally and internationally. “Professor Adedeji was an outstanding African. He was deeply involved in the integration of Africa. He did a great work in projecting Africa. We are proud of all that he achieved in his lifetime. He was one of the very unusual human being,” he said.  Namibian President, Hage Geingob, described the late Adedeji as his “mentor, brother and advocate of economic independence of Africa.” Geingob hailed the deceased as a true African who “fought the good fight for the African continent.” Obasanjo, in his tribute, said the deceased Adedeji was a friend, brother and trusted ally while Gowon described him as a “credit to Nigeria, Africa and the African race.” Former Archbishop of the Lagos Ecclesiastical Province of the Church of Nigeria, Most Rev. (Prof.) Adebayo Akinde, in his sermon at the funeral service, said Adedeji left a legacy of service for Nigerians to emulate. He said the renowned economist was truly a great nationalist. The retired Archbishop said many Nigerians in position of authority have failed their generations because of greed, noting that the ex-Executive Secretary of ECA impacted positively on his generation. He said: “As mankind, we should start asking ourselves of the kind of legacy we are going to leave behind. It is important that we give serious thought to the kind of legacy we are leaving behind. “The late Professor Adedeji was a great man. He was an enigma. He was a world class economist and renowned academic. He was a top flight diplomat. “He believed in the unity and oneness of Nigeria. He lived a world of service because he served the Africa continent, his country and state. “He has left every one of us a life of legacy.” For Governor Ibikunle Amosun, Ogun State has lost one of its icons. “Papa was a colossus in his own right. He was one of the people we the younger ones are very proud of. He was a great son of Ogun State. He has done brilliantly well in all the capacities he served. In all facets, he did well,” Amosun said. Other notable personalities at the funeral service include former Head of State General Yakubu Gowon (rtd); former president Olusegun Obasanjo; Chief Ayo Adebanjo; Prince Bola Ajibola; Prof. Ibrahim Gambari; Chief Tony Anenih, diplomats and people from all walks of life.