Lagos State People’s Democratic Party (PDP) Deputy-Chairman Alhaji Waliu Hassan yesterday called on the police to unmask the killers of a chieftain of the party at a meeting in Eti-Osa last Saturday. Apapa Local Government Chapter Chairman of the party Mr Adeniyi Aborishade was shot dead when hoodlums invaded the meeting venue. The police on Wednesday arraigned the state chairman, Moshood Salvador, and 10 others before a Yaba Magistrates’ Court over the case. They pleaded not guilty to the two-count charge of unlawful killing and criminal conspiracy preferred against them. Chief Magistrate Oyetade Komolafe ordered that they be remanded in prison and adjourned till August 27, pending advice from the Director of Public Prosecution (DPP). Hassan said the executive members of the party were actually the targets of the hoodlums, who invaded the meeting. He said Aborishade’s death was a loss to Salvador and the party, adding that holding him and others amounted to subjecting them to double-jeopardy. “We hereby demand that those behind the killing of Aborishade be unmasked and made to face the full wrath of the law,” he said. Hassan said the party would co-operate with the police to ensure justice was done in the case. The incident, he said, was a dark episode in the activities of the party which chairman has been preaching peace. “We fervently hope that the Nigerian Police and other security agencies will speedily bring to justice not just the perpetrators but also the sponsors as well. “While we would not be seen as preventing the police from carrying out its responsibility of investigation and prosecution, we want to put it on record that our Chairman, Alhaji Moshood Salvador, and leaders currently in detention are victims of the violence unleashed on Eti-Osa. As a result, holding them on criminal charges will amount to subjecting them to double-jeopardy,” he said. He expressed the party’s condolences to the bereaved family and prayed for the repose of Aborishade’s soul.