•Family, associates await ex-NSA’s freedom A FEDERAL High Court in Abuja has formally served an order to release ex-National Security Adviser (NSA) Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd) on bail on the Director General of Department of State Services (DSS) and the Attorney General of the Federation and Minister of Justice. Dasuki’s counsel Mr. Ahmed Raji (SAN) confirmed yesterday that the bail conditions of his client have been fulfilled and the ex-NSA’s family and associates are awaiting a positive response from  the Federal Government and the DSS. Raji said: “I am pleading and begging the Federal Government and DSS in the name of God Almighty to please comply with court order on my client Col. Sambo Dasuki. We have served them with the court order and in the interest of justice and rule of law, I am begging this government, being a democratic government, to please respect the rule of law on Dasuki.” Family members, friends, associates and well-wishers of Dasuki yesterday stormed his Abuja residence in anticipation of his final release from the DSS’ detention, where he has been held by the Federal Government since December 29, 2015. The court, on July 2, granted Dasuki conditional bail, which he had perfected fully yesterday through his two sureties, who are standing for his freedom as ordered by Justice Ijeoma Ojuku. Although the sureties had anticipated that the detained ex-NSA would be handed over to them, sources, however, said the DSS boss might need to contact the Presidency before finally handing over Dasuki to the sureties in compliance with the judgment of the Federal High Court. The warrant of release dated July 16, 2018, titled: “Verification of Bail Conditions” and signed by Deputy Chief Registrar, Federal High Court Abuja, Mr. Mba Nkem A. Omotosho, was served on the DSS Headquarters and the Office of Minister of Justice in Abuja. The warrant of release read in part: “Pursuant to the judgment order made on Monday, the 2nd day of July 2018, granted by His Lordship, Hon Justice Ijeoma L. Ojukwu, directing various conditions to be fulfilled prior to the release on bail of the applicant (Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd). “I have scrupulously verified the entire conditions of bail as ordered by his lordship and the three ambits are fulfilled. “Hence, the respondents, the Director-General, State Security Services, and Attorney General of the Federation, are hereby notified as directed by His Lordship for the subsequent compliance of same. “Attached herewith is the enrolled Order of the court and all the necessary bail documents for your perusal and aggrandisement,” it concluded. Before the latest judgment by Justice Ojukwu, Dasuki had previously perfected bails granted him by four different judges of high courts, including Justices Ademola Adeniyi and Justice Ahmed Mohammed of the Federal High Court and Justices Hussein Baba-Yusuf and Peter Affen of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) High Courts. The ECOWAS Court of Justice had also ordered his immediate release from detention.  He ’ll be released on bail soon, says Presidency source INDICATIONS emerged yesterday night that formal National Security Adviser (NSA) Sambo Dasuki will soon be released on bail. A Presidential source said Dasuki would be released on bail if he meets the bail conditions set by the court. “We have confirmation from the DSS that Col. Sambo Dasuki (retd) will be allowed to go on bail if he meets the conditions set for him by the court.” the source simply stated. Dasuki has been on trial since December 2015 over missing billions of dollars in his involvement in the procurement of arms and equipment in the Armed Forces and Defence sector from 2007 to early 2015. The executive arm of government has been severally criticised for not obeying court orders for his release. Senators last week added their voices by accusing the Federal Government of human right abuses. President Buhari, based on Interim Report of Investigative Committee on Arms Procurement, had in 2015 ordered arrest of Dasuki and other indicted persons.  The statement then issued by the Special Adviser on Media and publicity, Femi Adesina, had read “On the authority of Mr. President, a 13 man committee was set up by the Office of the National Security Adviser to audit the procurement of arms and equipment in the Armed Forces and Defence sector from 2007 to date. “While the committee, which was inaugurated on 31 August 2015, is yet to complete its work, its interim report has unearthed several illicit and fraudulent financial transactions.” 