An Igando Customary Court in Lagos yesterday dissolved the 10-year marriage between Mrs Florence Anyasi and her husband, Stanley, over infidelity. The court president, Mr Akin Akinniyi, dissolved the union because all efforts to reconcile the couple had failed. Akinniyi ruled: “Since both parties consented to the dissolution of their marriage, this court has no choice than to dissolve the marriage. The court hereby pronounces the marriage between Mrs Florence Anyasi and Mr Stanley Anyasi dissolved today. “Both of you henceforth cease to be husband and wife, each of you should go on his or her separate ways unmolested. The court wishes both of you well in your new journey of life. “The court grants the custody of the children, age 10, 8, 6 respectively to their mother, the petitioner, pending when they attain the age of 18 years to decide who to stay with. “The respondent must be responsible for the children’s school fees, medical bills and must be paying N15,000 monthly for the children’s feeding which must be channelled through the court.” The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Stanley was taken to by his wife, who accused him of being a chronic womaniser. The 36-year-old trader told the court that her husband used to sneak into their maid’s room to sleep with her. “My husband is a womaniser, he used to leave me in the bed at night and sneak into my maid’s room. I have caught him severally on my maid’s bed sexually assaulting her. A neighbour approached me and told me to warn my husband to desist from asking her daughter to have love affairs with him. “I once caught him sucking the breasts of my niece, who is a minor and he is also fond of wooing my friends,” she said, as she reeled out her grievances before the court. The respondent denied the allegations. He accused his wife of adultery, claiming that her lover even bought her a car. “In January, 2017 she came home with a car of N1 million; when I queried her where she got the car from, she claimed she bought it with her money. I strongly disagreed with her because she is only selling foodstuffs and can never afford that kind of car,” he said. The 40-year-old businessman said his wife packed out of their matrimonial home in 2017 without his knowledge. “I came home from work and discovered that my wife had packed all her belongings with the children to start living with her lover. I called her severally, she refused to pick but she eventually picked my call last January and informed me that our last baby she delivered in May 2017 was not mine that the child belongs to the man she is presently living with.” The respondent urged the court to grant his wife’s request saying he was also no longer interested in the marriage.