Naturopath use valerian root for treating many conditions, writes OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA. You may have used valerian root before and not realised it. It is included in sleep-promoting tea blends, but it doesn’t just offer a good night’s sleep. It is also good at calming anxiety and in lowering blood pressure, among other benefits. Valerian root is derived from valerian (Valeriana officinalis), a perennial flowering plant from the Valerianaceae family. The plant has sweetly scented pink or white flowers that bloom in the dry season. According to a Naturopath, Prof Idowu Ogunkoya, valerian root calms anxiety, adding that scientists have found that it increases the amount of a chemical called gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the brain. GABA helps regulate nerve cells and calms anxiety. Drugs, such as alprazolam (Xanax) and diazepam (Valium), also work by increasing the amount of GABA in the brain. The valerenic acid and valerenol in valerian root extract act as anti-anxiety agents. Ogunkoya, a former Provost Federal College of Complementary and Alternative Medicine Lagos (FEDCAM), said though valerian root smells pretty terrible,  it doesn’t taste as bad as it smells. “If a person suffers from insomnia or just sick and tired of not getting a decent night’s sleep, valerian root is an herb that can be used to ease insomnia anxiety and nervous restlessness,” he said. Explaining how valerian root is useful in inducing sleep, Ogunkoya said it contains a chemical called linarin, which creates a sedative effect. “Valerian extract can cause sedation by increasing your brain’s GABA level. GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system,” he said, adding: “In large enough quantities it can cause a sedative effect, calming nervous activity. Valerian’s valerenic acid inhibits an enzyme that destroys GABA, another way that valerian can improve your GABA levels and promote a great night’s rest. For insomnia, it may be taken one to two hours before bedtime or up to three times in the course of the day, with the last dose near bedtime.” “The valerenic acid and valerenol contained in valerian root extract act as anti-anxiety agents. It is pretty amazing that an herbal remedy like valerian root can have the same anti-anxiety effects of prescription drugs without all the serious side effects of psychotropic drugs,’’warning: “If you are taking other calming medications or antidepressants, do not take valerian at the same time.” Ogunkoya said valerian root is  good for reducing blood pressure. According to him, knowing that valerian root can be so calming to the mind and body, it is probably not surprising to realise that it can also help lower blood pressure, that is, improving heart health. ”The same active components that make valerian root so effective for stress and anxiety management can also help the body properly regulate its blood pressure. “High blood pressure is something you definitely want to avoid since it increases the chance of stroke and heart attack. Valerian root supplements can help naturally reduce blood pressure and keep it at a healthy level, which has a direct positive impact on the heart health,” Ogunkoya said. Ogunkoya added that valerian also helps in alleviating menstrual pains. “The relaxing nature of valerian root can make it a smart choice for natural relief of menstrual cramps. It can reduce the severity and discomfort of menstrual cramps, which is a common problem for females who suffer monthly from PMS,” he explained. But how can valerian root help? Ogunkoya said it is a natural sedative and antispasmodic, which suppresses muscle spasms and acts as a natural muscle relaxer. “Valerian root can effectively calm the severe uterine muscle contractions that cause the terrible pain many females experience during menstruation”. Quoting BMC Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Ogunkoya said valerian root improves stress management by reducing anxiety and improving the length and quality of sleep. He explained that valerian root can significantly help with daily stress management. As chronic stress can make one feel anxious, but anxiety can also make one feel more stressed out. “By improving GABA levels, valerian makes it easier for both the mind and body to relax.Since relaxation is the antithesis of stress, valerian root is an excellent natural way to help keep your stress down and your quality of life up. Further, valerian root has been shown to suppress both physical and psychological stress by helping to maintain levels of serotonin. Serotonin is a neurotransmitter that helps regulate mood,” he explained. How can one get the best from valerian root? Ogunkoya said it can be obtained in mostly health shops. “Valerian has been classified as safe in the U.S. Valerian root can be purchased as a supplement in a various forms online or at a local health food store. It is sold as a dry powdered extract in capsule form, a tea, tincture or fluid extract. Valerian can also be used externally in essential oil form. Valerian seems to be most effective after one takes it regularly for two or more weeks. It may take a few weeks before the effects of valerian root supplementation are felt,” he stated. Ogunkoya added: ‘’For insomnia, it may be taken one to two hours before bedtime or up to three times in the day, with the last dose near bed time. What is the best valerian root recommended dosage for insomnia? Recommendations can vary slightly, but for insomnia, it can be taken in the following forms at these recommended dosages: Tea: Pour one cup boiling water over one teaspoonful (two to three grams) of dried root, steep five to 10 minutes. Ogunkoya cautioned that once sleep improves, it is advisable that one keeps taking valerian for two to six weeks. For anxiety, try 120 to 200 milligrams, three to four times daily.