The President of the French Republic,  Emmanuel Macron, who is in Nigeria on a working visit, will today, be interacting with more than 2,000 budding entrepreneurs from Africa. The entrepreneurs are alumni of the Tony Elumelu Foundation (TEF) Entrepreneurship Programme. The session, which is the highlight of Macron’s visit to the country, will be chaired by the UBA Chairman, and Founder TEF, Tony Elumelu, and will give African entrepreneurs a platform to closely engage with President Macron, and garner ideas from his wealth of experience as one of the youngest Heads of State in recent times. The historic session will also provide a platform where participants can network and forge partnerships with French and African business leaders and policymakers who will be in attendance. Speaking ahead of the event, Elumelu said the collaboration between the French President and TEF is a result of President Macron’s acknowledgement that African entrepreneurs remain the key to Africa’s economic transformation, and his desire to connect with and elevate the voices of future leaders. In Elumelu’s words: “We welcome President Macron of France to meet our entrepreneurs, over 2,000 of them from across Africa. Macron is a new kind of leader. He brings the discipline of the private sector and understands the social obligations of the state. He speaks to Africa as a strategic partner and most importantly, he is a champion of entrepreneurship. “It is a pleasure to introduce him to our Africa; the Africa of innovation, determination and opportunity. We share a somewhat similar background with the French President being a banker, who became a visionary, and is bringing a new mindset to politics and business,” Elumelu said. The event will grant the French President the opportunity to interact, one on one, with Africa’s young entrepreneurs and explore partnership possibilities. “I, alongside, President Macron, will engage with these entrepreneurs in an interactive session, where we will discuss challenges of business in the private sector and solutions to create more benefits for the success of entrepreneurship. It promises to be an inspirational session,” Elumelu added. 