Founder of Latter Rain Assembly Lagos, Pastor Tunde Bakare, yesterday bid his mother, Abigail Eebudola Bakare, final good bye declaring, “I will definitely miss her greatly.” Madam Eebudola Bakare died in her son’s Lagos residence on May 5. She was interred at the family house in Sodeke area of Abeokuta around noon aged 108. Bakare, who likened his mother’s exit to a bodily part of him separating, said until her death, “she carried a heavy load of intercession,” for him, adding that she was also a great “cook.” He spoke at the funeral service for the centenarian at the Victory Life Bible Church, Ajebo road, Abeokuta where she worshipped regularly during her lifetime. Joining Bakare at the funeral service were eminent Nigerians including national leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu; Ogun State Governor Ibikunle Amosun; Osun State governor Rauf Aregbesola; Chairman Dangote Group, Aliko Dangote; former Ogun State Governors Aremo Segun Osoba and Otunba Gbenga Daniel including business tycoon Femi Otedola. Finance Minister, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, represented President Muhammadu Buhari with Minister of State for Petroleum, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, among others, also at attendance. The Convener of Save Nigeria recalled his mum had predicted people from all walks of life would converge to bury her, expressing joy it came to pass. “She predicted that people from every corner of the world would come to bury her. “I’m so grateful because we  gave her a befitting burial. She is irreplaceable forever. I will continue to cherish her memory for ever. My mother’s exit was glorious,” Bakare said. To keep the memory of his mum alive, the popular cleric said he had written a book in her honour titled:”The woman who saw the valuable future,” which would be launched on October 28, 2018 and given out to people free. According to him, the book contains valuable lessons his mother taught him, which made him the person he is today. In his sermon, founder of Victory Life Bible Church, Apostle Lawrence Achudume, said no matter how long one lived, one would definitely leave one day. Reliving his interactions with late Eebudola, who was an elder in the church, Achudume noted that after her passing, it is all stories of her worthy deeds to humanity. He said: “You don’t visit Mama without eating and when she gives you food, you must finish it. “She paid her tithe and offering regularly. To show that Mama conquered death, she bought all her burial accessories like gown, hand gloves before hand and even chose a particular spot in the family compound where she wanted her remains interred.”