Boxing fans in Ibadan, capital of Oyo State, have expressed excitement over GOtv Boxing Night 15 holding on Sunday at the Indoor Sports Hall of the Obafemi Awolowo (formerly Liberty) Stadium. A fan, Olatunji Odewole, said he was delighted that the event has returned to Ibadan, where it held in March 2017. He also said he was excited at the chance to see Ibadan-based boxer, Akeem “Dodo” Sadiku, feature at GOtv Boxing Night 15. “It is not only great that GOtv Boxing Night is coming to Ibadan but that ‘Dodo’ will be part of those who will fight. We have been hoping to see him fight,” he said. Another fan, Taofeek Yusuf, said the event would finally afford him a chance to be at the ringside for the first time. “When I heard that GOtv Boxing Night 15 was coming to Ibadan, I was happy. I felt it would give me the chance of seeing boxing right from the ringside after missing the chance last year”, he remarked. Tajudeen Adigun, who lives a spitting distance from the stadium, commended the sponsors for their support for the sport and the decision to have Ibadan host the event. “As a boxing fan, I am very happy that GOtv Boxing Night is returning to Ibadan. It is important that big boxing contests like this are spread across the country so that Nigerians can catch a glimpse of its best boxers. I applaud GOtv for ensuring that the people of Ibadan would watch our boxers once again.” GOtv Boxing Night 15 will feature seven fights on the bout card, the biggest one on the night being the African Boxing Union, ABU, the lightweight title bout between Ghanaian challenger, Nathaniel Nukpe, and incumbent champion, Oto “Joe Boy” Joseph of Nigeria. Other bouts include an international light middleweight challenge between Akeem “Dodo” Sadiku of Nigeria and Franc Houanvoegbe of Benin Republic; a national challenge bout between ABU welterweight champion, Olaide “Fijaborn” Fijabi and Kazeem “Iberu” Ariyo; as well as a national cruiserweight clash between Michael “Lion Heart” Godwin and Idowu “ID Cabasa” Okusote, Prince “Lion” Nwoye will square up against Ridwan “Scorpion” Oyekola in a national lightweight duel; Vincent “Dada” Essien and Segun “Showboy” Olalehin will trade punches a national light welterweight contest; while Daniel “Big Shark” Emeka and Sulaimon “Olags” Adeosun will slug it out in a national light heavyweight clash.