In this piece, Prince Diran Aladesanmi examines the issues that will shape next Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State. When the going gets tough, the tough gets going. You cannot have your cake and eat it and it is only possible to give what you have. A common slogan says that the journey of a thousand kilometers starts with a step and that exceptionally important step was displayed at the recently concluded APC party primary in Ekiti, which led to the emergence of Dr Kayode Fayemi as the flag bearer for the 2018 Ekiti gubernatorial election slated for July 14. Ekiti people as a matter of urgency and conviction must cultivate the mindset that greatness is not given but earned and earning this all important virtue requires commitment and doggedness. In contemporary Nigeria politics, people tends to assume the confidence that political actors in the forefront of seeking various political offices  through people’s vote, most of the time, end up not having anything to offer in return for such votes. Be that as it may and as tenable as this assertion is of some politicians, there are still handful of personalities in the political terrain, who are apostle of virtue of integrity and by sheer courage and commitment to a just cause, have shown that they are promise keepers, when it comes to fulfilling electioneering campaign promises made to the electorates. This class of people have exhibited overtime, the stuff they are made of by excelling in various responsibilities thrust upon them in the past and are still eager of contributing more to national development in any capacity they might find themselves.  John Kayode Fayemi, an amiable grass-root person, a dogged fighter of the right of common man, a role model that transcend party politics, a statesman of an unequalled dexterity for excellence and an accomplished administrator, no doubt belong to this class of politician. The good people of Ekiti at home and in diaspora know and will always give credence to what this patriot and highly principled man whose word is his bound can offer in terms of bringing dividends of democracy and succor to his fellow citizens through unparalleled good stewardship. Dr Fayemi may be seen by some as a controversial politician perhaps due to his fearlessness on issues that touch on the destiny of our dear Ekiti State, however, majority and well-  meaning citizens of the state see him as a no- nonsense personality who is always at the vanguard of the masses welfare .He is that politician who is ever ready to put his life on the line for the common good of the under-privileged Ekiti person majority of who have been enslaved for the in the last few years by a crude system of government holding the jugular of the  state. Fayemi, in his characteristic manner believed that the time might be hard and despairing, the challenge must be a springboard upon which to erect a new super structure for Ekiti. According to JKF, our common-wealth and resources might have been wantonly depleted before now, but there are more latent human and material resources waiting to be harness and husbanded by putting them into better use for the general good of all in Ekiti. Furthermore, this quintessential politician of unquestionable pedigree when the issue of good governance is involved continue unabated to opine at all available fora, that the resilience of the Ekiti people, their bustling energies and peerless creativity portend a glorious future given the right leadership. Now that the coast is cleared and the vessel is set to navigate to a safe harbor, a man with requisite credentials when it comes to political re-engineering and ingenuity like Fayemi is the only way out of the current doldron we find ourselves in Ekiti State. This is the time to jettison pre-modial sentiments by giving our unwavering support to a tested and trusted personality to pilot the affairs of our great state to the next level of sustainable development in all its ramification. This is also the time to be prepared to take our destiny in our own hands by standing behind the candidacy of Dr Fayemi, who is at all times prepared to serve the aggregate interest of all and sundry in Ekiti State. Over time, Ekiti has suffered in the hands of individuals who get to power for selfish agenda rather than the common good of the majority. The current economic retrogression, political rascality and lingering state of insecurity in the land with its attendant ills cannot be allowed to continue to ravage our hope of a state where things work for the overall interest of all and sundry. John Kayode Fayemi a political icon with an unblemished record for transparency and good stewardship will correct all these anomalies if given the mandate to once again take the driver seat as far as governance in Ekiti is concern. For every ending, there is a new beginning and for every memory, there is a dream ahead. According to Fayemi, confronting the current drift and stagnation in Ekiti State socio-political and economic fronts requires a proper leadership armed with an appreciable discipline, prudence and a strong political will. Someone who will put an end to the prevailing idleness and endemic system collapse characterised by corruption of all shades and impunity bedeviling us as a state. In the words of the Nobel Laureate, Prof. Wole Soyinka, “It is far more dignified to confront the creatures of hell than exist in a fool’s paradise.” There is therefore the need for all of us in Ekiti to wake up from our slumber by putting square pegs in square holes through our votes for Fayemi on the 14th day of July 2018 with the sole aim of heralding the Ekiti of our collective dream. Fayemi, a personality familiar with dynamics of leadership, whose passion for excellence remains unequalled in the annals of government business in Nigeria and beyond , a prudent manager of men and resources, an astute technocrat of impeccable records of accomplishment remains a character who is very willing and adequately prepared to put in place in his second coming as Governor of Ekiti State the foundation of an enduring democratic process that is devoid of temporary show of excitement and manipulation of an over-articulate section of the elites and its captive audience at the expense of the majority. This rare gem and a great son of Ekiti had repeatedly said that he would want to live the rest of his life for history by means of beneficent and selfless service to humanity in general and to the good people of Ekiti state in particular. This is a rare feat. JKF, a man of his words meant every bit of that statement.  He remain a political figure that have over the years exemplify excellence and transparency in both his public and private life. A man whose value for diligence, hard work, vision and focus leadership is legendary. Little wonder that he is been referred to as a man with the Midas touch by his admires as whatever he touches always translate to resounding success. Good people of Ekiti, another golden opportunity is staring us in the face at the forth-coming gubernatorial election and we as citizen of this great state must grab it with both hands. Let us pick the gullet and hit the ground running knowing fully well that a statesman of note like Fayemi can once again make things work in Ekiti. For the labour of our heroes past not to be in vain, our unalloyed support for JKF at the poll next month is not negotiable. Fayemi a rare breed with an uncommon zeal to make Ekiti State a model among its peers, has always and unequivocally maintained at different fora that, for the state to attain its fully potentials, there is need for dynamic, visionary, pragmatic, experienced and purposeful leadership in order to consolidate on recorded gains and decisively chart the course for tackling contemporary challenges of renewable and sustainable development. This in all modesty is the propelling factor of JKF incursion into partisan politics and has thus fired his imagination to serve. To fix the despairing state of affairs in our dear Ekiti state, positive leadership based on skill and experience with consideration for balance remain the best potion and the only way out. With Kayode Fayemi leadership endowment, amiability as well as Ekiti electorates unflitching support for this man of destiny at the gubernatorial poll in July, the sky will not only be the limit but also the beginning for complete restoration of hope for all Ekiti. While this un-relented promoter of quality leadership by example is eager to set in motion agenda for unfettered economic development restoration and broadly shared prosperity as against the current trend of enriching very few privileged ones at the expense of the majority, it is also expected  that  Ekiti electorates give their total support and have abiding faith in John Kayode Fayemi leadership ability and approach to governance for the attainment of our desired goal of being one of the most developed state in Nigeria. At this point of our history as a state and to actualise the goals set by our founding fathers, launching into the future with a renewed vigor and hope to secure a better tomorrow should inform our political decisions in Ekiti State. Fayemi, a leader who loathes timorousness, vanity, sloth and dissipation but cherishes the virtue of intrepidity, charity, integrity and above all, an advocate of an egalitarian society remains out best bet and right potion that can guarantee a roboust socio-political and economic prosperity for Ekiti.  Finally, Ekiti electorates are advised to make their choice of candidate for the exalted office of the Executive Governor of Ekiti State at the poll in July 2018 through achievable manifestos, altruism of the candidates based on their antecedent and character both in public and private domain over the years as well as experience on the job thus saving Ekiti people bitter experience of the past when elected officials use people’s mandate given to them for self-aggrandizement. A vote for Fayemi at the poll next month is a vote for progress, purposeful, dynamic, people oriented leadership, human and infrastructural development as well as prudence and accountability in the affairs of our dear Ekiti State. As election in Ekiti beckons, we wish ourselves the very best by electing through our votes John Kayode Fayemi as the Executive Governor of Ekiti State so as to turn the state’s despair to hope, melancholy to victory, lack to abundance, defeat to triumph and greed to selflessness. 