HE was undoubtedly one of the revelations for the Super Eagles at the FIFA World Cup Russia 2018 and Tyronne Ebuehi has told the stirring story of how his dad pushed him to his dreams of being a professional footballer. The 22-year-old was reportedly born in Holland and precisely in Haarlem and he played for Dutch youth teams of several amateur clubs before joining professional team ADO Den Haag from amateur side HFC EDO in 2013. He later made his Eredivisie debut in 2014 in a 1–0 home defeat to Feyenoord and three seasons later, he signed a five-year contract with Portuguese club S.L. Benfica on the eve of Russia 2018. “I was born in Holland and I think everybody knew about that,” stated Ebuehi days after his solid performance in the 2-0 defeat of Iceland at the Volgograd Arena. “I actually played football on the streets with my friends though I had the dream of becoming a professional footballer. I’m glad it has happened. I went to school but I had to make the decision to either continue with school or become a professional footballer. But I made the decision to become a professional footballer and I’m happy that it worked out for me. “It was my dream to be a professional footballer and it was not as if someone really fuelled my interest in football. My parents supported me and my dad really took interest in my decision. My father often reminded me that I had to be serious and disciplined if I wanted to be a professional footballer. “Till today, my father is my biggest fan and my coach. And personally, I’m happy that I made the decision to play football,” he explained. Ebuehi’s neat ball style and offensive approach from the backline is always a delight to watch and this has equally earned him the confidence of Coach Gernot Rohr who reckons the lad is one for the future with the Super Eagles. “We always know what he is capable of doing. He (Ebuehi) has been with us for some time now, we won’t keep him if we have no faith in his abilities,” volunteered Rohr after the lad posted a fine performance in the 4-2 win over Argentina in a pre-World Cup friendly last November. “I’m not surprised because I know his qualities and what he can do.” No wonder he was included in the 23-man squad for Russia 2018 and made his World Cup bow in that thrilling 2-0 win over Iceland at the Volgograd Arena when he came on as a substitute for Brian Idowu at the start of the second half. His fine performance despite conceding a cheeky penalty (which was blown over the bar by Gylfi Sigurdsson) elicited so much interest so much so his omission in the 2-1 defeat to Argentina put Coach Rohr under media scrutiny. “Of course, Tyronne is a very good player and very offensive in his approach,” Rohr explained at the Presser after Argentina took out the Super Eagles from the World Cup. “But we needed Idowu because he’s strong defensively and we need his experience to be able to stop Messi; Ebuehi is still an important player for us.” Not the type to brood over any set back, Ebuehi said he was happy to be part of the Super Eagles to Russia 2018, adding that he would have fond memory of his appearance at the FIFA World Cup. He said: “I’m very happy to be part of the Super Eagles to the World Cup and it’s like a blessing really because it had always been a dream for me to play for my country. “I’m thankful that it has happened now. So far, so good, and it has been a lot of hard work right through the qualifiers and finally getting to the World Cup in Russia. “It’s a great feeling to be part of the 23 players of the Super Eagles to the World Cup; the feeling is great. The World Cup is a big stage and it is the dream of every footballer to be part of the World Cup. Everything is about experience in terms of training and the matches. I enjoyed the experience.” The lad would further say it was not a difficult decision to play for Nigeria despite his Dutch ties from his maternal side. “It was quite easy for me to decide to play for Nigeria. Of course, the offer to play for Nigeria came first and, interestingly, Williams (Ekong-Troost) had told me lots of good things about Nigeria and it was quite easy for me to decide to play for the Super Eagles. “To be honest, it was quite an easy decision for me to make and this has afforded me the opportunity to play with lots of great players as well as playing at the biggest stage.  I think this is the best decision I have made so far in my career.” Incidentally, his dotting father, Marvin, had earlier enthused about the joy of his son playing for Nigeria and what a proud parent he was as his protégé had the chance to strut his stuff against the rest of the world. “I must confess to you that I am glad that he has finally committed to Nigeria. I am very proud as a father. Tyronne has always been crazy about football from an early age. I put him in an academy at the age of six and I’m not surprised that he’s on the way to living his dream. “I am praying that Tyronne fulfils his ambition of playing for a big club in Europe, and also becomes an important player for the Super Eagles of Nigeria,” enthused the proud dad. Ebuehi speaks about his dad: “My dad is a young man. My mum was born in Holland and my dad was born in Nigeria. He’s actually from Benin in Edo State. So I’m half Dutch and half Nigerian, but as I said earlier, I’m happy that I made the decision to play for Nigeria and not Holland. “Everything has been great and I’m very happy to play for the Super Eagles. I have visited Benin twice but it has been a long time ago; I hope it would happen again. I can’t wait. I like Nigerian food and my best meal is pounded yam with either okro or egusi soup.” Yet, Ebuehi was full of praise for Coach Rohr, saying the future of the Super Eagles is bright under the watch of the Franco-German handler. “He (Rohr) is a very good coach and very experienced too; we are a young team and he’s like a father to many of us. “He’s very supportive and I’m very happy to have him as a coach. With him, hopefully more success will come for the Super Eagles,” he declared.  PROFILE FULL NAME: Tyronne Efe Ebuehi  DATE OF BIRTH: December 16, 1995  PLACE OF BIRTH: Haarlem, Holland  HEIGHT: 1.87 m  PLAYING POSITION: Right-back  CURRENT TEAM: Benfica  YOUTH CAREER: SV Hoofddorp; VV Young Boys (2013) HFC EDO (2013–2014) ADO Den Haag  SENIOR CAREER: ADO Den Haag (2014–2018)