The Tony Elumelu Foundation has donated N500 million in support of the Delta State Wealth Creation programmes Its founder, Mr. Tony Elumelu who led some beneficiaries of his foundation on courtesy call to Governor Okowa, on Thursday in Asaba –the Delta State Capital expressed joy that within three years of being in office, the administration has impacted a lot on the lives of the people both in terms of provision of infrastructure and encouraging the jobless to be wealth creators through different skills acquisition and entrepreneurship programmes of the administration. He said, “This is homecoming for me, I want to thank the Governor for everything he is doing in our State, there is a lot of improvement and from the airport to this place (Government House), we have seen a lot of projects.” He added, “We are happy that within these few years, you have programmes where the beneficiaries have become employers of labour, we are going to create specific programme in Delta State and we are committing the sum of N500 million to the programme, the money will be from the Foundation, the UBA group, Heirs Holdings, Transcorp, among others.” Governor Okowa commended Mr. Elumelu for his empowerment programmes, especially Africans, through his foundation, disclosing that his administration has created a lot of entrepreneurs through different skill acquisition and empowerment programmes. Governor Okowa urged the federal government to emphasize the need for Nigerian youths to go beyond acquisition of education certificates to include the acquisition of relevant skills that will enable them to be self- employed. “We must be looking seriously at technical education to enable our children acquire relevant skills, as a government, we are changing the narrative when it comes to empowerment programmes, empowerment in our state has gone beyond just buying items for the people, but requires equipping the people with relevant skills that will enable them contribute to the growth of the society,” he said. He urged well to do individuals to assist the poor in the society, asserting, “Assisting those who cannot help themselves in the society is the way to go for us to have a better nation.” High point of the event was the sharing of success stories by beneficiaries of wealth creation schemes of Tony Elumelu Foundation and the State’s interventionist schemes.