It used to be the only link road from Enugu to the western and northern parts of the country before the construction of the Enugu-Onitsha express road during the military regime of Olusegun Obasanjo. Miliken Hill Road, with 25 serpentine curves stretching 3km, was abandoned by successive administrations ever since the completion and use of the Enugu-Onitsha Express Road. Lying several metres atop a narrow ledge overlooking a deep and scary valley, the road became a haven for criminal elements. There were no safety wedges to block vehicles from fallen into the scary valley said to be home to mighty pythons. There were no also street lights to illuminate the curves against the dangers and perils of night. At the receiving end of all this were the people of Ngwo who use it as the only access road to their community. They had made representations to successive governments for the rehabilitation and upgrading of the road, but all to no avail. But their sorrow and lamentation recently came to an end. Tears of joy flowed thanks to the intervention of Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi of Enugu State. The Miliken Hill Road or Ngwo-Enugu Road, was constructed in 1909 during the colonial period by countless labourers drawn from neighbouring villages, using pick and axe to cut through the thick bush of the hill’s stony base. Miliken Hill is a famous tourist attraction in the beautiful city of Enugu. Indeed a visitor to Enugu who had not gone to Miliken Hill is said not to have visited Enugu. History has it that in 1908, a British expedition on its way to the Middle Belt from Awka sighted the hill at Enugu Ngwo, one of the ten villages that comprise Ngwo community, and reported back to Lagos. Interest in the mineral potential of the hill compelled the colonial government to send a team of mining engineers to the place in 1909 to prospect for silver, but the team struck coal instead. The Europeans decided to settle at Enugu Ngwo on the top of the hill now called Hilltop (Enugu), from where Enugu derived its name up till this day. The 3km-long meandering Miliken Hill Road was constructed because of coal discovery under the hill and was named after the head engineer who designed the road. Due to years of neglect, the narrow and undulating Miliken Hills Road gradually became a death trap before Ugwuanyi came to the rescue. There was wild jubilation among the residents of Enugu particularly the Ngwo people during the commissioning of the newly reconstructed and modernised road with street lights for the first time since it was constructed in 1909. It will now also provide an alternative route for travelers plying the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway. Inaugurating the road amid excitement from residents of the state and road users, Governor Ugwuanyi stated that the project is a “great infrastructural asset and rich heritage of our coal city state”. Ugwuanyi also inaugurated other legacy projects in the rural areas such as the Ebonyi River Bridge in Ikem, Isi-Uzo Local Government Area and Obollo Eke – Agala – Okpaligbo road in Udenu LGA in keeping with his dministration’s grassroots development initiatives. Describing the road as “our natural roller coaster”, Ugwuanyi disclosed that “no road in our environment affords tourists and motorists the beautiful view of Enugu that this road offers.” He said, “I stand here today with joy in my heart, buoyed by the happy faces of Ndi Enugu, to inaugurate this reconstructed historic and legacy Miliken Hill road; a renowned tourist attraction hose history is consistent with coal discovery in our state in the early 20th century. “The great excitement that greeted the reconstruction of this legacy road is therefore consequential and our gratitude, most profound, goes to God Almighty for affording us the means and commitment to deliver this project”. Ugwuanyi urged motorists to drive safely and with care. While inaugurating the other projects, Governor Ugwuanyi noted that they were “in keeping with our policy to open up the rural areas and encourage the all-round economic growth of the state. “We were also motivated by our resolve to alleviate the sufferings of our people and give them a new lease of life wherever they may be in the state,” the governor added. A leader of Ngwo community and former Minister of State for Foreign Affairs, Chief Dubem Onyia expressed gratitude to Ugwuanyi for keeping faith with his promise to reconstruct and modernise the road with street lighting and other safety measures. Onyia stated that the road was symbolic and very significant to the people of Ngwo, Enugu State and the entire Igbos”, saying that the governor has wiped out their tears for good. He maintained that no government had reconstructed the road after it was built, appreciating the governor for his prompt intervention on the road. He equally reassured the governor of the people’s unflinching support for his re-election in 2019.