•Drivers arrested •‘We were paid N75,000 to transport drugs’ The Lagos State Police Command has intercepted a truck load of Tramadol capsules, an addictive stimulant. The truck was said to have come into the state from Onitsha in Anambra State on June 29. The police also arrested the truck driver, Ejike Igwe, and his assistant, Stephen Osita, who said they were paid N75,000 to transport spare parts, adding that they did not know drugs were hidden inside the truck. Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal said the truck, which was heading to Trade Fair, had 30 cartons of 100mg Tramadol hidden under the spare parts. Edgal said: “Despite the careful concealment of the drugs underneath the spare parts, eagle-eyed detectives were able to detect the illegal consignment. “Let me reiterate that the command will not rest on its oars until our streets are rid of hard drugs. The reward for hard work is more work. Our children must be saved from the evil effects of illicit drugs. Suspects will definitely have their day in the court of law.” Also, the command arrested four suspected robbers at Morogbo in Badagry, for allegedly attacking a bank customer, Cletus Odom, and snatching N250,000 from him. The suspects, Saka Buraimoh, 25; Oni Kudaisi, 35, Sodiq Dauda, 28 and Taiwo Popoola, 24, were said to have terrorised residents of Badagry and its environs for some time. Edgal said the suspects had been under police radar, adding that while they robbed their victim, an onlooker notified the Divisional Police Officer (DPO), who led his men to the scene. He said: “These are notorious armed robbers. The baale and his people came to complain about a week ago of their activities. He said they have been making life difficult for the people of Morogbo. “On the day of their arrest, our men went to the scene and engaged the robbers, forcing them to retreat into a nearby swamp where they were arrested. Recovered from them were a locally-made double-barrelled pistol loaded with two live cartridges, a Bajaj Boxer motorcycle (MUS330OJ), which they used during the operation and the stolen N250,000. “We also arrested three robbery suspects at Mile Two on July 2. They are: Kelvin Akanni, 20, Godways Ifeanyi, 20, and Francis Otaru, 26. A locally-made pistol with live cartridge was recovered from them. All the suspects will be charged to court.” Buraimoh, a welder, said he went into robbery for want of food. He said: “I am a welder but no work. I started robbery because I do not have food to eat and I have no help. I am from Lagos State. My wife died during labour. I have robbed three or four times and I made between N20,000 to N30,000 each time.” Popoola said the gun the gang used was brought by another suspect, adding that he took it because the owner owed him N10,000. He said: “He’s not a member of my gang. He met me at Okafo Bus Stop. He was owing me N10,000. So, I told him to give me the gun instead of the money. “We get information from one T.J. He knows about banks. With him, we have done two successful operations. Once we got N200,000 and in another we got N150,000. “I use the proceeds from robbery to help my family. I never threatened anyone in my area. “I was arrested during the day. We left around 10 a.m from Magbon Bus Stop on Badagry Road. The victim came down from the car after collecting money from the bank and we collected the money (N250,000). Area boys followed us. There are many other gangs in that area.”