The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) said on Wednesday that the high incidence of corruption in Africa represents a direct threat to its progress, stability and well-being which must be confronted head on if the continent must progress. In a statement to mark the 2018 African anti-corruption day and signed by the President, Comrade Ayuba Wabba, the Congress said corruption remain the most pressing governance and development challenge confronting African nations today. The congress said that corruption in several ways has continues to arrest growth and development, creating in the process situations of unacceptable unemployment, infrastructural decay, collapsed energy systems and capacities, massive production deficits and near absence of social justice” He said “Corruption has also created situations of strife or exacerbated them as was the case with the Boko Haram insurgency under the previous government.” Wabba said: “We would want to identify and collaborate with the AU as it marks this year’s anti-corruption day. In our view, corruption remains the most pressing governance and development challenge confronting Africa today, Nigeria inclusive. “Corruption in several ways continues to arrest growth and development, creating in the process situations of unacceptable unemployment, infrastructural decay, collapsed energy systems and capacities, massive production deficits and near absence of social justice. “Corruption has also created situations of strife or exacerbated them as was the case with the Boko Haram insurgency under the previous government. Thus, it is clearly evident that the high incidence of corruption in Africa represents a direct threat to its progress, stability and well-being. “We find it heartening that AU has not only recognised the enormity of this problem but has set up a day as a perpetual reminder and symbol of the fight against corruption. “On our part, we believe corruption is a monster that must be confronted head-long if Africa is to make any headway or be taken seriously in the comity of nations. “For us this fight, however, must go beyond the symbolism of marking the day to demonstrable commitment by leaders of African countries and other office holders that corruption is a reprehensible crime that should be stamped out. “In furtherance of this, we have held and will continue to hold anti-corruption and good governance rallies. We have held sensitisation workshops just as we have called for special anti-corruption courts and imposition of capital punishment for serious corruption cases. “The Thabo Mbeki report on Illicit Financial Flows in Africa clearly revealed that humunguous corruption goes on in both public and private sector-settings. “This underscores not just the severity of the incidence of corruption; it presents a picture of hopelessness of the African condition. But we need not despair if we are determined or committed to deal with corruption. “It is on this note that we at the Nigeria Labour Congress enjoin all those who want  to see a new Africa to rise with one accord and fight corruption today…. African leaders, multi-nationals, Western Financial Institutions, all of us”.