The 2015 governorship candidate of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), Dr. Alex Otti said that he is coming to contest 2019 gubernatorial election in the state in order to reclaim his 2015 election that was allegedly stolen by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Otti while officially declaring his intention to run for the governorship position under APGA at the Ngwa High School playground in Osisioma Local Government Area of the state, expressed worries that the incumbent administration led by Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu was yet to address majority of the issues that prompted him to abandon his lucrative and plump job to come and govern the state. Otti who maintained that his loss to the PDP in 2015 was clear case of electoral robbery by the PDP who he accused of using federal might to overturn the party’s victory in 2015, but however stated that it will no longer be business as usual. The financial expert and former MD/CEO of Diamond Bank while assuring party faithful and his supporters that the party would become victorious in 2019, promised to deploy his wealth of experience in the private and public sector to bring the state out of its state of slavery. This is even as he stated that it was high time the state was redeemed from the hands of godfathers who do not think well for the state. “I’m declaring for 2019 to reclaim the mandate you people gave me in 2015. Despite whoever that is occupying the Government House, the person that is ruling Abia today is T.A Orji. Abia is not his personal  property, I am on a mission to rescue my people from the Pharaohs of Abia and there will be no retreat and no surrender; they must let our people go this time around. ” Urging people of the state not to allow themselves to be deceived again on where he comes from, Otti said he was proud to say although he has Arochukwu ancestry, that he was born and bred in Nvosi in Isiala Ngwa South Local Government. He said the same could not be said of some of his political opponents who have made this a political issue and whose ancestry he enthused had been traced to Itim Ekpo in Akwa Ibom state. “I am all round an Abia man, I have an Arochukwu ancestry, I’m not denying that and I was born and bred in Nvosi in Isiala Ngwa Local Government, but we have traced the ancestry of some of those who have made this a political issue, to Etim Ikpo in Akwa Ibom State and people can now tell who is more Abian”. Otti said if elected governor next year, he would change the narratives of the state, assuring that he will not only ensure the state prospers economically, but also ensure her workforce will not suffer as a result of nonpayment of salaries, gratuities and pensions. In their various speeches, the State Chairman of APGA, Reverend Agustine Ehiemere, Senator Victor Umeh, and the Governor of Anambra State, Willie Obiano represented by his deputy, Dr. Nkem Okeke described Otti as a man with impeccable character, intelligence and of good repute who have distinguished himself in both public and private sectors of the economy. According to them, Otti with the experience he has been able to garner would be the most qualified candidate to lead the state out of its present state of doldrums. Obiano while urging Abians to give Otti the needed support said that the government of Anambra and leadership of the APGA have the confidence that if elected the governor of the state would replicate the APGA transformation in Anambra and also add to the number of governor in the southeast that would help to ensure that they use their influence and connection to draw the attention of the federal government to plight of the Igbos in the southeast in particular. High point of the event was the receiving of the Senior Special Assistant to Governor Ikpeazu on ICT, Tony Onyenweaku who decamped from the Peoples Democratic Party to APGA officially by the leadership of the party. 