Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom said he was yet to declare for any political party despite the flooding of Makurdi town with his campaign posters for 2019 governorship race on the platform of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Barely 24 hours after Governor Ortom said he had been given red card by his party the All Progressive Congress (APC) his campaign posters bearing PDP symbol for 2019 governorship race took over streets of Makurdi, the state capital. The posters were pasted in strategic places alongside the earlier ones with APC symbol. The PDP posters, unlike the APC ones, were however without the picture of the deputy -governor Engr Benson Abounu. But is a telephone interview with The Nation, Governor Samuel said he was yet to declare for any political party. Ask why his posters surface with PDP symbol which gave credit to the rumours that he was heading to the party . The governor said “Like I stated earlier,  I have been given a red card and I am without a club, maybe those who wants to signed me are behind the posters, but like I said in yet to join any party.” In a related development, a group known as Benue Youth Alliance For Ortom 2019 (BYAFO 2019), a youth group pushing for the re-election of Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom,  in 2019, has vowed to continue with the Governor in his efforts to giving a new direction in the Nigeria’s Food Basket State in spite of persecutions he is facing. A press statement issued by the National Coordinator of the group Iorliam Shija, Tuesday, in Makurdi, the state capital said that no political leadership in the state will be acceptable outside that which is provided by Governor Ortom. This statement is in reaction to the revelation by the Benue State Governor that he has been shown “Red Card” by his current party, All Progressives Congress (APC), on whose platform he came to power in 2015. According to the statement, Ortom’s presence on the political stage in the state is reminiscence of what was obtainable in the First Republic when late JS Tarka attempted the definition of minority rights in Nigeria. Shija observed that since the era of Tarka, clear agenda and focused political Leadership have eluded the state until the emergence of Ortom since the need to spare him persecution by selfish politicians, whose actions are anti-people has become the duty of every Benue Youth. “Ortom must be spared the ongoing persecution. When has it become a crime to stand by the people, whose mandate you are holding in trust? We are satisfied with the unwavering determination of our Governor, His Excellency Samuel Ortom to securing the future of our state at the expense of his comfort and political career.” he noted. “Our assurance to the Governor is that with him we stand to the end in his desire to giving a new lease of life and direction in the state,” the statement reads. The group has promised to move into the every nooks and crannies of the state to mobilize against selfish politicians, who because of their personal ambitions, want to hold the state back.