Members of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) community  have held what they called “appreciation trek” to express their gratitude to President Muhammadu Buhari for rehabilitating the main and adjoining roads leading to the school. Staff and students embarked on a 16-kilometre trek to Sokoto Township to appreciate the president, staging a road show to sing Federal Government’s praises for the reconstruction of the dilapidated roads. The roads, which had been abandoned for years, became motorists’ nightmare when they deteriorated. Respite came the way of commuters plying the routes when the Federal Government moved contractors to the sites for the reconstruction of the roads. Participants in the ‘appreciation trek’, which was organised by the Students’ Union Government (SUG), included the Deputy Vice-Chancellor for, Academics, Prof A.G. Yahaya, and Dean of Students’ Affairs (DSA), Prof Aminu Mode, who led other prominent members of the management in the rally. Prof Yahaya hailed Federal Government’s effort, saying the reconstruction of the roads was long overdue. He added that the development would give visitors to the school easy access and pleasant ride on the roads. He said: “This is indeed, a remarkable period in the history of the university as we join the students to trek 16 kilometres to express our appreciation to the President Buhari-led Federal Government. We are using this rally to show our appreciation for the successful rehabilitation of the dilapidated eight-kilometre road linking the university to the state metropolis and other roads around our campus.” Prof Mode said members of the school community would remain grateful to President Buhari for repairing the road to the school. He urged the motorists and members of the university community to keep the roads in good condition. The SUG president, Ibrahim Kalgo, on behalf of students, expressed gratitude to the Federal Government for the gesture. He said: “The Federal Government has listened to the students by renovating the road, which had been in poor condition since 2010. “Before the reconstruction, passing on the roads caused a lot of hardship for the students and other members of the university community. We appreciate President Buhari for approving the repair of these roads, which have given us easy access to the school.”