Winners in the 4th Lagos International Badminton Classics will go home with more money as the prize money of the championship has been increased from $20,000 to $25,000 in this year’s competition. The Classics will hold from hold from Wednesday to Saturday at the Molade Okoya-Thomas Hall, Teslim Balogun Stadium, Surulere. The event is sponsored by the Lagos State Government and organised by the Lagos State Badminton Association with the President of Nigeria Badminton Federation Barrister Francis Orbih serving as the Chairman of Local Organising Committee (LOC). No fewer than 22 countries had registered to participate in this year’s edition, some of which are Jordan, Egypt, Germany, Ghana, Israel, Ivory Coast , Benin Republic, Czech Republic, India, Malaysia and Nigeria, the host country,  while 193 players across the world will be competing, comprise 60 from Nigeria and  133 foreign players. The price money had been raised from 20,000 dollars to 25,000 dollars in order to increase boost participations and competitiveness during the Classics. While assuring fans of top-flight matches, Orbih said that an elaborate final ceremony would hold on the final day of the competition. He said: “Nigeria is going into this tournament with impressive records from some of the top players. Nigeria won the Ivory Coast International Badminton Championships held in Abidjan between 21st and 24th of June with 3 gold, 1 silver and 1 bronze medals. Nigeria’s Dorcas Adesokan, Afrca’s number one female player, won the Women’s Singles of the event, while the the duo of Anuoluwapo Opeyori and Godwin Olofua won the Men’s Doubles.  Adesokan Dorcas and Clement Krobakpor won the Mixed Doubles. Chairman of Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC), Dr Kweku Tandoh said the government of Lagos State has made all arrangements to ensure a smooth organisation of the Classics. He disclosed that the host, Lagos State, has 12 dependable stars among the players presented by Nigeria for the Lagos International Classics, top among them are Anuoluwapo Opeyori, and Godwin Olofua.