The Senate on Thursday asked its committee on Police Affairs to conduct thorough investigation of the circumstances surrounding the murder of nine policemen in Abuja. The upper chamber mandated the committee to invite the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Mr. Ibrahim Idris, to brief it on the development. While seven of the officers were reported to have been killed around Galadimawa area of the Federal Capital Territory on Monday, Senator Philip Aduda told his colleagues that another two were shot dead in Abaji area of the FCT. The lawmakers said that the police boss should brief members of the committee about the circumstances that led to the death of the policemen. Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, who gave the directive said that the Senate is concerned  about the gruesome killing of the policemen. Saraki said that it is necessary that the Senate is properly briefed about what led to the death of security personnel. Unknown gunmen reportedly killed the police officers on Monday night in Abuja. Although police authorities acknowledged the killing of the police men, no reason was given for their death.. Saraki said: “We have not taken the issue of police officers that were killed in Abuja. As a National Assembly, we must be seen to be protecting people who are protecting our lives. I want your committee to find out what has happened to them. “We need to know what happened. We need to find a way to reach out to their families and show them that we care. Does the committee chairman have anything to say regarding this development?” Chairman, Senate committee on Police Affairs, Senator Abu Ibrahim, informed his colleagues that “We have invited the IGP to brief us about what happened to the police officers and the protest in Maiduguri. The IGP will brief us on Tuesday.” The senator representing FCT, Philip Aduda, also informed his colleagues that the killing of another two policemen in Abaji be included in the investigation. He said, “Apart from the seven that were killed on Monday, two were killed in Abaji area of Abuja. That brings the figure to nine at this moment.”