THE once peaceful cosmopolitan city of Jos, Plateau State, has witnessed so many crises in recent times, rocking a long serene atmosphere that had produced some of the best talents in the Nigerian creative sector. With the most recent being the killing of over 200 persons in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area of Plateau State by suspected Fulani herdsmen, one begins to wonder if the city can ever remain the same again. This doubt puts a huge burden on the creative growth of Nigeria, knowing that Jos, has proven to be, arguably, the most fertile ground for creative talents in the country. The heavily armed gunmen were said to have invaded villages, including Exland, Gindin Akwati, Ruku, Nghar, Kura Falls and Kakuruk, all in Gashish district as well as Rakok, Kok and Razat villages in Ropp district of the local government area, shooting sporadically, killing people, injuring others and setting structures ablaze. In the midst of these serial massacres, the loud and thrilling musical pitch that has quenched the appetite of the entire country for good music and celebrations from Jos, has been submerged by the violent sound of guns, with so much blood on the dance floor. How do we dance? I once talked about Innocent Idibia, aka 2Baba not singing loud enough against killings in Benue – his home state – not knowing that the land where he cut his musical teeth was next in target. Now, there are more voices that should speak up against these bloodbaths, and it appears they are in slumber. No nagging singles by individual singers to condemn the act, no concerts by artistes from Jos to protest the gruesome killings, no marching to the National Assembly or television stations, nothing. Yet, you can’t beat the list of artistes from Jos who are doing just great in their music careers, even in the movie industry. Like 2Baba, other artistes whose artistic cakes were baked in Jos include, Peter and Paul Okoye, aka P-Square; Jude Abaga, aka M.I; Panshak Zamani, aka Ice Prince; Jesse Garba Abaga, aka Jesse Jagz; Emmanuel Bez Idakula, aka Bez; Jeremiah Pam Gyang; Ruby Gyang; Retyit Seth Maxwell Dayok, aka Mista Seth; Victor Chinedu Onyewuch, aka Charass;  Emmanuel Obiako, aka Young I.B and Chukwuka O. Michael, aka Chupizu, Panam Percy Paul, and Suka Andrew among others. As pointed out in my last piece on the subject, if the powers that be – including political leaders in the State have lost the volume with which they seek political offices in this seemingly unending war against their own, ravaging homes and sniffing life out of harmless women and children – what has become of the voice of musicians and their heavenly gift that we know commands attention? If this new age nomads who operate as a terrorist group have enjoyed a blackmailing hold on the political sensibility of this country than the Boko Haram insurgents, how have they also cowed the artistes from speaking up? It is sad that over the year, more than 100 farmers have been reportedly killed in Benue, as the violent confrontation between armed herders and unarmed farmers is on the rise, with the nation’s security agency yet to arrest the situation.