Not a few Nigerians in the past three years have doubted the Buhari administration’s anti-corruption fight. They found it difficult to see its toughness and deep bite against corruption in the country. They could not help but compare Buhari’s fight against corruption under his military rule in the early 1980s and the fierceness of the battle in the past three years. This set of Nigerians believed that Buhari has really lost the steam to completely flush out corruption in the country. They have wondered that the latest Buhari’s anti-graft battle was essentially the exertions of a toothless bulldog. Their argument was based on the fact that no tangible number of corrupt Nigerians have been convicted and sent to jail in the past three years. This, they have noted, has made corruption practices to even fester under the current administration rather than subsiding. The fight has also been termed selective by critics, who believe that it is only targeted at members of the opposition parties. Apart from denying any selectiveness in the anti-graft battle, the Buhari administration has also continued to raise the alarm that corruption has been fighting back. The fight against corruption in the last three years, the government said had not really moved the way expected because of the enormous resources in the hands of looters, which have been deployed against the anti-graft war. The anti-graft battle, it also noted, could not move very fast like under the military rule because of the respect for democracy and the rule of law. To give the anti-graft battle more bite, President Buhari last week introduced another dimension: tracking the corrupt and their cash with a view to making it difficult for them to sabotage the anti-graft fight. He gave a hint of what was to come last week Wednesday while answering questions during the visit of Namibian President Hage Geingob to the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Buhari had said, “We are pursuing people who have declared assets. But we find out that they have much more than they have declared. We follow them through their bank accounts to the companies they formed to the contracts they got. Sometimes they swear to Almighty God that their structures that cannot develop feet and run away does not belong to them. Then they are confronted with their bank accounts. “Again, using my experiences when I was arrested and detained, people were given back what they have appropriated. This time around, I said we are going to sell them and put the money into the treasury and I will see whoever comes after that will have the courage to take money from the treasury and give to anybody. “So, we are winning, but it’s very difficult under this multi-party democracy system. And we are getting the cooperation of countries. “We are trying to sell the assets wherever we find them and bring the money into the Nigerian treasury.” he said Noting that his administration would soon reorganize the nation’s judiciary to boost fight against corruption in the country, he added: “We are going to dedicate some judges to deal with corruption cases and try to put forward and prosecute all those that investigations proved that they have questions to answer. “So that is what I’m telling you that we haven’t given up; we are doing our best and we will recover as much as humanly possible,” he said. Barely 24 hours after that remark, the President took a step further by signing Executive Order No. 6 of 2018 ‘on the Preservation of Assets Connected with Serious Corruption and other Relevant Offences’ towards freezing assets  of suspected looters. While signing the order at the Council Chamber of the State House last Thursday, Buhari said “It has thus become necessary to re-kit and re-tool our arsenal to be able to effectively tackle corruption’s perilous counter-attack against the Nigerian State. “Accordingly, the Federal Government of Nigeria has declared a national emergency to deal with that crisis. In this regard, the Federal Government of Nigeria in line with its anti-corruption strategy seeks to ensure that the ends of justice is not defeated or compromised by persons involved in a case or complaint of corruption. “It is in consequence of this that I have decided to issue the Executive Order No. 6 of 2018 to inter alia restrict dealings in suspicious assets subject to investigation or inquiry bordering on corruption in order to preserve such assets from dissipation, and to deprive alleged criminals of the proceeds of their illicit activities which can otherwise be employed to allure, pervert and/or intimidate the investigative and judicial processes or for acts of terrorism, financing of terrorism, kidnapping, sponsorship of ethnic or religious violence, economic sabotage and cases of economic and financial crimes, including acts contributing to the economic adversity of the Federal Republic of Nigeria  and against the overall interest of justice and the welfare of the Nigerian State,” he said. The President went on: “Therefore, in order to preserve Nigeria’s political and economic systems, and the continuous progress of the Nigerian State from the serious threat of corruption, I call on all stakeholders, and indeed every Nigerian to give effect to this Executive Order. “Agencies of the Federal Government in consultation with the Attorney General of the Federation should identify and adopt best practices, and develop strategies for action. “The fight against corruption is one that must be fought by everyone wherever corruption rears its head.” he stated The leading opposition party in the country, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in a statement on Friday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, criticised the Executive Order. Describing it as illegal, unconstitutional, reprehensible and in total disregard to the provisions of the Constitution, he said: “Therefore, President Buhari’s unilateral Executive Order is a travesty of justice and rule of law, as it vehemently seeks to hijack and usurp the powers of both the legislature and the courts and vest it on himself so that he can use same at will, as a political instrument, to haunt, traumatize, harass and victimize perceived political opponents. “In other words, Mr. President wants to change our democratic governance to a military regime, in line with his lamentation, two days ago, that the fight against corruption will be better under a military regime than under a democracy. “It is instructive to emphasize that the PDP is not in any way opposed to the fight against corruption. Rather, the party holds that the imposition of this Executive Order, which is radically at variance with the provisions of the constitution, is totally unacceptable. “PDP takes this Executive Order 6 of 2018 as a reenactment of the obnoxious Decree 2 of 1984, which incidentally was also an enactment under then military Head of State headed by Gen. Muhammadu Buhari, and this must not be permitted in our current democratic dispensation. “If allowed, this Order will confer limitless powers on Mr. President, whose administration’s penchant for violation of rules and order already suggests a readiness for autocracy and a drive towards fascism. “In a democracy, the role of the executive arm of government is to enforce court orders/judgments handed down based on the interpretation of existing laws. Any suggestion to the contrary, as clearly intended by this Executive Order, is totally an aberration and inconsistent with the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. “We invite Nigerians and the international community to note the deliberate attempts by the Buhari administration to side-step the provisions of the 1999 Constitution (as amended), usurp the powers of the legislature, the judiciary and impose an autocratic regime on our nation. “The PDP therefore charges the judiciary and the legislature to save our dear nation and her people from an imminent fascism by rejecting this obnoxious Executive Order. “Nigeria is a democratic state run by the dictates of the law and the constitution and not by the rule of the thumb of any elected officer. “Already, our lawyers are considering legal action against the Federal Government on the illegality of Mr. President’s action in the interest of Nigeria and Nigerians.” he added While the battle against corruption in the remaining last one year of the first term of Buhari’s administration should not be selective and not for witch-hunt, corruption definitely cannot be allowed to kill Nigeria. The fight should be taken to a higher level where every Nigerian will be made to think twice before venturing to loot the treasury. The commonwealth of Nigerians must be preserved at all costs for the generality of Nigerians and development of the nation. 