PROTESTING workers yesterday shut the headquarters of ExxonMobil on Victoria Island, Lagos, over the alleged sacking of 860 spy police without entitlement. They claimed that most of the workers who had been with the company for over 22 years were sacked in defiance of the law. Chairman of ExxonMobil Branch of the Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) Rasak Obe said the protest was to express the workers’ dissatisfaction with management. Obe said the union was shocked by the mass sack of the security personnel. He urged management to reinstate them and pay their entitlements. The union chief urged  management to also reinstate the 16 workers purportedly sacked in December 2016 in a similar fashion. He demanded the repatriation of over 20 foreign security personnel who are being kept in defiance of the law. According to him, this was an unfortunate situation which the Supreme Court corrected with its April 20, 2018 judgment of 508 personnel. “This underscores the scale of error in the company’s assessment of the reality after the Supreme Court judgment. There are tens more who by the judgment are active employees of Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN) Unlimited. “To say the least, this wholesale sack unambiguously conveys management’s disdain for the highest court of the country and mocks its ruling on subject,” he said. Obe said the company was quick to sack Nigerians and replace them with foreigners. He said the foreign security personnel, many of whom were ex-service men, were engaged against the directives of the National Petroleum Investment Management Services (NAPIMS) and the Ministry of Defence. “The cost of keeping one of the over 20 expatriate security personnel in Nigeria would pay 100 of the Nigerian security personnel currently being repressed. “This impunity has been raised with Human Resources and Law since February 2018, but the company continues to ignore our advice,” Obe said. ExxonMobi Media and Communications Manager Mr Ogechukwu Udeagha confirmed the protest, saying: “Following the recent judgment of the Supreme Court, MPN would provide compensation packages for affected personnel. “And it is offering Human Resource, consulting services to assist with employment opportunities with third parties. MPN typically retains security services through third parties who are best positioned to provide these core competencies. “We thank these individuals for their prior service in supporting the safety and security of our operations in Nigeria.”