Unknown gunmen allegedly shot at the National Welfare Secretary of the Nigerian Bar Association (NBA), Mr. Adesina Adegbite, wounding him in the head. Adegbite said he suspected the gunmen were kidnappers. The incident occurred on Friday near OPIC Estate off the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. Adegbite told The Nation that after watching the World Cup match between England and Sweden, he went to Ikeja to buy roasted meat (Suya). He said: “I drove in my Cadillac Escalade Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) and went to Allen Junction to buy Suya. I did not stop anywhere along the way. Nobody also knew I was going to buy Suya. “I was racing back home when I observed a car very far behind me. Through Alausa, I joined the expressway and at Berger, I raced past all the vehicles ahead of me and headed towards Isheri North, towards my estate near Channels Television. “As I passed Kara Bridge, because I was always mindful when driving, I overtook the only vehicle ahead of me and at the end of the bridge, I slowed down a little. “Suddenly, the car I saw far behind me drew level and I saw it was a Toyota Camry. The man sitting near the driver in front waved a gun at me and shouted, ‘Stop! Stop! Stop!'” Adegbite said he refused to stop because he was close to his eastate gate. He said he pressed down on the accelerator and sped off while the car came after him. “Luckily, I was close to OPIC gate leading to my estate. As I was about to turn, the man beside the driver fired a shot, forcing the security men at the gate to come out. “When the men in the Camry car saw the security men, they sped towards Ibafo while I drove into the estate”, The NBA chief said he did not know that the bullet scraped his head until one of the security men drew his attention to the blood dripping from his head to his shirt. “I didn’t know I was actually shot in the head when they were making attempts to block me. For them attempting to stop me, I know they wanted to take my life, or kidnap me for ransom, but thank God, I escaped from the hoodlums,” he said. Adegbite said he reported the incident at Isheri-Berger Police Station after receiving treatment. The next day, he reported the matter to the Lagos State Commissioner of Police (CP) Imohimi Edgal through a text message, after he made several calls to him. In his response, the CP stated: “Noted, Will find out details”.