A health wellness and lifestyle company, EDMARK International Group of Companies on Monday in Lagos unveiled the future of digital payment in Nigeria. It launched EDpoints, a mobile application designed to connect  customers to distributors through a cashless mobile payment platform that embarks Matrix QR code technology for  customers’ seamless transactions. The new mobile app, which allows customers to do transactions digitally, is similar to mobile wallet where users securely keep their money and pay for shopping and utility bills in any of the company’s partnered distributors. It is invented by a subsidiary of the EDMARK Group, called Edmark2Everything (ED2E). EDpoints also offers a premium package tailored to suit consumers’ requirements, such as advertising services to enable users boost their ranking on the ED2E merchant listing, and an opportunity for business traffic and revenue to increase at minimal cost with a passive income through referral as ED2E member. Speaking at the unveiling of the mobile app at EDMARK’s new Corporate office, called D’Podium, at Aromire Avenue, Allen, Ikeja, Chief Operating Officer of ED2E Marc Richard Camaligan explained the new mobile will help users to make cashless transactions and give a unique experience to enable people to carry out seamless transactions with ease. He said ‘’the new ED2E mobile app leverages on technology to make our customers happy and enable them to take advantage inherent in Information Communications Technology that is ever growing in Nigeria. This is the beginning of a large platform that helps us connect to a large community. “The mobile app can be downloaded from the play store on any android phone; it makes purchase of products easy without having to carry large cash around. Currently the company has 450,000 Edmarkers and 11 branches in Nigeria, you see, this indeed is the beginning of much bigger platform to help Nigerians succeed’’ Camaligan, a Malaysian Citizen said. In his remarks, the Chairman and Founder of EDMARK International Group of Companies, Mr. Sam Low added that wealth could only be created when money flows and Edmark with the new mobile app has created a very simple way to shop for both users and merchants by getting 5% loyalty bonus on any purchase with the Endpoints. The Malaysian citizen explained further ‘’Edmark is not just doing business and making profit but our mission is to help boost the economy of Nigeria, where we operate. There are many opportunities here in Nigeria such as in huge human resources, technology, infrastructure, entrepreneurialship, and transportation just to mention but a few. “ED2E mobile app will help facilitate easy financial transactions and help put the economy of Nigeria on a digital eco system that will improve the people’s lives and stimulate economic growth to which Edmark is committed to help people succeed.  The new mobile app consists of three components among real estate, merchants and Multi Level Marketing that is solidly built on technology which is the mobile payment that is more reliable, faster, safer and more efficient. “The current economy in the global system is designed on digital technology that will solve many current challenges we face daily. With this new innovation, Edmark can become the biggest platform in business where everyone, no matter where they are or reside can do business. This is the wonderful opportunity we have brought to Nigeria and I am glad it is happening here’’ In addition,  Edmark’s  Managing Director of Industries, Mrs Hema Hee added that  the new mobile app would be of great advantage to both users and merchants because the technology is built in such a way that will speedy up financial transactions that is cashless and this can be done anywhere around the world. “Edmark is a forward thinking company, we are innovative, we create opportunities and help bring people out of poverty to wealth and with this new digital innovation unveiled today we are a company to do business with’’ she said. Responding to questions from news men on how the company would face the challenges associated with digital technology such as poor network, the firm’s Head of Operations, Mr. James Dinio said the company had put in place effective strategy to combat future challenges and with their well grounded technology team, they would be able to surmount any future problem. Present at the event were other members of Edmark International Management team such as, Group Chief Operation Officer, Mr. Bien Wapanio, General Manager, Edmark Industries, Mr. Gilbert Yeoh and other dignitaries like the President of Nigeria-Malaysia Busines Council, Dr. Michael Oladipo Aderohunmu and former Ambassador of Nigeria to Malaysia, Mr. Ringo Bello amongst others.    