 Disappointed Argentina legend Diego Maradona has declared his readiness to coach the national team for free even as he regretted that it not possible for him to turn back the hands of the clock and become a player again. Maradona who took Argentina to the Quarter-finals for the 2010 World cup, the first to be hosted by Africa, watched as the Lionel Messi captained team crumbled under the fire power of France in Kazan. The team had come close to hitting the exit door against Nigeria but managed to grab a winning goal that made the hand of God exponent jubilated so much to the point of displaying his fingers in a manner considered unacceptable and which made him lose mouth watering appearance fee from FIFA. Despite losing to largesse however the 57 year old said he will not hesitate to pick up the coaching job again in the hope of returning Argentina to winning ways. He confessed that losing out the way they did in Russia is very painful. While speaking with Venezuelan TV network Telesur Maradona submitted “Yes and I would do it for free, I would not ask for anything in return,” When asked about his depiction in the media, he added: “They think I’m happy but my heart hurts. “I wish God gave me the strength to return to the field. The years and life go on for everyone and I get to 57 years of age watching my team beaten by a team that I do not think is one of the best at the World Cup. “It makes me feel bad – everything we built with much effort was destroyed very easily.” Having watched Brazil qualify for the last eight with a 2-0 victory over Mexico on Monday, Maradona backed Selecao head coach Tite to take his side all the way in Russia. “I saw a very strong team from Brazil that is on its way to the title,” said the 1986 World Cup winner. “I like Tite a lot because he stops teams. “Mexico wanted to play as they did against Germany [a 1-0 Group F victory] and they gave everything. Mexico cannot be asked for more.” Maradona also passed comment on the on-field antics of Brazil striker Neymar, who scored Brazil’s first goal but was also seen reacting theatrically when a Mexico player allegedly stepped on his foot. “Neymar must be told: ‘Either you make us cry or you make us laugh’,” said Maradona. “When the Mexican stepped on him it was pitiful, but seeing him running joyous.”