The police in Bayelsa State have commenced an investigation in the circumstances that led to the abduction of three-year-old male twins in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State. The Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Asinim Butswat, who confirmed the theft said: “we have commenced investigation.” It was gathered that the twins were stolen by a middle-aged man at the Ekeki Motor Park area of Yenagoa, the state capital. The kidnapper, who drove in a black jeep, reportedly approached an area when the mother of the victims, Mrs. Modupe Joseph, sold roast corn. The victims identified as Taiwo and Kehinde, were at their mother’s business place with their three other siblings, a girl and two other boys. It was learnt that the mother of the victims was away to buy some ingredients for her business when the incident happened. She was said to have kept the children in the custody of one Aisha Ahmed, a female adult, while she left to get the items. Narrating the incident, Modupe’s second child, Funmi, said the man approached her and gave her the sum of N200 to go and buy food for the twins but she refused and told him they had all eaten at home. The little Funmi, aged 10, said she eventually collected the N200 after the kidnapper insisted she should take the money and get the food for them. “The man gave me N200 to buy food for my brothers but I told him that they have they eating but he insisted; so I collected the money. Before I returned, he has carried my brothers away”, she said. It was gathered that the kidnapper also tricked the children’s custodian, Aisha, with the sum of N1,000 to also purchase some food for the kids. Aisha said the man earlier beckoned on her and and gave her the sum of N1,000 to buy some food for the children so that he could have some change in lower Naira denominations. She said: “One man came to me and gave me thousand Naira note to buy three plates of food for the children so that he could have change in his hand, but I asked him to bring the money so I would buy recharge card for him to get change. “While I went to get the recharge card, I saw the eldest among the children (Funmi) and I queried her for leaving the kids; but she told me that the man gave her N200 to buy food for the children. “When we returned, we did not see the two boys. I don’t know what has happened to them”. But Modupe cried: “I left my children with my friend Aisha to buy salt at Tombia junction. Now they are telling me that my babies are nowhere to be found. If I don’t see my children, I will die.”