A Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftain was killed on Saturday during a factional clash at a meeting in Igbosuku village in Eti-Osa Local Government Area of Lagos State. Mr Borisade Adeniyi, the Apapa Local Government Area Chairman of PDP, died in hospital after being shot in the leg. Two others injured in the clash are lying critically ill in hospital. Sources said the state leadership of PDP was meeting with all the party’s local government chairmen when the trouble started. According to the police, the fight was between supporters of the state’s party chairman, Moshood Salvador, and its Eti-Osa, Kehinde Fasasi. A statement by the police spokesman, Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP) said five local government chairmen of the party, had been arrested over the matter. The suspects are Fasasi, Rotimi Kujore (Lagos Island), Alhaji Fatai Adele (Mushin), Ismail Abiola (Amuwo-Odofin) and Dr. Amos Fawole (Surulere). The suspects, Oti said, had been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Panti, Yaba, Lagos Mainland. Oti said: “The Police Commissioner (CP), Imohimi Edgal is worried about the use of firearms and the frequency of violence involving the PDP in the state. It will be recalled that on July 12, two suspected party thugs, Wale Oye, 37, and Ganiyu Ajiboluwa, 47, were arrested at Festac extension by Apple Junction, Amuwo-Odofin with two pump action rifles given to them by their sponsor, Dipo Olorunrinu, a member of the PDP in Lagos State House of Assembly, to escort him to a political rally. “The said Olorunrinu was arrested and they are all helping the police in the investigation of the case. “The CP warns that no political party will be allowed to truncate the peace in the state. Political parties in the state are hereby called upon to disarm their members as nobody is allowed to bear arms without necessary authorisation. Henceforth, political party leaders will be liable for the actions of their supporters.” Yesterday, Salvador described the incident as “very sad”, noting that the party was working hard to rise above its challenges to attain greater heights. He blamed the incident on saboteurs who were never interested in the peace and progress of the party. Salvador said the police had intervened in the matter, expressing hope that the perpetrators would soon be brought to book. “The incident is condemnable and unfortunate, especially as the party has been working hard on its repositioning. “You see, this is what I talk about everywhere I go, that people should shun violence at all levels and embrace peace. “The incident is saddening. We feel sad that some people would still go in the way of violence in spite our efforts to promote peace,” he said.