National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Monday disclosed that he was ready to go any length and reach further understanding with aggrieved members of the party to restore peace within the APC. Oshiomhole revealed this during a book launch held in Abuja. The book written by Senator Bukar Abba Ibrahim is titled “Poorlitics: The Little Boy from Goniri and The Progressives’ Manifesto”. The former Edo State Governor stated that he was willing to ensure peaceful coexistence across the country and ready to promote fairness and justice within the party. The party chairman said if there are verifiable claims from those allegedly maltreated or denied justice, peace talks should be a collective efforts. His words: “I have been reading in our newspapers like Oshiomhole has been going round, not sleeping, talking to people who are politically aggrieved and so on and so forth. Whether it is allegation, accusation or acknowledgement, I am not too sure. “We are offering juicy promises according to them and offering all kinds of inducements for people to remain where they are. I said well, if there is any Nigerian who, think I am a coward, I am not capable of fighting, he can ask from out former President, Olusegun Obasanjo with whom we had to wrestle in the village square in Abuja. “But the truth is it is better to invest every effort, go any length in the pursuant of peace and understanding. If there are genuine evidences that people have been unfairly treated, it fits into my background that you can’t decree peace; you can only work for peace and peace is a by-product of justice and fairness. So, for all of us, who are committed to peace, we must be seen beyond rhetoric to be committed to fairness and justice.” “Whenever we have evidence that anyone have been unfairly treated or denied justice, we have the collective duty to play our part and ensure that the cause of injustice and unfairness is addressed satisfactory so that the foundation for sustainable peace and harmony is laid, not only in our political live but even in our social and economic life. “Therefore, I am not ashamed and therefore affirm that I’ll continue as Nigerian who wants peace in Nigeria, as chairman of the governing party to ensure there is peace in my party and as human to ensure there is peace in the world,” Oshiomhole added. He applauded the Senator for taking time to publish the book, thus discouraging money politics in the country. However, he called the public to support President Muhammadu Buhari’s anti-corruption campaign to check money politics in the 2019 poll. According to him, peaceful election is possible in the country for the senator to have contested with low resources and still remain relevant in Yobe politics till date. He further canvassed for an extension of tenure for members of the national assembly but discouraged any effort that could promote similar motive in the executive arm of government. “It is my hope and prayer that with time, we will have more security of tenure for everyone, particularly in the legislative arm because they will need all the experiences. I can understand the logic of limiting the executive because we don’t want to be on our way to Zimbabwe or another Mugabe in Nigeria. “For legislation, I believe the argument for continuity is very valid and I hope that you will continue to be an example of what can be done differently…” he added. Personalities present at the event include Secretary to the President, represented by Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Boss Mustapha, Borno State Governor, Shetim Mustapha, former APC Chairman John Oyegun, traditional rulers among other top politicians and government office holders. Earlier, Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki encouraged politicians to adopt the model of the writer and his political principles. He said foremost nationalists such as Alhaji Aminu Kano, Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe and Chief Obafemi Awolowo adopted the same method to have succeeded and became renowned leaders. “I have known Senator Bukar Abba Ibrahim for many years.  I first met him when I went with my father, Dr. Abubakar Olusola Saraki, to secure land for our bank in Yobe State.  Senator Ibrahim was the Governor then.  He generously provided land for our bank. “It is amazing that he has taken his time to develop the concept of Poorlitics, which is a system that allows people, even when they are from a humble background, to succeed in politics by offering practical, development-oriented, progressive political leadership.  This is exactly the same route to success taken by the founding fathers of Nigeria, like “It is this same system that forms the basis of the politics of Senator Bukar Abba Ibrahim and there is no doubt that he has recorded tremendous success. He has risen from being a very poor peasant boy in his village in Yobe State, to be elected three times as Governor of Yobe State and three times as Senator, with three successful wives. One became a Minister of the Federal Republic; another is a serving Permanent Secretary,” he added.