The Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other experts have renewed their call on President Muhammadu Buhari not to rush into siging the African Continental Free  Trade  Area (ACFTA) deal. MAN lamented that four months  after it raised salient issues on the deal, it is still waiting for answers. Speaking at a press conference at MAN House Ikeja yesterday, the President of MAN, Dr Frank Udemba Jacobs  said the only way to guarantee positive proposition is to ensure that  the negotiating team is guided by a credible and strategic country specific study. He added that there was no wisdom in rushing to sign only to end up struggling to find space in the accompanying protocols and annexures. He said there is need to be certain that the agreement is in sync and not constraining extant economic policies, including the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of the government. Also speaking at a forum titled: Business Environment & Excise Duty: Maximizing Economic Opportunities through effective Anti-Illicit Trade Enforcement organised by the Initiative for Public Policy Analysis (IPPA), a consultant  to the United Nations Industrial Development Organisation (UNIDO), Dr. John Isemede; and Dr. Olajide Damilola, a Senior Research Fellow at IPPA and University of Aberdeen United Kingdom (UK),   warned that the country is already already awash with imported goods. Jacobs said it is worrisome to observe that the study carried out by the Nigerian Office for Trade Negotiations (NOTN) failed to address the concerns of manufacturers. “Although NOTN recently conducted and launched a study, the stakeholders are still considering the study in view of the observed glaring lapses. “It is worrisome to observe that the study failed to address the concerns of manufacturers. “Moreso is the fact that the outcome of the NOTN sponsored independent study on the potential benefits of ACFTA on Nigeria fell short of standards and lack the much-needed information required to take an informed decision. MAN has since commissioned a study and we expect to have the report about a month from now. “In the light of recent developments, we considered it necessary to intimate you that an insignificant number of non-real sector operators in the private sector are tactfully recommending that Mr President should sign the agreement under the camouflage that majority of Nigerians and the OPS agrees with their position. “They are essentially not at home with the technicalities of a trade agreement of this magnitude. The pronouncement of this group of actors is not representative of the views of the OPS of Nigeria,” Jacobs said. Dr. Isemede said the country is already overloaded with imports, warning that the Federal Government should not sign the deal in a haste. “I am not saying Buhari should not sign at all but we must put the necessary infrastructure on ground; something to sell; something to offer before rushing into the agreement. “For instance, the tea you sip comes from Kenya, the Titus fish you eat every day comes from Morocco, there is Shoprite here and they’re owned by South Africans, and the apple and majority of the products sold is imported from South Africa and with the South African Airline. What is Nigeria bringing to the table and what are you going to sell?”