•Lecturer’s family beg abductors A lecturer in the Bayelsa State-owned Niger Delta University (NDU) Amassoma Dr. Ndutimi Dudafa and a stalwart of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Bibi Oweifa have been abducted by gunmen. It was gathered Dudafa was whisked away from his home in Gbarantoru in Yenagoa  Local Government Area at about 8pm last Thursday. He was reportedly driven way on a speedboat parked at the waterfront by the assailants. But Oweifa was said to have been accosted by the gunmen at the state secretariat annex in Yenagoa. Oweifa was rumoured to have concluded plans to defect to the All Progressives Congress (APC) following his ambition to contest the state’s House of Assembly seat. It was learnt the politician, an indigene of Bumoundi, in Ekpetiama clan, Yenagoa was kidnapped at about 3:30 pm on Friday. The gunmen, who were dressed in military fatigue, bundled their victim’s Personal Assistant out of the vehicle and took Oweifa away. Oneida is the Vice-Chairman of the state peace and reconciliation committee. On July 11, youths, elders and women of Gbarain/Ekpetiama, adopted him as their sole candidate for Yenagoa Constituency 2. The family of Dudafa, the abducted lecturer, confirmed the travails of their son and appealed to the kidnappers to release the don unconditionally. The elder brother to the victim, Chief Ineye, described the incident as unfortunate. He said the family is going through trying times due to the unfortunate incident, stressing the family has been traumatised by the sudden abduction of the Sociology department lecturer. “We are appealing for his unconditional release in the name of God, let them consider that God exists and free him. “We are passing through a traumatised period because of this unfortunate abduction of my brother. I appeal to the security agencies to do everything humanly possible to have him released”. But when contacted, Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Asinim Butswat said he was yet to be briefed on the incidents. 