All Progressive Congress, APC, chieftain and Federal House of Assembly Representative Aspirant, Chief Shina Abiola Peller has debunked the claim that APC Oyo state has been factionalized. Speaking at the flag-off of his declaration and campaign as an aspirant running for the House of Representative of the National Assembly representing the Iseyin/Itesiwaju/Kajola/Iwajow a federal constituency, Peller said APC, is united and stronger than ever. He emphasized that Nigerians should dispel rumors that the Oyo state APC is divided as such news is only being circulated by mere mischief makers, adding that such people are and should be treated as enemies of the state. “I don’t believe there are factions within APC in Oyo State, what I believe and preach are that, we are as strong as we are united and we are as weak as we are divided. I know the noise about factions and division is to weaken our strength as a party and confuse us as a people. Therefore, I will never ever in my life entertain any faction. “APC is one in Oyo State and we will do everything within our power to make sure that unity is maintained. Anyone who carries the factional ideology does not have the love of the people at heart, I am APC and I belong to everybody,” He added. Speaking with newsmen on the reason for joining the National Assembly political race, he said, “I have decided to join this political race because my people have spoken to me and I have listened. “My people know my worth, my achievements and having somebody that can actually represent this constituency has been a challenge, I cannot afford to be selfish, I have to think about the less privileged too”. Peller also disclosed that his mandate for the people is unity for progress, highlighting that the Oke-Ogun constituency is only relatively relevant is during election but his candidature will breach the current gap of irrelevancy and bring about even development in the entire Oke-Ogun constituency. Meanwhile, the House of representative aspirant during his declaration also launched his empowerment and grassroots development programme which he called Shina Ayo Empowerment Programme, SAEP. According to him, the empowerment programme is currently more on empowering youth and women which will spread across the four zones in Oke-Ogun even up to ward level. While Peller urged the youth to be patients for the said developments to materialize, he however charged them to register, vote, and engage in politics, while shunning political thuggery. “The young people of Nigeria are the most powerful single block in the country, we would not allow ourselves to be used by people who do not have our interest at heart,” he stated. In his words, the Executive Chairman, Itesiwaju Local Government of Oyo State, Mr. Niyi Adeagbo noted that Shina Peller’s declaration and the wealth of experience his bringing into politics will set a high standard for 2019 political aspirants in Oyo State. He said, “The party primary is just 60 to 90 days away and will are committed to delivering our local government to ensure Shina wins the party ticket and subsequently the elections. “The perceived crisis within our party in the state is as a result of contrast interests and it’s normal in politics. The leaders of our party, Governor Abiola Ajimobi and other concerned party stakeholders are working round the clock to ensure conflicting interests are resolved and we shall come out victorious just like in 2015.”