To boost local market and drive non-oil export, Lagos State will soon establish a garment production hub. Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuff made this known at a technical workshop on non-oil export development held at the LCCI Conference and Exhibition Centre, Alausa, Ikeja. She noted that the non-oil export development programme of Lagos State was an initiative created to provide solutions to economic problems as well as unemployment in the country. She said: ”The establishment of a garment production hub in Lagos State is designed to accommodate all garment making enterprises in a particular location, with a view to providing employment, reducing cost of production and fostering competitive international pricing, in further demonstration of our commitment to provide infrastructure that is capable of stimulating investors. “Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs) for export purpose has been identified as the real path to economic development especially since economic indices suggest ‘oil is not our messiah’. Furthermore, at a time when our economic curve is steep, it is imperative for the government to evolve a strategy that will provide a sustainable alternative to our dependence on oil which has made Nigeria mono-product economy. Therefore, this initiative was carefully developed to serve as an eye-opener to our entrepreneurs who assume export trade is a ‘no go area;. It is also one of the series of events that would lead to creating export champions.” The Regional Coordinator, South West of the Nigeria Export Promotion Council (NEPC) urged entrepreneurs to take advantage of export trade services provided by the agency to make more money and contribute to the economic growth of the country. In his presentation, Assistant Director in charge of Registration and Small Business Support Desk, National Food, Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), Mr Duncan Ugwu admonished MSMEs operators to adhere strictly to regulation standards including certification and export requirements that would make their products acceptable to international audience.