At 15, Salami Flourish’s JAMB score was an uninspiring 208. To make matters worse, she sought admission to study Geology at the University of Ibadan, Nigeria’s premier institution. But then, because she was 15, she was not considered for admission as the minimum age is 16.  Her parents then settled for Industrial Chemistry at Covenant University (CU) in Ota, Ogun State. Flourish accepted their option not knowing the decision would turn her into one of the greats in life. The teenager knew that she must buckle up to meet up with the university’s high standard.  She once witnessed her elder sister exchange a handshake with CU Chancellor Dr David Oyedepo for emerging a first class graduate two years ago; and that was the tonic which saw Salami tower far above her contemporaries at the university’s 13th convocation last weekend. Aside her emergence as the Best Graduating Students of the ‘Release of Eagle 2018’ set, she became also the second in the university’s history to score 4.99 Cumulative Grade Point Average. “I had 208 which was due to less seriousness on my part. Thereafter, I had determination to move higher because I felt I was not getting any younger,” Salami began her story. “From secondary school, I’d always loved Chemistry and I wanted to study Geology in UI. But here (CU) was the best decision from my parents ever because it is the principles operative here that propelled me to the top. “When I got here (CU), I saw competition and a bright future, so I decided to work harder.” Salami briefly shared her experience with reporters after she was declared an outstanding student amid applause from guests and parents.  She got the coveted handshake with the Founder. Salami noted that the uncompromising rule of her alma mater remains one of the things that shaped her future. She continued: “I had my secondary school education at Queen’s College Lagos, a school I can describe as secular. However, my greatest challenge was how to adapt to life in CU. “I would still have been serious if I were in public school, though I knew there are many distractions there. But here, everything is different. “In CU for instance, you can’t go out anyhow without an exeat. Above all, the spirituality level is also very high. “We also do not use handsets and I actually love the ‘no phone’ rule because they constitute distractions particularly to my age group, but we have call cards to reach out to our parents. We also have laptops to prosecute our online activities.” Naturally, Salami described herself as the not-too-sociable type especially among her 14 other course mates. She said she equally steered clear of any immoral relationship while in school, something the authorities also frowned at.  Nonetheless, she owes no one apology for that. “I avoided them because they are also distractions,” she said. Now at 19, Salami, the third child to a retired clergy father and teacher mother, from Ogun State, her future lies ahead of her. Having graduated earlier than most, Salami feels she can scale more hurdles. At present, she wants to acquire her masters and Ph.D degrees so as to rank as one of the youngest Ph.D holders in the country, then take up a teaching appointment while combining it with owning an industry. Her mother, Yemisi, had God to thank for her daughter’s victory. “The experience has been awesome,” she said. “It’s not been that smooth but God has been faithful.  When you hold on to God’s promise, He will see you through. On Flourish, she had this to say: “When you first correct her on something for the first time, she might not like it or flare up. But later, she would ruminate over what you told her and adjust accordingly.”