An Ekiti State High Court has sentenced a 21-year-old man, Abdulateef Babatunde, to death for robbing two men, including a policeman of their motorcycles. Justice Bamidele Omotoso found Babatunde guilty of the charge of the two count charge of armed robbery preferred against him. The charge, the judge held, was contrary to Section 402 of the Criminal Code, Law of Ekiti State of Nigeria 2012. The convict was first arraigned on 26th October, 2017. According to the charge sheet, Babatunde on or about 16th June, 2016 along NTA Road, Ado-Ekiti robbed one Sergeant Babatimilehin Kayode of his Bajaj motorcycle with registration number GED 550 QA. Babatunde also robbed one Sergeant Sheidu Ganiyu of his Bajaj motorcycle with registration number ADK 193 QH. The convict, while committing the robbery, was armed with offensive weapons including a gun. Babatunde stopped Babatimilehin and asked for his okada ticket but the policeman told the convict that he was not a commercial motorcycle operator. The policeman said the convict brought out a locally made pistol pointed it at him and dispossessed him of the bike but was later arrested after being given a hot chase by some okada riders and he (Babatunde) was taken to Okesa Police Station. Ganiyu in his evidence told the court that he gave the convict ride on is motorcycle from Egbewa area heading to Abuja Quarters but the convict asked that he be dropped in a lonely place. The victim told the court that three men emerged from the bush in the area and pointed guns at him and all of them made away with his
motorcycle. Ganiyu explained that he later heard that the convict had been arrested and the motorcycle recovered from him. The prosecution called six witnesses and tendered exhibits including the stolen motorcycle, statement of the convict and one locally made pistol while defence did not call any witness. Handing down the death sentence, Justice Omotoso said: “Finally, the accused Abdulateef Babatunde is hereby convicted of the offence of the armed robbery committed on 15/6/16 along NTA Road, Ado-Ekiti. “The sentence of the court upon you be hanged by the neck until you be dead and may God have mercy on your soul.”