The Director of The Thoughtful House Autism Foundation and the Creative Learning International School, Mr. Omagbitse Barrow, who has declared intention of running for the House of Representatives for the AMAC-Bwari Federal Constituency, urged all Nigerians to become more involved in politics. Mr. Barrow said this during a media parley themed ‘Let’s Get Involved’ in Abuja on Monday, where he announced his affiliation with the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). He said that Nigeria’s biggest problem is that “forward-thinking Nigerians are too busy trying to build their own private empires and get out of the cycle of poverty so that they can live a better life and are not interested in getting involved in vying for political office itself.” Mr. Barrow emphasized the need for a Nigerian renaissance in order to push the country forward. “There is no country in the world that is going to change if the forward-thinking people of that country do not get involved,” he said. “The result is that we will continue to get the third-rate leaders that we deserve, and in spite of the personal progress we make, we will not make much progress as a society, because inevitably, the fish rots from the head. “My clarion call is to all Nigerians who believe that they are forward-thinking and are truly desirous of a better nation and a better society for ourselves and our children. He also implored citizens to begin to play politics on real key issues, and get beyond ethnicity, religion, and money politics. According to Mr. Barrow said his team will be reaching out to Nigerians for periodic contributions of affordable amounts of money rather than godfathers. “These ‘god-fathers’- moneybags – will in turn hold politicians ransom and steal their souls once they get to the National Assembly. “Thus, crowd-funding is an integral part of our approach. The people become shareholders to the candidate. “If 10,000 forward-thinking Nigerians donate N10,000, that amounts to N100m which is more than enough for our campaign.” National President, Unemployed Youths Association of Nigeria (UYAN), Gabriel Abah, who also spoke on the occasion, reiterated in an interview that youths should play a bigger role in the governance of the country. “We are looking for youths who are committed to the plight of this nation, youths who are willing and ready to make a difference, especially in the political space. “Also, involving ourselves in politics will create jobs for the unemployed because there are plenty of opportunities in politics. “When we plant one of our own youth into offices such as a councilor, LGA chairman, representative, etc., you will see that there will be opportunities for the unemployed because we have a representative, someone that will speak for us. “We do not have representations, so we are looking for vibrant youths who have what it takes to deliver.”