Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN) has said his administration will make housing affordable to the residents. The governor said the decision arose from his electioneering promise to make living more comfortable for the people through functional education, food for the teeming population through agribusiness and decent accommodation through affordable housing, among others. Akeredolu spoke yesterday at the ground-breaking ceremony of the Sunprime Estate at Abo Asakin community, opposite Akure Airport Junction, Oba-Ile, Akure. The governor noted that the project, like many others waiting for inauguration, was the end-product of painstaking planning and the investment-friendly plans his administration had put in place. Quoting the World Bank report that Nigeria was having an estimated deficit of 18 million housing units on an average family size of six persons, Akeredolu pledged that his administration would pursue its housing programmes to a logical conclusion. He said: “Not less than 108 million Nigerians are homeless or not properly sheltered. This, by extension, means that about 60 per cent of our more than 180 million population is literally without accommodation. “The implications of this are unplanned environment, littered dump sites, epidemics, uncompleted buildings, sub-standard buildings, unplanned towns and cities along with crimes, to mention just a few.” Akeredolu pledged that his administration would address the housing challenges through institutionalised structures, mortgage financing and private sector funding. He said: “With an ever-growing population of over three million people per annum, comprising largely of youths, the housing need is no doubt on the rise, hence the need to put on our thinking caps to surmount the challenge. “Though the challenges have been enormous, our government has not been folding its arms helplessly to tackle this social menace. Shelter is very central to human existence, hence it is our administration’s commitment to do everything humanly practicable to continue to intervene in this critical sector. “In Ondo State, we have adopted creative ways to tackle the housing deficits in view of the ever-increasing needs vis-à-vis the decreasing public funds to finance them, hence our decision to employ the time-tested option of Public Private Partnership (PPP).” The Managing Director of Premium and Nelson Limited, Mr. Raph Alabi, a partner in the project, said the major aim of the Sunprime Estate was to meet the housing needs of the current and future generations. According to him, Sunprime Estate is a proposed residential and commercial estate of 881 plots out of which 755 are for residential purpose. Alabi said: “The proposed layout plan gives necessary specifications of how the estate should be developed, including the infrastructural facilities to create an environment with a degree of economy, beauty and convenience.”