AFTER spending 13 years working with children, Proprietor of LePoshe School, Parkview, Ikoyi, Mrs Ronke Adeniyi’s concern about children‘s vulnerability led her to write a book: “Right Kid 101: A Posh guide to living as a 21st Century child”. Mrs Adeniyi, popularly known as RonkePosh, is hoping that the book will serve as a resource material for parents, teachers and others to guide young and older children through the process of learning about themselves and how to excel. The 66-page colourfully-illustrated book is divided into 11 chapters, which treat topics about identity, family, manners, science and technology, imagination and creativity, mindset, learning and research and other topics aimed at helping children to learn more about themselves. Mrs Adeniyi said she wrote the book to highlight for parents areas they need to have conversations with their wards, lamenting that many parents do not spend adequate time with their children. “Parents are busy and yet still have these children.  I decided to write this book to empower the child to take ownership of their lives early.  It covers topics like value system, mindset, technology and X-Factor.  The targeted audience are not only children but also parents, teachers and adults.  You can also use it on the assembly. “It is not a book to be read in one day because it also serves as a workbook.  It has spaces for children to write on.  This is the time when you should mould their identity – let them know who they are.  Parents should teach children their public parts and private parts and also sensitive body parts that others should not touch.  If children know their rights, they can speak up if a predator is near,” she said. Most parents who have children at LePoshe School, Mrs Adeniyi said, have bought into her vision to empower their children and participated in the book launch, which held in May. Underscoring the importance of parenting,  Mrs Adeniyi said successful does not happen by chance, but must be intentional.  She said child bearing should not be the natural fallout of a marriage, but be planned. “Parenting should be intentional.  Why do you have children? You should plan – just like you plan for a business.  Children only equate the love you have for them with the time you spend with them. Spend quality time – not that you are at home physically, but you are present because you are busy with your phone,” she counseled. Though trained as a Biochemist and banker, Mrs Adeniyi said she veered into education because she felt comfortable working with children. “I started with medical school, but I did not want it anymore, so I did an MBA and started working in the bank for a little under 10 years.  I started working with children during the weekends, creating part packs. I would do several parties during the weekend and be exhausted by Monday, but still have to go to my bank job. After leaving the bank, she trained as an educationist before starting her school six years ago. “My school is the best.  The priority is not just reading and writing, but the emotional wellbeing of the child.  Everything we do is laced with love. “In the next five years I see this school as a template.  We want to do what is right; we want to give children the liberty to express themselves,” she said.