When I was going for the job interview, I rubbed anointing oil on my face and forehead so that I will be selected. My Pastor also prayed for him after I showed him the application form I obtained for N2000.” These were the words of one of the job seekers who were fleeced by a consulting firm, KAI Environment, which claimed to be recruiting workers for the Edo State Ministry of Environment and Sustainability. The applicant who simply gave his name as Osas said he was told about the job recruitment ongoing at Bins Hotel along Ekenwan road and he went to check it out. He said it was what he observed that made him to pay N2000 to obtain application form. Osas attended the interview session and was told he qualified but had to pay N15,000 for uniform. He said he was on his way to pay the N15,000 when he was called that the head of the KAI Environment, Prince Benjamin Amaechi Chukwurah has been arrested after journalist investigated the recruitment exercise and broke the news about the fake recruitment. However the N15,000 was not the only money the firm demands from job seekers. Others were N2000 for registration form, N2000 for identity cards, N2000 for handouts, N500 for training fees and N500 for examination fees. What made many people fell for the scam was that they taught it was part of the 200,000 jobs promised by Governor Godwin Obaseki. Besides, the facebook page of the KAI Environment carried the photographs Prince Chukwurah took with some government officials at the Edo State Government House. Chukwurah claimed he hailed from the royal palace of Ugbunor community in Delta State. He said he attended the Ambrose Alli University, Ekpoma, where he studied Public Administration. He claimed he registered KAI Environment as a non-governmental organisation in Delta State. In November last year, Chukwurah stormed Edo with some of his recruits from Delta State and wrote a proposal to Obaseki stating his plans to partner on ways to make the state clean. What was missing in his proposal that aroused suspicion was his refusal to include how he planned to be paid or pay his workers. It was gathered the proposal was sent to the Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability, Omoua Alonge Oni-Okpaku. To perfect his plans, Prince Chukwurah and his team dressed in their lemon green uniforms started frequenting the premises of ministry. They would stay outside under the tree to perhaps create impression that they were part of the system. During the celebration of the World Environmental Day, Chukwurah sent one of his deputies, Mr. Mok Emmanuel, to attend the event and posed as an official from Abuja. It was learnt that Mok was made to stay at high table closed to the commissioner. He enlisted an official of the ministry identified as Friday and obtained list of markets, dumpsites and moats which he later paraded as the mandate areas given to him by the state government. Three months ago, Prince Chukwurah began recruitment of workers to be supposedly assigned to various beats after the state government approved his proposal. To convince his victims, he used the Ministry of Environment as his address on the application letter and included pictures of Governor Obaseki. As the number of interested applicants increased, the fees for uniform rose from N7500 to N15000. He invited some persons from the legion of ex-service men, paramilitary organisation and an official of the ministry to give talks to the new recruits. The keep fit exercise was carried out at the Garrick Memorial School after which the recruits were given uniforms. Various ranks ranging from Lieutenant to Major were assigned to the new recruits. Junior officers were made to salute senior officers especially within the Bins Hotel. The bubble burst for Prince Chukwurah when journalists visited the recruitment center and pretended to be interested. Several persons were seen driving in to pick and submit forms for their relatives. Others were seen undergoing interview sessions. Franklyn Nwachukwu who said he is a disciplinary officer of KAI Environmental his boss was recruiting youths with the permission of the state government through the Ministry of Environment and Sustainability. He said their target is to recruit 500 persons across the state and they would be made to write examination as well as undergo physical fitness. According to him, “We will be responsible for ensuring that people put dirt in Waste bins even when they are inside the vehicle. We will put waste basket in every parts of the state. “We have not posted people out. We are still collecting credentials. We are recruiting for the state government. Without the state government approval, we will not be here. “Officials of the Ministry of Environment were here to talk to the recruits even Road safety people were here. People are to pay for forms and uniform. They can go and buy their boot.” Speaking to newsmen shortly after he was arrested, Prince Chukwurah said it was Mok Emmanuel that had discussions with state government officials on his behalf. He said he registered the Kick Against Indiscipline Environment as a non-governmental organisation to help keep the environment clean. “I have only made N180,000 from the sales of forms and that the applicants were yet to pay. I registered Kick Against Indiscipline to join the government to clean up the environment and illegal dumping of waste. We started in Delta State and are being supported. “We do voluntary service. We applied to work in Edo State last year November. We were not given approval but we recruit and train people to carry out sensitisation on how people should dump their waste. We wrote to the governor and he minuted the letter to the ministry of environment. “My proposal has not been approved. The illegal aspect of it is that it has not been approved but on my agency, I tell people I want to train them and they pay for materials “When government has not given me approval that is different but when I train people, they pay. We told government about our parameters but did not tell us to go and collect money. “We started collecting money and recruiting people because there was an assurance. We were to prepare them for the job they were going to give to me.  In Delta State, our workers earn between N15,000 and N25,000. “Our plan is to pay workers in Edo from penalties paid by defaulters. If government said we should refund money we will do that. I do not see what I have done as a fraud.” Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability, Omoua Alonge Oni-Okpaku, said the ministry officials never had any meeting with Chukwurah adding that she was skeptical when a staff of the ministry invited Mok to seat with her on the World Environmental Day celebration. The commissioner said she has previously chased Chukwurah away from the premises of the ministry after she found that they were always loitering around. She said Chukwurah and his members would be prosecuted and explained that an official of the ministry allegedly involved with the scam did not inform her before giving documents about markets, dump sites and moats to Chukwurah. Documents recovered from Chukwurah included photographs he took with some state government officials at different functions he attached to the application letters to deceive his victims. Edo State Police Commissioner Babatunde Kokumo said the police would unravel all persons involved in the fake job recruitment carried out by the Kick Against Indiscipline Environment also known as KAI Environment. Kokumo, who confirmed taking custody of Prince Chukwurah Benjamin, the alleged mastermind of the scam, said investigation has commenced. Prince Chukwurah was arrested and interrogated on Tuesday by government officials after journalists exposed his illegal activities at Bins Hotel. Kokumo said all persons involved in the scam including government officials would be exposed after investigation has been concluded. “They have transferred the man to us. We will take it up from there. We are doing our investigation.”