The Chairman, Feg Agro Farms International Limited, Otunba (Dr.) Gabriel Emiola Ogunsanya, has emerged the Pioneer National President of National Fish Association of Nigeria (NFAN). NFAN is the umbrella body of all fish commodities associations and related stakeholders involved in all segments of fish production and value chain in the fish industry in Nigeria with a common vision to developing the agricultural sector by revolutionizing the fish industry in Nigeria and having one single voice. The association, in collaboration with the Federal Ministry of Industry, Trade and Investment, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Raw Materials Research and Development Council and Nigeria Export Promotion Council, aims at achieving the total ban on the importation of fish and fish products in Nigeria by the year 2020. Ogunsanya called for the unification of all fish commodities associations and stakeholders in Nigeria to help achieve the Gross Domestic Products of fish production of 3,500,000 MT for domestic consumption and possible export for foreign exchange and economy growth of the nation. Speaking to The Nation, Ogunsanya said the fish industrial estate programme will commence in Osun and Ekiti states anytime from now. According to him, the programme will involve about 1000 youths in the industrial estate where they will all remain on a parcel of land. Each of the farmers will be given four ponds that can contain between 20,000 and 25,000 juveniles and they will culture them for some months before they harvest. During the programme, they will be given feeds and allowances. After harvesting the products, they will calculate the money for the projects for six months. This will be deducted from their profits. The rest of the profits will be shared between the farmers and the management which is the company taking care of the farmers. The management recruits estate officers and consultants to manage the profits for them. The programme, according to the Feg Agro chair, is so flexible that as they are harvesting their fish, they are given new juveniles, feed and allowances for the second part. “There is no way they are not going to realize between N600,000 and N700, 000 in the six months as their own profits. Automatically, somebody is taking N100, 000 per month,” he said.