FORMER Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Katsina-Alu is dead at 76 years old. Katsina-Alu, who was CJN between December 30, 2009 and August 2011, was said to have died in the early hours of yesterday in an Abuja hospital after a brief illness. The former CJN hails from Ushongo Local Government Area, Benue State. Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Justice Walter Onnoghen yesterday confirmed Katsina-Alu’s death. Onnoghen, in a statement issued yesterday by his media aide, Awassam Bassey, sent “his heartfelt condolences and that of the entire Judiciary to the family of the deceased former CJN and urges them to take solace in the fact that their late patriarch lived a fulfilled life.” President Muhammadu Buhari yesterdaycondoled with the family and friends of former the late Katsina-Alu. Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu in Abuja, joined the government and people of Benue, the Nigerian Bar Association and the National Judicial Council in mourning the erudite jurist. The President noted that the deceased contributed immensely to the structuring of Nigeria’s jurisprudence. Senate President Bukola Saraki yesterday expressed deep sorrow over the death of the former CJN. Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, described the late chief justice as a patriotic and diligent public servant whose many well-considered judgments enriched the nation’s jurisprudence and contributed immensely to national development. He commiserated with the immediate family of the deceased, the Tiv Nation, the judiciary, the government and people of Benue State over the sad incident. Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom said the death of Katsina-Alu has thrown the state into sadness and mourning. Ortom described the late Justice Katsina-Alu as a peace-loving man, patriot and father, who built bridges for many others to cross. He stated that the demise of the former Chief Justice was a huge blow to Benue State in particular and a loss to the country. The governor described Justice Katsina-Alu as among selfless Nigerians, who upheld the truth, equity and fairness in service to the country APC also mourned the death of Justice Aloysius Katsina-Alu. It said in a statement: “The party commiserates with his immediate family, the people and government of Benue State, and indeed all Nigerians, over the sad and irreparable loss of this great statesman, legal luminary and patriot.”