Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain and former House of Representatives member Bimbo Daramola spoke with Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU in Lagos on the lessons of the recent governorship election and the challenges the incoming Kayode Fayemi administration will face in the Fountain of Knowledge. What are the lessons which the political class should learn from the recent Ekiti State governorship election? First and foremost, you don’t take people for granted. At the end of the day, we must hold on to the principles and tenets of democracy. In the definition if democracy, you find the word ‘people’ three times; government of the people, by the people and for the people. The emphasis is on the people. That is the final authority. Democracy hangs on the people. It is pivotal. When people make up their mind on something, no force under heaven can stop them. In the Babylonian days, God said if these people are united and they propose in their mind to achieve something, they will achieve it. You may say it is a marginal victory. But, it still reflected the collective desire of the people that Dr. Kayode Fayemi should be the governor. What are your expectations about the new government that will come on board in October? My expectation is that having seen that his victory drew from the strength of various people, Dr. Fayemi should respect that. His administration should reflect the elementary principles that it was a collective project. My expectation is that the party should be united behind him. It must be one party, one Ekiti State, in our desire to reclaim the identity of our state. The 33 APC governorship aspirants had the same goal as it reflected in their slogan; Irapada Ekiti, reclaiming our identity and all that. Central to all of us what the need to correct what was wrong with our state. We wanted to get our state back. My expectation is that we should join hands with the new governor to reclaim our state back. There was an allegation of vote buying against the two major parties. What is your reaction? It is a surprise to be that people are touting that. In an environment where people are poor and deliberately impoverished, what do you expect? You go to an island where people have been thirsty for long, what will appeal to them? It flies in the face of logic. People have been impoverished in the last three and half years. It may be the downward trend in the evolutionary history of our politics. But, the fact is that you want to win an election. I have not said yes. I have not said no. but, the truth of the matter is that the two parties wanted to win the election. They used every weapon. You  will strengthen what is available to you. You want to sharpen your skill. If that election has been about widows; if the entire electorate were widows, what will they be looking for? Husbands, men. That is the truth. People have not been paid for seven months. People have hospital bills to pay. People are beginning to steal amala on fire there. It is logical. Why did government deny them their salaries for seven months and made them very vulnerable? The vulnerability of these was at its lowest status. Let nobody deny it. It may not have been to induce. It may have been to cushion. If APC gave money, it must have been some forms of relief so that people do not follow the PDP that has impoverished them for three and half years. The people were so impoverished that they could not queue behind their conviction anymore. It was a fight for the soul of Ekiti State. What we did was to good message and support it with tangibke items. Jesus himself had a ministration at a particular forum. People were hungry. He quickly called Peter. Peter said that they people were hungry. Peter said what was available was a young boy who has two pieces of fish and five loaves of bread. Jesus said Father I thank you, bless this food. Then, food came. Would that not set a dangerous precedent in Ekiti State? Would they not ask for money next time? I will expect that Dr. Fayemi will not impoverish the people. He will not make them vulnerable. An hungry man cannot listen to any preaching. By the time their salaries are paid, people will begin to address their identities. Once we conquer hunger, all will be well. Teachers will not suffer again. You wil not be able to abuse them with three or four thousand naira credited to their accounts by the government. He did not pay their salaries. He credited their accounts with three or four or five thousand naira. Dr. Fayemi will not do that. When you conquer the elementary desire for food, people will not behave like that again. You will convince them on the basis of the work you have done. What are the challenges that will face the in-coming administration? I honestly don’t envy Dr.Kayode Fayemi at this time. He is back in the state to repair it, to clear the rot. It is an economically war-torn environment. It is a psychologically war0torn environment. It is an educationally war-torn environment. It is a physically war-torn environment. And that is where he is going to clean up the mess. It may not be easy. He has the job well cut out for him. But, the people will support him. He cannot do it with his blood. He will need good people. He will need great advice from people. He is a studious person anyway. Fayemi will not be prolifegate. He will a modestly calm fellow. The difference between him and Ayo Fayose will help him greatly. Do you see the House of Assembly cooperating with him? This election is an extinction of the dinosaur. The dinosaur is extinct now. The size of the dinosaur could not save himself from extinction. Ayo Fayose saw himself as the dinosaur. It is bye. It is over. Never again will this happen in Ekiti. By the grace of God, Fayemi will set the state on the path of economic growth and development. The lawmakers will leave on May 29, next year. The wise choice is for them to start defecting now. Any attempt to follow Osoko will be an attempt by the flies to follow the dead body to the grave. Things have changed. When the drum has changed, the dance step will change as well. They should understand that this is a new administration, a serious administration. Fayemi will anot assume the role of the Speaker. He will allow the House of Assembly to function as an organ of government, as a legislature that is key and integral. He will make Ekiti work for everybody. Do you see the APC recording the same victory in next year’s parliamentary elections in Ekiti State, in view of the close margin in the governorship results? Strike the shepherd and the sheep will scatter. Now that Ayo Fayose has less than three months in office, he will be confronted with the sad reality of what he has done. He will now have a choice to make between his past hunting him and him having to hug his past. By the verdict, Fayose will have to confront his past as governor. I will leave him to the judgment of history. I can tell you that we will win the parliamentary elections. We should field the right candidates. We should not assume that the fact that we are in government will give us that victory. There will be bandwagon effect. It will help. I got kicked out of the National Assembly, not because I did not perform. I did wekl for my constituency. Even, Ayo Fayose knew that I did well. Among other factors that will make us to win with a wide margin is how thorough the process is, the kind of candidates we present and the capacity and reputation of the candidates we are fielding. Now that your constituents are requesting you to return to the National Assembly, what will be your response? I believe very strongly that it is too early. What I am doing now is celebrating the victory of the APC in Ekiti State. I want to enjoy this moment with our dear governor. My constituents want me to serve their cause. Of course, if my constituents want me to run again for the House of Representatives, or in any position, I will be too willing to serve them. Their decision and their request to me to run is not uninformed. I thank them for the opportunity. In the days ahead, we will consult. We will talk to the governor, the people. We will complement his vision and government and ensure thsat Ekiti will be better for it. How can we prevent further defection from the APC as we approach 2019? At the national level, federal politics is complex. The truth of the matter is that there should be fairness, adequate recognition of everybody that is an integral component of the APC. I thank God we have a national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who has experience as a mobiliser, a two-time governor of Edo State. He has been a labour leader. What leaders do is to recognise dissenting voices and reconcile people. In the days ahead, the party will consolidate on democracy. APC has just spent four years in power. I believe the party should be given the chance to run the country so that it can build on its achievements. 