The Governor of Katsina state, Governor Aminu Bello Masari has called on the citizens of the state and Nigerians in general to support security agencies by providing useful information to fish out perpetrators of armed banditry, cattle rustling and kidnappings, and arrest the spate of wanting killings that have engulfed the country Masari who made the above declaration on Sunday while speaking during the commissioning of Malumfashi Area Command office of the Nigeria Police Force, along Funtua road in Malumfashi ,said  the APC administration  in the state, will not relent efforts  in the reduction of crime rate, especially through such policies like the amnesty introduced for cattle rustlers The Governor further assured that security of lives and properties will continue to be of concern to the present APC administration in not only the state but the country at large assuring that his administration would continue to support security agencies to perform their statutory role of maintaining law and order. Also speaking, the state commissioner of police, Muhammad wakil expressed gratitude to Governor Masari for the support and assistance being rendered to the state police command in the area of rehabilitation of vehicles and structures of office accommodation as well as monthly purchased of petrol and diesel to the command. Wakil further announced that the new Area command would comprise of Kafur, Malumfashi, Musawa, Matazu, Kankara and Kusada. The commissioner also harped on the need for community participation in controlling crime rate in the state. The new area commander ACP Abdullahi Hassan Ma’aji who thanked Governor Masari for the provision of the office accommodation also requested the state government to provide the new command with patrol vehicles and other logistics. He assured that the Area command through operation*SHARAR DAJI* Will continue to fight crimes for armed banditry, cattle rustling and kidnappings to be curtailed. The Galadiman Katsina and District Head of Malumfashi, Justice Mamman Nasir and the Director of Administration in the local government, Alhaji Muhammad Danjuma Baure jointly expressed gratitude to the state government and the police authorities for the opening of the area command in. Malumfashi. They assured that every support and cooperation would be accorded for the command to achieve success in reducing crime rate to the barest minimum. The Governor Masari accompanied by other dignitaries cut tape to declare the area command opened.