The third edition of the Eko Theatre Carnival kicked off on Sunday with a courtesy visit to Nike Art Gallery, Lekki, Lagos. The one-week fiesta which holds from Sunday, July 29, to Sunday, August 5, 2018 would incorporate several activities across different venues of Lagos. Eko Theatre Carnival was started three years ago by theatre artist Segun Adefila and this year’s edition is supported by the MTN Nigeria Foundation. In a welcome dance at Nike Art Gallery, Adefila, dressed as a masquerade, serenaded attendees with politically inclined spoken word performance laced with music. Lauding the initiative, HRM Oludo of Ido Osun, Oba Aderemi Adedapo, eulogised Adefila as someone following the footsteps of foremost Batik maker and owner of Nike Arts Gallery, Chief Mrs Nike Okundaye. Also present at the event were Director and executive Secretary of MTN Foundation, Mr. Dennis Okoro and Nonny Ugboma, Artistic Director of African Israeli Stage, Dr. Yaffa Schuster, as well as art enthusiasts. “For us at MTN Foundation, arts and culture means a lot,” said Nonny Ugboma. “Segun is committed to youth empowerment and he has empowered a lot of people.” Adefila, who founded Crown Troupe over two decades ago which is based in Bariga, Lagos also thanked MTN Foundation. “For the first time ever in 22 years of training young people in the ghetto of Bariga, we are getting a grant, a funding directly from MTN,” Adefila said. On the line-up of the carnival, today, there will be a lecture by Prof. Peju Layiwola, the screening of films – Oriki and Bariga Boy, by Zuri 24 Media Production and Children Theatre at Ameckor’s Dream Orchard, CMS Grammar School Bus Stop, Bariga. On Tuesday, the train heads to National Arts Theatre, Iganmu, where Dr. Tunde Adegbola will deliver a lecture and the Israel-based African Israeli Stage headed by Dr. Yaffa Schuster, will stage  Wole Soyinka’s ‘A Dance of the Forests.’ Again, on Wednesday, National Theatre will host the screening of ‘Ibadan and Makoko,’ a Zuri 24 Media Production while Soyinka’s ‘Trials of Brother Jero.’ On Thursday, African Israeli Stage takes their performance of ‘A Dance of the Forests’ to Freedom Park, Lagos Island. On Friday, there will be ‘Drums Invocations’ and the performance of ‘Punctuation,’ written and directed by Joshua Alabi by Kininso Koncept at Ameckor’s Dream Orchard. The next day, ‘I’M NOT WOLE FOR HEAVEN’S SAKE!’ – ..a site specific comedy of errors devised by Toyin Oshinake’s One Six Productions would be performed by Crown Troupe Band at Ameckor’s Dream Orchard. And the grand finale of Eko Theatre Carnival which takes place on Sunday at Freedom Park, will see a dance performance of ‘Ijo Agba’ by DGDG while Crown Troupe will interpret for stage ‘The Trials of Brother Jero.’ And popular Afro musician, Buga, would perform at the closing concert.