•Buhari, ACF mourn Inspector General of Police (IGP) 1993-199 Alhaji Ibrahim Coomassie is dead. The Chairman of the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) died at about 6pm last night in Katsina, his hometown, where he was born in March 18, 1942. Katsina state government officials and family members confirmed his death to our reporter last night and said his remains will be interred today. The ninth Inspector general, was educated at the Provincial Secondary School, Zaria, Barewa College, Zaria, the Detective Training College, Wakefield, UK and Washington DC in the United States. He is survived his wife, six children and four many grand children. Apart from being CF chair, Coomasie held the exalted chieftaincy titles of Sardauna Katsina and Garkuwan Hausa of Daura. The Janazar prayer is expected to be performed on the late ACF Chairman after the Jumaat prayers at the Bani Commassie Mosque in GRA, Katsina to be followed by interment. President Muhammadu Buhari last night commiserated with the family members, the government and people of Katsina state. Coomasie was his classmate. In a statement by  Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity Garba Shehu, the president  said he received the news with shock and deep sense of loss. “Nigeria will never forget the excellent leadership the late Coomassie gave to the Nigeria police Force for the many years he served as IG.” “On behalf of the government and people of Nigeria, I pray to Allah to receive his soul and the family he left behind, the fortitude to bear the irreparable loss.” A statement by ACF National Publicity Secretary Muhammad Ibrahim Biu, said:  “Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) learnt with shock and grief the passing on of our chairman and elder statesman, former Inspector General of Police, Alhaji Ibrahim Ahmadu Coomassie, Sardauna Katsina, today 19 July 2018 in Katsina at the age of 76. “He was a fine officer and gentleman who left an indelible mark in the Police service. His love and promotion of Northern values which the late Sir Ahmadu Bello, Sardaunan Sokoto practiced and died for was legendary. “He was an administrator per excellence, a patriot, a bridge builder who lived a fulfilled life in the service of Nigeria. “Nigeria and indeed the North have loss a great elder statesman, who endeared himself to all by upholding the values most Northerners share which include justice, liberty, common decency and equal opportunity for all. “However, he would have been happier if the values he cherished and died for were being put into practice. ACF therefore calls upon Nigerians to emulate and live up his legacy in our daily lives.” 