Between January and last month, the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission has secured 139 convictions. A statement by the agency’s Head of Media and Publicity, Mr. Wilson Uwujaren, said: “The figure, which is an improvement of the 89 convictions recorded in May, is indeed, significant in many respects, particularly, as it includes the conviction of two Political Exposed Persons, PEPs – Jolly Nyame, a former governor of Taraba and Joshua Dariye, a serving Senator and a former governor of Plateau, who both are currently serving their 14-year jail sentence for criminal breach of trust, misappropriation of public funds, and receiving gratification. “Indeed, the EFCC has remained consistent in its efforts of effectively changing the negative narrative of pervasive corruption in the system, and altering the general perception that there are some people who are above the Law. “Suffice to state, that the record of convictions, also includes that of a former Senior Advocate of Nigeria, Joseph Nwobike, who was convicted for attempting to pervert the course of justice. “At the moment, several of such corruption cases are being prosecuted by the EFCC across the country, which the anti-graft agency is determined to prosecute to a logical conclusion. “The agency is determined not to rest on its oars, as it is poised to surpass the 189 convictions secured in 2017.” Also yesterday, the EFCC  arraigned a former Minister  of State for Power, Muhammad Wakil and four others  before Justice M.T Salihu of the of Federal High Court, Maiduguri, Borno State on a seven- count charge bordering on criminal conspiracy and  money laundering to the tune of over N 341m. A separate statement by Wilson said: “The others are Garba Abacha, Ibrahim Shehu Birma, Dr. Abubakar Ali Kullima and Engr. Muhammad Baba Kachalla “Wakil and the other defendants allegedly received the said sum from the $115million disbursed by a former minister of petroleum resources Diezani Alison-Madueke to influence the outcome of the 2015 presidential election. “Count one reads: “That you, Hon. Muhammad Wakil, Garba Abacha, Ibrahim Shehu Birma, Dr. Abubakar Ali Kullima and Engr. Muhammad Baba Kachalla on or about the 26th day of March, 2015 at Maiduguri, Borno State within the jurisdiction of this Honourable Court, did agree among yourselves to do an illegal act, to wit: conspiracy to commit Money Laundering and thereby committed an offence contrary to and punishable under section 18(a) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (As Amended)”. “The defendants pleaded not guilty to the charge. Counsel to the prosecution, H. A. Shehu applied for a trial date, while urging the court to remand the defendants in prison custody. “In  his reply, counsel to the first, second and third defendants, M. Umoru asked for the remand of the defendants in the EFCC custody pending the hearing of their bail applications. “Thereafter, Justice Salihu adjourned the matter to  July 3 for hearing of the bail applications and ordered the defendants to remain in EFCC custody.”