A solidarity group for President Muhammadu Buhari and Yemi Osinbajo on Wednesday declared that the presidency is not losing sleep over the merger of 39 political parties who came together to wrestle power from Buhari in 2019. The women group under the aegis of Noble Women Movement for Buhari and Osinbajo (NWM4BO), in a release made available to journalists in Abuja described the merger as a convergence of politicians who have stolen the collective commonwealth of the people. The release issued by the Director of Publicity, Dr. Rachael Ahmadu, also described most of the groups as “briefcase political parties” who are not politically relevant in their constituencies, stating that they are  crop of people who lack political ideologies. Ahmadu quoted the National President of the Noble Women Movement for Buhari and Osinbajo, Pastor (Mrs.) Mfawa Usani, as saying that President Buhari will not be distracted over those who are plotting to institutionalize corruption in Nigeria. Usani said the group will remain resolute in marketing the programmes and policies of President Buhari and Osinbajo that have impacted positively on Nigerians. The statement reads in part: “As a group, we want to state unequivocally that the presidency is not losing sleep over the merger of some briefcase political parties with the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). We saw the convergence of people who are just plotting to institutionalize corruption in Nigeria. People who ordinarily should be begging for forgiveness for looting our collective wealth. “The merger is the coming together of people who do not have political ideology, those who are not politically relevant in their various states and constituencies. They are crop of people who survive by Abuja political oxygen”. The group, however, called on Nigerians not to be deceived by cynics and critics of the Buhari’s administration, assuring that the commonwealth is safe with the duo of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo. “Development that has to be sustained comes with a price. Nigeria as a nation if compared to a broken bone takes a painful process to heal. We call on Nigerians not to loss hope in the leadership of our President because when the Labour of a pregnant woman become intense the baby is born,” the group affirmed. She maintained that the sacrifice made by Nigerians during the first term of Buhari’s administration will yield positive results if given second term in office, stressing that Malaysians also paid the supreme sacrifice to get to where they are today. It would be recalled that the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) had taken a step to galvanize other opposition parties to oust the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) come 2019.