Most people have this erroneous belief that pineapple is full of calories and not good for weight loss because of the sweet taste but this report first published in Livestrong .com and written by Chekwube Ndubisi is an eye-opener. Below is the report and I hope you find it useful. Pineapple is a tropical fruit endogenous to South America. It contains numerous vitamins such as vitamin C and B1, minerals such as manganese and enzymatic proteins. Bromelaine is proteolytic enzyme found in the stem and core of the pineapple. It is responsible for many of the therapeutic effects of pineapple such as increased digestion, improved immunity, anti-inflammatory and antithrombotic activity. A pineapple slice is only 40 calories and is primarily composed of fibre and water, both of which inhibit weight gain and are essential for weight loss. Bromelain Bromelain is a protelytic enzyme found in the stem and core of pineapple. It is used to reduce swelling and inflammation, heal wounds, treat infections and improve digestion, notes the University of Maryland Medical Centre. Bromelain breaks down proteins in the digestive track and stimulates muscular contraction in the intestine. Improved digestion of proteins provides the body with increased energy reserves for cellular and metabolic processes. Additionally, proper digestion is an energy-consuming process, so cells require energy to burn calories which, in turn, increases your metabolic rate, boosts your oxygen consumption and results in weight loss. Poor digestion can also result in an accumulation of toxins that can impair your immune system, decrease your energy level, cause lethargy, drop your metabolic rate and cause weight gain. Dietary fibre Pineapple is classified as a negative-calorie fruit because it only contains 40 calories and the amount of energy used to digest it is greater than the caloric gain. One raw pineapple contains 1.4 g of dietary fibre. Fibre contains no calories on its own, takes a longer time to chew and triggers the body’s feeling of satiation or being full. Since fibre is not digested by enzymatic proteins in the stomach, it passes through the digestive track and forms a gel that binds to fats and cholesterol and gets rid of them, thereby preventing weight gain. It also regulates the release and absorption of carbohydrates, so it promotes energy metabolism and expenditure as opposed to fat storage. Water Pineapple contains significant amounts of water and triggers the feeling of satiety and prevents overeating and excessive caloric consumption. Water is essential to all physiological processes in the body, with 85 percent of the brain being water. Water is also a lubricant in digestion and regulates body temperature. Since water plays such a vital part in each physiological function, in periods of dehydration, the body will hold on to water to ensure its survival, resulting in increased blood volume and increased weight. By drinking water, your body volume becomes regulated, digestion is increased, toxins which may impair your immune system are flushed out, you feel full, consume less calories and lose weight. Consideration A decreased caloric intake and increased energy expenditure results in weight loss. Pineapple does not contain sugar or a significant amount of carbohydrates or fat, thus it does not result in fat storage. A healthy lifestyle with healthy foods such as fruits like pineapple, dark leafy vegetables and lean meats can help you prevent weight gain.