Nigerian born England based boxer, Larry ‘The Natural’ Ekundayo continues his march towards the world Welterweight title as he returns to the ring against Scotland’s John Thain on the 13th July in London. Speaking at a media parley in Lagos ahead of the fight, Khomeini Bukhari, a member of ‘Team Ekundayo’ explained that the media session was ostensibly to sensitive the public and particularly, the corporate world on the need to  support the ambition of Ekundayo to win a world title for Nigeria. Bukhari also used the opportunity to thank Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for his continued financial and moral support to the career of the boxer. Adding that there are plans to present a symbolic boxing glove to the renowned politician in a show of appreciation. The well attended parley that featured former Commonwealth boxing champion Segun Ajose, Remi Aboderin, Secretary-General, NBB of C, veteran journalist Effiong Nyong, as well as, Andrew Odobeatu, had them rallying support for the ambition of the highly rated Nigerian boxer from the corporate world, the general public and the media. Also speaking via telephone from London, Ben Gray, Larry’s commercial Agent from World Class Athletes enthused greatly about the chances of Ekundayo to become a world champion in a couple of months. He however, admonished the government and well placed individuals to support the dream. Even as he lamented the lack of supports for talented Nigerians with potentials to become world champions like Anthony Joshua. Ekundayo, the former Prize fighter and African Boxing Union champion, with a impressive tale of 13-1 3kos, who lost his last fight in a controversial split decision to Gary Corcoran, was quick to state; ” I left that in the past. I feel I won the fight. I was landing the cleaner shots and applying textbook boxing. Some judges seem to favour quantity over quality, aggression over accuracy.” Renowned for his sleekness and uncommon abilities to box and fight, he went on to express his confidence  ahead of the clash against the Scottish boxer with a record 17-3 1ko in the MTK packaged bout tagged ‘Seize the City’, slated for next week. According to him, the fight is a ’50-50′ battle as he describes his opponent as a good fighter. “I am confident of bouncing back to victory. And the dream is still alive,” he enthused confidently.