Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom yesterday defected to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Widely expected to leave the APC after he accused the state chapter of giving him a red card, Ortom met with National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole, who struggled to prevent his defection. Ortom said at the weekend that he would take his decision after a meeting with Oshiomhole today in Abuja, only for him to announce his defection yesterday in Makurdi, the state capital. Ortom said: “This morning, I wanted to go to Abuja to attend the meeting (with the APC chairman) but some youths in the state refused to let me leave.  They asked me to go back.” He told his audience made up of Local Government Council chairmen and 276 Councillors, that he was ”formally” informing them that  ”I have forwarded my resignation letter from the APC to the chairman of my council ward and he has promised to join me in the new party”. Displayig his resignation letter, Ortom added: “As I talk to you, ten (10) out of seventeen (17) state lawmakers of APC are ready to  follow me to the new party. May I formally announce to you that I have formally moved to the PDP.” He added humorously: “I am too young to retire from politics.” The governor lamented what he called deliberate falsehood against him to dent his image. “ The same people who are now insulting me were the same people that endorsed me for a second term during the state’s congress of the party,” he said. Ortom explained that it was out of sheer magnanimity that he told them to allow other aspirants to also run for governor – in line with democratic values. He said he had been endorsed because of his performance and wondered why the same people were now criticising his administration. The leader of the councillors, who agreed to defect with the governor, Mr Tom Hanmaikyur, and the state’s Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON) Chairman, Mr Anthony Shawon, pledged on behalf of their colleagues to follow the governor to any party of his choice. They also pledged to support  the governor to enable him actualise his political dreams. Benue APC chairman Abba Yaro said he was yet to receive the governor’s resignation letter and added: “There is no cause to worry.” PDP Chairman John Ngbede said: “It is a welcome development. He is welcome to our party”. A coalition of Benue youths, comprising over 40 groups, blocked Ortom’s motorcade from his Abuja trip. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the youths blocked the road at the Government House Junction displaying placards with various inscriptions, among which were: “Ortom don’t go back to APC”, “ No land for cattle colony “, “Ortom is our party”. They pulled off the APC flag on the governor’s car.