In the world of elements, that are are those that are found in large amounts, those that are needed in significant amounts, those whose functions are clear and important, those whose absence lead to a total collapse of systems and indeed life itself and yet there are those that are hardly noticed or regarded as important because they are in small amounts or do small functions or play unnoticeable roles. In the end, they all depend on one another in the process of sustaining life. Trace elements (also called micro minerals or micronutrients) are nutritional elements found in food substances in minute amounts and needed by the body in minute amounts. Many of them are essential for normal growth, health, and fitness. When more than a minute amount of a trace element is ingested, there is poisoning. Most trace elements act as catalysts in enzyme systems.  They may be structural components of vital enzymes. Some metallic ions, such as iron and copper, participate in oxidation-reduction reactions in energy metabolism. In this article, we look briefly at some trace elements and their ready sources in foods. Chromium is found all over the body. Its function is yet to be better understood.  It appears to be involved in blood sugar regulation.  It is found in cereals, yeast, liver and beer. Cobalt is important for formation of red blood cells which carry oxygen to all parts of the body.  Cobalt is found in meats, especially liver. Copper is necessary for the formation of haemoglobin, the component of red blood cells that binds oxygen for its distribution throughout the body. Copper is found in green vegetables, fish, and liver. Fluorine is important for healthy teeth and prevents tooth decay.  It is found in tea and sea food. Iodine is an important constituents of the thyroid hormones – triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4) – that are primarily responsible for regulation of metabolism.  Iodine is found in iodized salt, milk and seafood. Iron is a key component of haemoglobin in red blood cells.  It is found in meats and offal, flour, bread, and vegetables. Manganese is a key component of some enzymes.  It is found in cereals, pulses (beans, lentils, peas), and nuts. Molybdenum is a key component of some enzymes. It is found in kidney, cereals, vegetables, and fruits. Selenium is a key component of some enzymes.  It works in association with vitamin E.  It is found in cereals, meat, fish, and egg. Zinc is a key component of numerous enzymes and other proteins molecules.  It is required for steroid and thyroid hormones activities.  It is found in meats, milk, cheese, flour and bread, cereals, and groundnuts. Aluminium, cadmium, mercury, arsenic, and lead are elements that are not known to be required by humans as nutrients but they are frequently ingested as contaminants in food or water. We do not need to worry about nutritional elements being too little or too much in our diets as long as we eat regularly, we eat well – a variety of cooked and fresh foods, and we eat modestly.  Sometimes we eat well when we have just been paid and poorly after some time and then well again after the next pay.  It may be helpful to have a list of food stuffs to keep regularly in the home according to seasons, financial cycles, and personal preferences so that we eat well all the time. Theresa Adebola John is a lecturer at Lagos State University College of Medicine (LASUCOM) and an affiliated researcher at the College of Medicine, University of Tennessee, Memphis.  For any comments or questions on this column, please email bolajohnwritings@yahoo.com or call 08160944635 