Having served as Pro-Chancellor of some federal universities, Dr Bolanle Olawale Babalakin has an idea of what can make them run effectively. He shared his thoughts with some reporters. Kofoworola Belo-Osagie was there. Pro-Chancellor of the University of Lagos, Dr Bolanle Olawale Babalakin is one person who believes that a well-managed education system would take Nigeria to a place of pride in the comity of nations. However, he said this would not happen without investment in infrastructure and judicious management of resources. In an interview with journalists in Gbongan, his hometown, he shared how his interest in education has led him to make investments in improving infrastructure and show example of how available scarce resources could be better utilised. He said he supports President Muhammadu Buhari’s recent call for accountability by managers in the utilisation of the resources provided to tertiary institutions. As Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Governing Council University of Maiduguri, Babalakin said the institution gained 42 new structures under his watch with its resources. He said: “In Maiduguri, in four years we executed and completed not less than 42 projects, including the College of Medicine, a new college of pharmacy, a new college of education; we even went as far as building a 57-bedroom hotel on the land allocated to the university since 1978 which nobody was able to do anything about – that is the El Kanemi Suites in Abuja today, which has become very popular.  And we did this just managing our very scarce resources. We did not borrow a dime. “We also found an ingenious way of providing electricity on the campus for 20 hours a day.  I may not be able to reveal the tactics because we intend to use on the national platform sometime. If you speak to the vice chancellor and all the members, they will tell you that we came and we served. And it is also on record that for four years we did not collect any sitting allowance, any personal allowance, any travel allowance and we did not participate in whatsoever any commercial activity.  It was full time charity. “At the University of Lagos, we have been there for a year.  We are putting up a system that we believe will work; we are putting up a system that we believe will, ultimately, impact on the university very positively.” Outside his Pro-Chancellor role, Babalakin said he is still pursuing his love for education.  He said this influenced the construction of a 4,000 capacity auditorium in Gbongan, which he said would strictly be used for programmes that advance the course of knowledge. The facility, which boasts of 18 adjoining seminar rooms, was used for the first time on Tuesday last week for the Policy meeting of Tertiary Institutions in Nigeria organised by the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB). Its premises also housed many of the participants in 60 one-bedroom suites. Babalakin said the plan is to add a hotel and other facilities – all aimed at enhancing intellectual discourse. “The size of the project shows that it is not designed for minor gatherings.  It is designed for major gatherings. The emphasis is pursuit of knowledge. We will not use it for general things no matter how attractive they are.  If what you want to do will not enhance knowledge, it will not fit in to the dream of those who put this in place,” he said. Babalakin spoke of a possibility of the conversion of the facility into a university. “Everybody that has visited this place has encouraged us to turn it into a university.  But from where I am coming from, I know what is like to run a university. I have a fair idea and I believe that universities must be properly run. If we decide to convert this it a university, it is because we believe we can make it a university. But as of today, our options are open,” he said. To advance educationally, Babalakin said Nigeria must take its tertiary institutions seriously.  He said just as the Oxford and Cambridge universities stand out as examples for other institutions in the United Kingdom, there should be shining examples in Nigeria for others to follow. Babalakin said: “All the countries that have developed rapidly have taken their institutions very seriously. England has Oxford and Cambridge.These universities have been there since 10th, 11th century – and they have kept the standard.  They have not weakened Oxford and Cambridge. What they have done is to make Oxford and Cambridge the standard and encourage other universities to aspire to be like Oxford and Cambridge. And in the process, some universities have emerged.  Today, an engineering qualification from the Imperial College, London, is comparable to a degree in Oxford and Cambridge “What we have done in Nigeria was that we had five universities.  Rather than tell the other universities to emulate the five universities, what we did was to reduce the standard of the university so that everybody could now claim to have a university when really they were not contributing anything major to the educational system. “