The Ekiti State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party ( PDP ) has challenged the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), who is also a former governor of the state, Dr Kayode Fayemi, to show the people of the state the projects he executed with the N25 billion bond he took from the Capital Market during his tenure. Throwing the challenge in a statement in Ado-Ekiti Friday, the PDP State Chairman, Chief Gboyega Oguntuase, said rather than executing projects with the loan, Fayemi only put the state into serious debts that would affect the welfare of the people for years to come. Oguntuase urged voters in the state to come out in large number next Saturday and vote for the PDP candidate in the poll, Prof Kolapo Olusola, and allow for the continuity of the peace, progress and harmony being enjoyed in the state. “Thank God that though they have been denying some many atrocities they committed while in office from 2010 to 2014, there is no way they can deny borrowing N25 billion from the Capital Market. Everybody in the state knows this. Unfortunately, they cannot show the people what they spent the money on.
“In the prospectus published to explain how the loan would be utilised, they listed various projects. Among the projects are a new Governor’s Office, a new Ojaba Market, a flyover, a state pavilion and a new Government House. Where are the projects? The people are asking. “The flyover was built in their stomachs. The Governor’s Office never existed. That is after they committed N100 million to scrape a parcel of land near the House of Assembly Complex. For the Ojaba Market, they only erected a giant billboard at the entrance of the palace of the Ewi of Ado-Ekiti. “They took the first tranche of the loan, that is N20 billion in 2012 and the second tranche of N5 billion few months to the 2014 governorship election. This is apart from the huge monthly allocations and over N46 billion got from the Excess Crude Oil Account. Ekiti people are asking Fayemi and the APC what they did with the money,” he said. The PDP boss noted that the actions and inactions of Fayemi not only led the state into debts, but had mortgaged the state in some ways.
He explained that the state spends over N1.1 billion monthly to service the debts from its statutory allocations. “The monthly deductions have been denying the state revenue that would have been used to pay workers salary, provide more facilities for the people to enjoy and even make provisions for the future of the state and the people,” he noted. Oguntuase added that since Fayemi failed when entrusted with the leadership of the state for four years, he should not expect the people of the state to now commit their welfare and future into his hands.