It’s two! And it all looks far too easy from and England perspective. Dele Alli introduces himself to the 2018 World Cup, peeling away at the back post to head home Jesse Lingard’s inch-perfect cross. MATCH STATS GOAL! SWEDEN 0-1 ENGLAND (Maguire, 30) BANG! England take the lead in emphatic fashion as Harry Maguire rises high to power an Ashley Young corner into the back of the Swedish goal. The set piece specialists strike again, as Maguire scores his first international goal, and what a time for it! England are playing a line of four in attack. Raheem Sterling and Harry Kane are up front, but Dele Alli and Jesse Lingard look as if they are playing up there with them. EMPTY SEATS? Indications have emerged that there could be as many as 10,000 empty seats for today’s clash at the Samara Arena. Yes, you read that right, 10,000! The stadium has a capacity of 42,000 but only 32,000 tickets have been sold, officially 2,836 to England fans and 3,000 to Sweden fans. It’s a shame more people can’t be there to see the game in person but it’s going to take a lot more than that to dampen the optimism and excitement that has England and Sweden gripped at the moment.  Starting XI: Pickford, Walker, Stones, Maguire, Trippier, Lingard, Henderson, Alli, Young, Sterling, Kane. England are unchanged from the side who beat Colombia – Ashley Young and Kyle Walker both overcame minor problems which weren’t expected to keep them out anyway. Jamie Vardy is fit enough to be named on the bench despite a groin injury  ENGLAND EXPECTANT So England are preparing for their biggest game in over a decade as they face Sweden for a place in the World Cup semi-finals. The Three Lions have not reached the last eight of the World Cup since 2006, where defeat by Portugal on penalties in Germany marked the start of a period of underachievement. But Gareth Southgate’s side now have the country believing that football is on its way home following their dramatic shootout win over Colombia in the last 16. Now a first World Cup semi-final appearance since the heroics of Italia ’90 is just 90 minutes away for the current crop of English talent. Can they keep the nation dreaming? SWEDEN TEAM NEWS Starting XI: Olsen, Krafth, Lindelof, Granqvist, Augustinsson, Larsson, Ekdal, Forsberg, Claesson, Berg, Toivonen. Sweden make two changes – both of which were expected. Right-back Mikael Lustig is suspended so Emil Krafth replaces him. And Sebastian Larsson is back from a ban so he takes the place of Gustav Svensson. SPOTLIGHT ON SWEDEN Sweden stand in between England and a place in the World Cup semi-finals but their record against the Swedes does not make good reading, with just two victories in 15 games. Janne Andersson’s side beat Switzerland in the last 16, and are looking to reach the last four for the first time since 1994. Sweden’s strengths will undoubtedly come from their defence, which has conceded only two goals in the whole tournament so far – the lowest of any of the remaining nations, with both coming in their 2-1 defeat to Germany in the group stages. Sweden are the lowest scorers in the tournament too, having scored six goals in four games to date. 