Scores of loyalists and supporters of Senate President Bukola Saraki marched through the major streets of Ilorin, Kwara state capital on Friday to celebrate the victory of Saraki at the Supreme Court. The Ilorin emirate community under the leadership of the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari also offered special prayers to show their gratitude to God over the verdict. The special prayers which was led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Sheik Muhammad Bashir was offered immediately after Friday’s jummat service at the Ilorin central mosque. Bashir prayed Allah to continue to guide and protect Saraki and elevate him to Nigerians political office. Women and youths followers of the Senate President had biesiged the Emir’s palace soon after news of the verdict by the apex court filtered into town to celebrate the victory with the monarch. Speaking with reporters, a leader of the youth groups, Alhaji Abdulfatai  Solagberu said the youths were overwhelmed by the victory which has finally absolved Saraki of any wrongdoing regarding the declaration of his assets. He said the youths couldn’t have done less because of the passion the Senate President has for their growth and development.  He recalled how Saraki has consistently empowered many youths and gave jobs, both at federal and state levels to many of them. Solagberu thanked the judiciary for being an unbiased umpire saying the apex court’s verdict has shown that the judiciary is indeed the last hope of the common man. Also speaking, the leader of Kwara market women, Alhaja Nike Lambe thanked the Emir and men of goodwill whom she noted stood with Saraki all through his ordeal. She assured the Senate President of the continued support of Kwara women, saying that Saraki had empower many women through his numerous empowerment scheme since his first election as Kwara state governor in 2003. Responding, the Emir of Ilorin, Alh Ibrahim- Sulu- Gambari hailed the Supreme Court’s verdict. He thanked the jubilant for their show of love and affection for Saraki who he described as “my beloved son”. The monarch said he was proud of Saraki’s achievements as governor and Senate President. He prayed Allah to elevate him in his political career and grant him sound health and long life.