One after the other the patients expressed gratitude to the Lagos  State Governor  Akinwunmi Ambode  government for helping them to obtain free surgries for their cardiothoracic challenges. Though they were still in plasters and bandages, this did not stop them from expressing their gratitude. These were some of the 15 indigent patients with congenital heart diseases, who received corrective surgeries at the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja,  held between May and last month, courtesy of Ambode. Giving an insight into the Health Mission, LASUTH’s Chief Medical Director, Prof Wale Oke said the cost of a surgery for heart-related diseases was over N1 million per patient, and that it was notable that the governor and the foreign partners embarked on the mission to assist the beneficiaries. Oke said a cardiothoracic surgery is a super specialty that involves operation of organs in the chest, which include the heart, lungs, and great blood vessels. “It is used for remedy conditions like hole in the heart, tumors in the heart and lungs, disease of the heart valves and various lung conditions. The aim of this planned successive mission is to bring succour to the people with congenital heart disease, and also reduce the cost of medical tourism in addition to building capacity of specialists in the hospital.” He added that Cardiostart International, a  non-governmental organisation (NGO) based in the United States, held the free open heart surgeries, with support from surgeons and health care professionals of the LASUTH’s Cardiothoracic Surgery unit. “The Cardiostart International team came to LASUTH with various equipment, supplies and consumables worth hundreds of thousands of dollars for the benefit of the indigent patients,” he added. The Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Lagos Health, Dr Sola Pitan confirmed that the mission  was free, adding that it demonstrates  Ambode’s magnanimity and vision to place the state in the forefront of health care in Africa. Pitan said this was not the first  free surgery programme in the state. He said the state will continue to do more for its citizens and the country at large. He praised the team for making the programme a success. Cardiostart Foundation team director, Emily Farkas  urged the hospital to keep the programme alive. She said the NGO brought the experts   because of its passion to help. Farkas urged Nigerians to keep supporting the government to move the programme forward. A surgical technologist, Fran Younger said LASUTH was prepared to give the centre of excellence its best, adding that the workers would continue to support patients. Jumoke Akindele, 43, an Ogun State indigene trader, who had a heart problem for five years, said she had not engaged in anything productive since the problem started. “I would have died if not for Governor Ambode. I thank the Lagos State government for the free surgery and also thank the staff of LASUTH for taking care of me and pray that God in His infinite mercy will continue to work with them,”Akindele said. Fatima, 53, from the north, said: “I have been having problems in treating this condition due to lack of funds knowing how expensive it is to treat a heart ailment. I thank the Lagos State government for doing this great thing in my life. I wasn’t expecting this to come my way being a Northerner, but I am not discriminated against here in Lagos”. Head of LASUTH Cardiothoracic Unit Dr  Bode Falese said surgery required some things. “It requires personnel, training, resources, infrastructure, equipment, and all these are available at LASUTH. What are lacking right now are two things- a dedicated centre for cardiac surgery, and financial assistant to do this on a regular basis. “And to offset the cost, I will further urged the government,  non- governmental organisations (NGOs), charity groups, and well-meaning Nigerians to come to the aid of people with congenital heart diseases based on the fact that many people need financial assistant,”Falase said. 