Former Jigawa State Governor, Alhaji Sule Lamido, yesterday, declared himself the sole presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 election. Lamido insisted that among all the presidential aspirants, he remained the only one without a membership ‘lacuna’. He told PDP stakeholders in Bayelsa State to address him as “the aspirant” and not as “an aspirant”, boasting that he would emerge the candidate and eventually win the 2019 election. Lamido, who was in the state to solicit support of the state chapter of the party for his ambition, also claimed to be the only PDP aspirant qualified to challenge Buhari in 2019. The former governor, who inaugurated some projects in the state, taunted other presidential aspirants, saying that they were not committed and consistent members of the PDP and lacked the rights to vie for the party’s ticket. He said: “We want a thoroughbred PDP person. I came to see my brothers and sisters. We share the same concerns and commitments. Before you here is the aspirant, not an aspirant. Before you here is the President of Nigeria after our convention. “Before you here is your brother and commander-in-chief in 2019. Our party needs the cohesion and the discipline. So, we must rescue Nigeria and it must be somebody with the character of the PDP. In me is a very huge and large heart. “We have to save Nigeria. I didn’t come to campaign. I am your candidate. Whether you like it or not, l must be your candidate. “When others come, there will be lacuna in their membership. You need a consistent person.” In his remarks, Dickson described Lamido as a consistent, dependable, courageous mobiliser for the PDP and supporter of good causes for the country and the party. While appealing to Nigerians to rally round PDP to rescue the country from its litany of woes, Dickson said Bayelsa was ready to receive more presidential aspirants. He described the current security and economic challenges in the country as unparalleled, saying the APC failed to deliver on its mandate to the citizenry. He expressed gratitude to Lamido and other progressive minded stakeholders of the party for giving the Niger Delta, which is a minority region, the opportunity to produce a president in the person of Dr. Goodluck Jonathan. Dickson emphasised the need for all PDP contestants to pursue their aspirations with the collective interest of the PDP at heart to enable the party organise a free, fair and credible primary that would produce a widely accepted flag bearer. He said: “You are a consistent, dependable and courageous mobilizer for our party. This state remembers the storms you have weathered to defend the best interest of our party. These are very trying times, but you stood by what was right for Nigeria and for the PDP. “The state appreciates your steadfastness. Even our party leaders are waiting at the secretariat to receive you. All I want to say is that we appreciate your steadfastness and progressive views. “We call on you and other contestants to be ready to collaborate with the national leadership of our party when the delegates come together to vote in a free and fair primaries that would produce an acceptable leader.”