The Red Devils of Belgium looks poised for their first ever World Cup final berth in history when they meet Former Champions, Les Blues of France in the 1st Semifinal of the mundial at the 65,000 seated, St. Petersburg Stadium in Russia Tuesday at 1900 hours West African Time. On paper, the Belgians even look good as World Champions already. The stadium itself is a show of modernity designed by Japanese Architect, Kisho Kurosawa in the shape of space shift with retractable roof and a sliding pitch meant to keep the turf at 15*c. Surely you must have seen players gliding gleefully on the turf, which is a spectacular sight. Contrary to speculations of football permutations who are giving the match to France with 38% votes, those who think penalties will decide the match at 29% or those who think Belgium will coast easily to the finals 33% did, current performance gives it to Belgium. Records before now states that they have met a whopping 74 times with W24 to France, W30 to Belgium and D19, that record is like considering the Old Black Stars of Ghana whipping The Green Eagles now Super Eagles of Nigeria. Different story now. Both have played 5 games in this tournament where Belgians are the highest scorers with 14 goals to France haul of 9 goals. Belgium conceded 5 goals while France let in 4 but when you look at the goals difference of each country, the +9 of Belgium is the total that France scored but when you consider the 4 goals France conceded, there is an imbalance. Goals win matches and if Belgium come smoking, Les Blues are Goners. Bet. The News Agency of Nigeria went to town asking how Nigerian fans who love Thierry Henri called Igwe, meaning King, for his penchant for goals while at Arsenal F.C., but now Assistant Coach for Belgium feel sitting on Belgian bench. They were all at sea, confused like an Egba man who was elected to lead Kiriji war against his Egba kinsmen by a foster Igbajo people. Oliver Giroud who cross-carpeted from Arsenal to Chelsea and the oldest player for France at 31 said “I know Thierry would have loved to be coach of France and we will get him back”. The Nigerian fans made two requests, that Belgium allow Thierry to go seat elsewhere and that FIFA cameras would spare him showing emotions.
Thomas Meunier will be off for France because he bagged the second yellow in the quarters but Blaise Matuidi will be back. It will be interesting to watch Belgian captain, Eden Hazard face the hard tackles of his Chelsea team mate, Ngolo Kante. Oliver Giroud also of Chelsea however thinks much more of his international team mate, and France Captain, Goal Keeper Hugo Lioris as being better than his Chelsea mate and Belgium goal tender, Thibaut Courtehu. Thinking of penalty shoot outs? Uruguayans will officiate the Belgium-France match. Centre Referee is Andre Cunhe; the two astant Refs who are his country men are Nicolas Taran and Manricio Espinosa. The 4th and 5th Refs are Cesar Arturo Ramos and Marvin Torrendera both from Mexico. It is expected that the match will not go to the wire. France spanked Belgium 3-1 in the 1st round in 1938 and shoved same Belgium 4-2 at the Bronze medal battle of 1988. This is Belgium’s 2nd world cup semi. They lost to eventual winners Argentina in 1986. Fireworks are expected from the two sides who have gotten the experience of the quarry site in this tournament, What do you think of a France that played goalless with Denmark; dismissed Argentina with their megastars of Messi, Di Maria, Aguero, Mascherano etc 3-2 at the round of 16 and pecked Uruguay 2-0 in the quarters.
Belgium caged the aristocratic Three Lions of England 1-0; dismissed the stubborn Japanese 3-2 and shoved off the prolific Samba boys of Brazil who believe the world cup is their birth right 2-1 in a breathtaking encounter. The attackers of Belgium are as dangerous as rattle snakes. Belgium kept injuring all opponents through set pieces especially corner kicks. Fellaini leads six other tall players in the Belgian squad. Most of the goals are through powerful headers. Hazard is terribly hazardous when on duty. Belgium needs an antidote for the lethal shots of Griezmann of France. The two teams know what is at stake. Belgium knows this kind of opportunity comes perhaps once in a life time. The team is a bunch of relatively young folks. Lukaku has been a star from age 16 and has 4 goals behind Harry Kane of England but the third goal scored against Japan that came through an Eden Hazard pass he jumped over for Chadu to slam in in 90+4 minute. France is regarded as an African team because they have 8 blacks or Africans in the team who got their citizenship. France plays physical football like Africa. I suspect that the team that will go out is the team that commits error. 