Stakeholders in the manufacturing industry in the country Monday kicked against the proposed 500 per cent increase on excise tariff by the Federal Ministry of Finance. The stakeholders, including the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Manufacturing Association of Nigeria (MAN), Distillers and Blenders Association of Nigeria (DIBAN), Association of Food Beverage and Tobacco Employers of Nigeria ( AFBTEN) and others opposed the proposed excise tariff’ hike in their separate submissions at a function of the Senate Committee on Finance. The Finance committee in line with resolution of the Senate organised a public hearing on “urgent need to review the excise tariff increment in order to save local distillers of beverages from looming extinction”. The stakeholders at the hearing noted that the proposed policy recommended by the Tariff Technical Committee (TTC), would if allowed to be implemented, “affect manufacturers, producers, businesses and render millions of Nigerians jobless.” Chairman of DIBAN, Patrick Anegbe in his submission, lamented that if the policy was allowed to stand, N420billion worth of investments would be ruined aside over 250,000 workers who will be laid off. Comrade Mike Olanrewaju who represented the labour unions at the session, said the proposed 500% increase on excise tariff is suicidal and must not be allowed to be implemented. Olanrewaju noted that the proposed policy was dead on arrival since organized labour and other critical stakeholders were not consulted. He said, “One of the strategies expected  from  any responsible and responsive government in preventing crime and fighting poverty is job creation and not job losses through outrageous and outlandish tariff hike that would collapse industries and by extension  render millions of Nigerians jobless. “To us in the labour sector, we say capital no! to such tariff increase and if any increase is to be made at all, it should not be above one digit. “The proposed increase is counterproductive and would be resisted by all stakeholders because after Dunlop, Micheline and others, we don’t want any industry to collapse or relocate out of the country again.” Though the Director General of MAN, M. Segun Ajayi Kadiri in his own submission admitted that the Ministry of Finance and TTC consulted them before the proposed tariff hike, he noted that the rate agreed on the basis of revenue generation by government was not what the ministry eventually arrived at. Directed of Legal Services who represented the Minister of Finance, Mrs. Kemi Adeosun, said the 500% excise tariff hike was agreed by all stakeholders before the ministry issued circular to that effect in February this year. “Protests and petitions trailing the circular since then from concerned stakeholders are to us, unfortunate,” she said. The committee told the stakeholders it looking into the policy by collaborating with the executive on the need to review the tariff downward. Deputy Senate President, Senator Ike Ekweremadu who represented the Senate President, Bukola Saraki noted that “the major source of concern is the non-inclusion of primary stakeholders in the industry such as MAN, DIBAN in the consultation process that prompted the decision of the executive arm of government to increase the tariff rate of the affected products”.