Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has started fulfilling his administration’s earlier promise of compensating residents whose properties were affected by road expansion in the Northern Senatorial District of the state. Akeredolu, who commenced the payment of the compensation at the palace of Olukare in Ikare-Akoko, said the payment would be in phases. Represented by the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Mr. Taofiq Abdulsalam, the governor said the first set of the people to receive cheques were the property owners between Oke Alabojuto and the Central Mosque, opposite Olukare’s palace. Abdulsalam said the governor had graciously approved that adequate compensation should be paid to all property owners along the road corridors to ensure that construction works started in full fledge. He therefore advised recipients to make judicious use of the money. In his speech, the Olukare of Ikare-Akoko, Oba Akadiri Momoh, commended Governor Akeredolu for fulfilling his promises to the people. According to the monarch, the governor’s action has shown that he is pro-people. The Olukare appealed to the people whose properties had been marked for demolition to cooperate with the state government and the contractors, as the construction works continued. The Chairman of Akoko North-East Local Government Area, Mr. Rafiu Eniayewu, said the people of Ikare would remember Akeredolu for what had done in the town. Speaking earlier, the Director, Lands Department, Ministry of Lands and Housing, Nicholas Fayeun, said acquisition of road corridors for expansion was done in the area to ensure that construction complied with approved standard. Two of the recipients, Venerable Olusola Adeosun and Madam Wuraola Jimoh, spoke on behalf of their colleagues. They praised the governor for giving them a lease of life after their properties had been demolished to give room for road expansion. A total sum of N13.9 million was disbursed at the ceremony which was attended by eminent sons and daughters of the town.