 We will always be there with you through thick and thin. That appears to be the stand of WAGS of England players after the team failed to clinch the third place in Russia. The World cup which has been  the centre of attention since June 14, comes to a close on Sunday June 15.  The Three Lions, winners of the 1966 edition were hoping to clinch at least the third place after failing to hit the final following defeat by Croatia.  Despite their travails however the WAGS remained dogged in support of their team. Rebekah Vardy, wife of England’s Jamie Vardy and Fern Hawkins, girlfriend of England’s Harry Maguire, led the way as they supported their men in the stands during the FIFA World Cup third place play-off match against Belgium at Saint Petersburg Stadium on Saturday. Rebekah, 36, who has been present at every match, stood out in a red tank top that clung to her enviable curves while sporting glamourous shades to cover her eyes. Meanwhile, Fern, 21, rocked an England tee and large silver hoops as she beamed with delight as her beau took to the pitch. While her partner Jamie, 31, isn’t participating in the match due to an injury, the TV personality looked serious as the fate of England’s result played out. The mother-of-four put on a leggy display in denim shorts while paying homage to the team with her red vest and slick of bright red lipstick. Fern Hawkins has been supporting boyfriend Harry McGuire the whole way through the World Cup, but today it comes to and end for England as we compete against Belgium for third place. Just like the previous matches, Fern’s made sure she’s wearing the three lions, but this time fashionably paired it with a camo denim skirt. If there was a trophy for best dressed it would have to go to Fern who just proves that camo really can go with anything. Following England’s 2-1 defeat to Croatia in Wednesday’s semi-final, the bevvy of WAGs haven’t let the loss destroy their spirit as they turned up in force. While the players fell to their knees in tears on Wednesday evening at the final whistle after coming so close to getting to the final, the beauties were there to commiserate their partners. Not letting the English spirit die, the girls made sure they turned up to lead the way in true WAG style as they donned glamorous make-up and were not a hair out place.       