The Rector of Cowbell Football Academy (CFA), Godwin Dudu-Orumen has urged corporate organisations to follow the lead of  Promasidor Nigeria Limited, which has been involved in youth sports development and sponsorship. According to the respected sports marketing consultant, the corporate community in Nigeria is yet to harness five per cent of the potential in youth sports sponsorship, which he described as a goldmine. While assessing the impacts of CFA, an initiative sponsored by Cowbell Milk (the flagship brand of Promasidor Nigeria Limited), on the country’s football development in recent years, Dudu-Orumen said that youth sports has the capacity to promote visibility of local brands even beyond national borders, as well as promote consumer loyalty and increase sales. He further said: “The opportunities in sports sponsorship for brands are enormous. First, the children that benefit from corporate sponsorship become strong loyalists and advocates of the brand. It is also a cheap publicity opportunity for the companies, enhancing brand recall. Unfortunately, many corporate organisations have not responded positively to this great potential. I believe that less than five per cent of the opportunities in sports sponsorship for brand marketing is harnessed.” The sports promoter said CFA has nurtured over 1,000 football talents in the past five years. He added that its Summer Camp, which holds yearly in four centres in Lagos and Edo States, became so popular that it attracted children from Sierra Leone and other West African countries. “The next edition of the summer camp holds from July to August. Registration is ongoing, and we expect a huge participation in line with its culture,” he pointed out, adding that Promasidor has proved that corporate sports sponsorship could be very rewarding. On his part, the academy’s Head Coach/Technical Coordinator, Hyacienth Nkwocha said CFA and other professionally-managed academies have improved the quality of grassroots football development in the country.