The Governing Council of the University of Ilorin has approved the appointment of 22 new professors and 15 readers. Registrar of UNILORIN Dr (Mrs.) Folaranmi M. Olowoleni announced the appointments of the new professors at the 270th meeting of the University Senate. The newly appointed profs are Dr. AbdulWahab O. Issa, the University Librarian; Dr. G.B. Adesiji of the Department of Agricultural Extension and Rural Development; Dr. Oluyemisi B. Fawole of the Department of Agronomy; Dr. A. S. Abubakar of the department of English; Dr. S.O. Ikibe of the department of the Performing Arts and Dr. Hannah Olawumi of the department of Haematology. Others are Dr. A.A. Akanbi II, department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology; Dr. B. O. Bolaji , department of Anaesthesia; Dr. P.M. Kolo, department of Medicine; Dr Omonego V. Mejabi, Department of Information and Communication Sciences; Dr. M.A. Fakomogbon, department of Educational Technology; Dr. R.A. Shehu, department of Health Promotion; and Dr. Bolanle Olawuyi department of  Social Sciences Education. Also elevated are Dr. J. O. Olaoye and Dr. K. A. Adeniran, both of the department of agricultural and bio-systems engineering; Dr. K.R. Ajao and Dr. I.K. Adegun of the department of mechanical engineering; Dr. Omolara O. Oluwaniyi and Dr. A.A. Baba of the department of industrial chemistry; Dr. O.M. Kolawole and Dr. A.A. Adewara of the departments of microbiology and statistics respectively. Those elevated to the position of Readers include Dr. O.O. Ibrahim of the department of pathology; Dr. Dupe S. Ademola-Popoola of the department of opthalmology and Dr. S.A. Aderibigbe of the department of epidemiology and community health; Dr. M.F. Akorede of the department of electrical and electronics engineering; Dr. S. Abdulkareem, mechanical engineering; Dr. A.M. Ayanshola, water resources and environmental engineering; Dr.. A.S. Kasum, Dr. T.A. Olaniyi and Dr. O.F. Osemene, all of the department of accounting; Dr. M.A. Ajayi and Dr. I.B. Abdullahi, both of the department of Finance; Dr. E.M. Osezua of the department of public administration, Dr. Y.A. Ahmed of the Department of Geography and environmental management; Dr. Oyebisi Azeez of the department of veterinary physiology and biochemistry and Dr. Adesina Lukman Azeez of the department of mass communication. Management of the institution also approved the appointment of four substantive directors for four technical and professional units in the University. The new directors are: Dr. Rasheed Adekeye Odunola, Unilorin Health Services; Engr. Abisoye Adesoji Mudasiru, Works Unit; Mr. Kunle Ibrahim Akogun, Directorate of Corporate Affairs; and Dr. Adams Bashir Olajide, Physical Planning Unit. The new director of Health Services, Dr. Odunola, was a successful private Medical Practitioner before joining the services of the University of Ilorin in 2011.He was appointed the Ag. Medical Director of the University Health Services in March 2017. He is the first and only non-teaching staff member to sit on the University Governing Council, having been unanimously elected by the congregation in October 2017. The new Director of Works, Engr. Abisoye, joined the services of the University in 2011 as Deputy Director. He was telecommunication engineer at Murhi International, Lagos; chief engineer, Concord Press, Ikeja; and general manager, technical services of The Nation newspaper. He was appointed Ag. Director of Works in August 2017. The new director of Corporate Affairs, Mr. Akogun, is a consummate journalist of the print media genre. He is a former Group News Editor, National Assembly Editor and Editorial Board member of the influential THISDAY Newspaper before joining the services of the University of Ilorin in 2012 as Deputy Director, Corporate Affairs. The new Director of Physical Planning, Dr. Adams, joined the services of the University as Chief Architect in 2008 from the Federal Ministry of Works and Housing, where he was an Assistant Director. He was appointed Deputy Director of PPU in 2012.