No fewer than 4,000 students took the oath of matriculation in Kogi State University ( KSU ) on Saturday, July 21 2018. The new intakes were told to be of good behaviour and shun vices that could dent the image of the institution. Speaking at the occasion, the Vice Chancellor, Professor M. S. Abdulkadir, assured the students of the management’s readiness to create a conducive environment for hardworking and serious-minded students to achieve their aims. The VC said the school had zero tolerance for misconduct and warned students against the violation of the school ethical standards. Abdulkadir stressed the need for the new intakes to obey the school rules as enshrined in the Students Handbook, adding that the management would not hesitate wield a big stuck on anyone found flouting the institution’s regulations. “It is our cardinal policy and commitment to pursue and maintained stable, predictable and unbroken academic calendar. “We are equally committed to the prime objective of turning out ICT compliant and entrepreneurially sufficient quality graduates as at when due,” he said. The occasion witnessed a large turnout of parents, guardians and well-wishers of the students. They expressed joy, describing the ceremony as a milestone in their lives. Mrs. Ampitan, one of the parents at the occasion, said: “Today is indeed a joyous day for me because my daughter is one of the students matriculated into this great citadel of learning. I am very glad to celebrate with her and wish all the new intakes a wonderful stay on campus.” Abraham Amana David, one of the new students said: “It is a wonderful moment of my life and a significant day for me. I am happy to be part of this celebration.” David advised fellow students looking forward to this kind of joyous day to take their studies seriously, as it is the mother of everything deemed fit in life. Haruna Sanusi, Owa Damilola and Sunny Samuel thanked God for a dream comes true. A breakdown shows that 977 were admitted into the Faculty of Social Sciences, 402 in Faculty of Agriculture, 60 in Faculty of Law, 718 in Faculty of Management Sciences, 820 in Faculty of Education, 803 in Arts and Humanities, and Faculty of Natural Sciences had 558. There was no any record of matriculated student in the Faculty of Medicine as when filing this report.