The Ondo State Police Command has arrested Adeyemi Alao, the suspected killer of Miss Khadijat Oluboyo, the daughter of former Ondo State Deputy Governor Lasisi Oluboyo. Khadijat was found dead in Alao’s home on Sunday. Sources said she had died about six days when her body was discovered inside her boyfriend’s room. Alao is said to be a permanent resident in Abuja. It was learnt that the suspect allegedly made attempts to bury Khadijat’s body in his house at Oke-Aro area of Akure, the Ondo State capital. According to a source, Alao had allegedly dug a grave in the room when nemesis caught up with him. Khadijat, a 20-year-old final year student of Adekunle Ajasin University (AAU) in Akungba-Akoko, was said to be fond of visiting Alao each time he came to Akure from Abuja and usually passed the night with him. There were speculations that the suspected killer was a “Yahoo boy”, who allegedly planned to use the girl for rituals. Police spokesman Femi Joseph, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said the suspect was arrested by a team of detectives from the State Criminal Investigations Department (CID). He said Alao had been cooperating with the police on relevant information surrounding the circumstances of Khadijat’s death. Joseph said the commissioner of police will address the media after the conclusion of investigations on the matter. The spokesman assured the public that the case would be thoroughly investigated to establish the facts behind the death of the Ikare-Akoko-born university final year student. He added that the suspect and others, who might have been involved in Khadijat’s death, would be prosecuted. Also, the lawmaker representing Akoko Northeast/Northwest Federal Constituency, Friday Olemija, yesterday called for the prosecution of Khadijat’s killers. He described the killing as shocking and inhuman. Olemija is a former Chairman of Akoko Northeast Local Government Area and kinsman of the bereaved former deputy governor. The lawmaker condemned the manner the deceased was murdered. He regretted how a proud Akoko daughter with a brighter future was cut down in her prime by a long-time lover. Olemija noted that the incident must be a bitter experience for her parents, relatives, the university community and Ikare-Akoko town. The lawmaker urged the police to bring the perpetrators to justice. He also commiserated with Oluboyo’s extended family, praying God to grant them the fortitude to bear the great loss.