Former Deputy Governor of Ogun State, Senator Gbenga Kaka, on Monday appealed to the leadership of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state to give the people free hands to decide who should fly the party’s governorship ticket in 2019. Kaka said that a free and fair primaries where party members enjoyed the freedom to select a formidable, popular and strong governorship candidate that could  match the opposition, would ensure the victory of APC  and its governorship candidate in 2919 governorship race in the state. The Senator who represented the Ogun East at the Senate from 2011 – 2015, made this known while addressing reporters  at the Abeokuta Secretariat of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), Ogun State Council, advising that the choice of who becomes the party’s governorship candidate must not a product of bedrooms decision or one restricted to zoning formula. According to him, the process must give room for an all inclusive decision so as not to shut out the best man for the job. Kaka stated this to declare his ambition to run for the governorship of the state in 2019. He pleaded with  the party leadership in the state not to allow any part feel inferior as every section of Ogun State is well endowed and has all it takes to rule the state. “If it has been by zoning, I am sure Late Chief Obafemi Awolowo with all his celebrated legacies across the South West would never have made it. In any case, I am not aware of any zoning because the national body of our party is yet to release the guidelines for the election. So, when we get to the bridge, we shall cross it,” he said. He denied being sponsored for the governorship ambition for political negotiations by the former governor of the state, Chief Olusegun Osoba, saying  his desire to be next governor of the state was not a do or die affair and that it is an ambition being purely driven by overwhelming need to harness the potentials of the state for its further growth and development. He promised to run a government that will assiduously work to defeat poverty among the people, restore hope to the hopeless in the society, pay the workers and pensioners as and when due, equip the schools with cutting edge facilities, provide affordable qualitative health care services as well as development of the agricultural sector among others.