The Vice Chancellor of Ekiti State University (EKSU), Prof. Samuel Oye Bandele, has denied being arrested and detained for alleged involvement in electoral malpractice in Saturday’s governorship election. Bandele debunked news being circulated in various social media platforms that he was arrested while moving about with suspected thugs to disrupt voting in his hometown, Ijesamodu in Ilejemeje Local Government Area. Speaking on Monday during EKSU weekly management meeting, Bandele said he had to come out debunk the allegation because he has been inundated with calls and messages on his phone on the development. Bandele stressed that although he was in his hometown to exercise his franchise as a patriotic citizen, he disclosed that he returned to his home after casting his ballot. The VC emphasized that he is not a politician and not a member of any political party but added that he was bound to be loyal to the Visitor to the university. Bandele also denied mobilizing 10,000 students of the university to deliver votes to a particular political party which he said could not have been possible because there is only one polling unit in the institution with less than 200 registered voters. He said: “I, Prof. Samuel Bandele, I am not a politician and I have made it very clear. I am very loyal to my principal and I maintain 100 per cent loyalty to all Visitors. “I want to say that all the news being carried on the social media that I am mobilizing 10,000 to come and vote for a political party is a lie. “They accused me of moving about with thugs in my village and carrying a ballot box. How will I descend so low to be doing that? They also alleged that I was arrested and taken to the police station from my village. “Although I travelled to my village to vote, after voting, I returned to my house and I did not come out again until the election ended. “I want to put the record straight that I did not move with any thugs and I did not steal any ballot paper or ballot box. I can never do that because I am a pastor. “I was never arrested, anybody that is in doubt that go to the Police to confirm. The news being spread on the social media is not true, it is a lie. “I have informed the management of what actually transpired and I have also mentioned it to the Chairman of Governing Council, Mr. Dele Adesina (SAN).”