It was all fanfare at the Benson Idahosa University (BIU) in Benin City, Edo State, as the school held its 14th convocation. Forty-nine students of the 602 that graduated made  First Class, winning coveted academic prizes. The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Sam Guobadia, disclosed tha 84 students graduated with Second Class (Upper Division), 318 got Second Class (Lower Division) and 52 got a Third Class. The school also turned out one doctoral, 60 Masters and 38 Post-graduate students. Highlighting BIU‘s achievements under him, the VC said the 32 academic programmes offered in the university had been accredited by the National Universities Commission (NUC) and other regulatory bodies, including Council of Legal Education (CLE) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria (ICAN), among others. Guobadia also revealed that the university would be introducing the Faculty of Basic Medical and Health Sciences. The new faculty, he said, will offer degree programmes in Nursing and Medical Lab Sciences in preparation for a full-fledged medical college. He said that BIU remained the foremost private university in the country, noting that the school had been setting the pace for other tertiary institutions. While recalling that the school’s Faculty of Law increased its rating when its students emerged the winners of the 2016 Law Moot Court Competition, Prof Guobadia said Jobberman’s ranking for 2018 named BIU as the best tertiary institution to work in. The VC said the Pastor Chris Oyakhilome Faculty of Engineering Complex, Bishop  Matthew Okpebholo Road and the ongoing construction of the main access road in the school had reached 90 per cent completion. These projects, according to him, are due for inuaguration at the commencement of the 2018/2019 academic session. He told the graduating students to be good ambassadors of the school, urging them to deploy their knowledge in changing the world. He said: “The world right now needs credible leaders who actually have the interest of citizens as priority. The old style of governance has failed; the situation is chaotic and the hunt for credible leaders is on. We implore you to go out there and be the hope of our country. We are very confident that you all have been raised as leaders, who having been found worthy in character, learning and as effective disciples of Christ, will change Nigeria.” The VC encouraged the graduands to be brave and not to despair, stressing that they had been empowered with skills that would make them succeed and contribute to the development of the country. President of the school Bishop Faith Emmanuel Idahosa urged the graduands to be a generation that would take up the task to change the country.  According to him, the situation in the country has forced a responsibility on them. He said: “When you leave campus and get to the real world, you will not get everything handed to you on a platter of gold. The real world will hand out a dose of seriousness that will sober you. Do not talk about your dreams, chase them into the future and drag them into your present. Do not hope for them because hope is not a business plan.” The Pro-chancellor, Dr Goddie Isibor, described the graduating set as a “class of fame”, saying it was the university’s “secret weapon” to change Nigeria for the better. The Pro-chancellor, who doubles as the chairman of Governing Council, urged the students to engage the world with values upheld by Christ. Highlights of the ceremony included the presentation of prizes to valedictorians. In her valedictory speech on behalf of the graduating class, Juliet Ezekiel, the Overall Best Graduating Student, said persistence through failure was the story of her success. She said: “Failure makes you hungry and humble. Failure forces us to confront our fears. Failure has made a lot of us great and powerful mentors today. “Fellow graduates, we have all made sacrifices to be where we are today but I must admit that my experiences have given me an inner security that I would never have attained easily passing examinations. Failure made me discover that I have a strong will, more discipline and determination than I ever expected.” Juliet, a graduate of Computer Science, who had a Cumulative Grade Point Average (CGPA) of 3.95 on a scale of 4.0, said she faced a lot of challenges while in school, but focused on her priorities. She expressed gratitude to God for making her feat possible and promised to always strive for excellence. She advised her colleagues to be of good behaviour anywhere they found themselves. The occasion was graced by dignitaries across the country, including Edo State Chief Judge, Justice Esohe Ikponwen, NUC’s Director of Accreditation, Dr Noel Salihu, Vice-Chancellors of various universities across the country and traditional rulers.  