The apprehension of Nigerians, motorists in particular,  for tankers and trailers heightened penultimate Thursday after a fully-loaded 33,000-litre fuel tanker exploded  on Otedola Bridge along Lagos-Ibadan Expressway, killing 12 people and razing about 67 vehicles. The tanker, which was heading inwards Berger area, reportedly had a brake failure and while the driver was trying to control it, the tanker allegedly rammed into one of the vehicles and exploded. The magnitude of the calamity reverberated across the land, momentarily dousing  the anxiety generated by the spate of mindless  killings in the country and consequently attracting reactions from far and wide. Politicians, non-governmental organisations, celebrities, state governments, including the Federal Government showed concerns  about the  catastrophe and commiserated with the victims and the Lagos State government. In a statement signed by the  Information and Strategy Commissioner, KehindeBamigbetan, the Lagos State government described the incident as a sad development, saying that it was most unfortunate and regrettable. “On behalf of the Lagos State government, we extend our deepest commiseration to the families of persons who lost their lives as well as properties to the incident. Our thoughts and prayers are with them in this time of pain and grief”. The Presidency, on its part, expressed shock over the incident while condoling with the government and people of Lagos State over the development. “Sadly, this seems to be one of the greatest tragedies we have seen in recent times. President Buhari said, as he urged the emergency services and law enforcement officials to do their best to reduce the damage from the incident. While the nation was still ruing the irreparable loss, another tanker explosion occurred  along Suleja Road in Niger State less than 24 hours after the Otedola Bridge incident. Though no life was lost in the incident, five persons were confirmed injured. The early morning incident, according to reports,  occurred after a head-on collision between the fuel tanker and a trailer. “The cause of the crash was speed violation, leading to loss of control,” the spokesperson of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Mr. BisiKazeem said. But those were not the only tanker and trailer-related accidents that have been recorded since the beginning of the year. Late last month, three people were reportedly killed  after piles of plywood fell off  a truck and landed on three commercial buses at the Ojuelegba Bridge. Earlier in the year, February to be precise, no fewer than eight persons were roasted to death, after  a loaded fuel tanker burst into flames after being hit by a container laden truck at Onigari Village, close to Foursquare Gospel Church camp at Ajebo, along the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway. The tanker carrying 33,000 litres of petrol was said to be travelling to Ibadan, while the container-laden truck was coming from Ibadan when the accident occurred. Before the February incident, two brothers were killed while three others were injured in Ilorin, Kwara State after  a tanker belonging to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) loaded with fuel fell and spilled its content. The incident, which occurred at Oyun area on old Ilorin-Jebba Road, created panic among residents of the area as they were afraid that the leaking content might ignite fire anytime. Checks showed that there is hardly a year that passes by without the country recording such calamities. Worried by the annual havoc being wreaked by tankers and trailers, some motorists who spoke with The Nation said they are always disturbed at the sight of such vehicles on the road. One of the respondents, Nonso Nwaneri, said: “Tankers and trailers are nightmares on our road. Their sight evokes fears for many reasons. One reason is that some of the vehicles are not in good shape and that makes them susceptible to being involved in accidents. It is either the break is not functional or the tyres are bad and that makes them to be prone to falling, especially now that we are in the rainy season. “When you come across them on the road, fear grips you, especially if they want to engage in unnecessary struggle for right of the road with you and most often, they are always wrong but would always rely on their size to push  you out of the way. Something drastic needs to be done to curtal their menace.” Another respondent, who identified himself as Wale George, said stories and sights of  the havocs wreaked by tankers and trailers across the country haunt and make him to apply caution whenever he has them close to him. “Most motorists have fears for  tankers and trailers. In fact, many people refer to them as ‘hired killers’ because the drivers do not seem to have respect for human life, including theirs.  They are always driving as if they are under the influence of something and if one is not careful, they would waste him believing that the charms they have made would rescue them. “They are a huge challenge to the safety of life and property on the road and if we continue to use them to transport petrol and goods, we would continue to record needless loss of human lives.” Also expressing concern about the spate of accidents caused by tankers and trailers on the roads, a commercial driver, Nurudeen Ajao, said: “The recklessness of tanker and trailer drivers is worrisome. They drive as if they have a duplicate of their lives that they can use to replace the one they have when accident occurs. “When you carry passengers and they see tankers or trailers, it would seem as if they had seen a tiger or a lion coming to devour them. Some passengers would even begin to jump out of the bus at the slightest brush with tankers or trailers. That is the extent to which the people dread these vehicles and you won’t blame them because experience is the best teacher.” A female motorist, Ifeyinwa Okoro, said she always develops goose pimples whenever she comes across long vehicles on the road. “If there is any route that you don’t find those people, I will gladly want to pass through such. I just don’t like seeing them. If there is a way to avoid them, I would gladly do it without minding the cost.” Decrying  the loss of innocent lives to accidents caused by tankers and trailers, the Maye of Ife and President/Founder of Oduduwa University, Ipetumodu, Prince (Dr) Ramon Adedoyin, advised the Federal Government to make a new regulation that will ensure that drivers of fuel tankers and other long vehicles carrying loads should only be allowed to operate between 10pm and 5am. Condemning the current situation where tanker drivers and other long vehicles endanger the lives of other road users through their recklessness, Dr Adedoyin advised the government to employ more armed traffic security officers from among the teeming unemployed Nigerians youths to patrol and keep the nation’s highways safer. He called for the complete overhauling of the Federal Road Safety Corps and reorganizing it back to the way it was during the good days when Professor Wole Soyinka was the head. “I want to call  for special training and certification for drivers of big vehicles and also urge the government to expand and make Nigerian roads more motorable like it is obtainable in the United States and other developed countries of the world.” While commiserating  with the families of those who lost their lives and those who lost their properties in the Otedola Bridge accident, he called on other state governments in the country to adopt the Lagos State government MOT style for big vehicles.  Govt holds key to ending accidents- Tanker drivers spokesman The Public Relations Officer of NUPENG Petrol Tanker Drivers, Comrade Atanda Adebayo, in a telephone chat with The Nation described the Otedola Bridge incident as unfortunate, adding that the body has always put in place measures to avert such occurrence. His words: “We trained more than 5, 000 petrol tanker drivers last year and if you check the statistics  of the FRSC concerning tanker accidents compared to other years, from Ibadan to Lagos and other places, we had not had any tanker accident but this one is unfortunate. I think the driver was on a steep hill before the break failure occurred and that was unavoidable. “We have put in place so many measures, especially at the depots. We also have our own VIO which used to check vehicles that are going to load to make sure that everything is in order. But one cannot go under the vehicle to check the break. But every other thing is being looked into. We used to also look at the drivers to make sure they are not under the influence of any substance.  The training has been of a great help if you look at statistics. “When you are going to the depot to load, our VIO would check your drivers licence,  they would check  your vehicle documents to see if they are correct and up to date. They also check other issues like leakages.” Asked if the association would be doing anything differently from what it has been doing to forestall future occurrence, Adebayo said:  “When something happens,  you will ask yourself, have I not done enough? And whatever has not been done would be added.  We would intensive efforts and do more. “We also work with the National Association of Truck Owners (NATO). They are our employers  and we work  when they bring their vehicles, we make sure that they give them to drivers that  are sane.  We check these vehicles and any of them that is not road worthy, we send back to the owner.” He attributed many of the accidents to the bad state of many roads in the country. “ Bad roads are very crucial issues in this country and you could see how vehicles carrying containers fall here and there. We are always complaining at every forum  we have to talk to government officials about it.   Before now, we were always going on strike but sometimes people don’t know why we go on strike.  Some will always say we are doing so because of  the monopoly we enjoy.  At times we go on strike when we make some complaints about issues that can bring problems not just to ourselves but to the general public and they are not given attention. “ There was a time they asked us to restrict our movement to the nights but we complained because every evil is being done in the night.  At times, vandals go in the night and syphon the fuel  and even break pipes.  At times when our people travel to deliver fuel in diferent parts of the country, they are attacked and tied to trees by hoodlums who thereafter go and discharge the fuel wherever they like and take the money. “ Some drivers get attacked and  wounded in the bush by snake. Hijack of truck is done in the night because it is not possible in the afternoon.  These are the challenges we have and that is why we told them that moving in the night  is not security-wise.” Proffering solution to the menace, Adebayo said: “We are imploring the government to release money from the budget that has been passed for the completion of most of the roads. You can see that the government is abreast with what is happening and they budgeted so much for these road rehabilitations. We are begging them to release money for the completion of these roads.”  Our frustrations with long vehicle drivers-FRSC Enumerating the challenges his organistion faces in dealing with tanker and trailer drivers, the Public Education Officer of the Federal Road Safety Commission, Bisi Kazeem said: One of the major challenges the FRSC faces in dealing with tanker drivers is overloading. Most drivers load beyond the capacity of their vehicles and this act does not only subject these vehicles to undue pressure but makes it difficult for the driver to control the vehicle in the event of any eventuality. Overloading also exerts undue pressure on the road as it contributes to damaging the road. “Another challenge is their reckless and indiscriminate parking on the highway thereby blocking a major part of the road. For instance, the government  has made provision for parking lots along the highways yet, these drivers refuse to drive into the designated areas to observe their rest period; they rather prefer to park along the highways, narrowing down the road and causing huge obstruction in most cases. This contributes to auto crashes. Most times, they do this when they have passed our patrol points to avoid arrest. “Another challenge FRSC faces with them is poor maintenance culture, most of the crashes involving tankers occur as a result of break failure. Apart from the fact that most of the vehicles are overloaded and old fashioned, the drivers always want to manage mechanical deficiencies. Lastly,most of them operate in the night and the FRSC patrol teams don’t patrol the highways in the midnight, we only have a standby team detailed for rescue operations.” Kazeem flayed the claim that bad roads are responsible for accidents, saying: “I      am not justifying bad roads in our country, but it is good to state that research has it that good roads contribute to crashes more than bad roads. This is because drivers tend to drive beyond the prescribed legal speed limit on a good and smooth road and thiss places the driver in a position where he cannot control the vehicle anymore. After the recent tanker accident in Lagos, Kazeem said: “We have started consultation will relevant stakeholders on this issue and as we speak, the contributions so far are encouraging and I believe that by the time we are done with this and go into full enforcement, you will see the results.”