France are Champions of the World again. The French lifted the World Cup for the second time by ending Croatia’s dream of a first title with a 4-2 victory on Sunday in one of the most entertaining and action-packed finals in decades. France led 2-1 at halftime after a Mario Mandzukic own goal and an Antoine Griezmann VAR penalty, with Ivan Perisic briefly bringing first-time finalists Croatia level. Quickfire strikes by Paul Pogba and Kylian Mbappe midway through the second half put France on course for the title but Mandzukic was gifted a goal by French keeper Hugo Lloris to set up a nervous last 20 minutes. France, however, withstood a spirited Croatia assault to lift the trophy for the second time, following their success on home soil 20 years ago, and ensure there was no repeat of two years ago when they were beaten in the European Championship final by Portugal in Paris. The victory means that Didier Deschamps, captain of the 1998 side, becomes the third man to win the World Cup as player and coach after Brazil’s Mario Zagallo and Germany’s Franz Beckenbauer. It was the highest-scoring final since England beat West Germany 4-2 after extra-time in 1966 and the highest in normal time since Brazil beat Sweden 5-2 60 years ago. The landmarks came thick and fast in the first half too. But France’s defence, so impressive all tournament, held and they went 3-1 up on the hour as Mbappe and Griezmann combined to set up Pogba on the edge of the box. His right-footed shot was blocked but he coolly curved the rebound in with his left. After three successive extra-time knockout games the chances of another Croatian comeback seemed slight but they looked dead and buried six minutes later. Lucas Hernandez tore down the left to set up Mbappe who drilled a low shot beyond keeper Danijel Subasic for the 19-year-old’s fourth goal of the tournament. An awful blunder by Lloris revived Croatia, as the French keeper tried to dribble around Mandzukic only for the striker to tap the ball straight into an unguarded net. Croatia, beaten by the French in the semi-finals in their first World Cup appearance in 1998, continued to press but their energy was sapped and France safely held out for the victory. THE GOALS GOAL! FRANCE 4-2 CROATIA (Mandzukic, 69) Or are they? A Hugo Lloris howler has handed Croatia a lifeline… There’s a no real danger at all as Lloris takes a touch. He has options to his right and down field but he chooses to pass the ball back to the left where Mandzukic is waiting. The Croatia striker cannot believe his lucks as the ball hits his foot and finds its way into the back of the net. It’s a moment Lloris will not want to see again and he’ll be hoping it doesn’t prove too costly!  GOAL! FRANCE 4-1 CROATIA (Mbappe, 65) France are running away with this now as Mbappe comes to the party! He picks the ball up 25 yards from goal before drilling a low shot past Subasic and into the bottom corner for his fourth goal of the tournament. GOAL! FRANCE 3-1 CROATIA (Pogba, 59) What a crucial goal that could prove to be! Pogba starts the move himself by releasing Mbappe. The French youngsters cutback reaches Griezmann, who lays the ball off to Pogba. The Manchester United’s initial shot is blocked but he gets another chance, steering the ball past Subasic and into the corner of the net.  GOAL! FRANCE 2-1 CROATIA (Griezmann PEN, 38) France regain the lead. Griezmann was coolness personified, letting the goalkeeper dive one way before rolling the ball into the opposite corner.  GOAL! FRANCE 1-1 CROATIA (Perisic, 29) Croatia are back on level terms thanks to a stunning strike from Peresic. Vrsaljko heads Modric’s free-kick back across goal to Peresic on the edge of the penalty area. he takes a touch, shifting the ball past Kante before drilling a powerful shot past Lloris and into the bottom corner. Game on!  GOAL! FRANCE 1-0 CROATIA (Mandzukic OG, 18) It’s a goal that’s come totally against the run of play! Griezmann whips a free-kick into the penalty area. The ball flicks off the head of Mandzukic and nestles into the far corner of the net. It’s a big blow for Croatia, who started the game so brightly. France: Lloris, Pavard, Varane, Umtiti, Lucas, Mbappe-Lottin, Pogba, Kante, Matuidi, Griezmann, Giroud. Subs: Mandanda, Kimpembe, Lemar, Dembele, Tolisso, Nzonzi, Rami, Fekir, Sidibe, Thauvin, Mendy, Areola. Didier Deschamps is looking to guide Les Bleus to their second world triumph Croatia: Subasic, Vrsaljko, Lovren, Vida, Strinic, Rebic, Rakitic, Brozovic, Perisic, Modric, Mandzukic. Subs: Livakovic, Corluka, Kovacic, Kramaric, Jedvaj, Bradaric, Caleta-Car, Badelj, Pjaca, Pivaric, Lovre Kalinic. Croatia are aiming for their maiden title after reaching final for the first time Referee: Nestor Pitana (Argentina)  