A Senior Lecturer in the Department of Philosophy, University of Lagos  Professor Douglas Anele has advised the federal government to invest more in education, job creation and every aspect that will make the youths excel in Nigeria. Anene said this at the Mental Wellness conference and book launch on  Unbroken channeling the power of the mind organized by John Shaibu Consulting held in Lagos. He said that the future of this country does not lies in crude oil, exploring mineral resources but in motivating the youths so that they can unleash their creative potentials and they will never be the same again. The event tagged “Youth Staying Unbroken; Thriving in the Nigeria economy” brought together top executives, civil society groups students from 18 universities across the country. The book has 270 pages and seven chapter which cut across leadership, self development and good governance. He said that it is lamentable that successive administration have not paid so much attention in mobilizing youths for economic and social transformation. “Our politicians are busy chasing shadows acquiring wealth they do not need and Nigerian youths are left to feed for themselves.” Anele noted the moral ecological compass of Nigeria is highly polluted especially those in leadership position as cutting corners, and nepotism have characterize the system. He opined that Nigeria youths are hardworking, ingenuous, resilience and are willing to defy the odds to succeed but need the right support systems to fly. “We waste time and materials resources on frivolities when the real thing is in our hands. Many of the developed nations have few mineral resources and are even besiege from time to time with natural disaster but have been able to galvanized the interest, hope and aspiration of their youths toward development”, he said. Anele posited that the developmental challenge facing Nigeria with its attendance consequences of youth restiveness, thuggery and all forms of criminality will be reduced if we invest in the youths, who remain the positive human capital that will aid positive social transformation. He implored the youths to ignore the negatives they are getting from government and see what we can do with their lives and the society at large. In his words, the convener of the conference, John Shaibu said that the book is set out to guide and provide support tools for young people on mental. Health, skill acquisition, career support, counseling and identity definition. He said that the decision taken by young people are often times are from within and the need to filed their minds with good thoughts on personal growth, taken responsibility. and acquiring requisite skills for greater productivity is important.