Will the Three Lions of England survive the Colombian onslaught in tonight’s round of 16 clash in the ongoing 2018 FIFA World Cup in Russia? The remaining round of 16 matches – England vs Colombia and Sweden vs Switzerland – will be fiercely contested on Tuesday. The prize is quarter final spots for winners of both matches. The encounter between Colombia, the South America nation known more for drug and violence and the English who primed themselves as lords of football, is expected to be tough considering the caliber of players available to both sides.  Flamboyant Mexico bowed to the superior firepower of five-time champions Brazil on Monday and their fans wept like babies crying for breast milk at the stands. Belgium and Japan contrived to produce one of the matches of the tournament, with the Asians losing 2-3 at the end of the enthralling encounter. However, the focus is on the Colombia v England tie. All eyes are on England to qualify for the World Cup quarter finals for the first time since the 2006 edition in Germany. The two teams met at the 1998 World Cup in France and England prevailed on that occasion through goals from Darren Anderton and David Beckham in a 2-0 win. The 1966 world champions had defeated Colombia three times in five previous meetings between the two countries. The other encounters ended in draws. Tottenham striker Harry Kane who has scored five goals in the tournament is the man to watch in the English side while the duo of Radamel Falcao and the Golden Boot winner in Brazil 2014 James Rodriguez are key men for the Colombians. The other encounter between the Swedes and Swiss is also very difficult to predict because of the two sides contrasting styles of play. The Scandinavia side is a very technical side blessed with quality but unheralded players while the resolute Swiss side has more established players on its rank. Expect the like of Xherdan Shaqiri and Granit Xhaka to dictate the play for Switzerland and Ola Toivonen to run the show for Sweden.   