Nursery and Primary Education Instructors in Nigeria (ANPEIN) have urged governments to put round pegs in round holes by ensuring that only graduates of Nursery and Primary Education are employed to man nursery and primary schools nationwide. Similarly, those who studied secondary school subjects should be in charge of that cadre. This is contained in a statement by ANPEIN to commemorate the Day of African Child. Day of the African Child is celebrated every June 16, to commemorate the 1976 students’ uprising in Soweto, South Africa. The annual event provides an opportunity to encourage action against child marriage at regional, national and local levels. “To the Nigeria government, try your best to encourage teachers at all levels by improving their welfare package, and recruit the right personnel (caregivers),” said the  statement signed by ANPEIN’s National Coordinator Mr Fowowe Sunday Simeon. “Those that studied early childhood care and education (ECCE) should man the pre schools; those that studied Nursery and Primary Education should teach in our nursery and primary schools, while the employment of those that studied secondary school subjects, should man both junior and senior secondary. This is the only way the education philosophy can be achieved and the holistic development of our nation promoted.” Reacting on this year’s theme: ‘Leave no child behind for Africa’s development’ ANPEIN, in conjunction with ‘The fowodek education konsult’ an education consultancy firm, also warned parents, guardian and community to incorporate children in their present and future plans. Though they constitute 20 per cent of Nigeria’s population at present, yet ANPEIN considers them the 100 per cent of the future. “If we realise this on time, efforts should be doubled ever than before to develop Africa and Nigeria in particular. Caregivers and teachers who are by their training, saddled with the major responsibility of stimulation and education of younger generation, should get out of their pedagogical stagnancy, take away their limiting beliefs, acquire more relevant knowledge and skills and begin to unleash every hidden giant(s) in the learners that can make them think positively about the future of our country.” Equally ANPEIN urged schools to become more visionary, innovative and change their style of management. They must henceforth promote creativity, individuality, and if possible do away with assessment and tests that ANPEIN believes downplay individuality, innovation, curiosity, grit and hidden power of character in children. “Enough of tests that promote cognitive domain at the expense of art, music, nature, verbal reasoning, self esteem and self worth etc,” the body added, urging school owners to improve on human capacity development for teachers and school heads. The body admonished parents to once again acknowledge their complimentary role in their children’s career. It urges fathers not to be too busy not to pay attention to their wards progress. ANPEIN also warns mothers fond of outlandish lifestyle to reduce recklessness and rather deploy such extra cash to their children’s future.