If not for the mild drama that ensued between a lady and a waitress at a popular high brow hotel in Victoria Island Lagos, maybe I would have written an entirely different thing for this edition. This beautifully dressed lady, probably in her fifties, sitting not too far from my table ordered green tea and was enraged when she found the hotel had none in stock though they had an array of other teas, beverages and coffee. Demanding to see the supervisor, she registered her complaints. Apologising profusely, the supervisor promised that the hotel will stock up on the tea even before the end of that day. Why will the lady not choose from the various teas the hotel had? What is the difference between green, black, white or any other colour of tea? Since the past few years, there has been a steady increase in the demand for green tea. It does not seem to be a passing fad. Green tea has come to stay. Both black and green teas come from the leaves of the same plant, ‘Camellia Sinensis’. The main difference being in the processing of the leaves. Green tea leaves are not processed as much as black and, consequently, their nutrient contents are also different. Both green tea and black tea have amazing health benefits but if you are still debating about whether to choose green tea or black tea, looking deeper into the difference between green and black tea can help you make your choice. Black tea vs green tea: The difference Green Tea Green tea leaves do not undergo 100% oxidation process, and thus, retain key nutrients. Another benefit of green tea is that it contains much less caffeine than black tea and only a fourth of the caffeine found in a cup of coffee. The fermentation process for green tea ensures that more polyphenols are preserved, making it rich in antioxidants. The lack of oxidation also makes it extremely rich in EGCG (epigallocatechin gallate), which is a very beneficial antioxidant. EGCG is a popular antioxidant known for fighting cancer, cardiovascular conditions and more. Because of the high content of polyphenols in green tea, when combined with the right diet and exercise, it can help in weight reduction. Pure organic green tea also aids in detoxification which can boost overall health. How to brew a perfect cup of green tea Heat 220 ml of water to 80°C or till it just starts to boil. Pour it over 2.5 gms of green tea leaves in a pot. Cover it and let it brew for three minutes. Then strain and serve. While a dash of lemon or honey can be added, sugar or milk is generally not preferable. Black tea Unlike green tea, the EGCG in black tea is lost during the fermentation process. So, when it comes to antioxidants, green tea has a clear upper hand both in quantity and quality of antioxidants. Black tea also contains more caffeine than green tea; about one-third of the caffeine in a cup of coffee. It is also more acidic than green tea – but this can be brought down by adding a dash of lemon to it. Black tea might not score as high as green tea on the health metre, but is still beneficial to the body. How to brew a perfect cup of black tea: Bring 220ml of water to boil at 100°C. Add the hot water to two and half grams of black tea leaves. Let it brew for four minutes after which you strain and pour into a cup. Lemon, sugar, cream or milk can be added, according to your preference. Caffeine content If you were wondering if green tea has more caffeine than black tea then the answer is no. While green tea contains between 9 and 50 milligrams of caffeine per cup, black tea offers 42 to 72 milligrams. Benefits of black tea vs green tea Although green and black tea both contain antioxidants which may aid in the prevention of cancer and other diseases, green tea comes out ahead of black tea in cancer prevention. As green tea is processed minimally, it has more antioxidants than black tea making it a great beverage to include in your weight loss diet. Put black tea vs green tea on a list of which is a better beverage and green tea will definitely win the healthier beverage award. However, as black tea has more caffeine, it is a morning eye-opener as it improves focus and concentration. So, if you have been wondering which is better: green tea or black tea? Here you have it. Make your choice and enjoy your drink. Either way, you cannot go wrong as they both are healthy in their own way. But is green tea a magical option that solves all health woes as some people are currently wrongly flaunting? No. Does milk diminish the health benefits of green tea? There is no scientific proof that green tea cannot be consumed with milk or is in anyway unhealthy when consumed together. It’s just that some people prefer to drink it plain in order realise the tea’s full spectrum of flavours. Milk does not diminish its health benefits.