The former Head of Department (HOD) Urban and Regional Planning, Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH), Mrs Catherine Kayode George has donated two of her books to six departments of the College. Mrs George, a Town Planner, presented the books when she visited the Rector, Mr Obafemi Omokungbe, an engineer. Two copies of each of the books, “Basic Principles and Methods of Urban & Regional Planning 4th Edition” and “Urbanisation and the Lagos Mega City” were donated to the Departmental libraries of the Urban and Regional Planning, Architecture, Building Technology, Estate Management, Surveying and Geo-informatics and Quantity Surveying. Mrs George said she visited YABATECH to appreciate the College for providing her an enabling environment to work between 1986 and 2000 as a lecturer.  She retired as the Head of Department of Urban and Regional Planning. She said: “I am pleased to announce to you about my publication “Basic Principles and Methods of Urban & Regional Planning 4th Edition” which was launched at the Annual General Meeting of Nigerian Institute of Town Planners, Lagos State chapter Nigeria on September 29, 2016. “The book has been edited by Nigerian academia and Professionals and is a recommended text for Environmental Science students in tertiary institutions. The book discusses on more principles of Urban and Regional Planning with examples from the country’s situation; also on some urban environmental problems in Lagos Mega-City. It is a useful reference material for governmental offices, consultants in the construction industry, lecturer and students in local and foreign tertiary institutions. It covers syllabus for examination by Town Planners Registration Council of Nigeria for Urban & Regional Planning.” She said the second book, Urbanisation and the Lagos Mega City, captures the phenomenal growth of Lagos, the attendant environmental challenges and efforts made to address the issues. It highlights the paotential of investment tourism in Lagos Mega-City. She said it would be an asset to private and public libraries and for multi-national corporate bodies, Town Planning Professionals, allied disciplines and government offices as references. “Having lived in Lagos from 1965-till date, I have witnessed a greater part of the phenomenal growth of Lagos in my 45 years of Town Planning professional experience. My education at the University of Melbourne, Australia (1971-1972) has also exposed me to international norms in planning theory and practice. I am a fellow of the Royal Town Planning Institute (RTPI) England, and keep in touch with the RTPI by maintaining my membership. “In writing both books, I have spared no cost or expense for best professional practice. Both books also feature some projects I worked on as a foundation staff in Lagos State Civil Service at Ikeja Area Planning Authority/LSDPC (1965-1979); as a lecturer in Urban and Regional Planning at Lagos State Polytechnic (December 1985-June 1986), at YABATECH as HOD, Urban & Regional Planning (July 1986-2000), at Lagos State University (2011-2013), and as a Town Planning Consultant (1980-1985, 2000-2017). I have been external examiner and moderator to University of Lagos, YABATECH and other tertiary institutions on their Urban and Regional Planning programmes. “The research and production of the two publications were self-motivated and entirely self-financed. It is my humble contribution to national human resources development and I believe that the College community (lectures and students) will find both books very useful. “ The Rector thanked Mrs George for remembering the College 18 years after retirement, also for the kind gesture of presenting inestimable valuable materials to the College; and commended her resilient spirit of still writing even though she has retired. He encouraged her not to relent because the books will remain a lasting legacy that people will refer to in years to come. He thereby on behalf of the Management bought 10 copies each of the two publications to the College Library with substantial amount.