The executive board members of the Nigerian Union of Mine Workers, Ogun State chapter, have entered into a trade relations partnership with the Nigerian-German Business Association. The chairman of the union, Comrade Abiola Fasiu, who led other executives and members of the union to the corporate headquarters of the Chamber in Lagos, recently, while speaking at a press briefing, said the whole idea was to provide more opportunities for his teeming members as well as contribute their quota to the clamour for foreign direct investment by all tiers of government. The union, according to the chairman, which was set up about seven months ago, has expressed its readiness to raise the bar as far as mineral exploration is concerned and therefore seeks effective collaboration with willing partners to help drive the vision. The union’s vice chairman, in a short remark who recalled that many German businesses used be involved in the exploration of mineral resources across the country, regretted that such businesses have since exited even as he impressed on the Association the need to galvanise action that would ensure that such businesses return to the country in the earliest possible time. Echoing similar sentiments, Comrade Tunde Soneye, the union’s spokesman assured that the state is endowed with enormous mineral deposits which can guarantee good returns on investments; hence, the union is willing to give every form of support to prospective investors willing to invest in the state. Responding, the Director-General of the Association, Gbenga Adebija hoped that the ongoing partnership between the two bodies was going to be sustainable. According to him, the Association, which belongs to a network of 130 business chambers in 90 countries spread across five continents, has what it takes to help the union achieve their utmost objective. As part of efforts aimed at facilitating the trade relations between the mine workers’ union and the Association, Adebija said he has since met with the relevant stakeholders. Specifically, he said, plans are in top gear to lead an official business delegation to Germany. “Already, we have contacted the Nigerian Ambassador in Germany to meet with prospective Investors and the embassy is working on that already. So this is a roadmap which we are going to implement. This assembly is not just a formality, we are actually doing something.” On the quest for foreign direct investment, the NGBA boss said the prospects are indeed very promising. “There is a region in Germany called Bavaria. And it’s one of the 16 regions in Germany and it is richer than 27 out of 29 countries in the entire Europe and they are very interested in investing in Nigeria. “The only thing is that they need credibility validation and they are ready to listen to you better. All these things are set, it’s just for you to show seriousness in this area, once you are ready to make this happen, they are also ready,” he assured. 