In 2015, Prof. Remi Sonaiya stepped out from the Ivory Towers to contest for the nation’s number one job on the platform of KOWA Party. In this interview with Assistant Editor, Yetunde Oladeinde, she spoke about her experience during the last election and her desire to re-contest for the office of the president in 2019. She also spoke on other national issues. Excerpts WHAT is your assessment of the Nigerian government and affirmative action? Are we there yet? You know that we are not there yet. Look at how many women we have in the House of Representatives, in the Senate and the various houses of Assembly across the country. What has been coming up recently is the fact that something seems to be keeping Nigerian women out of politics and we must address that issue. What is it that is keeping our women out of politics? We know for sure that Nigerian women are pulling their weight in other areas of endeavour. They are doing well in business, they are CEOs in companies, they are in the entertainment industry, they are in IT and so on and so forth. The big question is why are Nigerian women not contributing in politics? It should bother us especially because it has been shown that where you have women as decision makers as participants, to make decisions for the country, we realise that things are better. I remember reading a tweet about this just yesterday that shows that nations fare better when women participate in decision making. So, why are we denying ourselves the opportunity of improving our standard of living and so on? It is very sad, especially when we hear our president say that women belong to the kitchen and the other room. This is not the thinking that is acceptable at this time of our development. We have not done well in that area and we hope that it would be taken seriously at this time. I am not normally wont to advocate for concessions for women but if it would take us there, why not! So that we do not continue to shoot ourselves in the leg refusing to have enough women participate in governance. And I want to be clear. I am talking about women who are qualified, not somebody’s wife, sister or daughter. Not the kind of way we normally do things. What plans do you have for 2019 elections? I am running. I am one of the aspirants who have declared the interest to run under KOWA party. There are three so far; two men and myself. We will slug it out, as they say. What are your expectations of the outcome of the next elections? I am not good at predicting the future. The future really would be determined by the manner in which people vote. However, in terms of my own personal expectations, how I wish that Nigerian s would think differently this time around. I talked earlier on about what people in other lands are doing. People have started realising that the established political class that feels it is entitled are getting things differently now. People are now saying, we are tired of you and kicking you out. And my expectations and my hope is that, that would happen in Nigeria. We are tired of the established political class, squandering our money for themselves .Can you believe that the national assembly in the current budget that has just been passed shows that the budget for the national assembly is bigger than the budget for education? How could that be acceptable and so it is important for the citizens to say no, we won’t accept that. Tell us about some of the high points or memorable moments of your campaign in 2015 I would say that the signing of the non-violence declaration in Abuja was memorable. They actually called all the candidates together and said come and sign that you would not be violent and so on and so forth. They invited Kofi Anan, the former UN Secretary General, to talk to us. Chief Emeka Anyaoku was there and all the presidential candidates, the appointed ambassadors of all the foreign countries. I didn’t know that they were going to ask presidential candidates to speak. I was ashamed because it was not a good thing at all. The question for me was that are we the only country who would conduct elections and here we are being called to come and promise? I looked at the INEC chairman and said this is shameful, never do this kind of thing again. Bringing us to come and promise in front of the entire world, why was this necessary? That was one of the highpoints for me. Also, I enjoyed the debate and a number of other things. Talking about violence in politics, there has been a lot of discussion about our politicians using thugs. Did you have any thugs during your campaign? If they said I have thugs, would you have believed? I am in this precisely because I am sick and tired of the political culture that we have developed in the past. If things were going on smoothly, I would not be here. I would be enjoying my work as a professor in the university. Personally, I am not happy about what is going on. I hope our youths have decided that they are not going to be thugs for anyone. I am using this opportunity to tell them again that I hope they would realise that it is your own lives that are being wasted, if you agree to be thugs for anybody. Why don’t they use their own children? Their own children are busy enjoying in foreign institutions while you are being hired as thugs. So, I hope that things would change. What are you going to do differently this time around? I am not even sure that I would do anything differently. I do stand for something; something that is legitimately right and I am still standing there. I am standing to say that no political class has any reason for being entitled to Nigeria. So, why should I change that position? It is not about anything different. I am saying that I as a citizen, I have equal rights. I believe that it is important to send that message clearly to the so-called political class. We are all entitled to the leadership and resources of our country. I am still standing there. Also, a lot of people think that when you contest it is always about immediate gains. No. My own heroes in terms of political activism are the Nelson Mandelas of this world and Martin Luther King Jnr. Those are my heroes. The question now is what did they do differently? They stood firmly and took a stand against injustice. What is the role of citizens in bringing about the Nigeria of our dream? There is a wave of dissatisfaction which has been blowing all over the world. In many countries, people are not happy with the state of affairs in their lands. That dissatisfaction, or you can even call it anger, they are angry with their government and it is not only in Nigeria, it is almost like everywhere. For a variety of reasons, established patterns are leaving the citizens dissatisfied. From the United States (Trump) to France (Macron) and Liberia (George Weah). The people are voting for what one can describe as non-establishment candidates, non-establishment politicians. People are saying that they are tired of the old order. Whether the promised transformation, which the people are hoping for is actually delivered by the candidates is entirely a different matter. In America, I wonder how many people who supported Trump to emerge are still having the same thinking. Whatever the case may be over there, we would definitely talk about our own country. Many of us chanted change in 2015. I am hearing in some quarters now that this is not the change we voted for. We do not have the Nigeria we desire. Why do we need to build a new Nigeria if we are satisfied with what we have? There is a growing awareness among our population. The citizens have a vital role to play in bringing about the kind of country which they desire to have. Anyone who is active on the social media cannot but be struck by increasing engagement of the citizenry in demanding accountability for those things held in position of public trust. We have many examples like this and organisations are actually monitoring government and encouraging citizens to show interest in their communities and the nation. General media organisations have also become bolder at criticising governments and bringing to the public knowledge any governmental activity. So, based on that information, the common phrase now in our country is that the office of the citizen is the highest office in the land. And the people are beginning to use that office effectively. You can see that in the case of Dino Melaye in Kogi State but you see that has been botched because the citizens exercised their power. Of course, we are all aware that there is still a long way to go in terms of this new awareness. The entrenched interest of the so-called political class cannot be easily dislodged. They are powerful and they won’t give up easily. So, why is there a call for a new Nigeria? It is almost a rhetorical question because the kind of lives that the overwhelming majority are living in country tells us that there are a whole lot. When you know that you country has got stupendous amount of money and you look around and you do not see what the money is spent on. The money goes down the sinkhole instead of giving us a better standard of living, a decent way of life. We have no water, electricity, dilapidated roads, and ill-equipped hospitals. You dig your borehole, buy your own generator but would you build your own roads? If you even build the road to your house, can you build the stretch on the express where you travel on a daily basis? So, what is stopping us? The people see their leaders and if they see that their leaders are not doing the right thing, they would follow suit. Let us all focus on this issue, the leaders matter. I did not retire, I was 55 when I took a voluntary break. I still had 15 more years to go because you can retire as a professor at 70. But I said, I am sitting here working in the same university I attended and before my very eyes things were going so bad. One day, the thought just hit my head; it is the politicians who determine the quality of our lives and we have left our affairs in the hands of people who do not care for us. I went home to tell my husband that I would be resigning from the university to join politics. He said go for it. So that is why I have joined, because we need people who have a passion for this country. A lot of people just could not understand why I took that decision because this was a time when finally university lecturers were beginning to be paid some reasonable amount of money. This country must change, this nation must rise. It is a must. We are not going anywhere; we must work on it until it becomes the kind of nation that we desire. How would you describe the challenges in the education sector today? There are lots of challenges. It means that we are not doing something right. A lot of us kept using curricula that are so old, so that the recent developments have not been taken into account with the teachings that are going on in our schools. But what I was really thinking about are the values underlying the education that we have. We must be able to teach the children that hard work pays. That education is supposed to lead to productivity and productivity is what develops a country. You see that we have to import a lot of the things that we need and use. This is not right. We have raw materials, we send out the raw materials and we are importing the finished products. That is not an educated way to behave and so we are saying let us rethink the whole system for education. What is the perspective that would lead the children to develop right from childhood, secondary school to universities and so on? We must reorient ourselves towards a problem-solving approach. We have a dependency approach right now and we need to change it.