The rainy season is here. The mud and dirt accumulated during this season ultimately bring infections. OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA writes on how you can care for your feet during the season. A little extra care of your feet in the rainy season, according to a podiatrist, Dr Bodunrin Oluwa, can prevent you from having painful and infectious foot. A podiatrist, also known as a podiatric physician or “foot and ankle surgeon”, is a medical doctor, who treats disorders of the foot, ankle and lower extremity. To Dr Oluwa, the most important tip for one’s feet during the rainy period is to keep them clean, explaining that as one goes out in the rain, splashes from automobile  dirts plying roads can be infectious. The rain water water logging in some parts of the road can aid microbial growth. So, when one dips legs in such water, microbial infection can be well  spread on one’s body. “Thus, when you come back home, wash your feet adequately with clean water and if possible, add some antiseptic fluid,” he said. Almost all human activities, Dr Oluwa said, involve the feet and undoubtedly should be taken care of as they are prone to bacterial or fungal infection. “Moreover, mud and dirts are likely to enter the nails and stick to the heels. This should not be neglected as in the long run it may create some issues,”he explained. According to him, it is important to simultaneously pay attention to foot care in the rainy season to support the saying that cleanliness is next to godliness. The cliche, he said, holds true for our feet. “Feet help you do variety of work, in other words, they carry you to anywhere and everywhere you want to go. Therefore, we must pay attention to them. “Rainy season is a season where feet demand much attention and care. Any negligence may result in some infections, which may take longer to heal. Therefore, take care of your feet and enjoy the lovely rainy season,” he said. Giving some useful tips for feet care in the rainy season, Dr  Oluwa said feet are the most vital part of the human body. “Water logged streets, moist cool atmosphere and dampness bring many foot and skin problems. There are some remedies to get rid of all these effectively. “These include keeping them dry. Go out with shoes rather than sandals. Shoes give full protection than the sandals. If feet are wet fungal and bacterial infections are easily spread around them. Avoid soaking your feet in rain water. When feet are wet in the rain, wash with the water at home, use antiseptic liquids in cleaning them. When you bathe, soak your feet in the water for about 10 minutes. Add any liquid soap or shampoo to the water. After 10 minutes, wash them, using scrubbers made for the feet. “After scrubbing, apply any moisturiser to them. It helps to replace the old cells with new ones. Apply antiseptic gels to your feet. It is better to apply it at night. Antiseptic gels are good to clear the fungus and bacteria around the feet,” Dr Oluwa said. According to him, it is better to stay at home when one has a wounded feet and other related problems, adding that one should consult qualified podiatrists for treatment, as wounds during the rainy season get worse than in the dry season. Dr Oluwa said it is not possible to avoid getting the feet dirty and walking into puddles during the rainy, he, however, cautioned that a dirty wet feet can develop problems of itching, stinging, fungal and bacterial infections. He added that special care is be taken by diabetic patients because any injury on their feet usually takes very long time to heal. Dr  Oluwa said: “The most common feet problem during the monsoon is fungal infections between the toes. Fungal infection in the feet is caused when the shoes are wet after the rains. Athletes’ foot is another major problem during the rainy season. It is a serious condition which requires immediate attention. It is caused when feet remain wet for a long time after being exposed to dirty muddy water. The skin becomes white or greenish and a foul smell comes from the discharge or pus formation.”  The way out?  Dr  Oluwa said it is necessary to keep the feet clean and fungal free during the rainy season. The best way, according to him, is to wash the feet immediately after coming home from the rains. Germs, dirt, fungi and bacteria from the outside, which gather on the feet can lead to infections. Another simple way to keep the feet clean is to dip the feet in the water mixed with Dettol or any other antiseptic. “Nails of the feet must always be cut during the rainy season. There is a risk of fungal infections taking place due to dust and dirt gathered under the nails. Keep the feet dry by dusting talcum powder after washing them clean. Talcum helps the feet to remain dry. The toes must be given special attention as there is the tendency of bacteria growing there. It is not right to wear closed canvas or high heeled shoes in the rains. Open sandals or flip flops will allow the dirt and water to slip out and the footwear will not get muddy or dirty. The dirty sandals or slippers need to be washed clean if they are dirty with rain water. Leather shoes must be avoided. Sharing shoes can lead to different problems of the feet too. “Exfoliating the feet during the rainy season is one of the best care tips. The perfect way to exfoliate feet is to soak the feet in soapy water and scrub them with a scrubber or pumice stone (okuta ifose) to get rid of the dead skin cells. Moisturising the feet after cleaning them is good to keep them smooth. After that, talcum powder must be dusted to keep the feet dry,” he suggested. In the same vein, Dr Oluwa said making  masks with neem, turmeric and lavender oil with some water, and applying the mask on the feet and leaving it for half an hour, can keep the feet supple, adding that before washing with water one should massage the feet with olive oil. “Change the socks daily or also twice a day if they become wet. Always wear dry footwear. It is better to keep two pairs of shoes, so that there is time for each one of them to dry. “Footwear is the most essential part in foot care during the rains. Ideal footwear for rains should have a good grip on the feet and they must be designed in a manner that water does not collect inside. These tips will help one to survive on rainy days,” he said. 