The Executive Secretary of the Fertilizer Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN), Alhaji Ahmed Rabiu Kwa has said that, Nigeria will begin to export fertilizer in the next few years going by the tempo of the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative (PFI) programme. FEPSAN Scribe said, that the PFI program is one of the best things that happened to Nigeria over the last two years, adding that, its activities have brought dramatic changes in agriculture and particularly the fertilizer industry in the country. The Executive Secretary stated this in a statement issued to newsmen in Kaduna at the weekend, adding that the successful implementation of the PFI had made fertilizer available to Nigerian farmers at affordable price. While noting that, President Muhammadu Buhari’s intention was to see that, fertiliser is wholly produced locally and not imported; but because not all the raw materials are available locally, therefore under PFI, 70 percent raw materials are sourced locally, while only 30 percent are imported, Kwa said, “This is a significant development from the 100% importation in the past.” While disclosing that, FEPSAN has registered over 200 Fertilizer Distributors to distribute the product to the farmers across the country, he lamented that the spread of the distributors is not uniform, giving the spread as; North West (106), North Central (51), North East (14), South East (19), South West (9) and South South (3). According to him, “the programme is for all Nigerians and all the regions must be part of it”. He expressed dismay that the laudable initiative is not embraced by some Agro-entrepreneurs especially those from the Southern zones. He therefore gave other benefits of registering as FEPSAN fertilizer distributor to include; buying the fertilizer from FEPSAN registered blending plants closest to them, expansion of their market base by having retail outlets in localities around them, assured of the quantity and quality of the product they will buy, getting opportunities to attend trainings and other meetings organized by FEPSAN, its collaborators and partners. FEPSAN Scribe called on Agro-entrepreneurs in the South-South, South-West, South-East and North-Central Geo-political Zones in particular, to register as Fertilizer Distributors with FEPSAN under the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative program (PFI), so that farmers from their regions can also benefit from the project. He assured Agro-dealers from all the regions that the product is available for them to off-take from any blending plants nearest to them and that any problem related to registration should be reported to the Association.