The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) has signed a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) with the University of Lagos (UNILAG) on the use of its metallurgical laboratory at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport (NAIA), Abuja. The spokesperson for AIB, Mr Tunji Oketunbi, said in a statement issued on Sunday that the MoU was signed recently by the parties in Lagos. The AIB Commissioner, Mr Akin Olateru signed on behalf of the agency while the UNILAG Vice Chancellor, Prof. Oluwatoyin Ogundipe, signed on behalf of the institution. Olateru said that the laboratory was to the benefit of Nigeria, students of higher institutions of learning and industries in the country. He said the establishment of the laboratory equipment in the country would save Nigeria huge capital flights, which would have been expended on air tickets, hotels and others by researchers. He noted that the agency had written to 12 higher institutions of learning on possible collaboration on the usage of the facility. The commissioner said unfortunately, only three universities; UNILAG, University of Ilorin, and Nnamdi Azikiwe University, responded to its letters seeking for collaboration. He emphasised that the United States’ National Transportation Safety Board (NTSB) partners with public and private organisations in the US and wondered why same could not be replicated in Nigeria. Olateru said: “I believe we can make this country great with collaborations. We need collaborations like this to help us add values to the country. “We actually wrote to 12 universities, but only three responded to our letters, which is very unfortunate. “This is why I want to thank your leadership for the signing of this MoU because it shows the efforts you are putting in place to increase the knowledge base of this great institution of learning.” He, however stressed that the AIB would not compel any organisation or institution to collaborate with it on the use of the equipment. Responding, Ogundipe said university education was about research, adding that UNILAG was a research-oriented institution. The VC said UNILAG would continue to collaborate with other universities and institutions across the country and beyond. He said the students of the university had been taking the centre stage in the country while at the international level; they had equally been making great impacts. Ogundipe said: “The direction of research now is about collaborations and networking. ” I am glad that we are starting this on a good note. I want to assure you that we will make maximum use of this with our students. ” Our intention is to make our students known locally and visible at the global stage and I am happy we are achieving that so far. “On our own, we will give this collaboration 100 per cent support it deserves.”