The Australia Alumni Association of Nigeria in Abuja on Thursday organized a Continuous Professional Development (CPD) program to build professional capacities and re-enforce the understanding of Project Management and Strategic Planning principles that would help its members excel in their various professional field. According to Dr Bridget Momoh, President of the association, “today we are having a Continuous Professional Development (CPD) program for our Alumni all over the country. “We have representatives from the six geopolitical zones of the country. We are basically building capacities and re-enforcing what the participants had already learnt during their scholarship period in Australia on the processes and practices of Project Management. “The scholarship is called Australia Awards. “All participants in the training has benefitted from the Australian Awards at one time or the other. “We also hope to learn and apply Project Management and Strategic Planning principles in our various places of work. “Participants at the training come from very diverse sectors of the economy. We have participants from the health, mining, agriculture, public policy, judiciary, etc.” Mr. Gideon Peter, the facilitator of the program with E&F Management Consulting Limited, explained that Project Management is an “achiever’s” tool that cuts across every aspect of human endeavour. According to him, “when you approach your work with the mindset of a project manager, it helps you save time, work within budget and approved quality. You become more efficient and your deliveries and products are superior. Exploring the relevance of Project Management on the macro level of the Nigerian project, Mr. Gideon said, “in the Nigerian context, Project Management is actually what we need right now. “If you have the mindset of a project manager, the wastages across sectors will not exist. “Also, the undermining of the human resource will not happen because we will maximize the people and resources we have. This will lead us to have a better country.” A participant at the training, Dr Olajumoke Akiode, Executive Director, Centre for Ethics and Sustainable Development, said that the knowledge of Project Management will help expand her professional horizon and make her more efficient as a leader. Another participant, Dr. Ayo Shoyombo, said “I am here to benefit from the training on Project Management. I’m now a better manager on projects and the various tasks that has been committed to me. “Since Project Management cuts across all fields, I intend to pass the knowledge to my students as a lecturer in Landmark University.”