England have secured a place in the quarter finals after beating Colombia on penalty shoot-outs thrilling fans with thier win after a tense night in Moscow. Two excellent saves from Jordan Pickford blocked efforts from Uribe and Bacca saw him to end England’s record of spot kick disasters and leave the path clear for Dier to score a winning penalty for the Three Lions. It followed a tense match in which Yerry Mina scored against Gareth Southgate’s team at the Spartak Stadium in Moscow, during injury time after a goalless first half. England fans had been relieved when Kane netted his sixth goal and his third from the penalty spot in the 58th minute after he was wrestled to the ground by Carol Sanchez. It came after Colombia faced defender Santiago Arias being booked early in the second half for raging into the England captain. Manchester United’s Marcus Rashford has been brought on for England as the possibility of a penalty shoot-out to decide the game looms ever closer. The Goals FT: COLOMBIA 1-1 ENGLAND Wow. What an end to that game. Quite how England aren’t celebrating right now, I have no idea. It all came from Uribe’s quite unbelievable half volley from 30 yards. It looked to be heading in but for Pickford’s fingertip save, and from the resulting corner, disaster struck. Maguire has been unbeatable at the back for 93 minutes, but Mina rose above him, and saw his header come off the pitch and squeeze above Trippier. Could the Spurs man have done better? Perhaps. GOAL! COLOMBIA 1-1 ENGLAND (Mina 90+3) I don’t believe it. Gareth Southgate is calling for calm here. What else can he do? This is heartbreak for England. Cuadrado’s corner comes in after Pickford’s save, and Mina rises so high above Maguire. He heads it down to the ground, and Trippier on the line can’t jump high enough to stop it creeping under the crossbar! It looks like we’ll have extra-time.  GOAL! COLOMBIA 0-1 ENGLAND (Kane pen, 57) No mistake! Kane goes down the middle as Ospina goes right!! Kane had to wait over three minutes to take that, and he looked so calm!  England XI: Pickford; Walker, Stones, Maguire; Trippier, Henderson, Alli, Young; Lingard, Sterling; Kane. Colombia XI: Ospina, Arias, Davinson Sanchez, Mina, Mojica, Sanchez, Barrios, Cuadrado, Quintero, Lerma, Falcao.  Preview England face Colombia in the last 16 of the 2018 World Cup at Moscow’s Spartak Stadium. Three Lions boss Gareth Southgate made sweeping changes to his side for the final group match against Belgium. And the gamble looks to have paid off as England find themselves on the ‘right side of the draw,’ avoiding Brazil, Belgium and France until the final. Victory over Colombia would leave England facing a quarter-final against Sweden or Switzerland.Colombia boast a variety of threats – including Radamel Falcao, James Rodriguez, Davinson Sanchez and Juan Cuadrado. OPTA STATS 