Global technological advancement is turning transportation to a money-spinning business. But Nigeria is yet to leverage the innovation to initiate reforms that will transform its transport sector and achieve economic growth, a professor of Urban and Regional Planning, Jaiye Jehoshaphat Dukiya, has said. Transportation, Dukiya said, has the potential to generate huge revenue to the government, but he added that lack of integrated transport system and infrastructure deficiency has limited the nation’s chance to grow its economy through the sector. In revitalising the national transport system, Prof Dukiya said Nigeria needed technology-coordinated Intelligent Transport System (ITS) adopted by industrialised countries to create new revenue base to grow its economy. The don proffered solution to transportation challenges facing the country when he delivered 65th inaugural lecture of the Federal University of Technology, Minna (FUT MINNA) in Niger State. The lecture, held at Caverton Lecture Theatre in Gidan-Kwano campus, was titled: Leveraging advances in transport development: To where is Nigeria heading? Eminent personalities graced the event. The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Abdullahi Bala, led principal officers of the school to the lecture, which was well-attended by staff and students. Dukiya said: “ITS is a pointer towards improved urban transport system in the nearest future. Many developed and developing countries that have implemented ITS are already reaping the benefits, which include reduced pollution, congestion, accidents and greater reduction in travel times. “The Federal Government, through the relevant ministry and agencies, should consider providing a national inventory of facilities required; construct a blueprint and put in place the relevant infra- and info-structures necessary for effective implementation of this transport programmes in our system. ITS improves safety and mobility by integrating advanced, wireless communications technologies into transportation infrastructure and vehicles.” The don explained that the purpose of ITS was to process and share information that could prevent vehicle collision, keep traffic moving and reduce environmental impacts, among others. He recalled that the industrial revolution transformed the transport sector in the 18th Century, while pointing out that an efficient road transportation system had the potential to impact positively on the country’s socio-economic life since many commercial activities depended on road transport. He observed that rapid development of the automobile industry had aided the transformation of human society from being primitive to been highly industrialised. He said: “Global transport industry is changing in response to climate change and urban gridlock challenges. No nation can afford to seat on the fence, but to join in the crusade of green mobility for the optimisation of vehicular usage. It is pertinent to assert that the G8 nations -Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia, the United Kingdom, and the United States – are on the run, especially in the area of green mobility.” The don said globalisation of transportation standards and production of hybrid vehicles required adoption of ITS principles and complemented with infrastructure development that must be strategically planned to cater for the future challenges. “Coordinating traffic signals, giving signal priority to transit lanes, electronic information signs and variable speed limit signs are all part of the burgeoning ITS industry. Also part of ITS is the ability to automatically distribute real-time traffic data to websites, social media feeds, mobile devices, local television and radio stations,” he added. Dukiya urged the government and transport stakeholders to develop a master plan for the implementation of ITS infrastructure across the nation, adding that the Nigerian Metrological Agency (NIMET) and the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) in collaboration with the Ministry of Environment should be analysing and disseminating early warning signals for traffic control and passengers’ safety. The lecturer canvassed the enactment of a legislation that would market made-in-Nigeria vehicles and criminalise vehicle smuggling activities. He said: “Financially supporting the establishment of Nigerian automobile sector, as part of measures to promote local content and inspire young inventors, is absolutely imperative. To this end, government should empower indigenous automobile spare parts manufacturers in Aba and Nnewi.” Dukiya, who is a registered member of the Nigeria Institute of Town Planners (NITP), is also the pioneer Head of Transport Management Technology Department of the institution. He is the immediate past Deputy Dean, School of Entrepreneurship and Management Technology (SEMT). His areas of specialisation are remote sensing applications, transportations planning and environmental management. He is presently the Director of Centre for Disaster Management and Development Studies (CDMDS).