He Fang Fang is the Vice President of Henan Cross-border E-Commerce Industry Committee of China Chamber of International Commerce (CCOIC). In this interview with INNOCENT DURU, Fang, who doubles as the CEO of Unaku, an international fashion organization, speaks about how Nigeria will benefit from the proposed currency swap with China and how the population of Nigeria and its openness to new ideas make it a place to be for investors. Excerpts: Why did you choose Nigeria? Nigeria has a big population. It is an innovative country that welcomes new things and it is the strongest economy in western Africa. Personally speaking, I  have been an English lecture translator and organizer  for food security training for developing countries, factory management trainer for developing countries, Taichi and Shaolin Martial Arts trainer for developing countries, Head, Henan Cube Network Technology Co.Ltd, sponsored by China, Beijing Apartment of Foreign Affairs. In this process, I have had deep communication with officials from African countries, especially officials from Sokoto,Nigeria. Till now, we are good friends and seeking good agriculture projects for Nigeria and China. Then, there is this One Belt and One Road Policy proposed by President XiJin Ping, and I became the Vice President of CCOIC Henan Cross-border E-commerce Industry Committee. So, it is an opportunity to take advantage of my resources in China and Nigeria to build a new cooperation system in international E-commerce field to benefit both countries. What are you investing and how would Nigeria and the citizens benefit from this? We will invest technology system to work with local cloth designers, high end boutiques and marketers to get benefits.  Then, in the next period, we will invest a full automatic factory here in Nigeria. You are planning to take Africa’s fashion all over the globe; what led to this and how are you planning to go about it? African designers and our two platforms will lay a solid foundation to make African fashion a worldwide phenomenon. It is the win-win cooperation between China and Africa. How would the planned currency swap between Nigeria and China enhance this? Renminbi (RMB) is going to be the international foreign exchange reserve and the relationship between China and Nigeria is going to be better, and so the planned currency swap between the two countries will enhance this programme and this will be strongly supported. Nigeria is bedevilled with problems of unemployment; what role would your project play in addressing this? The aim to establish this project in Nigeria is to create employment.  This project will cooperate with local people  in the aspect of marketing, designing, wholesale and fashion show organization. It will promote industrial-academic-research cooperation. This project will enter local fashion schools or economic colleges for designing lectures, clothing machine introduction and marketing strategy so as to encourage intellectuals to practice what they have learnt to the development of local economy. Thus we will make local designers design for mass production in China. Invest local logistics and clothing industries. Unaku will open factories in the coming year as long as the local designers, marketers, boutique and customers are reaching certain volume. We are out to spread Africa’s  fashion.  Unaku will be helpful in spreading local culture because its designs are from local fashion designers and would supply them with productive production. This programme will help reduce the challenge of unemployment rate by giving credits to cloth wholesalers, dealers, boutiques, and working with cloth designers with digital earning system also get traced commission to marketers. Our target is to explore and spread Africa’s fashion worldwide by uniting African cloth designers, marketers and China’s cloth productive capacity. We are committed to bring win-win projects to Africa and it must be sustainable to benefit local economy based on integrity and international best practice. What is Henan Cube Network Technology  all about? My organization, Henan Cube Network Technology Co. Ltd, trading as UnakuUpenda Africa Fashion brand is working towards uniting Africa designers’ designs, African boutiques and China’s productive clothes capacity. We target middle and high class customers and actively respond to the national One Belt and One Road Initiatives, aiming at widening the cooperation channel of brand clothing fashion between China and the African continent. Unaku is committed to creating Africa’s fast-fashion women brand. Our major platforms are the African designers’ website and the mall website selling the designs from the designers’ web.  The designers’ website is to stimulate the creativity of African designers, to cooperate with them  by supplying China production chain and shifting good cloth production to Africa. Unaku will make Africa designers’ clothes and promote these designs in Africa’s market, so the designers can get shares of the commission of these designs’ sales figure. All the benefiting system is visible from the designers’ web.