Inspired by the desire to provide lasting solutions to the growing challenge of fitting indigenous ideas into the global sphere, students of University of Lagos (UNILAG) are set to hold the 9th edition of their annual media summit tagged “The Academic Summit (TAS) 9.0.” The summit which has been scheduled to hold on Thursday, 5th July at the J. F Ade-Ajayi Auditorium is themed “Create. Glocalize.” According to a statement issued by the head of the TAS 9.0 planning committee, Oluwamayowa Adeyemi, the theme was inspired by the recent trend of Nigerians using their originality in creating products and selling them to the world adding that the term “Glocalize” was coined from a combination of local and global. Adeyemi noted that the this year’s edition seeks to teach participants how to develop their creations – product, service, talent, skill – and make them global standard without losing touch of the Nigerian originality. She said, “This year, The Academic Summit sees eye to eye with the Nigerian government’s crave for local industries to offer products and services that will be affordable to the Nigerian society and at the same time compete successfully with foreign brands. “Seeing the need for the Nigerian story to be made global, Zegist an online news website sponsored the summit with a creative writing contest. The creative writing contest awards winners the sum of 180, 000 naira. “For ease and specialization, this year’s summit goes beyond the roundtable, seminar room lecture. Create. Glocalize would be dissected for participants to fit into workshops handled with finesse by intellectual media persons,” she said. Adeyemi further said, “Digital Marketing would be taken by Communications and Public Affairs Manager of Google West Africa, Taiwo Kola Ogunlade. Japheth Omojuwa would be handling Online Journalism. Creative Direction will be taught by Akintunde Bada, country manager of Viacom International Media Network. “Osagie Alonge, editor in chief of Ringier Africa Digital Publishing would be taking Content Development. Other Media Professionals to be expected include Mowunmi Owodunni, MD STB McCANN, Femi Odugbemi; award winning Film Maker, Rufai Oseni Renowned Broadcaster,” she added. The Summit is holding under the auspices of Communicators for Christ Fellowship (CFC), department of Mass Communication of the institution. This event has been running for eight years with themes that have examined trends in the media world and taught participants practical ways to use these trends.