The National Economic Council (NEC) on Thursday approved the establishment of Federal Project Coordinating Unit on flood prevention, mitigation and preparedness programme. A panel has recommended the setting up of the unit to mitigate the effect of flood in many parts of the country. Anambra State Governor, Willy Obiano, disclosed this at the end of about two hours meeting chaired by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He was with the Bauchi State Governor, Mohammed Abubakar, Deputy Governor of Oyo State, Moses Adeyemo and Special Adviser to the President on Economic Matters, Oluyemi Dipeolu, at the briefing. According to Obiano, the Minister of State for Environment, Usman Jibril, briefed the Council and asked for collaborative partnership between the Federal Government and State governments against flooding and other erosion disasters in the country. He said: “The presentation informed the Council on the imminent onset of this year’s flood season and the need for collaborative partnership between the Federal and State Governments with the Presidential Committee on Flood Relief and Rehabilitation (PCFRR) for immediate intervention on flood prevention, mitigation and preparedness in the country. “The occurrence and magnitude of flood continue to increase in Nigeria due to many factors, among which are prolonged rainfall, siltation of existing streams, human manipulation of drainage basins, undeveloped drainages, poor urban planning and dam collapse, among others. “It is estimated that about 20 per cent of the population is at risk from one form of flooding or another, resulting in property damages and loss of lives annually. Climate change projections indicate that there may be greater risk of flooding in the years ahead. “Natural causes of flood are beyond human control, but human manipulation/human induced situation can either be prevented or at least have their impact mitigated. “Enormous resources towards flood disaster mitigation have been committed by government at all levels. However, the menace continues unabated. There is need for a paradigm shift in the approach to solve the annual negative experience, hence the need for suggestive approaches for an efficient and effective collaboration among stakeholders.”