No fewer than 1,000 youths from different parts of Anambra State are participating at the maiden DigiPrenueur Week to learn about opportunities in the digital space. The Digital Entrepreneurship training programme is part of the State Government’s strategy to preparing the youths to face the World. This was contained in the message by the State Governor, Chief Willie Obiano who was represented by the Deputy, Dr Nkem Okeke. The Governor said that the maiden Anambra DigiPrenueur Week tagged `The Next Level’ in Awka was in line with administration’s programme for the youths. He reminded the youths that business in the contemporary world, has moved from archaic brick and mortar approach to modern information driven system. Meanwhile, the Deputy Governor said that the Obiano led Administration remains the most youth friendly governor with over 65 per cent of them as appointees of his government and some of the youngest commissioners in the country. He expressed the hope that with the training and subsequent mentorship, Anambra would raise the pool of entrepreneurs that would dictate the pace in the digital world. Addressing the participants, Mr Bonaventure Enemali, the Commissioner for Youth Empowerment and Creative Economy, said the weeklong event is apt to motivate, mentor and provide platform for Anambra Youths to network and take advantage of the growing impact of ICT. “This is apt and part of the plans to empower Anambra Youths for greater contribution to State Economy by introducing the participants to different digital entrepreneurship opportunities. “Through this medium, it will promote internet-based enterprises and entrepreneurship and the mentorship/sponsorships to select Startups is a way of launching them into the digital entrepreneurship terrain effectively”, the Commissioner added. In his welcome address, Mr Ifeanyi Aniagoh, Senior Special Assistant to the governor on Youth Empowerment and Digital Entrepreneurship said that the programme was meant for youth including employed and unemployed graduates. Aniagoh said that it also included undergraduates and any other interested persons who wished to explore business opportunities available in the digital world. He said that there were lots of opportunities for internet users to make good business but decried that the right attitude and environment had not been created for them to earn legitimately. The governor’s aide said that the training was free with digital tools of over N2 million for distribution to outstanding trainees with mentoring of not less than six months. “Through this DigiPrenueur campaign, we will teach people what and how to rightly use the digital space; it focuses on self development, value reorientation and digital skills development. “Through creating digital entrepreneurs, we wish to eradicate unemployment, insecurity, end internet fraud also have youths who will dominate the age of digital economy,” he said. Also speaking, Mr Celestine Achi, the Founder, DigitalPR-wire and Online Reputation Manager, said digital sector was a sure way to go in the post-recession economy of Nigeria. Achi, who is one of the resource persons at the training, commended Obiano for creating the enabling environment that encouraged people to seek and exploit opportunities in the Information Technology sector. He said that his firm and TechEconomy.ng would empower successful trainers with about 500 units of digital tools. In his remark, Stanley Uzochukwu, the Chief Executive Officer of Stanel World, Awka said it was time that youths were positioned to take their place in the information age. Uzochukwu who is a major partner in the project urged participants to take the training seriously as leading social media, digital and information technology entrepreneurs have been invited to deliver hands-on practical lectures.