Triathlon got a boost as 19 coaches successfully completed a 5-day IOC Solidarity Course, which came to an end on Wednesday at the Nigeria Olympic Committee board room. At the closing ceremony, the trainers – Franz Studer and Travis Campbell from South Africa – enjoined the coaches to put what they have learnt into good use and commended them for their resourcefulness during the course. Studer noted that the idea of the course is to enrich the coaches with fresh knowledge of triathlon assuring that the course would go a long way in helping the sports grow in Nigeria. “I must commend the coaches who took part in the solidarity course. They were very serious and I am sure the will go to their various stations and teach the young kids how to develop in the sports.” He also commended the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for bringing the course to Africa. “IOC has done creditably well by bringing the course to Nigeria and I hope more countries will benefit in future.” President of the Nigeria Triathlon Union (NTU), Prince Wale Oladunjoye also enjoined the coaches to go back to their various states and train athletes that would represent Nigeria at international competition. “I am excited that this course is coming at a time the NTU is seeking ways to ensure the growth and popularity of triathlon. I am sure that the coaches will discover and train young athletes who will do the country proud in future. “It is clear that there so many sports that the kids can chose so it is the responsibility of our coaches to sell triathlon to kids who want to put their energy into productive use. The NTU is committed to developing triathlon in the country,” Oladunjoye added. He also commended the South African trainers and assured that they are always welcomed in Nigeria. Coaches who got certificates at the end of the course are Mohammed Musa Biu, Perelati Gbagi, Abba Mustapha, Orogho Bello, Musa Garuba, Korutimi Pabor, Aniagolu Timothy, Moses Omozusi and Tilije Sunday. Others are Abdulmummen Mohammed, Miebaka Aggo, Tondor Joy Naghan Okoro, Badmus Titilayo, Omoleye Aboidun, Tona Deborah, Loya Barakumo, Ofonedu Modupeola and Abiodun Ojomo.