Former  Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Adamu Ciroma is dead. The Minister of Finace (1999-2003) during the first term of the Olusegun Obasanjo Presidency, according to family sources, died in a Turkish hospital in Abuja yesterday after a protracted illness. He was 84. The late Ciroma, also a minister under President Shehu Shagari in the Second Republic, was a founding member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In 1979, Ciroma was one of the National Party of Nigeria (NPN) presidential aspirants. He came third in the primary, behind Shehu Shagari and Maitama Sule. Ciroma was briefly the secretary of the NPN before serving at various times as Minister for Industries, Agriculture and Finance. Ciroma was born on November 20, 1934 in Potiskum, Yobe State. He graduated from the University of Ibadan and served in different capacities in the Public Service.  He was appointed to the Board of the Central Bank of Nigeria in 1970 where he served as a Director before his appointment as the Governor in 1975. His remains were buried in Abuja yesterday. President Muhammadu Buhari, Ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo, Senate President Bukola Saraki, House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara, Governors, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Aiwaju Bola Tinubu, among others reacted to Ciroma’s passing. In a statement by Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, the President extended sincere condolences to the Ciroma family, the government and people of Yobe State on the passing of the elder statesman. The President described Ciroma as a political leader and Federal cabinet minister for Industries, Agriculture and Finance, at various points in his remarkable life, will be long remembered for his remarkable service and dedication to the country’s unity, progress and stability. President Buhari also affirmed that he will be honoured for his contributions in promoting democracy in Nigeria and his legacies should be a constant reminder to politicians who wish to work for the good of their communities and our great country. Senate President Bukola Saraki described the late politician’s death as monumental loss to the country. In a statement, Saraki said: “Although death is painful, but it gladdens my heart that late Ciroma lived a worthy and successful life,” Saraki said. “As a public servant, the late Ciroma’s integrity was unparalleled, as a politician, he was unblemished and as a journalist, he was among the finest breed.” “Indeed there is no word or adjective that will be enough to describe late Ciroma, considering his invaluable contributions to the development of the country. “We have lost a detribalised Nigerian, bridge builder and a strong pillar for nation’s unity. He will surely be remembered for his forthrightness and integrity. We shall miss him greatly”. House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara expressed sadness over the demise of an “icon of transparency and an epitome of integrity who lived an incorruptible life. “Indeed we lost a great man, a patriot, leader par excellence and  a shining star.  Malam Adamu Ciroma was one of the few surviving close associates of the late Prime Minister, Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa and the late Premier of Northern Nigeria, Sir Ahmadu Bello and he remained a consistent advocate for the struggle to see Nigeria achieve the dreams of her founding fathers”. “He was an intellectual genius and highly cosmopolitan public servant who exhibited high sense of patriotism, passion and enthusiasm for the progress and development of the country while serving as first indigenous Editor and Managing Director of New Nigerian Newspaper, CBN Governor and Minister of various portfolios in different administrations in Nigeria.” Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Governor Godwin Emefiele described Ciroma as a very good man who was still of immense service to the apex bank. He said Ciroma was a firm believer in the sanctity and independence of the CBN. “While we mourn the loss of a very good man, an astute central banker and a patriot, we also celebrate his remarkable life and contribution to the banking industry in Nigeria,” the CBN said. The Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) said the country has lost one of its finenest elder statesman, a bridge builder and a leader who lived a simple and humble life. “The late Mallam Ciroma was a quintessential civil servant and politician who served Nigeria in various capacities in the first and second republics as well as the military regimes and the fourth republic. “The late elder statesman was a man of great intellect vision and politician who was a strong pillar that continues to support the unity and stability of Nigeria. “The late elder statesman would be remembered for his political doggedness, commitment to national unity and selfless service to his father land. Nigeria has lost one of its finenest elder statesman, a bridge builder and a leader who lived a simple and humble life. He needs no thumb stone to remind us of his legacies. Yet the best remembrance is for those he has left behind to live up what he stood for. Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki said: “I am saddened by the loss of elder statesman, Adamu Ciroma, whose passing was announced today at an Abuja hospital. “Ciroma was a respected leader, who rose to serve Nigeria meritoriously when the occasion demanded. This can be gleaned from the number of public service offices he held and the panache with which he dispensed his roles. “I hereby extend my condolences to the government and people of Yobe State, his hometown, Potiskum, and his immediate family. I pray that God gives them the fortitude to bear the loss,” he said. Obaseki noted that “Ciroma’s role as one of the architects of modern Nigeria cannot be controverted,” calling on youths to emulate his commitment to the Nigerian project. Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola described Cirom as principled, recalling his famlus statement in the heat of the June 12, 1993 election annulment crisis, that Ciroma said the late Chief Moshood Abiola won the election “fatr and square.” In a statement by his Media Adviser Sola Fasure, Aregbesola said: “The death of Mallam Adams Ciroma came to me with a rude shock. “This was a highly respectable and influential politician and a reputable voice from the North.  He had been around since after the independence, taking part in major decisions that had shaped the country both in trying moment and in peace. “He had witnessed Nigeria’s political development from the First Republic to the present democracy and participated in all, which made him one of the most highly experienced and informed politicians living in the country until his exit on Thursday. History will be kind to him”, adding: “There is no denying the fact that the nation will in some days and years to come miss the experience and interventionist roles of this man of immense wisdom and political knowledge.” Former Anambnra State Governor Peter Obi, described Ciroma as an elder statesman “that served the country creditably as the Governor of the Central bank and the Minister of Finance. While urging  the younger ones to emulate his spirit of service, he prayed for the repose of his soul.” Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar said his world view was largely influenced by early contacts and mentorship that he received from the late Ciroma. He said: “A lot of what I have turned out to be in life today was as a result of the early contacts and mentorship that I had with Adamu Ciroma, who graciously offered me vacation job in my formative years”, Atiku said. Atiku said Ciroma’s honesty and patriotism were among his greatest virtues, adding that the deceased had left behind untainted public service record for which he would always be remembered. Also, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has expressed grief over the passing of the former Finance Minister and a chieftain of the party. In a statement by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said the country has lost one of its finest; an incontrovertible patriot who spent his life making inestimable sacrifices for the unity and development of our dear country. The PDP said, “Mallam Ciroma lived as a committed citizen; an astute administrator and highly disciplined politician, who  discharged all responsibilities vested in him with unequaled forthrightness and loyalty to the nation. “On the political sphere, this great Nigerian will be remembered for his roles in ensuring the stability and growth of our nation, and particularly, the roles he played in the formation and growth of the PDP. He played a leading role in Group of 34 eminent Nigerians, otherwise called the G34, that formed the PDP. “He was an embodiment of the ideals and visions of our great party in our pursuit of a prosperous nation where unity, equality and justice prevail.  