The Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation has refuted the allegation that former security aides of the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, were not involved in the arrest of a school principal and other school workers caught in the Permanent Voter Card (PVC) racketeering saga. The Principal of Ola Oluwa Muslim Grammar School, Ado-Ekiti, Mr. Sunmonu Olaoye, and two staff members of the school were arrested by the operatives of the Department of State Services (DSS) for collecting PVCs from teachers allegedly on the order of Governor Ayo Fayose. Few days ago, a text message from Ekiti Teaching Service Commission had directed all principals and head teachers to collect the names of all teachers in their schools, including their voter cards and bank accounts. Irked by the governor’s audacity, DSS agents stormed the school, to arrest school officials caught in the act illegally collecting teachers’ cards, but Fayose accused Fayemi of masterminding the arrest. A statement by the Director of Media and Publicity of Kayode Fayemi Campaign Organisation, Wole Olujobi, explained that Fayemi had no hand in the arrest of the suspects. He warned Fayose against malicious utterances to set the public against the APC governorship candidate, even as he berated the governor for blackmailing DSS agents in the performance of their official duties. Noting that the campaign team is aware of media blackmail Fayose had launched against Fayemi, Olujobi said: “Fayose has refused to relent in the illegal collection of teachers’ voter cards. “There are reports of invitations of some teachers who refused to submit their voter cards by the Teaching Service Commission on the order of the governor to answer queries for refusing to illegally transfer their voter cards to illegal hands, which prompted DSS to act to protect the teachers from illegal possession of their cards by unauthorised persons. “Fayose is hereby warned against unguided statements and reckless lies that Fayemi sent his security aides to arrest school principals. 