Tucked in towering hills and lush vegetation, Koforidua, a town in the Eastern Region of Ghana, is serene with a  quiet ambience. Located two hours from Accra, Ghana’s political capital, Koforidua’s aesthetic landscape turned the city to an ideal place for learning and intellectual engagement for the young journalists, who participated in the African Journalists for Economic Opportunities Training (AJEOT). Held at Summit Hotels, the event has become a rendezvous for intellectuals, ranging from political economists to journalists and public policy experts, who came from Kenya, Switzerland, United States (US), Nigeria and Ghana. The training was organised by the Ghana-based Institute for Liberty and Policy Innovation (ILAPI), with the support of the Washington D.C.-based Atlas Economic Research Foundation, Language of Liberty Institute (LLI) and Network for Free Society. The training’s objective  was to expose the young journalists to ideas of individual liberty and economic freedom, and producing original journalistic works that will promote entrepreneurship, practicable economic policies, freedom and human rights. Opening the session with his presentation titled: “Introduction to Classical Liberalism”, Wale Ajetunmobi, a US Exchange Programme alumnus and Editor of The Nation’s CAMPUSLIFE section, described classical liberalism as the only idea that promotes values supporting individual liberty and economic freedom. The idea, he said, gave every human being the liberty to pursue anything that would bring peace, contentment and happiness to them. He listed the underlying principles of classical liberalism to include personal freedom, free trade, freedom of religion, rights to private property, limited government, equality and justice, among others. He said: “The idea that the government should be in charge of business does not ultimately translate to progress and prosperity, because the involvement of the government in business stifles the market. The government should only create an enabling environment for people to freely exchange values. This would be the beginning of prosperity.” Speaking on Liberty and Free Market in Africa, the ILAPI President, Peter Bismark, explained why Africa must do away with retrogressive trade policies. People, he said, must stop expecting handouts from the government. He said: “It is time Africa rejected an economic system that is heavily dependant on the government. Majority of Africans believe the government must provide their daily bread, which is not supposed to be so. A society is doomed to fail if it is the government that is controlling the factors of production and the supply of materials needed by the people. This limits the freedom of individuals in the society to be in control of what they wish to trade in and robs them of economic freedom. “But, in a free market system, which preaches limited government’s intervention, people have freedom to innovate and create wealth that will bring out the society out of poverty. In this case, the only responsibility the government has is to protect the property rights of individuals in the society and maintain justice.” Founder, IMANI Center for Policy and Education, a Ghana-based Think-Tank, Franklin Cudjoe, linked Africa’s underdevelopment and poverty to the influx of foreign aid, which, he said, focused on irrelevant programmes. In his presentation titled: “Africa needs freer markets and fewer tyrants”, Cudjoe said centralised state rule marked by corruption and sustained by needless foreign aid was a common trend among African countries. He described them as “the shackles that keep Africans poor”. He said: “Most African countries, including Zimbabwe, Malawi, Zambia, Mozambique, Swaziland and Lesotho, lack economic freedom and property rights; these countries have their economies mismanaged by the state whose actors depend on aid. “All these countries have a history of utopian schemes that failed to produce everlasting manna. State farms, marketing boards, land redistribution, price controls and huge regional tariffs left few incentives or opportunities for subsistence farmers to expand. Despite torrents of aid, these cruel social experiments could not turn sands verdant or prevent the granaries of southern and eastern Africa from rotting.” Noting that Africa needs more freedom than foreign aid, Cudjoe said: “The only way to give food security to 200 million sub-Saharan Africans is to give them the tools, not to rely on yet more aid and the government. There are good benefits that come from property rights, for instance, which also inspire the motivation to invest in, improve and preserve factors of production. Motivation does not come from aid, central control and state serfdom.” Vicente Di Camara, a young libertarian from Switzerland, spoke on Geopolitics, during which he took the participants on the parameters used by international bodies to measure the degree of freedom in countries. He also spoke on the concept of neo-liberalism, use of language and items of international politics that cause poverty in developing countries. Executive Director, Conservative Policy Research Centre in Ghana, Ebenezer Nil-Tackie, who spoke on “Understanding the Liberal Framwork within the Realm of Public Policy Formulation”, discussed how societies emerged and transitioned without any contact with existing civilisation. Abdul-Rahman Sarpong of the Centre for Blockchain and Management Systems facilitated an interactive session with the participants, discussing entrepreneurial strategies and method to designing a practicable business model to run businesses. A speaker from Kenya, Berlinder Odek, took the participants on a discourse around Internet freedom. She spoke on the need to create a free society through Freedom of Information (FoI) Law, which, she said, had been enacted in several African countries. Atlas Network’s Executive Vice President for International Programmes Tom Palmer, who engaged the participants through Skype call from Washington DC, spoke on “Identifying tools for economic journalism”. The training featured individual assignment and group works, after which prizes were presented to participants with the best business model design. Some of the participants described the training as “intellectually engaging”, promising to promote principles of classical liberalism and liberate Africa from the shackles of poverty through their journalistic activities. 