The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics ( ASUP ) on Tuesday urged the management and governing council of tertiary institutions to conduct thorough investigation into cases of sexual harassment. Mr Usman Dutse, National President of ASUP, made the plea in an interview with our reporter in Lagos. Dutse said that the union would not defend any lecturer caught involved in act of sexual harassment or abuse against their students. Commenting on recent incidence of sexual harassment in some universities, ASUP president said that the union had made its stance clear to all members of the union over the disrespectful act. ASUP president said that the union was working with the management in various institutions to curtail and punish all those involved in these kinds of activities. He said any lecturer involved in sexual harassment has abused the ethical conduct and practice of lecturing in higher institutions and should be made to face the consequences. Dutse said: “What we are asking for is adequate investigation and nobody should be punished without thorough investigation. “If you punish a suspect without adequate proof and evidences, it is another offence and also a violation. “We should avoid victimisation because in some cases, it may be a setup or gang-up.” The ASUP president warned lecturers to avoid any unethical practice that could ridicule the profession. “This do occur in almost all tertiary institutions, and even, in the basic primary and secondary schools. “There are instances where principals, teachers and heads masters in primary schools molest their pupils, talk less of tertiary institutions where there are matured youths. “It is an unfortunate incident; as a union, we condemned it in totality, it is a bad behaviour. “We always discourage our members from participating in such act and the union will never support any member that is involved in that kind of activities. “We have made our position known to our members, because it is unethical for a lecturer to be involved in any sexual abuse or harassment. “As a lecturer, you are a teacher, a father, a guardian and a mentor. “The relationship of lecturer is not only in the area of academic and mentor, but both spiritual and social; so you need to serve as a father, guide and counsel,” he said.