CREDITED with the kindest touch on humanity, it was just as well that a group of women professionals showed love to internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Benue State. The state, among others in the Middle Belt, is the epicentre of attacks by suspected armed herdsmen who have sacked many communities, disrupted farming activities, destroyed the villages they conquered, and sent survivors into hundreds of IDP camps across the state. The state chapter of International Federation of Women Lawyers visited two camps located on the outskirts of Makurdi, the state capital. The state chairperson of the organisation, Mrs Margaret  Atu noted that their visit to the Abagana and Agan Primary School camps was intended to put a smile on the faces of the displaced people. She said, “FIDA came here to encourage the IDPs not to lose hope. It is unfortunate that they have found themselves here (camps). We believe that God shall arise in their situation. God will make a way so that they will go back home and continue with their normal activities.” Atu said FIDA will continue to pray until peace returns to the deserted communities. The state secretary of FIDA Mrs . Terfa Suswam commended Mrs. Onyeaka Mary, also a lawyer and FIDA member, for mobilising her clients to donate drugs for the health needs of the IDPs Mrs. Oyeaka was accompanied to the IDPs by the Managing Director of BellaDona Pharmacy Mr. Azegba MacDonald who provided the drugs that were donated to the IDPs. Special Adviser to the governor on MDGs,  Dr. Magdalene Dura, also a lawyer, on her part, provided sanitary bags containing towels, soaps and other toiletries to  FIDA for  onward presentation to the IDPs. The State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA)’s camp official, James Iorkyaa, who received the women, including the zone 4, Assistant Inspector General (AIG) of Police, Hilda Harrison, thanked FIDA for their kind gestures. Iorkyaa also received the food and non-food items as well as drugs donated by the women. He said that about 20 and 30 families in the camp attempted to go back home but had to return to the camp for their safety. “Their homes are not yet safe for them to return to,” the camp commandant said. Items donated to the IDPs include cloths, maternity kits, beans, rice, noodles slippers, drugs and cooking ingredients like salt, and palm oil, among others.