A French aka Les Blues victory over Uruguay in the 1st Quarter final of the 2018 World Cup on Friday at the Nizhny Novgorod Stadium in Russia is like a man trying to ride a bicycle up Olumo Rock, a tourist spot in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. On current rating, both have played 4 matches, Uruguay won all (beat Egypt and Saudi each by a lone goal; spanked hosts Russia 3-0 before Cavani’s brace decision Ronaldo’s Portugal 2-1 in R16); scored 7 goals, conceded 2 goals and has +5 goals difference. France won 3 matches ( beat Australia 2-1, Peru 1-0, played goalless with Denmark before the 4-3 thrashing of Argentina in R16) scored 7 goals like Uruguay but conceded 4 goals and has +3 goals difference. The implication of this is that France with a record of poor marksmanship may need more than the elasticity of Mbappe and Pepe to score. Before the desperate encounter with Argentina where France scored a whopping 4 goals, they could only squeeze a goal per match, one against Australia but for the own goal by Behich in the 80’, the match would have ended in a draw and that lone goal against Peru scored by Pepe. France was not doing well. Book makers are hinging their 47% win vote to France because of the surprise performance against Argentina. 23% feels Uruguay will win while 30% feels there will be a draw and then a penalty shoot-out. Uruguay W1 D4 L3 in their encounters. Suarez scored in the lone victory of June 2013. In their world cup encounters, Uruguay had W1 D2 winning in 1966 with draws in 2002 and 2010. There is something Uruguay will not like to hear, they have never won five times in a row in same world cup tournament. Diego Maradona had said the new French wonder boy; Mbappe is like Claudio Canigga a notable Argentinian star who wrecked opposing teams at will. There is a sentimental angle to it. France Forward, Griezmann is team mate with Uruguay defenders Diego Godin and Jose Gimenez at Athletico Madrid. They are so close that Griezmann keeps feeling he is from Uruguay. Godin is the godfather of Griezmann’s daughter. Suarez said Uruguay does not have time for sentiment and Friday will show it.
Cavani is PSG’s all-time top scorer and is ready to bang in goals for Uruguay. Cavani killed Portugal with his brace. Will he also wreck France? But the news from Russia is that Cavani may not be fit for the match because of a calf injury. Mbappe and Griezmann have scored two goals each for France. The match is 1500 hours WAT. The second match at 1900 hours may not go to the wire at all. Belgium v Brazil. Surprised? Kazan Arena will see ‘wenn’ as we say in Warri language meaning they will see American Wonders. Brazil is playing quarter final in consecutive 7th time in world cup. They were beaten two times at this stage in 2006 by France and 2010 by Netherlands. It is important to tell you that European teams knocked out the five times world champions in 2006, 2010 and the last one in Brazil 2014. Pundits are always saying Brazil is favorite to win in every tournament, even at this stage, 43% vote a Brazilian victory, 28% say it’s a Belgium win while 29% say it go to the wire and be decided via penalties. Both teams have met five times mostly friendlies. Belgium won in 1963 but Brazil won the three other encounters. The only time the ever met in the world cup, was in 2002 Round of 16 and Brazil ran away with a 2 nil victory. On current standing, both have played 4 matches each, Brazil has W3, D1 (drew 1-1 with Switzerland; defeated both Costa Rica and Serbia 2 nil each and also dazed Mexico 2-0 in R16), scoring 7 goals conceding 1 and having +6 Goals difference. Belgium won all her 4 matches (walloped Panama 3-0; defeated hard fighting Tunisia 4-2; subdued almighty Three Lions 1-0 before edging Japan 3-2 in a pulsating R16), were the high goal scorers with 11 goals conceding 4 goals with +7 goals difference. The implication of this is that Belgium may adopt wing play to break the Brazilian defense. Belgium manner of pumping in goals is dangerous for the Samba boys. The Belgians currently eyed to lift the cup will look unto Lukaku already runners up goal scorer with 4 goals and Felaini to use his height to score from corner kicks. Eden Hazard could create hazardous moments for Brazil. Marcelo, the tireless horse is coming back for Brazil in the midfield. Refs have started neglecting the theatrics of Neymar in diving or his attitude when tackled. He has to watch it. Will Brazil go out again at the quarters? Saturday the other quarter finals shall be decided. Sweden v England at 1500 hours and hosts Russia v Croatia at 1900 hours both WAT. We shall periscope those two matches later.