THE 112-unit ministerial pilot Sedona housing scheme of the Federal Ministry of Power, Works, Housing will soon be inaugurated by Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) Managing Director, Mr. Ahmed Dangiwa, has said. He spoke at the estate site while leading the bank’s board members on the inspection tour of the project. The project, located in Igbogbo, Ikorodu, a Lagos suburb, is part of efforts aimed at addressing the housing deficit in the country. The project, known as the Sedona Estate, according to Dangiwa, is targeted at the low and medium income earners and financed by the apex mortgage bank. A breakdown of the Sedona Housing Estate showed that it is made up of 64 units of two bedroom flats and 48 units of one bedroom flats. Conceived in 2012 with the aim of increasing the housing stock, the project is being built by an Abuja-based firm, Sedona Business Consults. “This project is one of our projects that was abandoned for some time but now we have and are resuscitating them. It is a scheme that was conceived by the Ministry Power, Works, Housing in collaboration with Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria to increase the housing stock; it was conceived since 2012,” Dangiwa explained. He explained that the strategic plan for the estate, as well as others in the offing, are low and medium income earners, who are also contributors to the National Housing Fund (NHF) scheme. Dangiwa said affordability by those it was meant for was a major consideration for the project. This includes building houses that the off-takers will be able to afford with ease. “If you try to build an estate that the off-takers will not be able to afford, the estate will be abandoned and the purpose of the project will be defeated. People need to know what the Federal Government is doing about housing. This scheme was supposed to be completed earlier, but now, we have made sure it is completed and about to be put to use,” the FMBN chief said. He said the bank hopes to produce better housing designs, high quality buildings and efficient houses at very reasonable cost in the interest of the low and medium income earners. Dangiwa said the mortgage lender has created more than N80 billion worth of mortgages since its inception, with more than 20, 000 housing stock for the low and medium income earners. He said if estates, such as the Sedona Estate, are given to developers, they will be unaffordable by the low income earners because the cost of construction influences the price of buildings. “If developers get credit with up to 20 per cent interest and add that to the cost of development, the price of houses will definitely increase. But we got this land for free from the Ministry of Power, Works and Housing and funding is minimal, all these are in order to make it affordable to contributors of the National Housing Fund,” Dangiwa said. The National Housing Fund (NHF) is domiciled in the FMBN. The mortgage bank is responsible for its administration. As at last July, about 17,260 individual contributors have benefited from loans given under the NHF scheme since the scheme started in 1992, while about 20,435 housing units have been funded under the NHF scheme. NHF was established by the NHF Act No.3 of 1992 to mobilise funds for affordable residential houses for employed Nigerians who are over 18 for erecting, purchasing or renovating houses. It is also to provide long-term loans to mortgage institutions for lending to contributors, among other benefits. Basically, it focuses on those in the low and medium income levels who cannot afford commercial housing loans, in their quest to own their houses. The NHF is funded through a mandatory contribution of 2.5 per cent of monthly incomes of those earning N3, 000 and above; 10 per cent of loans and advances portfolio of commercial and merchant banks; and insurance firms are mandated to invest 20 per cent of their non-life and 40 per cent of life funds in the housing sector, with 50 per cent of these in the NHF; while the Federal Government is also to make financial contributions. Although the FMBN was recently recapitalised to the tune of N500 billion to reposition it to carry out its mandate under the Federal Government’s National Housing Programme, widen the country’s mortgage space and also deepen the housing finance market through mortgage creation, it is still a far cry from the N40 trillion the country needs in mortgage finance to address the present housing shortage.