Students of the Federal College of Education (Technical) in Akoka, Lagos, have praised the management of SWIFT Networks Limited for extending its Red Cheetah free Wi-Fi service to its campus. The service went live at the institution last week Tuesday. SWIFT Networks Limited’s Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, Mr Charles Anudu, said the service, which is supported by revenue from leading global brands, was conceived to make fast and free broadband service available to Nigerians, thereby helping to deepen broadband penetration in support of the National Broadband Plan of the Federal Government. He said: “Our free service aims to connect Nigerians to the global digital society through access to a fast, free and secure broadband service that consequently create measurable value for the excellent brands that make the service possible. We believe that access to information, especially in an academic environment, remains a key driver for academic excellence and innovation.” Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE, a 100-Level student of Primary Education, Esther Kolawole, said the free Wi-Fi provided students the support to make their academic and social experience remarkable. She said: “Access to good libraries is a major problem in Nigeria and not many students have enough money to buy data to source for information they need to research their term papers and maintain their digital lifestyle. Red Cheetah has been a breath of fresh air to my life and those of my friends. We are simply excited. Thanks to SWIFT Networks for this innovative service.” A students’ leader, Grace Olaleye, who is in 300-Level Integrated Science, urged students living on the campus to take advantage of the free Wi-Fi service to explore opportunities and expand their knowledge base. “Knowledge, we are told, is power and information is the building block knowledge. This is the value the Red Cheetah Wi-Fi brings to the table and I want every student to maximize this opportunity,” she said. Red Cheetah service is available in hotspots all over the campus and locations around Lagos. The service, which was formally launched in March this year, is available at over 400 locations already, including Hard Rock Café, Spurs, Barcelos, Tastee Fried Chicken, Bukkahut restaurants, major lounges, schools, merchant locations, and over 200 BRT buses in Lagos. Users are required to download the Red Cheetah app from the Google Play Store and go through a simple, one-time registration process.