…As CP Okoro issues red alert to financial instituions, others  The police have concluded plans to deploy forensic imputs, intelligence skills and in-depth investigation to combat fraud and other financial crimes. This was disclosed by Nkem Okoro, the Police Commissioner in-charge of the Anti-Fraud, Force Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (FCIID), Alagbon . Okoro stated this during an interaction with reporters in Lagos, acknowledging that the Inspector-General of Police (IG) Ibrahim Idris has promised to give needed muscle to reduce fraud to an insignificant level in the country. He said: “We are going to strengthen the Anti-Fraud department, reposition it to the best in combating all manner of cyber fraud, 419 and other related cases in line with the vision of the IG as well as the anti-corruption war of the present administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.
“We are there to actualise this dream. In doing so, we have a template to tackle this issue of fraud that has affected the financial and economic state of the nation. “We would employ international best practices, forensic input, modern day intelligence gathering approaches, technology driven investigative methods, to tackle complicated, multifaceted cyber fraud, among others, which have painted the country in bad light internationally. My boss, the IG is not happy about this and has found me worthy to head the section to bring out necessary changes. “I hereby warn corporate bodies, banks, oil companies, other financial institutions, such as the Stock Exchange, Federal and state government agencies, embassies, maritime operators, Bureau De Change (BDC) operators, educational institutions, NGOs, real estate/land speculators involved in fraudulent deals, service providers such as network providers, hospitality, health sectors and all those involved in insiders’ trading or any form of fraud to desist or face the full wrath of the law. “Our investigations would be so thorough to ensure we have smooth prosecution and gain convictions. There would be no sacred cows in this fight against corruption and fraud.” Continuing, Okoro said he would not spare 419ners both local and international ones, noting that their actions were embarrassing and damaging the good image of the country. “We shall tackle them. As for cyber-crime fraudsters, I have a special place in my heart for them. They should pray they are not because I would also deal with those who aide, abate, encourage or benefit in their loot. “I would investigate the activities of fraudulent foreigners, who connived with some crooks in the system to defraud, short change and evade tax payments or any other legal charges that should go to government coffers. They would be arraigned in court if found culpable. “It is criminal for foreigners to come here and clean our vault dry through fraudulent channels. Foreigners and their Nigerian collaborators who find joy in short changing the government are warned. Most of them are here doing money laundering and round tripping. They must play by the rules. It is no longer business as usual. “Let persons who engage in sharp fraudulent practices start having a rethink. We would go after them. The IG has said it many times that these menaces have taken us back and cannot continue. We must collectively tackle them. “Those who cause financial setback to fellow Nigerians, the nation’s economy would be in trouble with the new rebranded, repositioned, refocused, re-engineered and reinvented Anti-Fraud section under my watch. “I enjoin all Nigerians to key into this fight against fraud, fraudsters and other form of criminality, as to salvage our dear country. The initiative of the IG to inject professionalism of the force in the area of checkmating these vices through the reorganised Anti-Fraud section would bring in the needed result in our financial systems and transactions. “The IG is bent on ensuring zero tolerance to fraud in Nigeria and within the force and will do everything possible in ensuring that the war is won.”