The chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), South Africa chapter, Bola Babarinde, is eyeing the party’s ticket for next year’s governorship election in Oyo State. He speaks with ROBERT EGBE in Lagos on how the party was established in South Africa, why delegates at the proposed primary should shun vote buying and other issues. In 2008, we established Action Congress (AC) in South Africa. It was actually Mr. Osunde Adekunle that brought the mandate from Nigeria. I was part of the initial meetings but I never took it seriously. At that time, it was like a social gathering. It was not all that serious, because we were not really recognised back home. We were just meeting and socialising, nothing concrete. At that time, AC had only one state in Nigeria, which is Lagos. So, everybody thought AC was Lagos. The party had an office in Abuja, it is also the present All Progressives Congress (APC) office. Two of the prominent persons there at that time include the current APC Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Lawal Shuaibu and Honourable Abubakar Kari.  From AC to ACN South Africa From AC, we transformed to ACN, Action Congress of Nigeria. That was when I took party politicking seriously. At ACN, whenever I came to Nigeria, I always visited the party headquarters in Abuja. I never side-tracked the authorities. I seldom went to the APC secretariat in Lagos because it was just a branch, not the headquarters. Many people didn’t know why I did that: I knew the authority was in Abuja. Since then I have had a very good relationship with the APC Deputy National Chairman (North), because I recognised that place as the seat of authority.  Crisis in Action Congress South Africa After some time, some reasonable and sensible people joined the party. That was when I contested to be the chairman of ACN South Africa. This was around 2013, 2014. I contested for the chairmanship, but maybe I never knew the game because I told everyone what I wanted to do. They realised that this guy had his own mind, had his own agenda, didn’t even need anybody, maybe he was even coming to the party with his own soldiers. So, I was edged out. But there was no vice chairman. I was persuaded to be the vice chairman. Because the Chainman then had little or no time for the party and day to day running of the organisation, I was the de facto chairman, so, whenever we held meetings there was always confusion and acrimony over little things. They would throw chairs, etc. to prevent us from settling down. We never progressed as a party in South Africa because of internal wrangling and lack of purpose.  Challenges to registering APC in South Africa At that time, there were talks about a merger with another party to form the All Progressives Congress (APC). The night APC was formed, it was difficult to get the name of the new mega party on time, until our people in Nigeria forwarded the name as early as 5am South African time. So, immediately they told us the name was the All Progressives Congress, I instructed my people to go to the registrar’s office, Department of Trade and Industry – that’s where companies and non-governmental organisations are registered in South Africa – to register the All Progressives Congress. But I advised them to make use of three trusted guys as foundation members which never included my name. Other people tried to register same organisation thereafter but could not.  Recognition for APC South Africa The next move was how we were going to be recognised as a Diaspora chapter, because we realised that APC was serious about having Diaspora chapters. We got the criteria from the party headquarters in Nigeria and fulfilled all requirements to establish a Diaspora chapter in South Africa. The application was submitted to the office of Senator Shuaibu as the official in charge of Diaspora chapters. In the APC, we have two deputy chairmen: deputy chair north and deputy chair south. Deputy chair north, Senator Shuaibu, is in charge of the Diaspora while his southern counterpart is in charge of women affairs and disability. So, we submitted our application to the right office. We were eventually given the mandate over two years ago. APC South Africa Chapter was recognized, and the mandate was addressed to me. If it wasn’t addressed to someone, anyone can claim anything. So, I was made the first chairman of the APC in South Africa and instructed to establish APC in South Africa. Running the party So, that’s how we started. We opened a bank account, built our website www.apcsouthafrica.com made membership cards, a smart Identity Card (ID). We have a system whereby if any of us is genuinely being oppressed in South Africa , maybe you have a court case – not criminality, fraud or drug related, we don’t condone that – we’ll get you a lawyer to assist you. Our main agenda in the Diaspora is how people in the Diaspora will become eligible to vote and be voted for which we are pursuing currently.  Gubernatorial aspiration I like philanthropy, but I discourage to publish what I do for humanity. It’s like you are taking your reward on earth. The little I have, I use it for humanity. With the amount of assistance I render to the less-privileged with my hard-earned money, I have no doubt the people’s resources will be used prudently for the people of Oyo State. I’ve never run for any elective post in Nigeria before, because I was very skeptical about politics in Nigeria. I mooted the idea some time ago, but my family shot it down immediately. But I joined politics after considering that good people are in politics and in South Africa and other parts of the developed world, you venture into politics because you want to serve your people and which I will do for the people of Oyo State. We criticise these people on various social media platforms which I believe will not solve the problems of service delivery, until people with passion and zero tolerance to corruption are in positions of power. Anyone of us with such passion to serve should come out and contest; we should give such people enough support to succeed. I, Bola Babarinde, is ready to contest as the next Governor of Oyo State.  ‘Shun money politics’ I registered in my ward, Ibadan North East; I have my Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) also in my local government. The party election coming up now may be delegates’ or direct primary election. It is a mostly underground election; it is an election of conviction, an election of persuading the delegates or party members as the case may be to shun money and vote according to their conscience. If people give you money to get your vote, you may not see them anymore till four years are over.  Programmes for the people Our government will be an inclusive government. We’ve even planned to have 35 percent youths, and our youth age limit is 45 years. In South Africa it is 35 years, but our peculiarities made us peg it at 45 years and below. The women will be 30 percent; above 45 years will be 35 percent. We will bring on young, vibrant people on board. One of my plans is free education up to secondary school level. You cannot say education is free when pupils are being made to pay certain amounts, when books, uniforms are not provided for pupils. I also intend to implement free healthcare for the people with special focus on senior citizens. The elderly will also be given stipends every month. People ask me how I will do that. We can’t do that with the money coming from the Federal Government. But there is no state in Nigeria that is not viable with the right leadership in place. The emphasis of my government would be internally generated revenue (IGR).What we are generating should be enough to pay salaries, provide free education, health etc. The Federal Government money should just be an addition. I assure you that we would depend on the Federal Government allocation for only one year, before we settle down. For instance, Oyo State can generate a lot from tourism. Many people in South Africa are interested in visiting Nigeria, we will showcase what we have in Oyo State and the security on ground, tourists will flood Oyo State. We will also get a lot of revenue from agriculture and mining. I have partners from America, Germany, South Africa and they are ready to invest. For instance, we’ve been coming to Nigeria for the past three years to establish block factories that will be making new blocks through which a standard quality three-bedroom apartment can be built by five people within four weeks. We have approached few states in Nigeria, but the governors, mostly of the southern states were not accessible. They allowed the office to capture them. Oyo State is a pacesetter and this will be proven again.  Managing herdsmen crisis We cannot continue in this crude way of farming. As Executive Governor, I would have access to the Federal Government and proffer solutions on how farmers /herdsmen crisis will be stopped. We know our system of cattle rearing is cultural. A similar situation occurred in the United States of America many years ago, but as you’re developing you’ll change your way of living. There’s no way we can continue with the present way cattle is reared in Nigeria. We can’t even produce enough meat and milk for our people. That’s why meat is so expensive. We have to build ranches. Ranching is the ultimate. In South Africa, a cow of about eight months is ready for slaughtering, but it takes our cows maybe four, five years before they are ready for slaughtering.  Funding the campaign My movement is a collective movement, we are doing crowd funding to finance our programme and we have an online platform where people can donate. I’m going to South Africa for a fundraising campaign by the end of July and also to establish the Cape Town branch of APC-SA. We will enlighten the delegates about the danger of selling their votes, selling of votes is a crime against the people they represent and it is criminal. We will not budget for bribery of delegates of any official for that matter; our manifesto will do the job for us not money. 