Some prominent Niger Delta leaders on Friday told President Muhammadu Buhari to sack his service chiefs as part of solution to the bloodletting in the country especially in the North Central. The leaders said Buhari’s decision to renew the tenures of the service chiefs compounded the security challenges because it created internal rivalries in the key security agencies. A renowned youth leader and former President of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, Mr. Udengs Eradiri, insisted that Buhari got the service chiefs’ tenure renewal wrong, adding that the action dampened the morale of subordinate officers in such agencies. Eradiri said by the renewal, military officers felt shortchanged and were likely working at variance with the security chiefs. He said: “The President is responsible for the conflict based on the actions that he took. When he extended indefinitely the tenures of service chiefs, it went a long way to kill the morale of subordinate officers who thought that they needed to put in their best because one day they would get to the top as service chiefs. “But unfortunately the Presidency extended the tenures of the already expired service chiefs. Some of them had retired and some are already retiring but the President extended their tenures. “In the Department of State Security (DSS), the President went and brought an officer who wasn’t doing so well while in office and was retired. He brought him to head DSS that requires loyalty from subordinates. He also killed the morale there. “The same thing happened in the National Intelligence Agency (NIA). So, largely, the blame should be on the doorsteps of the presidency. I don’t like playing the ethnic cards even though it is sticking now. When you tell a story for too long it begins to stick. Everybody is adopting the narrative of ethnic cleansing.” An elder statesman, Chief Thompson Okorotie, said the unabated killings of innocent Nigerians under whatever guise was condemnable. “We have seen a lot in this country but it is easy to say we have not seen this kind of killings across the country. We are praying on a daily basis for the unity and peace of this country. We hope that the security agencies are also praying.”    