Access Bank Plc in partnership with Fifth Chuckker Polo is set to host this year’s Access Day. This event which holds tomorrow will see Nigerian and international polo players compete as a means to raise funds to empower disadvantaged communities and people. According to the lender, with a population of over 180 million people, many under the age of 30, Nigeria promises vast potential. One of our failings as a nation is that we have been unable to convert this potential to economic prosperity and social equity for all Nigerians. As one of the country’s leading banks, Access Bank has first-hand experience in catering to disadvantaged communities and is committed to finding ways to serve these communities and provide them with value beyond banking services. Access Bank is big on corporate responsibility and philanthropy, and is keenly interested in partnering with organisations that share these values and are open to giving back to their communities. This informed the bank’s partnership with The Fifth Chukker Polo and Country Club, Kaduna, the country’s premier Polo society, renowned for its sportsmanship and commitment to fostering community. Fifth Chukker upholds the city’s equestrian history, and is renowned for its steeds and stables. For the last 10 years, Access Bank has partnered with the Fifth Chukker Club and the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) to support the prestigious sport in its efforts to raise funds for children in disadvantaged communities within Kaduna state, especially children who are predisposed to displacement from violence and childhood diseases. The most prominent medium through which all parties have raised funds is the highly lauded annual Access Bank UNICEF Charity Shield Polo Tournament, an event dedicated exclusively towards fundraising which begins in Kaduna and culminates in London. The first Annual Charity Shield event was held in 2006, and funds raised from the tourney were used to provide support services for 240 orphans from 12 communities in six local government areas in the state. 