The 2018/2019 academic session is gradually winding down, with  school children writing their promotion examinations.  But the process has been disrupted in Cross River State by primary and secondary school teachers. Many pupils are at home, unsure of when they will return to school. One of them, Samuel Azubuike, a Junior Secondary School 1 (JSS 1)  pupil of Comprehensive Secondary School Akim, Calabar, was writing his examinations when the  strike started on June 27. He had only written examinations on five of his 15 subjects then. His teachers asked him to go home and wait indefinitely to write his remaining exam. But the lot of his counterparts in private schools is better. They will soon complete their examinations and begin the long vacation, which will last till September. The teachers are protesting the government’s alleged insensitivity to their demands. A statement by the state Chairman of the   Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT), Comrade Eyo-Nsa Itam, said the strike was called because the teachers felt let down by the government. The statement reads in part. “After exhaustive deliberations on the insensitivity of the Government of the state, and the unfatherly attitude of the government towards the welfare of teachers in Cross River State and having no regards that the teachers and the union had been supportive of the Prof Ben Ayade-led government from inception”. In 2015, when the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) went on strike to drive home some demands, the NUT exempted itself from the action because it was not carried along. The strike decision was taken on June 22, after a meeting of the State Wing Executive Council (SWEC) of the union, held at the Comprehensive Secondary School, Mbembe in Obubra Local Government Area of the state. The teachers gave the government a five-day ultimatum to respond to their demands and embarked on the strike after the ultimatum expired. The decision was contained in a 13-point communiqué at the end of the meeting. In the communique, jointly signed by Itam, NUT Secretary Dr R. Anyadike, and Publicity Secretary Comrade Etim Etim, the teachers noted many disappointments by the present government even when they showed maturity, respect and cooperation in several ways. It reads: “Government’s inaction over her promises of November 3, 2016 and agreement it freely entered with the NUT on February 15, 2018 clearly shows that the Cross River State Government has abandoned the teachers of the state to their fate. “The Union, having been disappointed at all levels of these injustices and ill treatment, hereby resolves as follows: “That the government of Cross River State has up to Wednesday, 27 June, 2018 to meet all the demands. That if after Wednesday 27th June, 2018 all the demands are not met, then teachers in public schools in Cross River State should sit at home until government implements all it had promised and agreed with the NUT. That teachers can only resume if all these demands are met.” The teachers listed their demands to include the payment of arrears of salaries owed some primary school teachers erroneously dropped from the payroll since 2016; release of promotion letters to primary school teachers as is done to other workers in the state; complete implementation of promotion for to all secondary school teachers; and the implementation of annual salary incremental steps to primary school teachers from January, 2016. Others include the “payment of salaries to four reinstated secondary school teachers already approved by Governor Ben Ayade; correction of discrepancies in the payment of salaries of primary school teachers; remittance of NUT check-off dues for the months of April and May 2017 (secondary); payment of imprest to heads of public primary schools in the state; release of monthly pay advice to public primary school teachers; and remittance of teachers’ motorcycle loan deduction to the supplier.” They went on to demand “remittance of deductions to banks, AMACOM, Credit Direct, 1st Credit, etc by the Cross River State government, thus, eliminating double deductions from salaries of teachers; reinstatement of teaching allowances for our teachers, who were pulled out from schools to boards and agencies to carry out education quality assurance and control schedules; and the balance of teachers’ enhancement allowance of 11.28 per cent.” Reacting to the strike, Commissioner for Education, Mr. Godwin Etta appealed, to the teachers to return to the classrooms in the light of ongoing negotiations between both parties instead of trying to blackmail the government. “For the sake of our children, I think NUT should understand the challenges the government is facing at the moment and try to listen to our plea to call off the strike so that our children will go back to school and write their exams on time-otherwise it is going to affect their placement into other institutions of higher learning and they will be disadvantaged against other states that would be trying to file candidates for the same admissions,” he said. The Commissioner also noted that only a few teachers were affected by the omission of their names from the payroll.  He said the number was insufficient for the teachers to down tools and paralyse the system at a sensitive time. “Governor Ben Ayade has long directed that payment of teachers be done long time and the issues being raised about the payment of salary is to a very negligible number of teachers whose names were omitted wrongly so it is not that the state government has not paid; they have been paid.  But this is an error so we are following on the relevant departments to make sure that those payments are done as it is known nationally that our governor, Senator Ben Ayade is a labour friendly governor. He is a salary paying governor,” he said. A parent, Mrs Joy Asuquo, is unimpressed about the strike. The woman, who has two children in public school, said it was unfair that public education was not getting the kind of treatment it deserved. She lamented the lack of value for money parents pay as fees in public schools.  In Cross River public school pupils pay token tuition fees (N2,850 in some schools for the third term), unlike in the Southwest, where education is free. “I hear the teachers are complaining that they are being owed by the government among other issues. For us all we want is for our children to go to school and have their education without any interruptions. Whatever should be resolved among them, I am begging them to resolve it as soon as possible. We cannot continue to suffer like this. Is it a crime not to have money in this country? “With the way things are hard in this country, we still manage to squeeze ourselves and pay our children’s fees and at the end of the day, they cannot even get the education we are paying for. By the time the children get the kind of chequered schooling they are getting now, how would they be imbued with the proper education? Is it fair that a child that has paid his or her fees would spend two years in one class, when such a child did not fail any examination?” she complained. The bitter mother said the children are at the risk of losing focus if the academic calendar is not strictly followed. Another parent, Mr Ediomi Umoh, said he was upset seeing his wards at home. “With the children always at home all the time now it is actually a bit inconvenient, because we did not plan for any unexpected holiday. I have three children, one in primary, and two in secondary schools and it makes me sad seeing them always playing around the house playing when they are supposed to be studying. “I try my bit to ensure I make them look at their books, whenever I can, but it cannot be the same thing as them being in school when they should. There is a time for the to study and there is a time for holidays for them to relax, but right now everything is just being mixed up and this is not good. I asked the government and teachers to please resolve this matter as quickly as possible,” he said. For Doris Effiong, an SS1 pupil of Government Girls’ Secondary School Big Qua, Calabar, studying has not stopped because of the strike.  She said she is still preparing for the examination despite not knowing when schools would resume. “For me I am still studying for the examination because they might call of the strike anytime and I do not want to be taken unawares. But it is not the same thing as if school was on because I would be having my papers in mind as I am studying for them. We hope that they would end the strike because if it continues like this we would not be able to meet up with students in other schools. As they would finish and move to the next class, we would still be behind and it would not be good for us,” she said. However, the strike still continues and the puils are at home with nobody knowing when it will end. 