Following the successful launch of the Governor Godwin Obaseki’s Edo Basic Education Sector Transformation (Edo BEST) initiative, the pilot schools commenced their first end-of-term examination on Monday July 30, 2018, which will be rounded off on Wednesday August 1, 2018. According to the Edo State government, the examination will be followed by a Marking Day, to be observed on Thursday August 2, 2018 when pupils’ examination sheets will be marked and recorded into the teachers’ digital device. Special Adviser to the Edo State Governor on Basic Education and Acting Chairman, Edo State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB) Dr. Joan Osa Oviawe, said the teachers are delighted at the digitalisation of teaching in Edo BEST schools and explained that the end-of-term examination is “part of the revamped continuous assessment of pupils.” She further said that “Friday August 3, will be Open day, when parents will be invited for a one-on-one conference with the teachers, to discuss their children’s academic and extra-curricular progress.” The SUBEB boss explained that “All the schools are writing the same examination. This will allow for comparison across the state because our pupils are taught the same content. We have completed Monitoring and Evaluation for the pilot phase of Edo BEST to help us ascertain the effectiveness of the methods.” On the gains so far recorded since the commencement of the education reform in the state, she maintained that “while we await the analysis of the data gathered, so far, from anecdotal evidence, we have recorded significant gains in attitudinal change. “I am amazed by the number of teachers who tell me their attendance has improved greatly as pupils now love to come to school. “With the elimination of corporal punishment, the school has become more nurturing for our pupils. Our digital teachers deserve a lot of praise for their hard work and professionalism.” Dr. Osa Oviawe disclosed that beginning in August, “Edo SUBEB will commence the training of an additional 5,000 public primary school teachers. “At the end of the training, each of them will receive teaching tablet which they will start using in the new academic year, which will start in September.”