•Gowon: President can’t be involved in killings President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday that the Federal Government is doing everything to address the killings of Nigerians by bandits and herdsmen. Speaking in Ado Ekiti yesterday during the final rally to campaign for the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate Dr. Kayode Fayemi, President Buhari said:   “May I, again, clear the air on the issue of herdsmen and farmers’ conflicts, on which many politicians in their mischievous attitude have been blackmailing me and the APC-led administration, purporting that I have not taken any action on the issue because I am a Fulani man. “This is cheap blackmail. Like I said recently, the protection of lives and property of Nigerians is my responsibility. This, I have vowed to do, and will stick to the oath of office. “I assure you that measures are being taken to ensure lasting solutions.” Also yesterday, former Head of State Gen. Yakubu Gowon stated that the President should not be linked with killings. He spoke in Jos, the Plateau State capital. Condemning the social media posting suggesting the President’s involvement in the killings, Gowon said: “”the Buhari I know will not be involved, certainly no leader will encourage his people to be killed.” He, however, said “people arrested in the Plateau killings should be arrested, investigated and prosecuted where the crime was committed” He spoke at the Government House in Jos during a condolence visit to Governor Simon Lalong following last month’s attacks in state in which an estimated 200 people were murdered. With the governor to receive Gen. Gowon, an indigene, who ruled Nigeria between 1966 and 1975, were Deputy Governor Prof. Sonni Tyodden, Deputy Governor and Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Chief Rufus Bature among others. Lalong said: “we’ve reviewed adequate laws to prosecute offenders in Jos and the laws will soon be signed for it to have official status and become applicable. He praised the former Head of State for standing by the State as a father. “We will ensure the enthronement of sustainable peace on the Plateau, that is my area of topmost priority since I assumed office, this last attacks is just a temporary setback, we will intensify in our peace building program”