The Oriental Hotel, Victoria Island, venue of the free Traditional Chinese Medicine (TCM) outreach was a sight to behold as men, women, girls, informed and uninformed gathered to know more about the medicine. The team of Chinese practitioners introduced to the audience comprised Nigerians and Chinese. The experts from the Jiabngxi University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, who shed more light on TCM, said it studies human life, health and disease with a unique theoretical system, rich clinical experiences and scientific ways of thinking. According to them, TCM is also a scientific knowledge system, which takes the natural science as its main subjects and integrates with social science. Consulate-General of the People’s Republic of China in Lagos, a Deputy Consul-General, Duan Zhongqi, who listed some of the  advantages of TCM to include definite curative effect, relatively safe medication, flexible service mode, low cost, great innovation potential and extensive development space, said delegations were organised by the Chinese government to bring to Nigeria, some of the new ideas in treatment, particularly the new treatment in malaria. “We want to bring in some new ideas in the treatment of malaria because it is a very popular disease in Nigeria.We have some Chinese method of treatment that is cheap and affordable.We are also looking forward to contributing to the country’s healthcare. “We also have physical health treatment like the acupuncture that is very different from medical treatment. We want to introduce these Chinese medicines to help the Nigeria people. Acupuncture is very cheap for common people. We use items to heat the affected areas. Some of the Africa countries have benefited from Chinese medicine team to prevent disease. Unfortunately, we don’t have such team in Nigeria.” Throwing more light on the making of Chinese medicine, he said the overall characteristics of TCM theoretical system which is  the conception of entirety is a kind of thinking method, which is shown in the physiological, pathological, diagnostic, syndrome differentiation, treatment and health preserving aspects of TCM. He said in TCM, through observation of tongue proper and coasting, physicians get to learn both the physiological and pathological conditions of patients. Explaining some of the important inventions in the history of Chinese medicine, Zhongqi said acupuncture is used to treat indications, such as headache, toothache, diarrhea, constipation, diarrhea, constipation, gastritis, facial paralysis, wind stroke arthritis, and infantile cerebral palsy. The Comptroller of Immigration, Lagos State Command, Mr. Ekpedeme King, described the visit as a positive development. He said it was a collaboration between the two countries. ‘’As the Chinese people are here to introduce their medicine so also we will also export Nigeria’s medicines,” he said. At the event, many people who volunteered to be treated were received free treatment. Zhongqi, speaking on the vision to establish a Chinese TCM hospital at the China Town, Lagos using Traditional Chinese medicine for any patient/client who comes there, said in recent years, the international  community has paid more attention to, and supported the development of TCM. “Australia introduced TCM into its national medical system in 2012. Portugal and Hungary formally passed TCM in 2013. In developing countries, TCM is widely promoted, and applied because of its affordability and availability. Great advantages of TCM includes definitive curative effects, relatively safe medication, flexible service mode, low cost, great innovation potentials and extensive development space.” Zhongqi added that a plan to establish a TMC university in Nigeria was afoot. “International education of our university is novel. Exchange and cooperation of our university is good. JXUTCM has set up long-term cooperation with research, medical, and educational institutions from more than 20 regions, and countries, such as America, France, Portugal, Brazil, Russia, Australia, Sweden, Switzerland, New Zealand, Korea, Japan, and Tunisia,” Zhongqi said.