An Islamic cleric, Alfa Mustapha Hammed, has been arrested by the police in Lagos for defiling a 29-year-old student. The Nation learnt that the incident occurred on April 7, after the cleric told the victim, a virgin that he saw a vision that she would die within 24 hours, unless she did a spiritual cleansing. Hammed, who was paraded by Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal yesterday, after the victim’s father reported the case on July 12, lured his victim from Bariga to Ikorodu for a spiritual cleansing where he defiled her and allegedly used a white handkerchief to clean her private part. Edgal said the victim’s father lodged a complaint at Bariga Police Station after she exhibited traits of mental disorder, following the incident. He said: “The suspect is Mustapha Hammed, who claims to be an Alfa. The Alfa was introduced to the victim by her friend. “The cleric deceived the student, saying he saw a vision that she would die within 24 hours. He took her to Ikorodu for spiritual cleansing. “In Ikorodu, he forcefully had carnal knowledge of the student, said to be a virgin. He thereafter allegedly cleaned her blood with a white handkerchief and since then, her father alleged that she has been behaving abnormally.” Hammed said he was in love with the woman, but did not know how to tell her. He said the vision and spiritual cleansing were gimmicks to sleep with her. Hammed said: “On April 7, I called Rukayaat, a friend to my lover, to come to my mum’s house in Bariga. I told her that I saw a vision for her while I was praying that she had a spiritual husband. “I told her the solution was to bathe three times with a soap I would give her. I told her I would take her to my house in Ikorodu for the spiritual cleansing and she agreed. “We went there and she went to bathe the first time, and while I was praying into the water to do the second bathing, I quickly put a dead frog in the water. When she got to the bathroom and saw the frog, she became afraid and ran out. “I told her that it was a bad omen. That the only solution was to pray and do a sexual cleansing, which would involve having sexual intercourse with a man. “She was scared and said she would do everything to become free. I asked her to call her boyfriend. She said he was far away. She begged me to help her. “She did not know that I put the frog in the water because I had been looking for a way to make love to her. So I deflowered her. I did not clean her private part with any white handkerchief.” Edgal said investigation was on, adding that the suspect would be arraigned soon.