•Contractor unveils new machine to meet December target Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is satisfied with the progress of work on the 10-lane Oshodi-Murtala Muhammed International Airport Road, Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure Adebowale Akinsanya has said. Ambode, represented by Akinsanya, spoke at the unveiling of a new machine by the contractor, Hi-tech Construction Company, to facilitate delivery of the project. The project, he said, was progressing well, with all the components now at advanced stages of completion. The Wirtgen WR 250 Recycler machine would enable the contractor meet the  December date of delivery. The government is reconstructing the road to meet international standard. The scope of the project includes two flyovers, one U-turn Bridge, five pedestrian bridges, and multiple laybys, among others. The governor, who also inspected work on the Oshodi-Abule-Egba Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor and the roads construction in Ojokoro, appealed for understanding on the inconveniences caused the public by the projects. The Ojokoro roads are in Aremu Street, Alhaji Luqman, Amusa Agbaje Street, Abu Balogun Street, Philip Majekodunmi Street, Unity Road, Osho/Udeh Brown Road, Oshota/Aina Streets and Home Science Road, among others. The governor said the Oshodi/Abule-Egba project would also be delivered in December. “This is a highly populated area but the contractor has been mandated with the Managing Director of Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) to do everything possible to make life bearable and easy for all road users. The work during the day is being limited right now and a lot more would be done at night. “The traffic is better than before and there is a lot of rehabilitation of existing road going on and it will continue. This is an ongoing exercise but we need the cooperation and support of the people to make it workable. It is just a matter of time, this will be done and there will be a big relieve coming to this axis,” he said. Under the phase two of the project, he said, more pedestrian bridges would be constructed, especially between Abule-Egba and Sango Otta, the boundary of Lagos and Ogun states. The first phase has 14 bus stations and 14 pedestrian bridges. “The phase one is from Oshodi to Abule-Egba. Phase two from Abule-Egba to Old Toll Gate in Sango Otta will follow after that and the key thing is the care of pedestrians, which we are taking very seriously. So, you will see a lot of pedestrian bridges.” Hi-tech’s Managing Director Ivan Becker said the equipment, which has the capacity to construct 400metres daily, would go a long way to facilitate the delivery of the Airport Road on schedule. He said the Wirtgen WR 250 Recycler was capable of 12,000 square metres performance maximum daily, adding: “The machine can mix two per cent bitumen, one per cent cement, 50 per cent stone base and 50 per cent reclaimed existing asphalt with water which makes road construction with the machine faster and better with higher quality.”