Minister of State for  Aviation Hadi Sirika has pledged that the Federal Government would ensure the implementation of Air Safety Recommendations released by the Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB). Sirika made the pledge in Abuja last week while receiving the report. According to him, the report covers safety recommendations made since AIB’s inception till date, numbering about 130. The minister said all the recommendations had not been implemented, adding that the government’s purpose was to ensure that the recommendations were fully implemented. He said safety and security of aviation industry had been the focus of the current administration as contained in the road map presented to the public at the inception of the administration. “Since inception we haven’t had any report of this nature, but now that we have it, it behooves on us that we ensure that it be implemented 100 per cent. “Since we assumed duties,  we focused on all of those things that are safety and security critical to the industry. “In our belief and understanding and even in our road map, we set out to review all those things that would enhance safety and security of the industry. “I had maintained overtime that it is how safe and secure that you depart point A and land point B that is more important in aviation than all other aesthetics. “We all want to attract investment and make our airport more comfortable, but you have to arrive at your destination first before you enjoy comfort and you have to be well secured.” AIB Commissioner and Chairman of the Committee, Akin Olateru, said the Bureau had since inception in 2007, made 130 safety recommendations, adding that while 61 per cent of the recommendations had been implemented, eight per cent partially implemented, 31 per cent are yet to be implemented. He said AIB ‘s mandate was to investigate serious accidents and incidents with the view to prevent future occurrence, adding that the implementation of the recommendations would help the country to prevent accidents and incidents. A member of the committee, Group Capt. John Ojikutu, (Rtd), called on the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to ensure full implementation of the recommendations, adding that safety and security of the industry required thorough attention. Ojikutu also called on the government to urgently address the challenges of shortage of manpower, especially the Air Traffic Controllers to ensure safety in the Industry.