The free medicare programme of the government Lagos State has been embraced by many residents the state, reports Oyeyemi Gbenga-Mustapha In twos and threes, residents of Ikoyi-Obalende and its environs thronged Daniel’s Compound. They were there to benefit from the free medical expedition programme tagged ‘The Eko Free Health Mission’ sponsored by the Lagos State Government. An Hausa man, a 40 year-old tailor, Aliu Dogo (not real names), who had a dental problem was attended to. He smiled, as he told The Nation that he was happy to get treatment. Dogo said: “My friend had a problem with his tooth. He went to hospital and it was pulled out. He got it refilled. He told me he paid over N40, 000. And that was the amount I was looking, when I learnt of this free mission. I did not pay,” Dogo said. Some women got glasses, while  others had blood pressure check ups, blood sugar level screened, and drugs. Ikoyi-Obalende is not the only local government that the free health mission berthed. No fewer than 44,000 residents of Ajeromi, Ifelodun, Ojo, Iba, Oto-Awori, Apapa, Iganmu, Lagos Mainland, Yaba, Ibeju-Lekki, Lekki, Oshodi, Isolo, Ejigbo, Eti-Osa, Eti-Osa East, Iru-Victoria Island and Ikoyi-Obalende LG and local council development areas benefited from the first phase, where about 8,659 individuals were diagnosed with hypertension, 1,018 diabetes while 281 cataracts. Commissioner for Health, Dr. Jide Idris said the figures were a serious cause of concern for the  government because it is a reflection of the need of Lagosians to make their health a priority. Idris said: “Over 9,000 people have refractive errors, 1,913 are with periodontitis and 54 cases of HIV positive persons were discovered. These numbers exclude cases of communicable diseases, such as malaria, respiratory tract diseases, skin infections, urinary tract infections, and sepsis. “There are a lot of individuals in our state who do not know the status of their health and are engaged in activities to improve their wellbeing. Let us all bear in mind, that a poor state of health is a significant hindrance to achieving our life dreams and ambitions.” Idris said the free medical mission programme was designed not only to treat primary health conditions and screen for common diseases but also to create a health consciousness and improve health promoting behaviour and practices. He said: “We encourage everyone to take advantage of the various services that are being offered during the programmes. The scope of services include screening services for non-communicable diseases, especially hypertension and diabetes, treatment of common ailments, HIV counselling and testing, family planning, screening and treatment of common Eye diseases as well as refractions and provision of glasses, dental care services and health education or health talks.” Idris said the programme were short-term interventions, but significant because they offer the government the opportunity to provide healthcare to all who come irrespective of their age, gender, socioeconomic status and affiliations within their community for their convenience. He added that the programme serves as a platform to increase the trust people have in government’s ability to protect their health. “No one is exempted from benefitting from this programme and this includes the most vulnerable part of our population at the grassroots, including the elderly, our very young, pregnant women, people living with disabilities and other health conditions related to maternal and child health,” he explained. He announced that the next phase of the programme would continue till next month. Other areas to be visited include Ikosi-Ejirin LCDA, August 7, Agbado-Oke Odo LCDA from  August 14 and Ikosi-Isheri LCDA, August 24. “The medical teams providing these services are competent professionals and are committed to ensuring that the mandates of the state government are fully realised, he added. The commissioner urged residents to visit mission centres. “As always, the Lagos State Government is working tirelessly to ensure that all citizens have healthcare coverage. The administration’s commitment to sustainable healthcare and universal health coverage is unshaken and this demands that the state adopts an approach that is not only efficient, but also effective in addressing the growing health demand of the Lagosians,” Idris said. The Programme Coordinator Dr. Dolapo Fasawe said figures from communities visited revealed that there was a steady increase in the rate of high blood pressure (BP) and high blood sugar stressing that this calls for serious concern. Fasawe, who is Director Special Projects in the Ministry of Health, said: “As doctors we should be concerned about this; a lot of people are being diagnosed with high blood pressure, a lot of people are having high blood sugar and we can attribute this to poor health education. Also, we are seeing that the age at which people need glasses and eye care is gradually getting lower. A lot of people are not taking good care of their eyes; this perhaps is not deliberate, but may be borne out of ignorance because there are certain foods, vitamins, and activities that you have to do to ensure that your eye sight stays good.” Fasawe said the government had policies and plans in place to address the situation, she added: “One of these is the school health programme. We are going into primary schools to screen pupils and teach prevention. We teach them on how to maintain their eye sight, dental care even hypertension and diabetes from a young age so that when they are adults like us, the incidence of these diseases will be low.” She explained that the free programme has made the ministry to know that there was need to intensify health education, sensitisation and awareness activities as some residents do not understand what preventive healthcare or healthy lifestyle is. “So, we have identified this and it is towards improving our policies in healthcare. The state government is continuously finding ways to improve the health status of its ever-increasing population and the plan for achieving this is based on the Health Policy Thrust of the state, which is guided by the noble goal that every Lagosian enjoys unfettered access to qualitative healthcare without any barrier whatsoever”. She urged to residents to enrol in the forthcoming health insurance scheme. Special Adviser to the Governor on Primary, Health Care, Dr. Olufemi Onanuga, said the mission was aimed at boost the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode health agenda. “He is very keen in providing a free healthcare for all resident of Lagos, not only the indigenes. Anybody that needs further attention will be sent to any of the primary health centres. This is part of the vision of this government that in each ward, a PHC should exist.” Ikoyi-Obalende LCDA Chairman, Mr. Fuad Atanda-Lawal said he was adding two more PHCs to the ones already in place. “All these indicate that the government of Ambode is working. He deserves another term and we will support him fully,” he added.