Alliance for New Nigeria (ANN) presidential aspirant Dr. Elishama Ideh has called for power shift in next year’s general elections, saying that Nigeria is yearning for a dynamic leadership. He said that the country may become more fragile, if the current leadership is sustained in power beyond next year. The 54-year old Mass Communication graduate from Ishan, Edo State will compete for the ANN ticket with other aspirants, including Fela Durotoye, a motivational speaker. The aspirant said the executive and the legislature should bear the blame for poor governance in the country. She called for a transformational leadership to draw the curtains on the national rot. She said: “The new transformational leadership that the nation requires would be hobbled, if it does not have a corresponding new National Assembly that is equaly driven by a consuming passion to achieve the vision for Nigeria. All steps must therefore, be taken to see to the emergence of a complimentary band of patriotic lawmakers in the next convocation of the National Assembly.” Ideh told reporters in Lagos the multiple crises ravaging the nation have overwhelmed the Buhari administration, advising the electorate to explore the alternative route to national recovery. She said: “Our slogan is: ‘Rich nation, poor people. We are better than this.” Our plan is to alleviate poverty, provide jobs, accommodation, schools and health facilities. In the poverty index, they said we have overtaken India now. Our people now live on less than two dollars per day. It is unacceptable.” Ideh, who has been rehabilitating many homeless and jobless Nigerians, warned about the consequence of aloofness to the plight of the poor and down-trodden, saying that the rich may not be safe in the nearest future. She said neglected, aggrieved and bitter Nigerians who are refugees today may turn the rich into refugees tomorrow. Urging voters to vote wisely next year, Ideh said: “Nigeria should not be allowed to go into extinction.” She added: “I am out with an emotional intelligence for a rescue mission. Reflecting on the contentious national question, Ideh said restructuring is the answer. She added: “States should be encouraged to explore their resources with the Federal Government as a collaborating partner.” On security, she said: “The security of lives and property is an urgent matter and our security institutions need to be fully re-caliberated and overhauled, complete with modernized systems and apparatus. Additionally, ample care should be taken to demonstrate equity and reflect true federal character.” 