A three-month-old baby boy whose mother, Aisha Yau attempted to kill has been rescued from her by Kaduna state government. Kaduna State Commissioner for Women Affairs and Social Development, Hajiya Hafsat Baba Muhammed rescued rescued the baby in Kaduna on Thursday from Aisha who appeared not to be in her right frame of mind. Aisha, who stays under the popular Kawo bridge in Kaduna North LGA was said to have purposely kept the baby under a trailer’ wheel with expectation that, when the trailer moves, it will crush the baby. To ensure that was done, she stood aloof and prevented people from carrying the baby while persuading the driver of the truck to start the engine. But unfortunately for her and fortunately for the infant, a passerby quickly drew the attention of the commissioner to the scene who in company of other top government functionaries rushed over to rescue the child at about 11:00hours of Thursday. But the lady, Aisha said, she could not explain how she found herself in Kaduna. She hinted that, it was the crisis in her state, Taraba that scattered her family members without a trace of any of them more than a year ago. “My name is Aisha Yau and I am 20 years old. I am from Taraba State but can’t find any of my family after the crisis that occurred in our community sometimes ago. “I did not know how I got myself here in Kaduna. But when I came, one of my suitors though I don’t know his name but I know his shop in Kasuwan Baici here in Kaduna. He got me pregnant but he denied the pregnancy and refused to take care of me and the baby. So, I want to kill the baby to save myself from shame”, she said. Speaking with newsmen shortly after taken the custody of the mother and child, the commissioner said, she has directed social department in her ministry to take the young woman to the hospital for medical examination and treatment before repatriating her and her child back to Taraba State.  “I was at a meeting when I got a distress call that a young woman was about to kill her own child. Fortunately for me, I have some people with me and that was how we rushed to Kawo. “But on getting there, she was still waiting for the driver of the truck to move so he can crushed the baby. We have to tactically move her away why we rescued the baby. “We have both of them with us. We shall take her to hospital tomorrow for possible rehabilitation because she’s not that bad in her sense of reasoning. By the time she is stabilised, we will communicate the Ministry of Women Affairs in Taraba State to see her possibility of reuniting her with her family. “She wanted the child dead because the man she claimed to be responsible for the baby boy was not ready to take the paternity of the child, hence her plan to kill it and move on with her live which is quite unfortunate”, she added.