Cough is a very common presentation that brings the healthcare consumer to the medical doctor. While cough can occur in all ages from birth to old age, cough as a symptom, is very common in childhood. Cough is primarily a symptom which the patient complains of.  What is cough?  Cough is a protective reflex and forceful action that is applied to the airway or breathing pathway from the point of pharynx downward with the objective of expelling to the outside world, an irritant or a foreign body from the breathing passages. Normally, the air passages are supposed to only allow air in (for oxygen or natural air) and carbondioxide out with some steam in the normal course of breathing in and out respectively.  Under no circumstances must any foreign body such as liquid as water or semisolids as pap or solid as corn, gravel, grass or any other object be allowed in the breathing space. At any time this simple rule of not allowing an irritant or foreign body into the breathing channels is broken, cough will result. Thus, we can now look at the major causes of cough in both children and in adult female or male in any place in the world.  Causes of Cough  All babies must normally cough and initiate breathing first and foremost at birth by coughing. If the baby did not cough, the first reflex, then there is a problem. Most commonly from the time of birth, a new born may start coughing abnormally or not cough at all from immediate birth period if such baby had swallowed  a lot of  liquid that the baby bathes in while in the womb. If such liquid and birth debris is not removed, the baby may suffer from birth asphyxia. The new born baby may also not cough if the debris is blocking the breathing birth way. In both cases, the life of the baby may be in danger if no rescue is done. Abnormal growth in the breathing pathway in the new baby may also result in persistent cough. The growing child is now subject to the environment and mixing with other human beings. Thus, the child may pick up foreign bodies such as peas, corn or attractive tablets that the parents have carelessly left on the way. Such foreign body when swallowed may find its way into the trachea and either be lodged there or in the lungs. The result will be persistent coughing until the object is dislodged and expelled out. Infection of all varieties such as viruses and bacteria that causes both lower and upper respiratory infections may result in troublesome cough. Belonging to this categories in childhood are tuberculosis, diphtheria, pertussis, pneumococcal infection and many others that can be prevented by vaccination and immunization.  Common cold can and do affect both the young and old. Age is no barrier and there is no effective prevention against common cold. In such a case, cough is a common symptom that brings the healthcare consumer to the doctor. Allergy is common in childhood. This may be a reaction to odour, smoke, food, medicine or dust or mite. When such allergic reaction affects the entry of air into the airway, asthma may be diagnosed. Cough is a significant symptom of asthma. In adulthood, pretty much similar agents cause cough in adults as in children: Foreign body, infection and allergy are the major causes of cough in adults. Some medications may also result in cough. However, cigarette smoking may irritate the airway and cause cough. Also, cancer that originates within the airways may result in cough. Cancers that originate from without the lungs such as cancer of the womb, breast, and ovary in women may also result in cough.  In men, cancer of the breast, testes and throat may lead to cough. Treatment: Any cough that endangers breathing requires urgent medical attention without delay. All other coughs lasting more than a week should be further assessed by the doctor as such cough may not be as may be imagined. Common cold that occurs with fever will ultimately subside but if the cough goes on without remission, a medical assessment is requires. In non-emergent cases, initial purchase of simple cough mixture at the local pharmacy may be all that is required along with good ingestion of water. If cough persists, go to see your doctor.