Again, governors of the troubled Northwestern states have met in Kaduna to chart a new course for the economic prosperity of their zone. They came up with a strategy to tackle the region’s peculiar security challenges. ABDULGAFAR ALABELEWE analyses the viability of this strategy. IT was the second time they would be holding such meeting in three years. On July 7, governors of the Northwest states of Kaduna, Kano, Jigawa, Zamfara, Katsina, Sokoto and Kebbi converged on Kaduna to find a lasting solution to a common threat – armed banditry, robbery, kidnapping and cattle rustling, among others. After a marathon meeting, the governors resolved to look at three key areas to lift their region. They identified economic development, agriculture and education, as sure ways of getting the zone out of its woes. Soon after their inauguration in 2015, the governors felt the need to synergise and fund joint security operations to tackle the security challenges and forestall the regrouping of the dreaded Boko Haram terrorists in their region. The states’ chief security officers spoke of the need to make the sprawling Kamuku/Kuyanbana/Falgore Forest unsuitable haven for criminals. The forest spreads across all the Northwest states and even Niger State in North Central zone. The forest harbours varieties of criminals who, though not members of the Boko Haram group, but not less dreaded than the insurgents. Before the inauguration of governors Aminu Bello Masari (Katsina); Atiku Bagudu (Kebbi); Badagu Abubakar (Jigawa); Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto) and Abdulaziz Yari (Zamfara), virtually all the five states bordering the forest had its fair share of security breaches. Kaduna and Zamfara were the worst hit by gunmen, who in large groups, invaded villages. No fewer than 25 villagers were killed in each of the two states when the criminals raided their communities. In October 2012, some gunmen, disguising as robbery suspects, launched coordinated attacks from the forest on Dogon Daji community in Birnin Gwari Local Government Area of Kaduna State, living in their trail at least 20 villagers, dead. Among the victims were Moslems returning from a mosque after the morning prayers. The gunmen unleashed terror on the villagers in the early hours of the day after embarking on a house-to-house search, shooting sporadically and killing people indiscriminately.ýý Some of their victims were stabbed to death. Others were slaughtered by the marauders. Village sources claimed the raid was a reprisal by robbery suspects to avenge the capture of their gang members by members of a vigilance outfit, during a raid on the community. The gang, prior to the attack, reportedly wrote a letter to the community to warn residents of the impending attack. Some villagers disagreed with the armed robbery theory. To them, the attackers had ulterior motives. Despite the immediate deployment of security personnel in the area, residents fled their homes around Dogo Daji in droves for fear of further attacks. Also in Zamfara State, the same group of ýgunmen, under the guise of armed robbery, swooped on several villages on the fringes of Zamfara, bordering the forest. No fewer than 27 persons were killed in the aftermath of the raid. The Nation gathered that the Zamfara attack was also a reprisal. The gang blamed the villagers for informing the vigilance group who ambushed their members, arresting some and killing others. A police source in Gusau said the raiders were not Boko Haram insurgents, who had infiltrated Northeastern states of Adamawa, Bornu and Yobe. Since the 2012 attacks, crimes around the ýforest went on unabated, forcing the previous governments in the states to take various security measures. But, none of such measures permanently solved the problem. It was against that backdrop that APC governors in the five states united barely a month after their inauguration to tame the evil around the forest. At their inaugural meeting, the governors established that “the forest, which is in the centre of Kaduna, Niger, Katsina, Kabbi and Zamfara, has been of serious security concern. So, we need to address it because that forest is capable of breeding future Boko Haram. “We have just met to brainstorm with a view to fashioning out a coordinated approach in tackling the security challenges in our states. This has become necessary to avoid spill over,” their spokesman and Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai said. Shortly after the maiden meeting, the synergy began to yield positive results, as jointly-funded security operations, in collaboration with the Federal Government started making arrests, recovering rustled cattle and other valuable property.  When peace disappeared  But, just as relative peace returned to the areas due to the joint efforts, attention began to shift to other areas of security demand like the Southern Kaduna crisis and the city gangsters, known in local parlance as ‘Sara-suka’. Towards the end of last year, the criminals, hitherto sacked from the forest, resurfaced. Notwithstanding the military operations in Kaduna, Zamfara and Kano axis of the forest, of the criminal activities ranging from robbery to kidnapping for ransom, cattle rustling to killing of innocent villagers, continued. The trend got to a disturbing climax when 11 of the soldiers on operation in Kaduna were killed in an attack by the bandits. Frustrated by the development, Yari, who doubles as the Nigeria Governors’ Forum (NGF) chairman, renounced his position as the Chief security Officer of his state. The heightening insecurity has forced motorists to seek alternatives to the Kaduna/Birnin Gwari/Jebba/Ilorin/Lagos road. About 15 attacks have been recorded between the last quarter of 2017 and June this year. The attacks, allegedly perpetrated by bandits in Birnin-Gwari, Kaduna axis of the forest, left about 150 villagers dead. But, the havoc wreaked by the bandits In Kaduna was not anywhere near the gruesome attacks in the Zamfara end of the forest. Echoing the Zamfara governor, the Emir of Birnin-Gwari, Malam Jibril Zubairu Mai-Gwari II, cried out to the visiting Interior Affairs Minister of Interior, Lt. General AbdulRahman Danbazzau, who was on an assessment tour. The emir told the minister that his subjects were being killed daily. Giving a hint on the operations of the criminals, he said the terrorists hibernate in Zamfara and come to attack in Birnin Gwari and use Birnin Gwari as base to attack Zamfara.  The emir, therefore, urged the Federal Government to intensify efforts at getting rid of the bandits. According to him, until the minister came, he and his subjects felt they were not part of Nigeria. He said: “People are being killed here on daily basis. Just day before yesterday, two people were killed and nine others, including a newly wedded bride were kidnapped.” The emir urged the minister to tell President Muhammadu Buhari to rehabilitate the Kaduna-Birnin Gwari-Jebba road, which has been in a deplorable state for a long period. According to him, “the Abuja-Kaduna-Kano Road has been awarded for rehabilitation because big people like senators and governors pass through the road. Yes, we know they don’t pass here, but the Birnin-Gwari to Jebba – Lagos is very strategic to the economy of the country. Finished goods and raw materials are transported through here to and from Lagos.”  Another shot at insecurity  Shortly after the minister’s visit, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, launched a Forward Operation Base of operation code-named ‘Idon Raini’. At the launch, Gen. Buratai charged his troops to wipe out the armed bandits in the area within three weeks, saying that, he must receive resounding results that will finally bring the criminals to their knees. The army Chief said: “We are no longer going to adopt the defensive approach, it must be offensive. Since the battle has been brought to you, you must take it back and crush them wherever they are. “The killings must stop; the wanton destructions of properties must stop, not only within Kaduna state but across the country. In the next two, three weeks, there must be very resounding results that will bring these criminals to their kneels finally. “They are not coming from the moon, or coming from outer space, they are within this territory. I don’t know why you cannot go to where they are and get them fished out. “I’m happy with the initiative of the General Officer Commanding 1 Division and all the commanders for the new approach and I want to see a decisive result at the end of this operation. “The commanders have briefed me thoroughly of your challenges and be rest assured, we have already started addressing some of these challenges. We must respond decisively and commanders must be personally held responsible for any lapse, they must decide and take appropriate action, and anything outside that, they must be held responsible.”  Why criminality persists  Despite the security measures put in place around the Kaduna, Kano and Zamfara axis of the forest, the activities of the armed bandits have not subsided due to a number reasons. A top security source from 1 Division, Nigerian Army recently attributed the security challenges in the 1 Division Area of Responsibility (AOR), that is the entire Northwest and some part of Northcentral, to lack of sustainable security operations, rivalry between security agencies and lack of social approach to support military approach, among others. The source, a high ranking army officer, who spoke at a gathering of security experts, also blamed the situation on what he described as faulty judicial system that, seeks too much of evidences to jail criminals. The Gen. said: “The 1 Division AOR is characterised by thick forest – hitherto forest reserve – which is difficult to access by the troops. The characteristic of the forest has proven to be attractive to the bandits and criminals, as it provides them cover from military fire and reach. The only possible means of traversing this terrain is the use of motorbikes, but the disadvantage there is the noise, particularly when you want to carry out night operation. Therefore, the use of air power is the only alternative to access the inaccessible areas of the forest. “There is the need also for the federal and state governments to consider the use of traditional institution to create security awareness. We believe that, the traditional institutions have not done enough in the creation of security awareness among the populace. “The state governments need to involve the populace in the development of their communities. This will bridge the gap between the government and the governed. They could also introduce incentives for communities which initiate the development of their communities; this will encourage the idea of ownership. “There is also the need to encourage artisanship, particularly by the state governments, in order to dissuade the idea of ‘no education, no job’. It is believed that, when these approaches are combined with the military operations, where the states provide the necessary logistics to the troops in their states, it will drastically reduce insecurity in the region. “Why our successes in the security of this AOR are time-bound is that, most of the time, funding is reduced or not made available. And most of the time, most of the operations we carry out are ad Hoc in nature and time limited; we pack our loads, the criminals come back in full force. So, we will continue to interact with the political class of the states we serve, as well as our principals in Abuja on the need to have long lasting or semi-permanent solution that can stand the test of time. “The legal system also needs to be looked at because ours is to arrest, but, sometimes, we arrest and hand over to the police and the next thing and the criminal is back to the street. The police look for evidence to charge the man and the law looks for so many evidences, if the police can’t provide, its hands are tied. So, he has to release the man. “So, we need to look into our legal system. There are so many Boko Haram terrorists in the jail waiting for trial. As long as we cannot find a judicial system that identifies a speedy trial for issues of terrorism, banditry and co, we will continue to have criminals on the streets, and unfortunately, the local populace is the one at the receiving end. “That reminds me of a village on Kaduna-Abuja Road here. A criminal was arrested with the help of the villagers and when the police couldn’t find evidence, the man was released to the society, and by the next day, that village was gone,” the Gen. lamented.  The governors’ new approach  The Northwest Governors’ Forum met in Kaduna penultimate Saturday and its members appeared set to get it right this time. In their communique, the governors said they have taken measures to stop the wanton killings and destruction of properties in the zone. The essence of the meeting, according to Masari, was essentially to integrate the zone into one viable economic entity and tackle its numerous security challenges. He told reporters after a marathon meeting that the governors resolved to look at three key areas of economic development, agriculture, and education as sure ways of getting out of the zone’s woes. Masari said: “We have taken into account that these three areas are very key to the integration of the zone. And each of the Northest governors is very passionate about it.” The Katsina governor, however, expressed confidence that, they have taken measures to end the incessant killings in the zone, saying, and part of the measure is to strengthen their borders in order to checkmate the influx of criminals. According to him, agriculture has been identified as another area that will lead to economic growth, noting, that the zone has massive vast land that are still uncapped. “If you tackle education squarely, the spate of killings in the zone and other zones will end. We are looking at this,  to see how we will engaged thousands of our youths that are roaming the streets without jobs,” Masari said. Like the Gen. argued, military approach alone cannot end the region’s security challenges. The governors have to live up to their promises and engage the army of unemployed youths. Vocational training and job creation opportunities, alongside the security operations, will not only go a long way in taming the crimes around the Kamuku/Falgore/Kuyanbana Forest, it will reduce the attrocities of the sara-suka street gangs across the states. The new approach, if sustained, will trigger the much-desired economic prosperity of the region as banditry would become unfashionable, thereby paving the way for the federal and states government to engage in full scale mining of the large gold deposit in Birnin-Gwari and Kano axis of the forest. The lead deposit in Zamfara axis would also be tapped as against the wasteful artisanal mining that has been on for ages.