The Lagos State Government in conjunction with Lagos State Assurance Company (LASACO) Insurance Plc, has issued cheques worth N240,000.000: 00 to beneficiaries, as Insurance death benefit to families of deceased public servants in Lagos State on Friday. Head of Service Mrs Folasade Adesoye, who presented the cheques noted that a total of N240 Million was given to 80 beneficiaries as a way of providing succour to the people left behind by public servants who died in active service of the state. She said the gesture was the State Government’s effort at providing some succour in form of material support and assistance for the families left behind. She added that it is a periodic exercise and an obligation which demonstrate the responsiveness of the state government to the need of the staffs. She commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for prompt payment of salaries and other benefit to public servants in the state. She also thanked the Ministry of Finance, State Treasury Office and LASACO Plc for the part played in ensuring that the families of deceased members of the state public service are covered under the Global Insurance Scheme Policy of the government. Adesoye advised that the fund be put into good use especially by those handling the funds by proxy for the underage beneficiaries. “Please endeavour to seek guidance and professional advice from financial consultants and small business experts before decisions which will significantly impact your families,” she said.  Permanent Secretary Ministry of Finance, Olufunmilayo Balogun, commended the state government for keeping up the tempo always by increasing the beneficiaries to 80 from 32 that was done earlier in the year. She appealed to all the relatives to be prudent in the spending of the money given to them, urging them to complete necessary documents that will hasten the processing of other benefits from the state government. Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria (ASCON) Chairman Bamdele Olayide, advised beneficiaries to administer the funds with the fear of God. LASACO Managing Director Insurance Segun Balogun represented by the Deputy Managing Director, Razzaq Abiodun, commended the state government for paying the premium for the staff and advised beneficiaries to invest properly. One of the beneficiaries, Olumuyiwa Olaleye, who spoke on behalf of others, said they were happy that the state government has taken it upon itself to give all families the aid, saying they are grateful.