•Commissioner queries DPO •Principal, worker may face trial Two policemen caught on Close Circuit Television (CCTV) while allegedly assaulting a lawyer have landed themselves in the soup. Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal yesterday ordered their arrest and trial for “professional misconduct.” In a video posted on Instagram by OAKTVOnline, with the caption “SARS officers’ assault young lawyer allegedly demanding for his salary in Lagos,” the officers were seen slapping Olakunle Kareem and threatening to shoot him in the leg. Police spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP), in a statement said Edgal was shocked that the policemen were not at their professional best. Oti said: “Findings into the case revealed that the officers in the video are not Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS) operatives as alleged but conventional policemen attached to Lion Building Police Station who were invited to the chambers of Olawore & Co of 28/30 Mccarthy Street, Lagos Island by the managing partner, Oluyomi Olawore. “The said Olawore sent a distress call to the police through one of his junior partners, requesting that he be rescued from another junior partner by name Kareem whom he alleged was about to use unlawful force on him, having disconnected the firms’ CCTV cameras and locked up all doors leading into the firm and by so doing, held Olawore hostage inside his office. “It was based on the complaint that the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of Lion Building dispatched policemen to the troubled chamber to bring the feuding lawyers over for interrogation. The CP observed with dismay that the policemen sent to the scene were not at their professional best “He (Edgal) has therefore ordered that the policemen who have been arrested, be tried on oath. They risk stiff punishments for their actions. The CP also directed that the Lion Building DPO be queried for lack of supervision. “Meanwhile, the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Panti, Yaba has been directed to take over  investigation of the case and critically look into the matter concerning the two lawyers with a view to diligently prosecuting both or anyone of them found wanting.  The CP advises employers/employees to learn how to settle internal squabbles amicably without resorting to self-help.” Kareem is accusing his employer, Oluyomi Olawore of not remitting taxes deducted from his salaries to the Lagos State Internal Revenue Service (LIRS). Olawore, he alleged, refused to pay his June salary after telling him that his service would no longer be needed by end of the month. “But, on June 8, he told me to leave his office for not rendering any service to him but only waiting till month end for salary,” he said. According to him, Olawore said he could not ascertain “when my tax receipt will be handed to me.” Kareem said: “After much persuasion from other staff in the office, he issued me a crossed postdated cheque for my salary payable on June 29 and stated that the tax receipts will be ready same day.” He said he presented the cheque on June 29 at the bank for payment, but was not honoured on ground that the signature must be regularised by the issuer. He said he returned to his employer to clear the cheque, but Olawore told his personal consultant Miss Chizoba Ezeadi to go and call officers from the Lions Building Police Command. The officers, he said, assaulted and dragged him on the staircase. “I had a swollen ear and jaw, bruised and twisted arm, torn shirt and damaged belt,” he said. Olawore, according to a Facebook post by Ejiwunmi Lawal, said he asked Kareem to resign because he was not pulling his weight. Olawore was quoted as saying that Kareem initially refused to resign but quickly did when he saw that he had written a dismissal letter. “The resignation notice was to take effect at the end of the month. However, he became disruptive and distracting to others in the office and so he (Olawore) had to ask him to leave after a few days. By their practise, salaries are paid either by transfer or crossed cheque. He had issued a crossed cheque posted till June 29 to him,” Lawal said. Olawore, Lawal said, was not aware that Kareem was assaulted and when his attention was called, he told the officers to let him go.