The Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas Limited (NLNG) has initiated moves to raise N7 billion from the global market to shore up its operations. EMEKA UGWUANYI, JOHN OFIKHENUA and AUGUSTINE EHIKIOYA report that the facility will fast-track the company’s expansion and also boost the economy. In the build-up to Final Investment Decision (FID) later this year, the Nigeria Liquefied Natural Gas (NLNG) Limited (NLNG) is seeking $7 billion from the global financial markets for the sustainability of its operations and expansion project (construction of Train 7). The expansion is to raise its production capacity from 22 million tonnes per Annum (MTPA) to 30 MTPA. It will ensure the sustainability of gas supply to its existing trains (Trains 1 to 6) and the new Train 7. Commemorating the repayment of a $5.45 billion shareholder loan for its existing trains in London, United Kingdom (UK) yesterday, NLNG’s Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer Tony Attah revealed that the funds being sought will cover the company’s expansion programme (construction of Train 7) and investment in the upstream gas sector in Nigeria. Attah said: “Let’s get this very clear. NLNG is a mid-stream company that has monetised over 5.96 trillion cubic feet (Tcf) of associated gas (AG) which would have otherwise been flared thus helping to build a better Nigeria. However, what we are doing is not just looking to fund the expansion of the plant but also to ensure sustainability of gas supply to the plant, for the continued success of NLNG. “All of these align with our belief that gas is a catalyst for industrial and economic transformation which will position Nigeria to become a leading gas producing country. “The success story of the NLNG project is due to some key critical success factors which include the shareholding and governance structure of the company that has made the company an independent Incorporated Joint Venture, guaranteeing an independent Board of Directors, effective decision making as well as funding for its projects which is critical for the sustenance of this successful project. “Over decades, the company has raised funds for its projects, from a combination of shareholders loans, internally generated revenue and third party loans. In all of these financial ventures, NLNG demonstrated financial discipline and character by abiding by loan covenants, terms and conditions without a single breach or default, and we believe this positions the company as a Lenders delight. “The consolidated loan contributed towards funding the Base Project, Expansion Project, NLNG Plus Project and Train 6. The final repayment, which is a milestone for NLNG and Nigeria, thus sends a strong message to the world that NLNG has come of age and will build on this in its expansion programme which will further increase our output and secure our position in the top quartile of LNG suppliers globally. “Our financial credibility speaks for itself and we will be testing the financial market once again with our sustainability and expansion projects estimated at $ 7 billion. Raising $7 billion is no small feat; anywhere in the world, this will be a major event. “Therefore, we will be seeking support from the local and international financial institutions, our shareholders and the Nigerian government in bringing to reality the dreams of our founding fathers and achieving our vision of helping to build a better Nigeria.” Attah’s deputy Sadeeq Mai-Bornu explained that the NLNG has contributed immensely to Nigeria’s economy since its inception when the first LNG cargo was loaded in October 1999. According to him, the company has paid over $33 billion in dividends. He also added that payment to Joint Venture (JV) feedgas suppliers by NLNG from inception till date amounts to $24 billion. Participants at the shareholder loan repayment ceremony included, members of the NLNG Board of Directors, potential lenders and global financial institutions. The NLNG is a private limited liability company owned by the Federal Government of Nigeria, represented by the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation, NNPC (49 per cent), Shell Gas B.V. (25.6 per cent), Total Gaz Electricite Holdings France (15 per cent), and Eni International (10.4 per cent).  Firm generation to govt hits $25b  As of the last count, the NLNG Ltd has generated $25 billion in revenues to the Federal Government, comprising dividends of circa $17 billion and taxes of $7.2 billion. The company which had sourced a total principal amount of $4.043 billion from its shareholders in their respective shareholding proportions to partly fund the construction of Trains 1-6, has repaid $5.45 billion. This disclosure was made by the NNPC in a statement yesterday through its spokesman Ndu Ughamadu. The statement noted that while the interest during the construction period was capitalised and added to principal for repayment from operational date of the financed trains, the total capitalised interest in the shareholders loan is $1.411 billion which, in addition to the total principal drawdown of $4.043 billion, accounted for the total loan amount of $5.45 billion repaid by the company. Shedding more light on the Front-End Engineering Design (FEED) contract signed in London, the NNPC Group Managing Director, Dr. Maikanti Baru, expressed the corporation’s readiness to support the Federal Government’s aspirations to actualising Train-7 of project. Baru said as 49 per cent shareholder in the NLNG, the NNPC had immensely contributed to the success of the company over the years, supporting equity participation and contribution to shareholders loan. The NNPC boss said: “Through critical interface with relevant Government agencies, we have played a pivotal role in the actualization of Trains 1 to 6 (T1-T6). Given the success of T1-T6, NNPC is therefore fully committed and aligned with Government aspirations to replicate the success of this project. Therefore, our current focus is to kick start T7.” Describing the NLNG as a jewel in the crown of Nigeria as well as a very strategic investment for the nation, Baru stated that the NLNG would continue to act as a catalyst for nation-building for years to come. He said the prompt servicing of shareholders’ loan with accelerated repayments did not only demonstrate NLNG’s credit worthiness, it had also reiterated its robust financial position. Lauding President Muhammadu Buhari and Minister of State for Petroleum Resources, Dr. Ibe Kachikwu, for their support, also commended the tireless efforts of the various working teams – the Board and Management of NLNG as well as the shareholders, the IOCs and the NNPC Finance & Accounts as well as Gas & Power Directorates for working hard towards achieving the feat recorded so far. Baru added: “Your sacrifices, faith in Nigeria and unflinching support in providing the required financing and technical support for the NLNG is commendable. “It is our hope that this relationship opens a new vista of opportunities for all the Shareholders to play more active roles in the Midstream Oil & Gas business in Nigeria.” Baru described the company as a source of pride to the government and people of the Country, the host communities, shareholders, financial markets and several other stakeholders.  Thriving operation thrills president  President Buhari congratulated the NNLG board, management, staff and shareholders over yesterday’s signing of the MoU between the B7 JV Consortium and SCD JV Consortium. In a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, the President said the deal will pave the way for the additional Train 7 and increase the country’s gas production output. The President also welcomed the commitment of all parties in supporting his administration to launch the “gas revolution” in Nigeria by ensuring the realization of Train 7, which has been stalled for many years under previous administrations. According to the statement, the President was full of optimism that the significant step will culminate in FID for the much-awaited multi-billion dollar Train 7 expansion programme by the end of this year. The President described the signing of the contract for the plant expansion project after an eight-year delay as a sign of irreversible commitment by the Joint Venture to enter a FID and a clear indication that the restoration of investors’ confidence to the country. President Buhari also noted that the Seventh Train which is expected to provide some 8,000 jobs was not only important for the country, but also an important benchmark for the Niger Delta region, which rightly yearns for development projects. As a former Federal Commissioner for Petroleum and Natural Resources, the President recalled with nostalgia that several signature projects, launched under his watch, which would have accelerated the growth of Nigeria’s economy, including the NLNG, had sadly suffered neglect and abandonment by succeeding administrations. For instance, the NLNG had the goal of establishing 12 trains by early 1980s but the project growth was stunted. So far, only six of those trains have been commissioned. However, with this signature project back on the cards, President Buhari strongly believed it is destined for his administration to complete the project. The statement reads: “This project perfectly keys into the Federal Government’s ‘Economic Recovery and Growth’ agenda. It signifies foreign investors’ confidence in our country’s economy,” the President said.