Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has urged members to shun divisive element capable of polarising the party ahead of next year’s election. The party chairman, Alhaji Moshood Salvador, who addressed members during a visit to Ojo community in Lagos, said membership increased since he became the chairman. He urged members to unite, noting that PDP is better positioned win in Lagos. He said the PDP was doing all within its power not to repeat the mistakes of the past, adding that the leadership had zero tolerance to impunity. Salvador maintained that the chapter has over 600,000 members, stressing that it was working towards producing the next governor of the state. He said: “We are set, determined and prepared to win the 2019 election. But, I must say it is not a one man show. All hands must be on the deck to achieve our determination to win Lagos. “I am really excited by the passion displayed by our members in the drive to make a PDP governor happen in Lagos. They have been stealing our votes in the past, but this time we won’t allow that to happen.” Salvador disclosed that the PDP strategic committee had been inaugurated to ensure there was no gap in it quest for power in the state and the centre. “I salute the courage of the party leaders, I must commend your efforts right from the ward level. The youth take their destinies in their hands to salvage the country. “You can all see that the level of poverty is rising in the country. The PDP needs to intervene to save this country. It is appalling to note that the same the same set of leaders who have been ruling this country are the same people still running the affairs, on this not I urge the youths to stand up to play their parts” He explained that states without PDP governors in the Southwest would devise means of generating fund to keep the party afloat ahead of next year election. “The clarion call has come again; we must stand up and contribute our quota. Nobody can afford to sit on the fence, PDP is moving ahead and we will get there.” 