Renowned preacher, Pastor Tunde Bakare, has urged Nigerians to toe the path of peace and shun violence as the 2019 polls draws closer, saying: “spill the ink, not the blood”. He made the observations at the formal presentation of three books by the Ovation Publisher and Chief Executive Officer of Ovation Media Group, Bashorun Dele Momodu, in honour of the late Chief MKO Abiola. While commending the media for its role in aiding the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari at the 2015, Bakare, who gave the keynote address, entitled: “The pen is mightier than the sword”, urged Nigerians, especially the press and the intelligentsia, to play a pivotal role in setting the agenda for the polity in 2019. “To a nation in the throes of violent agitations, to the people of our nation who want their fair share, and to young people running out of patience, the lesson from Dele Momodu is very clear and simple: spill the ink, not the blood; paint an indelible picture of the nation you desire, and work tirelessly to ensure its realization, knowing that the greatness of our nation depends on it,” he stated. Bakare observed succinctly that media has a critical role to play in driving the peace of the nation, urging that they “intensify efforts to ensure that the welfare and security of our people, as well as the overall development of our nation, become the main discourse at this pivotal moment. This is the purpose of any government worthy of the name”. Stating the efforts of Momodu in immortalizing the memory of the late Abiola were noteworthy, he praised the posthumous the conferment of Nigeria’s highest national honour on Abiola, saying: “It is an honour first to the man who paid the supreme price to pave the way for Nigeria’s democracy, and then to the heroes and heroines who stood up behind him, including those in the Fourth Estate of the Realm who marshaled the written and spoken word against tyranny”. In attendance were members of family of martyr, led by Dr Doyin Abiola, who urged Nigerians not to allow a repeat of the June 12 saga, stating that: “This must not happen again. It depends on you”. On his part, Momodu observed that: “Nigeria died the day we killed June 12”. Dignitaries at the event included the Ooni of Ife, Oba Okunade Sijuwade, Olori Ladun Sijuade; the All Progressive Congress (APC) National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, who was represented Prof Adebayo Williams; former Vice President Atiku Abubakar former Lagos State Governorship candidate, Mr Jimi Agbaje; former Anambra Governor Peter Obi; Finance Minister, Mrs Kemi Adeosun represented by Mrs Oluyemi Akintunde; Sen. Tokunbo Afikuyomi; the Orangun of Oke-Ila, Oba Adedokun Abolarin, and former Minister of State for Defence, Senator Musiliu Obanikoro. Others were top industrialist and Chairman of the Eleganza Group of companies, Chief Rasaq Akanni Okoya; oil magnate Femi Otedola; billionaire chairman of Globacom, Otunba Mike Adenuga Jr; renowned businesswoman, Hajia Bola Shagaya (the managing director of Practiol Limited, the founder of Fotofair); National Chairman of the National Conscience Party (NCP), Dr. Yunusa Tanko; National Publicity Secretary of All Progressive Congress (APC), Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi; Otunba Bimbo Ashiru; a onetime Executive Director of NITEL, Chief Ezekiel Fatoye; former beauty queen, Nike Oshinowo, and Knight International Journalism Fellow Declan Okpalaeke.