The Delta State PDP has described as “empty boast” comments credited to the APC national chair, Adams Oshiomhole of using Federal might to unseat Governor Ifeanyi Okowa in the forthcoming general elections. It will recalled that Oshiomhole in a statement  which read partly stated that, “One of my principal reasons for accepting  to run for the national chairman of our great party is because I want to pay back Gov. Okowa of Delta State in his own coins. Earlier in 2016 he used Delta State money to fight me in order to install his party in my State, in 2019, I will be fighting, and knocking and even biting him with federal government might to ensure that PDP dies a natural death in Delta State.” But in a press statement made available Monday to The Nation, the PDP publicity secretary, Ifeanyi Osuoza said the comments credited to the APC chair was “a sad reflection of the political immaturity and emptiness of the ruling APC that a major preoccupation of its chairman was deploying the nation’s money and might of the federal government to settle a score in a vendetta like manner that smacks of malice and dangerous intention.” The party stressed that with Oshiomhole’s “arrangee” emergence as new APC chair, it has become more confident of coasting home to victory in 2019. Part of the statement reads, “We will not only trounce him and his federal might convincingly in Delta State but also work assiduously with the rest of our party men and women to dethrone and retire their presidential candidate.” Continuing, “Nigerians are not fools and they will no longer be deceived .We are all living witnesses today to the reality that Nigeria is even worse off than it was in 2015”. “We are a country in mourning every day as the massive deaths of Nigerians continue on a daily basis with reckless impunity. APC has failed completely as a political party and has battered Nigerians in the most terrible and unforgivable way possible. Nigerians have never had it so bad and in the midst of all these untold hardship and unexpected suffering, we have all realized that we made a grave mistake in 2015”. The PDP urged Nigerians to disregard the open threat by new APC chair branding him as a “crude, unstable, pugnacious, distasteful, and abrasive”. It said the comment by Oshiomhole was “a futile attempt to engage Gov. Okowa in his belligerence and play his politics of rhetoric”.