Mr. Peter Folikwe is the Managing Director/Chief Executive, Berger Paints Nigeria Plc. Folikwe spoke with a select team of journalists recently on a range of issues from economy, manufacturing ecosystem, financial system amongst others. Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf was there As one of the frontline operator, what would you regard as the major problems affecting manufacturers in Nigeria? The Purchasing Managers Index (PMI) recently shows that some sectors of the economy had recovered from the recession. Recall that Nigeria ran into recession in 2016 and by now, only the agricultural sector and one other sector but certainly not manufacturing has recovered from the recession. There is no gainsaying that the manufacturing sector is the major employer of labour in the country. I praise investors in this sector for their selfless service to humanity. Unfortunately, government seems to be a bit insensitive to their plights. Government promise for forex availability to manufacturers has not been fulfilled as most depend on importation of raw materials. The official CBN FX rate of N305/$ has remained an illusion. Since 2015 up until now, Berger Paints has never bought dollar at N305 for its Letter of Credit transactions. I don’t really see it happening for now. Even when you bid through the forex windows, it will take the grace of God to be allocated in a bid. This invariably affects our operations as local suppliers who most buy FX at the parallel market offer the raw material at premium, yet cannot pass the excess cost to the customer. How would you advise the government on how to create the much needed enabling environment for the manufacturing sector? My advice to government is to do a rethink of its policies as they affect the manufacturing sector. This sector can actually grow the economy if the potentials within are properly harnessed. The government must have clear understanding that it is not the portfolio investors that grow an economy because the government keeps saying, we are trying to encourage investors that grow economies. It is the government’s ability to create enabling environment that can make companies to operate optimally, make profits and ultimately become attractive to both indigenous and foreign investors. The Ghanaian government made a deliberate decision to grow its manufacturing sector in regions by deliberately enacting policies that will achieve that purpose. Nigeria needs to take a cue from them. Government can give land free and grant tax holidays, among others in order to encourage investors. The second thing which I think the government should address as a matter of urgency is to evolve a policy that would help create a value chain for crude oil instead of exporting only in its primary state to the developed world which then process and sell back to us as raw materials/petrochemicals. The question is what stops Nigeria from getting there? Even the refining of petrol, diesel has been subjugated for importation. It doesn’t make sense! Thank God for the likes of Alhaji Aliko Dangote that is coming up with building a private refinery. These are some of the things that government should encourage rather than just selling our solid minerals, in crude state. Government should create an environment where people can actually be engaged as part of the process of translating raw materials to finished products. Yes, it requires a lot investment and knowledge in science and technology, but I tell you we have Nigerians locally and in the Diaspora making great strides in science and technology. All they need is the enabling environment. Nigeria is blessed with abundant human and material resources that can drive the whole processes, given the government’s unfettered support. We need to act fast if Nigeria should keep pace with the global development in economic transformation. What efforts has Berger Paints made to attract patronage thus far to the company’s shares on The Nigerian Stock Exchange? We have put in place a number of marketing initiatives that will soon start yielding positive results. It will also create more visibility for our brand. Marketing is not just about advertising. There are other legs of marketing such as Public Relations, Media Management, and Investor Relations, etc. We are also working round the clock to make our products visible in the marketplace. Our products are on high demand because of its superior quality and competitive pricing. We really need to make our products available within the reach of our teeming consumers. Berger Paints is a strong brand and we need to ensure that those who represent us at every level of the value chain propagate our brand culture and values. If the reputation of a brand is tainted, it stands the high risk of negative market response, and every business must manage this. Our focus therefore is on the topline and bottom-line figures without taking our eyes of excellent customer service for repeat purchase. At Berger Paints, we have always come up with innovative marketing ideas; new products development and ensuring that we continuously improve on our quality standards. For instance, Berger Colour World has been one of our flagships in the past. We have deployed POS machines (for customising paint colour with JIT delivery). We are deploying that to a very large extent to get the market closer to us or get us closer to the market. Equally, our colour charts where you have all the colour schemes are readily available to specifiers- painters, architect, quantity surveyors and builders who now have access to our colour charts as and when due. Part of what we are also doing is to make sure that we create visibility about our outlets. For instance, we are installing “the directional signs” along major roads where our stores are located for better visibility and identification of our Colour Worlds. These are some of the initiatives in collaborating with our partners to achieve the overall corporate objectives. We value our business partners as they represent us in the trade. We are educating our team in the area of Customer Relationship Management (CRM) so that customer chain is unbroken. Some of your competitors have a policy of annual colour that people look out for every year. Are you thinking along that line? We don’t do colour of the year at Berger Paints as we believe that customer preferences keep changing by the day. We only observe colour of the month. This promotes an array of colours annually. For instance, our colour for this month is lemon–yellow. If you are observant you will notice this at the entrance gate! It is also visible on all our online platforms – website, facebook, etc. Considering the fact that people tend to see Berger Paints’ products as too elitist, is there any strategy being put in place to segment your products without compromising standards? Fundamentally, everyone of us understands that there is no way a company can address every market segment. You obviously have to set your goals around your target market. You can’t target everybody. You need to profile your customers and cascade them into segments. People however migrate from one segment to another, depending on the shift in their economic status at any point in time. The segment we focus on is the medium to the upper class of the economic strata. We are not saying that we are beyond the reach of the lower economic groupings. We expect people to improve in their economic status. Obviously, our products are aspirational brands!  Everybody out there is interested in our products because of the top class quality. Being that as it may, the way people look at price and value differs. We believe that if you buy value, over time the economics of paying for premium ab-initio pays-off into the future because of durability/quality. There is a saying that “cheap is expensive.” A lot of people don’t understand what that means. For instance, you buy product today for N100. Meanwhile, there is an alternative for N30. If you buy the N100 brand, it will last you for 10 years. Conversely, if you buy the N30 brand it will only last you for two years. If you do your proper arithmetic, the N100 brand is less expensive in the long run, aside saving time and inconvenience on the replacement of the less durable product. Therefore, on the face value, the N100 may look initially expensive, but from the perspective of intrinsic value, you actually get more value than the cheaper alternative. That is what makes cheap expensive. Note however that we have our budget brands for aspirational customers at the lower consumer segment. In view of the challenges facing manufacturers in Nigeria, are considering capital injection by leveraging on the opportunities in the capital market? For Berger Paints, we are careful about how we source for funds to do business. The cheapest fund is obviously through the capital market. We were the first paints company to be quoted on The Nigerian Stock Exchange. It shows that we understand the nitty-gritty of the market and quickly took the advantage of the opportunities then. But, it’s increasingly becoming difficult nowadays to get these cheap funds. Investors are more than ever cautiously looking at the market indicators that will encourage them to invest in a company. Considering all the challenges facing the manufacturing sector, many high net worth investors are apprehensive about putting their money where returns will not come quickly in view of the state of economy. For us at Berger Paints, we efficiently manage our working capital to ensure that we minimise our exposure or avoid borrowing as much as possible, except for our capital projects. We however recently took some money from Bank of Industry (BoI) for the purpose of completing our new ultramodern factory project currently at completion stage. This is a project that will transform our operations and reinforce our position as an industry leader. We are mindful of the inherent dangers of borrowing. You don’t take short term borrowing for long term projects. It will be a mismatch. We are capital market-friendly and the shareholders are always ready to support our initiatives. Having existed for over 59 years, our pedigree and brand positioning are very solid. If you take a critical look at Oba Akran, Ikeja today, only few companies that started at about our time still exist today. Our pedigree shows that investors will have confidence in our stocks. Last year, your company underwent a brief period of industrial dispute with its labour force. What is the current situation? I will say that the situation is like the Yoruba man will say that “the nose is very far from the head.” (Laughs). The situation has been turned around. It was well managed. What management did with the support of the board was to listen to feedbacks from the staff because these are issues that dated back so many years. It is just that the issues crystallised a few months ago. There is nowhere in the world that disputes are settled when opponents are at war. They are ultimately settled in a round table discussion and that was basically what we did. We listened to each other, understood each other’s grievances and sorted out everything. In a home, husband and wife may disagree but they settle afterwards. The way we settled shows how pragmatic we are as an organisation that is ready to listen to all stakeholders. We just hope that the government will one day listen to us like we listened to our staff. I can confirm that relationship between the management and the unionised labour labour is cordial. They are very committed to their duties. Without being immodest, I can say that Berger Paints has one of the best brains in the chemical and allied paints business. In terms of technical and production processes, we pride ourselves as adding value to the lives of our employees by training and retraining them. In fact, we encourage personal development, so that every staff can add value to his or her life. We take issue of staff welfare and morale very seriously. For instance, we run a canteen system in which the kind of food you eat there is the type you can eat in any good restaurant around. Our staff members are very happy! What is your advice to the shareholders? The existing shareholders know our track record that we pay dividends annually without fail, irrespective of the challenges in the economy. We paid dividend at the height of recession of 2016. As for potential shareholders, they should do their analysis. I am confident that they will appreciate the leadership of a company, its investment in modern equipment and human capital development as keys to growth and profitability. Efficient and effective leadership, as you know, is hinged on integrity. I am not here to blow our trumpet, but I can say in Nigeria today, Berger Paints can pride itself as one company that operates within the confines of corporate governance. 