US-based Nigerian singer, Morenike Lamode, who recently released her debut album titled ‘Ajebutter’, is back in Nigeria to fully launch her musical career. She speaks with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN in this interview on various issues. Excerpts… How would you describe your journey into music? I started music professionally about four years ago and I recorded my debut album last year. The album titled ‘Ajebuterwas released on my 25th birthday which was March  11 this year. How is the album doing out there? The first two singles that we are pushing are ‘Remember’ and ‘Ajebutter’ were released last year in America and we’ve gotten really great reviews and the entire point of the genre is to make afro music a little easier for foreigners to understand because a lot of African music is being heard all over the world but not really understood. So, I said, let me make afro music that Nigerians would love and understand as well. So, the genre is called Afro Merge, a combination of new soul, afro pop, and electronic. So, it’s like a huge merging of different sounds. When did you realise that music is your calling? I grew up in a musical family. My dad plays a lot of instruments and he is a songwriter. He  is really involved in music and my mum too. So, I grew up with a lot of major influences at home. Although I had always wanted to be a singer as a child but as I got older, I kind of translated into different interest. I went to college to study Criminology but I guess when I was 16, that was when I recognised that I wanted to be an artiste and I started writing and recording my demos here. I took them with me when I went to Atlanta and I shot them at record labels but at the time they got to record labels, the format was changing. Record labels will not just sign an artiste with just a song. Now, they want artistes to be like a brand. I was in the Plantashun Boiz music video back in the days. Was it deliberate you wanted to create your own style of music? Initially, it wasn’t deliberate because my first demo was just pop and RnB music but when I even recorded my pop and RnB music, people  told me it didn’t really sound like pop. So, everybody was always confused with the sound and then, when I took it one step further by merging afro pop they were even more confused by the way. So, everybody would ask what do you call it and because people kept on asking me what sound it is I decided to give it a name. You are coming to a male-dominated industry where only few females like Yemi Alade and Tiwa Savage are doing well. How prepared are you? I am very prepared. I have been training for this for four years. Like I said, I have been in artiste development, running and training with high heels doing vocal lessons ,performing, and coaching. You know, they make me  perform in a hot room and  rehearse in a freezing room. I know how to handle my vocal chords,  so I definitely feel like I am prepared as I can be to be the best that I can be. There are so many artistes in Nigeria and it is not my goal to compete with them. I am just trying to create my own lane. How do you feel that female musicians most times really need to sell their physique and they also have to go extra mile as musician? I feel like it’s a little unfortunate but I definitely think that things are going to change and progress as we go. But I also understand at the same time that the female sexuality or whatever is a power itself. It is something that we have that guys don’t have. So, especially when it is something you are comfortable with, nobody is forcing you to do it. I just see it as a bonus or as a plus that, as females, we are able to explore all different parts of ourselves. When it comes to female artistes, there isn’t really a superior. What do you think about it? I definitely agree because I feel like everybody brings something different because I feel like all the female artistes in Nigeria have a lot of versatility from how they look, how they present themselves, their images and music. Waje and Tiwa are not the same, Omawunmi and Simi are not the same and I feel like everyone is the best at what they are doing and then you cannot compare what everybody is doing. How has the acceptance been since the release of ‘Ajebutter’? It’s been really great abroad. Like I said, this is my first time coming here since the release of the album and you know the entire purpose is to make afro pop music that was easier for foreigners to understand and easier for them to get into our culture. Even the Nigerian words I have in my music are simple pidgin words that people who are not from here can use their senses to understand. So are you dating? No I’m single. Would you rather settle with a Nigerian guy or a foreigner? For sure, Nigerian men are very interesting. Nigerian guys are the real definition of men. So, to be with a Nigerian man is everybody’s dream. I am open to anything you know I don’t discriminate. Some of your female colleagues have argued that Nigerian men are the least romantic men. Is that true? Well, it depends on what your definition of romance is.  I am not a flowers and candy person. I am a weird person. I like going to horror movies, going to the gym together, going to parties. So, everybody’s definition of romance is different.