Senate Committee on Police Affairs Chairman Abu Ibrahim, yesterday listed issues that may hinder the smooth passage of the proposed state police bill pending before the National Assembly. The Katsina South senator said unless the issues are adequately addressed, it might be difficult to get the required number needed to pass the bill. Ibrahim said the obvious inability of most states to fund state police, a possible abuse by governors, and disagreement between some governors and federal lawmakers from their states, threaten the bill’s passage. He also highlighted the need to amend the allocation formula to give more funds to the states as a necessary step that should be taken before the creation of state police. The lawmaker noted that apart from Lagos, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Kano and possibly Kaduna states, other states were likely to find it difficult to fund state police. Proponents of the bill said safe guards to prevent abuse by governors were created by some provisions of the bill. Ibrahim said: “My fear is the required number. The disagreement between National Assembly members and governors may kill the bill because I know many senators and House of Representatives members think if state governors get state police, they can trample on them, arrest and detain them. “So this may kill this particular bill. From my assessment, there is no way that it will get the two-thirds in the National Assembly. “Probably the bulk of Southwest senators will go for it because there is some control and there is synergy because of the control system. “I do not want to mention names but there are states that there is no way, from the way I see it for nine states out of 37 will not vote for it. But let us see how it goes. “But I fear that it may not get the two-thirds in the National Assembly. “Well, basically, the problem with the Police is funding. “If you create state police, will you get better funding? What are the main reasons for failure, if it is regarded as a failure, of the Federal Police system? The reason is lack of funding. “You give Nigeria Police N20 billion as budgetary allocation when they require about N300 billion. “Even the N20 billion is not fully released; sometimes it is between 40 and 50 per cent release. “So, will state police do better? They may know the locality better but do they have the resources. Can the states pay them their salaries and allowances? So, these are things we should look into. “I thought what we should do is, take the bull by the horns and get the internal security system overhauled and properly funded. “Many states right now cannot even pay workers’ salaries. They have to be salvaged by the federal government to pay salaries and we want to add another weight on them. “What we could have done was to look at the federal structure. If you are removing some powers of the federal police and devolving them to the states, then you need to change the revenue allocation formula to give states more money. “But if we leave it the way it is, maybe Lagos, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Kano, Kaduna may pay. But after that, who else?” “This is a federal function. If I have to take a federal function to state, it is reasonable that I reduce the amount going to federal and give more to the states. “Also questions like, how many functions do you take from federal to states? We cannot just say, create state police with the present allocation formula. It will not work and that is besides the political angle I spoke about earlier, that is, the relationship between governors and lawmakers.” The first reading of the Constitution Alteration Bill for the Establishment of State Police and other related matters was taken at the Senate plenary two weeks ago. The Bill sponsored by the Deputy Senate President and the Chairman, Senate Committee on the Review of the 1999 Constitution, Senator Ike Ekweremadu, also has all members of the Committee as co-sponsors. 