Players from Biodun Babes FC, Idimu; Marvelous FC, Sangotedo and Kudus FC, Ojodu, who placed first, second and third respectively, at the 3rd edition of the Under-15 Aare Bash Fakorede,  have received their prize money from the sponsor, Aare Bashir Fakorede. The final of the Lagos State Grassroot Soccer Association organized competition which was held at the Campos Mini Stadium, Ajele in Lagos, on May 19, saw Biodun Babes FC emerge champions after defeating Marvelous FC 3-2, while Kudus FC beat Ultimate FC 2-1 in the third-place match. The cash presentation which coincided with the 49th birthday celebration of the sponsor, was held at the premises of the Oando Filling Station by Elegushi, Lagos last Tuesday. Biodun Babes got the sum of N500,000, Marvelous received N300,000, while Kudu FC went home with the sum of N200,000. Cash prizes were also awarded to individual players, including Muhammed Ali of Marvelous FC who emerged the highest goal scorer with nine goals, Bada Moses of Biodun Babes was awarded the Most Valuable Player (MVP) and Wasiu Eti of Kudus FC got (Best goalkeeper). In a chat with the NationSport, Aare Fakorede, who gave glory to the Almighty God for sparing his life till date, promised to continue to impact the lives of the kids. “I feel very much happy like every other human being at this time. When you remember the day you were born, then every year is a wonderful time for you since God had preserved your life with good health and everything around to make you comfortable, your children, your work and everybody around you. So I’m happy today too. “We want this competition to continue; we don’t want to stop here. Giving the kids joy every year is a thing of joy to me as well. Sometimes you don’t have the opportunity to have something like this when you are young but when you have the opportunity to make other people smile, to put smiles on other people’s faces, you have made them happy. So it is a good thing today that I am making them happy and I believe God in His infinite mercies, will make me happy as well. “The plan still remains the same for the next edition, but we are only going to shift the final to be on my birthday, so that we can all celebrate with these children. That will be our fourth edition and we want it to be a glorious one, since it is coming with my birthday. So we are going to put everything together so that these boys will be happier,” the Chairman, Bash Oil Distinct said.