•Fasanmi, Okorie, others identify selfish interests as motives All Progressives Congress (APC) Chaiman Adams Oshiomhole has opened talks with the breakaway ‘Reformed-APC’ to pull the brakes on their likely defection from the party. Will he succeed? BUNMI OGUNMODEDE, EMMANUEL OLADESU, RAY MORDI, LEKE SALAUDEEN AND MUSA ODOSHIMOKE write on the turmoil in the ruling party, which some leaders have described as a storm in a teacup. It is not beyond expectation. Many analysts have predicted it. The potential defectors are only bidding their time. The formation of the ‘Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC) on Wednesday became the first critical step to an imminent defection. But, will it lead to an explosion? The game is on. Neither of the two sides – the mainstream APC, led by Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, and the faction, led by Buba Galadima, knows where it will end. Galadima, former Secretary of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC), has been threatening fire and brimstone. But, Oshiomhole has been conciliatory, urging the aggrieved chieftains to halt the rebellion and resume negotiations that will lead to reconciliation. Galadima is not the main person behind the show. He is acting the scripts of some powerful and influential stalwarts, including Senate President Bukola Saraki, House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara and Sokoto State Governor Aminu Tambuwal. However, some of their complaints are unfounded. Galadima has alleged that Oshiomhole’s election by affirmation amounted to fraud. He explained that the Convention Committee Chairman, Governor Abubakar Badaru of Jigawa State, only conducted a “Yes vote” and neglected the corresponding  “No vote”. It is a strange complaint. His colleague in the internal opposition business, Kawu Baraje, was at the convention. He did not raise an eyebrow. Instead, the New Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) leader hailed Badaru for a job well done. Also, Saraki and Dogara had no objection to the process that produced Oshiomhole. They hailed the peaceful conduct and called for unity and cohesion in the party. Last month, the nPDP leaded tested the waters. He fired salvos at President Muhammadu Buhari, saying that his government has sidelined his members. He complained about the lack of a sense of belonging. A prominent nPDP member and former Nasarawa State governor, Senator Adamu Abdullahi, objected to what he described as the tissue of lies. He pointed out that, in this dispensation, nPDP members are serving as governors, ministers, federal and state legislators, ambassadors, chairmen and members of boards. Since Adamu has resolved to ‘stand with’ the President, his former co-travellers in the nPDP have turned the heat on him in and outside of parliament. The phased programme of defection has motives. The major objective is to cripple Buhari’s government, whip up sentiments and bring the ruling party to ridicule through sustained propaganda. But, the victims are Nigerians. Although, the APC commands the majority in the Red and Green Chambers, this has never translated into cordial relations between the legislature and the executive. Some presidential nominees were rejected during screening by the parliament, to the consternation of President Buhari. The recurrent delays in the passage of budgets have also underscored the gulf and the frosty relationship between the two organs of government. The Presidency is always blaming the parliament for things improperly done – although the Senate President and the House of Representatives Speaker are expected to be members of the President’s kitchen cabinet. However, the National Assembly has always been on the defensive, firing back and accusing the members of the executive of gross insensitivity to the doctrine of separation of powers. It is as if the two arms of government have sworn to permanently work at cross purpose in this dispensation. The presidential style of frugality, the low tolerance for corruption and impunity and stiff penalty for ‘business as usual’ are to the detriment of career politicians who perceive the corridor of power as avenue for private accumulation. There is a belief that the President may have been slow in responding to the medical needs of the party as its health nosedived. While President Buhari reframed from direct interference in the affairs of state chapters, he, also, was aloof to their plights when crises seized the troubled chapters The reconciliation mooted by him was late in coming. Some dangers had been done in Kano, Kaduna and Kogi chapters where APC gladiators were war. While some aggrieved chieftains are visiting the their frustration in the President, there are scores of chieftains who ordinarily, will contemplate defection because of the overbearing attitude of some governors. The R-APC onslaught, has no doubt, deepen the division in the ruling party. Ahead of next year’s polls, the crisis may be continually fueled by discerning opposition leaders – in PDP, SDP and ADP – in a bid to profit from the logjam. They may supply new tools of propaganda and provide other veritable resources and impetus required for the balkanisation of the ruling party. Ultimately, the support base of the APC may shrink. But, pro-Buhari forces will not sleep on guard. The R-APC challenge may be a wake-up call. Two options are open. Oshiomhole’s reconciliation efforts may still yield some dividends if the demand for consensus by the aggrieved are swiftly met. It is, however, dangerous to yield a strong bargaining position to the faction as doing so may ultimately weaken the mainstream APC loyal to the President. If the R-APC maintains its hardline position, reconciliation may become more difficult or abortive. Trust may collapse completely and mutual confidence will be further ruptured. The second option is to embrace the reality of slight decimation and work hard to overcome the political deficits. It is more dangerous. It is more dangerous to harbor disloyal party men and women in the fold who will subvert or undermine the party from within. Those who will defect from the APC will not look back, if they feel that personal interests are threatened. In an election year, the threat of defection is a minus to the ruling party that has failed to put its house in order. But, the end has not come for the platform, it its leaders deploy the right strategy. The split in the nPDP offers a glimmer of hope. Reconciliation with moderates among the rebels will halt the tendency to join the bandwagon of defection. Critical grievances germane to inclusive internal democracy and a new approach to party administration which guarantees a sense of belonging to the majority of party stakeholders may pacify some aggrieved chieftains and foster peace and harmony. Reacting to the development, the National Chairman of the United Progressives Party (UPP), Chekwas Okorie, said the APC has lost its electoral mileage with the emergence of R-APC and what remains to be seen is whether it would affect the President’s re-election chances. He said: “The formation of R-APC was long predicted. So, what is happening now is not taking anybody by surprise; the method they adopted is not different from the one used by nPDP when they were planning to pull out of the PDP. “This new group calls itself ‘Reformed APC’ and their period of hibernation will be short, because I understand that by tomorrow (today), they will sign a memorandum of understanding with the PDP or any other group they choose to align with. I understand that about 40 groups, including the R-APC, are going to sign the memorandum to work with the PDP. “In a country like ours where ideology does not determine political affiliation, there would always be a realignment of forces when an election is around the corner. That is what is happening now; there would be more of this kind of drama till the end of this month, because by next month, according to INEC guidelines, primary elections would start. This is one of the things we should expect, as politicians try to reshape the nature of the struggle for the next general elections. “With this development, there is no doubt that the APC has lost a lot of electoral mileage. But whether this will result in the downfall of President Buhari and the APC remains to be seen. The level of hunger in the country is such that when there is a flash of the naira at election period the people may not even reflect, to recognise the fact that they are being induced to vote for those responsible for their predicament. We saw it in Anambra State recently during last governorship election in the state, where those who were shouting Biafra ended up voting for the APC, which came second in the contest. So, when the time comes what will determine the winner may not the sentiment and propaganda that is playing out now. A new set of propaganda may come up and because we have a very vulnerable and pliable electorate, the result of the election is not predictable. “Given the calibre of the people involved in the latest drama in the APC, some of them may succeed in delivering their states for whichever platform they choose to align with. “This is because they have a strong political clout in the states they come from. Senate President Bukola Saraki, for instance, would always deliver Kwara State for any platform he chooses. But, those in the above category are few, because a good number of them are paper tigers. “Incumbency will play a major role in the coming general elections, as we have witnessed in the past in Nigerian elections. Nevertheless, the development within the APC is a healthy one for Nigerians, because it would not create room for anybody to believe that without him nothing happens. “This development will bring new options for the people in the next general elections. It will make the people in power to be more sober and circumspect in the way they treat others. “It is also a good development for multi-party democracy, because without this kind of development people will almost kill themselves in the small space they occupy in the ruling party.” Lawyer and human rights activist Monday Ubani blamed the APC for mismanaging the situation since it emerged as the ruling party over three years ago. His words: “From the beginning, the APC has been a political party that is enmeshed in crisis. This stems from the fact that they did not expect that they will win in 2015 when they emerged the ruling party. “From the look of things, power was suddenly given to them and they didn’t know what to do with it. That is why there was crisis right from the beginning and it has remained up till now. As they are preparing for election next year, the crisis is even becoming bigger. “So, it was a marriage of convenience and because power was entrusted to them suddenly, they mismanaged it. There has been a lot of conflict between the legislature and the executive, which was not supposed to be. “As the party with the majority in the National Assembly, that should have given them a level of comfort and a cordial working relationship. But, that has not been the case. “I think they need a lot of intelligence and wisdom to actually handle this crisis in a way to overcome it. I read somewhere where they were described as paper tigers that have no electoral value. That may not actually be true; you can’t call somebody like Saraki a paper tiger politician; he still controls Kwara politics. “This is a challenge for the new National Chairman, Adams Oshiomhole. I hope he can handle it with maturity in a way to translate to electoral victory. It requires wisdom and tact to ensure a harmonious and peaceful relationship with the different groups within the fold.” On the complaints of marginalisation, Ubani tagged many politicians selfish, saying: “It is about their selfish interests and political survival. House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara for instance, has been schemed out, going by the result of the recent party congress in his home state. So, the whole idea of R-APC is all about selfish interest; the interest of Nigerians does not come in at all. Whether it is the APC or the PDP, the interest of Nigerians does not matter. “But the way their complaints were handled by the APC was not professional enough. The President did not address the issue well. What he should have done is to meet them, discuss with them and try as much as possible to assuage their feelings, by carrying them along. “Even if they manifest some selfish interests, there is a way you can handle them in a more matured way and there won’t be any crisis brewing in your political party. The present state of affairs is an opportunity for the opposition, the PDP, and they will do everything possible to take advantage of it. And this will not be good for the APC, which has lost a large chunk of its goodwill in the last three years. “I don’t know who is advising them. The best approach to handle the matter is to engage them. APC should leave sentiments aside; if they want to play politics, let them play politics and achieve what they want to achieve, using wisdom and knowledge. “Most times, Nigerians politicians do politics with sentiment, because they have no idea of what good governance is all about. They play politics of destruction; politics of crisis and at the end of the day, there is nothing you can point at as their achievements. Sometimes, there are certain things you have to endure to achieve the ultimate goal, which is giving the people good governance. “The little governance I did at NBA Ikeja is instructive. When I came in, 99 per cent of the people in my executive were in the opposition. But, in spite of this, I was able to achieve what any branch chairman could achieve in Ikeja; I was able to achieve a lot in two years. I was able to do this, because I focused on what brought me there as chairman and not on crisis.” Head of the Political Science Department, Federal University, Wukari, Taraba State, Dr. Godwin Dappa, said he foresaw the implosion in the APC a long time ago. He said: “I have always told you that there was going to be a breakaway in the APC and a breakaway in the PDP and that they are going to strengthen the SDP… Nigerian government and politics is just like a Nollywood film, with a lot of crisis in the script. The new SDP is being built by the cabals; our retired military Generals who are appear to be watching the whole thing from behind the scene. “This is a replay of what happened to the PDP before the last general elections, when a handful of governors left the PDP to join the APC. This gave the APC a formidable strength to work and fight against the PDP. “So, based on their experience, they already have the strategy to unseat the APC. It is not the PDP that would challenge the APC, because the main opposition party has their own internal wrangling. “The problem started from the recent APC National Convention. At the convention, they virtually imposed most of the new party executives on their members; just like we witnessed during the PDP years. For instance, Oshiomhole is not supposed to be the party’s chairman. He was the President’s choice. The President should have allowed the people to make their choice. “From the day of that convention in Abuja, I saw the cracks within the party. Now that it has happened, the centre can no longer hold again. “This is the beginning of uncertainty; it is the beginning of pictures of what is to come not being clear. Again, when the proper selection process comes, of who will represent each constituency, from ward level, local government level, state level to the national level; that is where you will see more exclusion within the party (APC). “I want to say that we are still practicing the art and science of democracy; we have not gotten to the real democracy. The way we are practicing democracy, we are not getting the right people to lead us. It is like a recycling bin; the same set of people is being recycled every election time to lead us. “It is not a positive and a welcome development. Self-interest determines everything. It shows that we still have the syndrome of neo-colonialism. This is retarding the development of the country.” A political scientist Prof Ayo Olukotun said he was not surprised with the emergence of a splinter group R-APC from the APC because of the recent development in the party.      He said the formation of the new group followed the same trend with which the nPDP emerged in the build-up towards the 2015 general elections. Olukotun, a Political Science teacher at the Olabisi Onabanjo University (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, said: “it is a political development that may work or may not. It is too early to early to predict whether the split would have effect on the APC fortunes in 2019. We still have few months away from the general elections; we can’t rule out some other developments before then.” On the way out for the APC, he suggested: “They have to evolve peace building modalities so that they don’t lose members of the new faction; it is possible they want to use this strategy for bargaining”. Afenifere chieftain, Senator Ayo Fasanmi, said he was saddened by the development. According to him, the emergence of a splinter group within the APC was not a good development for the nation at a time when the whole world was looking at the APC as a progressive party that would rescue the country from the mismanagement of resources and bad governance of the past administrations. Fasanmi said the Buhari administration had succeeded in laying the foundation for good governance but regretted that there were those within the APC who were opposed to his style because of selfishness. The elder statesman said: “The selfish interests of these people are threatened because it is no longer business as usual. These are the people who constituted themselves as opposition to a government controlled by their party. “These people have ganged up against the Buhari administration’s anti-graft war. They want to see Nigeria as Federal Republic of Corruption. By the grace of God we shall triumph; Nigeria will never return to the abyss of corrupt practices of the past years”. Wale Afolabi, a lawyer, said the formation of a faction sponsored by top members of the National Assembly would not affect the performance of the APC in 2019. Afolabi said the performance of the Buhari-led APC government was in line with the aspiration of Nigerians. He said: “It is the people that will vote; I believe given what the government had achieved in three years compared to PDP’s  16 years, the electorate will vote for APC come 2019″. A chieftain of the APC in Lagos, Lanre Razak , said the party will come out stronger and better from the problems. He said: “I must say that the managers of the party have done wonderfully well. This is because strange bedfellows were assembled together for the purpose of winning election. Remember that it took the effort of our National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu to bring these people together and the same effort have been put forward to ensure we work in unity. “But, I must say that the instrument used in winning that election is still there. So, whatever they do will not affect it. We are forging ahead and we will win. President Buhari will get a second term, so that Nigeria will be a better place for everybody to live. I want to say 80 per cent of the 200 million Nigerians are in support of Buhari and be rest assured that these elements trying to leave will not pull it back.” Former Transport Minister Ebenezer Babatope described the formation of the R-APC as welcome development. He said: “Though it is not my business to comment on what is happening in the APC, but for the benefit of concerned Nigerians I must say it is a welcome development. “I want to say it is good news for all Nigerians because it has further fueled the mechanism for their exit from power. All we know and by the grace of God, the election is next year and the PDP will take part in it. Yinka Odumakin said the ruling party was just being paid back in its own coin. Odumakin said: “What goes around comes around. The ladder which threw you up may be the one that will bring you down. How did the APC emerge? The party emerges through this kind of conspiracy. “We have not forgotten the years when Tambuwal was in the PDP, but working for the APC. We had the New PDP moving out of the PDP. This was bound to happen in the APC and I must say the chicken has come home to roost. I am so sure the top hierarchy of the APC did not prepare for this.”  