A Turkish Court decided on Wednesday to keep Andrew Brunson, an American Pastor in jail, dashing hopes that he could be released during his trial on terrorism and spying charges. This is a case that has deepened a rift with NATO ally Washington. Brunson, a Christian Pastor from North Carolina who has lived in Turkey for more than two decades, was indicted on charges of helping the group that Ankara blames for the failed 2016 coup against President Tayyip Erdogan, as well as supporting outlawed PKK Kurdish militants. U.S. envoy says it is disappointed by the Pastor’s continued detention in Turkey Brunson, who denied the charges, faces up to 35 years in jail if found guilty. “It is really hard to stay in jail and be separated from my wife and children,’’ Brunson, wearing a black suit and a white shirt, told the Court in Turkish. “There is no concrete evidence against me. The disciples of Jesus suffered in his name, now it is my turn. I am an innocent man on all these charges. I reject them. I know why I am here. I am here to suffer in Jesus’s name.’’ President Donald Trump has called for his release and the U.S. Senate passed a bill in June including a measure that prohibits Turkey from buying F-35 Joint Strike Fighter jets because of Brunson’s imprisonment and Turkey’s purchase of Russia’s S-400 air defence system. The U.S. envoy to Turkey said he was “disappointed’’ by the ruling by the Court in the Aegean province of Izmir where Brunson had been living. “Our government is deeply concerned about his status and the status of other American citizens and Turkish local employees of the U.S. diplomatic mission who have been detained under state of emergency rules,’’ Charge d’affaires Philip Kosnett told reporters outside the courtroom. “We have great respect for both Turkey’s traditional role as a haven for people of faiths and Turkey’s legal traditions. We believe this case is out of step with these traditions,’’ he said. Brunson was Pastor of the Izmir Resurrection Church, serving a small Protestant congregation in Turkey’s third-largest city, south of the Aegean town of Aliaga where he is now on trial. His lawyer Ismail Cem Halavurt had raised hopes that he could be released as the prosecution witnesses finish testifying. But Halavurt said on Wednesday that the prosecution has added the testimonies of two new anonymous witnesses to the case and that the court will hold its next hearing on October 12, to hear them and view new evidence. Turkey’s lira weakened against the dollar immediately after the ruling, reflecting investor worries about tensions with the United States. It was nearly half a per cent weaker on the day, at 4.8215 at 1234 GMT. Brunson’s trial is one of several legal cases that have raised tensions between Washington and Ankara. A U.S. judge sentenced a Turkish bank executive in May to 32 months in prison for helping Iran evade U.S. sanctions, while two locally employed U.S. consulate staff in Turkey has been detained. The NATO allies are also at odds over U.S. policy in Syria, where Washington’s ally in the fight against Islamic State is a Kurdish militia Turkey says is an extension of the PKK, which has waged a three-decade insurgency in southeast Turkey. The Turkish government says Brunson’s case will be decided by the courts. But Erdogan has previously linked his fate to that of Fethullah Gulen, the U.S.-based Muslim cleric Turkey blames for the coup attempt and whose extradition Ankara seeks. Gulen has denied having any link to the failed coup, in which at least 250 people were killed. NAN