Workers of College of Education, Ikere-Ekiti have declared their support for the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, at next Saturday’s Ekiti State governorship election.’ The college workers said they are undergoing untold hardship under the Governor Ayo Fayose-led administration over the non-payment of seven months’ salaries and reduction of subvention. They expressed regrets that they attend to students  on empty stomach while the institution had not received grants for capital projects for over three years of the Fayose regime. The college staff revealed their suffering when their union leaders met with Fayemi and presented a list of demands to the APC candidate at a meeting held with union leaders on Friday. Fayemi met with the leadership of the local branches of College of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU) and Senior Staff of College of Education (SSOCOED). They praised Fayemi for giving them good welfare during his tenure as governor, including  increasing their salaries twice, repealing the law that abrogated the and payment of 22 month arrears of N900 million owed by the previous administration. The workers also demanded the elevation of the college to a university because of the dwindling number of students seeking admission. COEASU branch chairman, Comrade Dayo Olokesusi, advised Fayemi to make immediate payment of seven month outstanding salary arrears a priority saying the last salary collected was for that of November 2017. He said: “The last salary we received was that of November 2017. We embarked on several strikes, no result. “We attend to students in hunger when somebody says continuity of hunger and lack. That is why we are pleading that it should be one of the first priorities. “We have made up our mind to work for you, to collaborate with you because of the way the state is being run. We are going to give you maximum support.” Responding, Fayemi promised to work out a moratorium of six months to offset all salary arrears owed workers while he would increase the subvention if elected. The APC candidate also debunked the opposition allegation that he was coming back to government to take vengeance against workers. Fayemi said: “Revenge for what? How many people did I sack when I was governor? The people spreading this rumour are doing worse than sacking workers. “I recruited more teachers and workers, I did not only pay salaries regularly but I also increased salaries of civil servants, teachers and local government workers three times and increased college salary twice. “I am in politics to better the lives of people, I am not in politics to punish people. We are educated, we should not dignify such rumours. “During my government, Ekiti had 98 per cent enrolment figure of school children but today, Ekiti has the lowest enrolment in the Southwest. “Pupils are not able to pay the tax imposed on them by current government, kindergarten and nursery pupils dropping out of school ”It is the pain I see in the eyes of our people anytime I drive around that motivated me to seek this office again. The current government has caused more pain for our people.”