Dark urine is deeper in color than urine that is usually straw to yellow in color. Darker urine can be different colors, but is usually brown, deep yellow, or maroon. Urine is produced in the kidneys. When you take in fluid or food, it passes from your digestive system, into your circulatory system, and into your kidneys where it is filtered. The kidneys then get rid of waste products and extra fluid through the urine. The ureters are tubes that connect the kidneys to the bladder. The bladder empties the urine via the urethra, the tube you urinate through. Ideally, your urine would be a pale yellow color. This would indicate you’re hydrated. Urine naturally has some yellow pigments called urobilin or urochrome. The darker urine is, the more concentrated it tends to be. Dark urine is most commonly due to dehydration. However, it may be an indicator that excess, unusual, or potentially dangerous waste products are circulating in the body. For example, dark brown urine may indicate liver disease due to the presence of bile in the urine. Bloody, or reddened urine is an indication of other potential problems, including direct injury to the kidneys. If you have these symptoms, it’s important to see a doctor. Associated diagnoses Conditions associated with dark urine include: hepatitis; rhabdomyolysis; cirrhosis; glomerulonephritis; dehydration; trauma; biliary obstruction; gallstones; bladder stones; bladder cancer; jaundice; liver disease; kidney cancer; pancreatic cancer; malaria; thalassemia; porphyrias; side effects of blood-thinning medications; and bladder or kidney stones Excess or overly strenuous exercise can also contribute to dark urine. Intense exercise can cause muscle injury that causes your body to release waste products in excess. The results can be urine that is either pink or cola-colored. Sometimes it’s difficult to tell the difference between dark urine due to dehydration or due to other causes. Dark urine due to dehydration is usually amber or honey-colored. Dark urine due to other causes can be tinged with brown or red. Some people have urine that appears almost syrup-like. This is the case when a person has liver or kidney disease. If you’re dehydrated, you can have additional symptoms besides dark urine. Examples include: dizziness or lightheadedness; dry mouth; dry skin; headache; thirst; and constipation If you drink additional water and your urine becomes lighter, you can tell dehydration was the cause of your dark urine.  