A group in Cross River State is supporting Mr. Godswill Edward for the Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency seat in the House of Representatives in next year’s general elections. Edward, a native of Abi in Cross River State, is the son-in-law of former President Goodluck Jonathan. In a statement signed by its Coordinator, Mr Okoi Ibiang, and Secretary, Mr Emmanuel Etowa, the group, which is known as the Power Shift Abi/Yakurr 2019, said Edward has demonstrated a track record of capacity and has proven that he has what it takes to bring development to the people of the constituency. The statement stated that it was time for youth to take over governance. It reads: “All was agog in the country recently with the arrival of the French President Emmanuel Macron. While all spirits were high, it was important to note that Mr. Macron is young man. Amidst the frenzy and excitement, it should be a cause for sober reflection. For a country that has an overwhelmingly young population, this should serve to highlight the enormous potentials we have in this country. “The truth of the matter is that with the youths constituting the majority of the population, there is no gain saying that the future of the country lies solely on the shoulders of young people. In Cross River State, and particularly in the Abi/Yakurr Federal Constituency, this reality is more pertinent. “Here, we should change from the old order of running things. The emphasis should be on the youths. There should be a change and we implore the former governor and a political leader, Senator Liyel Imoke, who is from the area, to look at the youths and see how he can build a new breed of young people for governance. “The former governor should build a bridge between Yakurr and Abi, by building the capacity of more youths in the area, as he has been doing. We urge him to look inwards and think of a young man in the person of Godswill Edward. “This would not be just because the youths. In this particular case, Godswill should be patronized. This is because beyond all this, Godswill has demonstrated a track record of capacity. The young man has proven that he has what it takes to bring development to the people of Abi/Yakurr. He is a humanitarian, a motivational speaker, a youth developer and a successful entrepreneur among other things. “The world is changing fast and we cannot remain in the past. The young people have to step up and take the challenge of taking the society into the future. This does not mean that we jettison the old and experienced in our politics, because their words of wisdom still remain invaluable. The youths form the greater part of the voting population and the time for action is now.” 