The wife of Minister of Power, Works and Housing Mrs. Abimbola Fashola, has called for more active participation of youths in politics by vying for positions and voting for credible candidates during elections. Speaking at a One-Day Seminar organised by the Leadership Empowerment and Resource Network (LEARN) in collaboration with Youth African Leaders Initiative (YALI) in Surulere, Lagos, Mrs. Abimbola Fashola pointed out that for youths to be actively involved in politics, they must walk the talk. Her words, “when vying for position and you actually want the title, you must walk the talk. You must be known in your community at the grassroots by participating actively in politics and your attitude, character and the values you stand for will speak out for you”, she said. Speaking further, Mrs. Fashola also charged participants to hold their leaders accountable The conference, with theme: “Not Too Young to Run, What Next’’, was targeted at youths aspiring to go into politics. Also speaking at the event, a former Vice Chairman of Surulere Local Government, Mr Tokunbo Oguntola, noted that the financial resources required for contesting elections was a major hindrance for youths. According to him, this promotes “God Fatherism’’ as most youths cannot afford the kind of money that is involved. The former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs and Culture, Oyinlomo Danmole, who spoke on Dynamics of Running for Political Office in Nigeria, urged Federal Government to make public offices less attractive to attract only people who have passion to effect change. On his part, an official of INEC, Oluwole Uzzi who spoke on the ‘Role of INEC in ensuring a free, fair and credible and transparent secured election and voters education’ said the commission had intensified its advocacy by storming youth centers in the country, as well as university campuses to galvanize youths’ interest in electoral process. Also, Mr Owei Lakemfa, Secretary General, Organisation of African Trade Union Unity (OATUU), said it was ideas that could bring development and not
the age of leaders.