Wife of the Lagos State Governor, Mrs Bolanle Ambode has urged women to against corruption. She spoke at Protea Hotel in Ikeja, Lagos, during a day seminar and award presentation, organised by Fight Against Corruption Organization (FACO), with the theme; “The role of women in the fight against corruption”. Mrs Ambode, was represented by Titilola Ayinla, said the fight against corruption should start from the home by discouraging any act, behaviour and attitude that aid and abet corrupt tendencies. According to her; “If we succeed individually in our various homes, there will be no room for corruption and corrupt practices in the larger society. “If we do not kill corruption, it will eventually kill us. The short and long term effects of corruption are too severe for any country and its citizens; hence the need to take steps to redress the situation before it’s too late.” She added that the fight against corruption must be seen as a priority in which everyone is a stakeholder and actively involved, if we truly desire to address the issue of pervasive poverty and make the economy work for everyone. FACO Executive Chairman Dr Francis Shopekan said the nation cannot develop without the contribution of women, whom he described as home builders and future leaders. “Women build the home and the family, if we exempt them in the fight against corruption, we will go nowhere. Some women have a stronger heart than men. Giving the women platform and support will go a longer way to encourage them to rise to the full task and capacity in this nation. “To fight corruption is a collective responsibility and government cannot do it alone. We all need to do the right things and leave the right legacy behind for the next generation,” he said. The Keynote Speaker, Mrs Funmi Falana, said no country is free from corruption. She said the prosecution process in the country is faulty; adding that it is one of the reasons corruptions is still the way it is in Nigeria. She said women have always been in the fore front of fighting corruption, noting that women are the custodian of virtues in the society. “We are the ones that brought up the children right from cradle to adulthood and whatever these children learnt is what they become in the future. Women should teach the virtue and let children know that corruption is something they should have nothing to do with. We must take away the love of money but imbibe in them hard work,” she said. Former Lagos State University (LASU) Deputy Vice