The Nigerian Army on Friday announced a major shake- up in the Force with the redeployment of Command and Staff Officers as well as General Officers Commanding (GOCs). The Theater Command of Operation Lafiya Dole and Force Commander Multinational Joint Task Force were also affected by the development. According to a statement signed by the Director of Army Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Texas Chukwu, the posting was necessitated by the need “to injecting new hands to further actualize the vision of the Chief of Army Staff, Lt. Gen. Tukur Buratai, for the Force.” The statement reads: “The Nigerian Army has announced a major redeployment of senior officers in Command, Staff and other appointments. “The posting affected Principal Staff Officers both at the Defence and Army Headquarters as well as General Officers Commanding (GOCs). The Theatre Commander Operation Lafiya Dole and Force Commander Multinational Joint Task Force are also affected by the posting. “The posting which also re-organized Operation Lafiya Dole was aimed at injecting new hands to further actualize the vision of the Chief of Army Staff COAS), Lt. Gen. Tukur Yusufu Buratai. “Those affected in the redeployment include Maj Gen. A.M. Dikko who will take over as Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Brig Gen. A.O. Abdullahi as Acting Commander, Sector 2, Operation Lafiya Dole and Brig Gen. U.U. Bassey as Acting Commander, Sector 3, Operation Lafiya Dole. “Others are, Maj. Gen. C.O. Ude posted as Force Commander of Multinational Joint Task Force Ndjamena, Maj. Gen. J. Sarham as General Officer Commanding, 6 Division, Maj. Gen. E.B. Kabuk General Officer Commanding, 82 Division, Maj. Gen. M.S. Yusuf General Officer Commanding, 81 Division and Maj. Gen. B.A. Akinroluyo as General Officer Commanding, 3 Division. “Among the Principal Staff Officers affected are Maj. Gen. Leo Irabor posted as Chief of Defence Training and Operations in the Defence Headquarters while Maj. Gen. L.O Adeosun takes over as Chief of Training and Operations at the Army Headquarters. “Others are Maj. Gen. H.O. Otiki, as Commander, Infantry Corps and Maj. Gen. C.U. Agulanna as Chief of Accounts and Budget, Nigerian Army. Maj. Gen. J.E. Jakko is posted to Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Finance and Budget, Maj. Gen. A.B. Abubakar, Maj. Gen. A. Mohammed and Maj. Gen. L.K.J. Ogunewe, among others will be proceeding to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre on Course. All postings and appointments take effect from August 1, 2018.”  