The governorship aspirant on the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Oyo State, Chief Adebayo Adelabu, has said his interest in succeeding Governor Abiola Ajimobi was borne out of his desire to continue with the programmes of the administration. Speaking in Ibadan, the state capital, he said the state is so richly blessed such that if its natural resources are optimised, there will be no need for it to wait on Abuja every month for federal allocation. He said with vast arable land and weather congenial for livestock and other types of farming, the state internally generated revenue (IGR) would be grown through improved collection process. Adelabu who scored the Ajimobi administration high, said the only way to sustain the tempo of development in the state was through a successor that believes in continuing the people-oriented programmes of the governor. He said: “Well, it is the passion for me to continue with the current transformation the government has embarked upon; to take it up from there and to take it further. I am very pleased and happy with the performance of the government so far, and our fear is, can this continue? And that question is best answered by who is going to take the baton from him when he leaves. So, it is to continue from where the current government stops and even take it a little higher.  Government, as it is today has built the foundation that we need for subsequent leaders of the state to build upon.” He expressed satisfaction with the performance of the government, particularly in the education sector, promising to continue with the legacies of the governor. He added: “I am very pleased with the education sector of the state, because I am also involved. I am the chairman of the governing board of Lagelu Grammar School where the incumbent governor finished from in 1968. I also finished from that school. The man believes so much in my capability, in what I can do, before he made me the chairman of the governing council of Lagelu Grammar School. And on that, I will not say much. I will advise that you go to that school and see the transformation that has taken place in one year of my appointment as chairman of the governing council. We have transformed the entire school from physical infrastructure to teaching equipment, to even personnel. You can go and check yourself. “When you talk about all these rots, not just in education, in almost all the critical sectors, especially social infrastructure, they did not have allies. This is as a result of several years of neglect, several years of abandonment. And we have close to about 2000 primary schools in Oyo State. We have about 1000 secondary schools in Oyo State. We also have about the highest number of tertiary institutions in Oyo State. And if a government decides to turn things around, we should also know that every school cannot be touched at the same time. “I believe it is a gradual process. The only thing we need to do is to speed up the pace at which we will cover these schools. As you identified a school with dilapidated building, I can also tell you five, six schools that have experienced transformation in their physical infrastructure. It will get there, I am telling you. And like I keep telling people, if a government has four years to spend, and it had limited resources, it cannot take on all the schools at the same time. If it’s 200 primary schools every year, 100 secondary schools every year, you focus on this. In four years, you would have touched 800 primary schools and 400 hundred secondary schools. That will be monumental. Sincerely, that is how it can be planned for. You need to have specific percentage of your budget dedicated to such important sectors of the economy. Education is number one.” Adelabu said the state is about the most blessed in this country because it is the largest state in land mass down south of Nigeria with over 28000 sq km, which is equivalent to the size the entire five eastern states, Abia, Anambra, Enugu, Ebonyi and Imo, and this is not just ordinary land, this is fertile land. If you throw anything out there, the following week, it grows, with or without fertilizer. He said the climate, the weather up north in Oyo State, which is good for livestock and is also the capital for poultry industry in Nigeria. Adelabu said: “So, on agriculture alone, I believe we can generate so much; this state alone can produce the entire food for the country giving the land that we have farming. If we are saying Lagos State alone, with that kind of population consumes about 6000 cows on a daily basis, what stops Oyo State from supplying 1000 cows to Lagos State? “Do you know how much we are going to make from this? If it is N100,000 per cow, we will make 100 million per day. In thirty days, we are looking at N3 billion. In 12 months, we are looking at N36 billion accruable to the government. How much are we getting from Abuja in terms of federal allocation? That is just one of it. Number two, we have hundreds of solid mineral deposits here in Oyo State in commercial quantities. How much of this have we mined?” 