Afro-jazz guitarist/vocalist Femi Leye, in this interview with Adefemi Bello, speaks on challenging moments on his career and also tasks Nigeria artistes on socio-consciousness among other issues. What are the good and bad moments you have experienced? I thank God where music has taken me today. I have performed within this country and out this country. Major challenges are acceptance of my music. You know, the type of my music that I do is very humbling. Of course, I have bad days. For instance, when you’re not being appreciated enough, not being called for gigs, concerts, because you’re not the pop culture thing they need. Those are hard times in (my) area of music career so far but faith has moved me this far. What are the things that inspired your EP Album ‘Ekaabo’? You know, the album was dropped in 2015 and it was a correlation of the kind of sounds I grew up with. It was a transition from African music to contemporary sounds and the two merged together; Tell the stories, things that had happened to me. Especially my belief system and all that memories gave birth to the ‘Ekaabo’ album. That was the inspiration. What was your experience performing at the ‘MINT’? It was actually my first time performing live at the ‘MINT’ at Lekki, Lagos Nigeria, but not the first time performing at such places. I have performed at different restaurants within Lagos, Abuja and outside the country. Also, I have done intimate shows like ‘Ekaabo’ concerts. It was not my first time, but was a great time performing to a listening audience; they are audience that have ready mind to receive the music and enjoy the music. Apart from your new single, ‘Asiko’, what sounds are you working on currently? Definitely, I’m working on new sounds. ‘Asiko’ happens to be one of the new tracks. As well, I am working on my new album which will be coming out soon. It’s going to reflect my musicality. What’s your experience working with Chidinma on the cover of Reminisce song? It was an amazing experience working with Chidinma. Initially, I worked with Reminisce on the original ‘Ponmile’ song, so his team got me to produce some of the remixes. Also did the one with Chidinma and Aramide. I have worked with so many artistes and I can say the vibe of each artist is different from the other. What is your take on the music video ‘This is Nigeria’ by Falz the Bahd guy? I think the video was very inspired. Falz happens to be an amazing guy that I so much respect and an amazing guy artistically. Bringing all that into one video talking about all that’s happening in Nigeria; that’s a great thing to do and I hope other artistes will start talking about social issues in our society and we build better nation by doing that. What advice will give Nigeria toward 2019 Election? What I will say is that 2019 election is coming. Everyone should get their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCS) to vote the right person that will effect change. My last words is that people should also pay attention to Afro jazz because there are amazing guys doing great works like me, Adekunle Gold, Simi, Johnny Drille and others.