FOLLOWING his recent post that social media was not created for beggars, but hard working individuals, dreadlocked co-host of the entertainment show Jara, Uti Nwachukwu, has been getting mixed reactions from followers and colleagues. Uti said on Tuesday that people have turned the social media as a platform for begging. He made it known that it should not become an issue when needs pleaded for are not met by celebrities, whose social handles have become targets. While some were of the opinion that begging on social media is demeaning, they observed that other celebrities enjoy flaunting how they have helped people on social media, making it known to the public. According to some observers, Uti’s fate is the reason some of them keep their social handles private, to avoid being misunderstood. Supporting this, Nollywood actress Ufuoma Mcdermott revealed that she was also once a victim of internet scam. “@prospaochimana my brother, it is so unfair,” she wrote. “I have been scammed sef by someone who said she wanted to start egg business. When I found out, I just gave up” Famase3rd whose handle is private, wrote: “I totally understand, this is part of the reasons my IG is private and I tried as much as possible to make my FB private too… I can relate to what celebrities are going through. I remember my mum teaching me never to beg in my life but rather work for everything I want and desire. But I don’t understand how everything has turned out for us these days. I was angry at some point that I wanted to put this on social media but I just stopped myself. What makes them think you have money you can spare baffles me. May God help us. If you have a phone and data, my dear you’re not hungry. I personally don’t like to follow comments or pages where I see so much begging, it annoys me but I think this act is encouraged by the so called “celebs” who instead of sending a DM of help codedly or’ send me your account number they post it openly just to gain more followers hence encouraging more and even more scamming beggars. Na only @tokemakinwa dey do that thing wey I still dey follow. Others na to unfollow immediately because with time their pages becomes so boring/annoying @siruti biko talk to your colleagues it’s either they enjoy/encourage or gain something from their instabeggers.” iam_chinny1, is also of the same opinion. “@siruti why would you help someone and share on SM? It will definitely attract others whether in need or not to you. That’s the problem of some celebs. I know of some celebs that have never posted one thing they’ve done for someone before but that doesn’t mean they don’t help people secretly. When this happens Instagram will be in fact totally void of these begging. Sharing the experience of begging in Dubai and bringing a God angle to the discussion, Doctoradaeze wrote: “Begging has become a profession.  Even in Dubai, begging is the new entrepreneurial part time job and beggars earn higher than bankers here…it’s a crime though,  but most don’t really care.  It’s an embarrassing thing to do, and very shameful too, though God loves a cheerful giver but ‘am not sure he loves people who beg. Everyone should find something to do even if it means cleaning someone’s apartment and getting paid for doing so, it can become a cleaning company in no time… “Whatever we submit to God can be increased and can turn out to become an empire, we just need to begin from what we have. Most people say I have nothing, that’s a lie, you have something because God’s DNA cannot be empty…You were created with God’s image and he turned this whole earth with the power of positivity…by just saying the word. Wake up and command a word to your destiny, tell your destiny to arise and become a giver and not a beggar. “As a student, you can start by going from door to door even in your neighbourhood. Search for cleaning jobs to do, get money and get a license for it, come on Instagram and tag your cleaning company even without a store or an office, create an online store and rather than beg celebrities for alms, beg them to promote you, advertise your cleaning company online and get creative. Ask for the master multiplayer Jesus to establish your business for you and expand it, believe in it and keep pushing. Everyone will definitely get there someday.  Just believe in your potentials.”