The police in Anambra State have arrested a 72-year-old man, Obi Benjamin, from Umuoma village, in Ihiala Local Government, for allegedly manufacturing and repairing guns for criminals. Also nabbed was Okwudili John, from Delta State, for allegedly impersonating Governor Willie Obiano to dupe people. Guns were recovered from the suspected gun manufacturer. The suspect told The Nation yesterday he only repaired guns for hunters, because he belonged to their association. Other suspects paraded at the police headquarters in Amawbia, near Awka, by the Police Commissioner, Garba Umar, include suspected cultists. Parading the over 20 suspects, Umar said the success was achieved following the command’s efforts to curb crimes. He said the command made the arrests following its visibility policing, criminal mapping, intelligence-led policing, constant raid of black spots and criminals‘ hideouts in accordance with directives of the Inspector-General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris. Umar said: “Following intelligence report, operatives attached to the Special Anti-robbery Squad (FSARS) arrested Ojiakor Chike, 25, of Umuezeawara in Ihiala Local Government of Anambra State. The suspect is a notorious cultist and a robbery gang member operating on Uli/Ihiala axis. “Discreet investigation led to the arrest of his accomplices, namely Izuchukwu Ikueze, 25, Nwabueze Ikwueze, 27, Chukwudi Obi, 30, Tochukwu Obi and Cheta Obi all members of Aiye and Vickings confraternities. “Also arrested is Obi Benjamin, 72, of Umuoma Uli, a local arms manufacturer and in whose possession the following arms were recovered: One berretta pump action gun with number 302 CAL 12, 84 assorted single/double barrel guns, 10 live cartridges and other working tools used in servicing guns. “The Special Anti-Robbery Squad arrested members of a six-man robbery syndicate. “They are Uzochukwu Chukeuewuzue 20, Chukwujekwu Ogbuchi, 20,  Nnalue Eke, 25 and Kosiso Ozor, 18. He said the suspects conspired and robbed Blessing Nwannli at Umumli Ihitte, Azia in Ihiala Local Government of Anambra State. Others paraded include a suspected robbery syndicate, Ujunwa Uchendu, 20, Uchenna Ezema, 23, Ugochukwu Afanugo, 23 and Victor Okonkwo, 23. “The suspects conspired and attacked Ebuka Osita of Obinabo village, Ifitedunu and robbed him of his phones and other valuables. “Exhibits recovered from the suspects include three locally- made double barrel pistols, five live cartridges, among others. “Following rising cases of Internet fraudsters, operatives attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad tracked and arrested Okwuduli John, 30, from Delta State.”  “The suspect is an Internet fraudster, popularly called ‘Yahoo Boy”, who obtained money under false pretence from innocent people. “He is also involved in using fake Facebook account and impersonating prominent persons, including Governor Obiano, to defraud his victims.” 