With eagerness, most people waited for the verdict of elder statesmen and other stakeholders in Bayelsa West Senatorial District on the performance of the state Governor, Mr. Seriake Dickson in their area. The elders and leaders of the various restoration caucuses from the district embarked on a tour of projects executed by Dickson in the area. They were led by an elder statesman, Chief Thompson Okorotie who is the Caucus Chairman, Ekeremor Local Government Area. Okorotie also doubles as the Chairman, Forum of Restoration Caucus Chairmen in the state. Bayelsa West Senatorial District comprises two important local government areas of Sagbama and Ekeremor. Dickson hails from Toru-Orua in Sagbama. The stakeholders were in a mission to track major ongoing and completed developmental projects in their district. It was an inquisition to ascertain the level of performance of the governor. Other leaders from the district, who participated in the tour were the Caucus Chairman of Sagbama, Chief Francis Duokpola, commissioners in Dickson’s cabinet from the district, special advisers and other political appointees. Among all the projects executed in the area by Dickson, the leaders were more interested at the ongoing construction of the Sagbama-Ekeremor-Agge Road. To them, it is a signature project that has positively redefined the economic and social fortunes of the area. They were impressed that the governor was vigorously pursuing the completion of the road in his Western Senatorial District. The governor first constructed the road to Toru-Orua, his hometown in Sagbama. All kinds of vehicles can now drive to Toru-Orua, a community that was hitherto only accessible through water. Dickson took the 100km road to Aleibiri, a community in Ekeremor. People now drive their vehicles to Aleibiri. The governor vowed to link the road to Ekeremor Town in December. Therefore, the stakeholders were happy to see that the contractor was working relentlessly to realise the promise of the governor. Speaking at the project site, Okorotie, the tour leader, described Dickson as a monumental success in the history of Bayelsa development. He said though it was not possible to mention all the governor’s project in the district, the senatorial road was outstanding. He said the people of the district would not forget the historic construction of the road. He said: “This road got to Alaebiri late last year and as we can see so much work has been done on it. We have no doubt that the road will get to Ekeremor by December as promised by the state government”. Okorotie observed that people were already enjoying the socio-economic benefits of the road. He named some of the benefits as convenience and huge reduction of transportation cost; increase in economic and commercial activities; gradual transformation of the people’s lifestyle and promotion of unity among the communities linked by the road. He said: “We find in Dickson a leader of uncommon courage, who has taken the bull by the horn in several sections in the development of the state. The three senatorial roads are supposed to be Federal Government trunk A roads that have been neglected over the decades. “The restoration administration has taken a decision to construct these roads to access the hitherto neglected communities. With uncommon courage, he has also embarked on the airport project that is nearing completion. “Our governor has ably demonstrated the government’s determination to make a difference in the educational sector by establishing model secondary schools with full boarding facilities, free feeding, free uniforms and free books to the reliefs of parents of these children. When the history of the senatorial district will be written, the name Henry Seriake Dickson and restoration government will be written in gold”. In his remarks, Duokpola, the Caucus Chairman of Sagbama said the governor did what was hitherto thought to be impossible. He said the action of Dickson made it possible for an Ijaw man to travel to his community without the rigours of water transport. “Governor Dickson actually has the interest of the ijaw people at heart, because we have not seen such development, that today we can drive all the way from Yenagoa without passing through Delta State to come to Aleibiri. “50 years ago the Federal government proposed this road but they neglected it, now look at this impossible terrain, it takes a lot of money. Dickson has vowed that he is going to do it. He is a man of his words we know that he will do it even during this difficult time when the revenue is slim, he is still doing it. All that we can do is to cooperate with him and support him. “Let Nigeria know today that it is possible to develop the ijaw nation, with determination. We want greater dividends of the oil that they’re taking. I am not sure that we have enough share in the 2018 budget but if it takes all the budget in our state to be able to do roads like this to Southern-Ijaw, Brass and Ekeremor, we the ijaw people governed by an ijaw man will do it”, he said. Also, the Traditional Ruler of Ebedebiri and former Chairman, the Niger Delta Basin Development Authority (NDBDA), Chief Anderson Esimokumo, said he was grateful to Dickson for making it possible for people to travel to Ekeremor by land. He said it was a privilege to travel to Alaeibiri on land and asked other governors to imitate Dickson’s spirits. Also the Ekeremor Caretaker Committee Chairman, Tolu Amatu, described the road project as wonderful. “We think is one of the biggest projects undertaken by Dickson and as a person and a people we are grateful”, he said. He said the youths knew the importance of the project.