Yemi Lawal recently assumed the position of Osun State Youth Leader for the Social Democratic Party (SDP) after his principal, Otunba Iyiola Omisore, and others left the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) earlier in the year. He speaks on the future of SDP and the plan of the youths to be more actively involved in the politics of the state ahead 2019, reports Adetutu Audu WITH the passage of the Not Too Young to run Bill into law, many Nigerian youths have decided to join the political train ahead of 2019 General Elections. For Yemi Lawal, the Social Democratic Party, Youth Leader in Osun State, youth inclusiveness in politics and transition is key. According to him, his mandate and objectives are very clear; the younger generation has been neglected and ignored in the times past and it is time to take the bull by the horn. “We can’t continue to do things the same way and expect a different result. So, the mandate is youth inclusiveness in politics and transition into governance,” he said. Commenting on the #nottooyoungtorun bill passed into law amidst jubilation in most quarters. He said that the bill should be embraced by the youths so as to show the older generation that the youths are actually useful by getting involved more in politics and making positive impacts in the entire society. So, what does their movement from the People’s Democratic Party to SDP portend for Chief Iyiola Omisore and many PDP faithful that also defected?  He said that Otunba Iyiola Omisore and a host of others decamped to the SDP basically out of principle. “Like I said earlier, you don’t expect a different result doing things the same way. As we can all see in 2015, Nigerians voted for change which has brought us where we are today in Osun State and Nigeria as a whole, and as a patriotic Nigerian, there is need to be pragmatic and find a  credible alternative that can begin to do things differently  because we cannot continue like this,” he noted. Lawal also described Omisore’s governorship ambition as a deviation from the past, adding; “We shall begin to do things differently and feel the positive impact of democracy. Democracy is about the people and nothing but the people; anything you are doing without a positive impact on the populace can never be regarded as dividends of democracy but things done for self-aggrandizement”. Asked if youths in Osun State have been fairly included in governance and if they have enjoyed the dividends of democracy, he said “youths have not been adequately encouraged to participate in politics not to talk of governance. We are here to change the rhetoric and do things right. Youths are usually the engine room of any nation and the involvement of youths in governance cannot be overemphasised’. On the plans of SDP in the coming elections, Lawal said SDP have shown intention to lead and that is what makes the difference. “Leadership is totally different from ruler ship and what we are experiencing today in Osun State is ruler ship and like I have been saying, we need a totally different approach to governance, which is what SDP is coming to do. “Our government is going to have more of people with technical capability to manage various sectors and people with youthful energy that can withstand pressure and make things happen.  The youths in Osun are going to have the opportunity to have a government that would be close to them, understand their needs and the opportunity of taking part in decision making as it affects the teeming populace,” he said. The present administration, he also alleged, “failed in terms of youth development and engagement. For instance, it seems impossible for the commissioner for youths, whose age is not youthful, to bond with the teeming youths. The state Youth Leader of the APC is a grandfather; how does this combine to ensure youth development when the contacts are not even youths. It is important to note that we must begin to put the right people in the right position if we expect to have a good and positive impact,” he said.