A coalition of All Peoples Congress (APC) support group has said that a few individuals were capitalizing on some avoidable situations in the country to sow seeds of discord among the people and blackmail the President to lose the 2019 general elections. Addressing a news conference in Abuja at the weekend, Chairman of the group, Ambassador Lawal Mohammad Manir said some religious leaders and groups were spreading fake information about the President and the APC with the sole purpose of provoking a system crisis within the polity that would lead to the factionalisation and eventual defeat of the party like they did to the defunct CPC. The coalition expressed surprise that Buba Galadima could be talking about internal party democracy which he failed to exhibit when he held sway as the National Secretary of the Congress for Progressives Change, leading to the woeful performance of the party. Manir said “it has become pertinent for us to state that we are now witnessing misguided efforts by some religious groups, leaders and persons of vested interest taking advantage of avoidable situation in our nation to sow  discord between people. “These groups and individuals using different communication platforms continue to spread fake information about Mr. President and our party. The sole purpose of these detractors is to provoke a systematic crisis within the polity and our party that would lead to factionalisation and its eventual defeat like they did the previous CPC. “Our members are concerned that the coming campaign season is coming up with all manners of malicious campaign of calumny especially against Mr President and shamelessly and irresponsibly even against the new national leadership of the party. “The country’s kleptomaniacs, the supposed owners of the country and manipulators (anti common man), the shameless hypocrites and political misfits are gradually coming to unfold themselves as one big re-energized axis of evil aiming as usual to cause more damage than good to our party and by extension the collective interest of majority of the Nigerian people.” Ambassador Munir said “During his leadership as practically self-imposed National secretary of the CPC, within the confines, of most northern States, it was very easy for him to play small-ball politics. “That time, between the partisan dead-lock and the entire news circle, his contrive talking points was basically on the sensational over the substantive; issues of corruption and poverty, hopelessness and lawlessness were problems to be managed, not crises to be solved. “They became fodder for newspapers and television shows, not issues to find genuine consensus and compromise. He single handedly forced everyone at some point in CPC to stop reaching for the possible and resigned to that which was most probable. “Some of our members coming from the previous CPC saw these as a perfectly conceived plan in the process of execution and wrote several letters of protest, which were not acted upon, because Buba was then, the National Chairman, National secretary, Organising secretary as well as the unofficial publicity secretary of the CPC. “Buba Galadima would rather force his candidates down the throat of members than allow internal democracy take its cause; as was the case in Bauchi, Bomo, Kano, Katsina, Kaduna and several other states. He almost succeeded in tarnishing the image of Buhari and of course he contributed 98 percent to the failure of CPC in the governorship election of all the northern States. “Buba Galadima was simply the manifestation of evil, anarchy and impunity in the Democratic process of the previous CPC one that succeeded in doing more evil and damage on an unimaginably larger scale than theAentire corrupt INEC officials put together. “He controlled the soul of CPC with an impunity that promotes only that which is suffocating to public good and decency. The result of which led to what happened in Bauchi, Borne, Gombe, Kano, Katsina, Kaduna, and several other CPC hopeful States. “Even after several appeals from genuine well-wishers, Buba refused to listen. The only unique thing to his administration was inability or deliberate refusal to arrange an order of priorities that promised solutions that were decent and just. Solutions to those problems urgent as they were would have been constructive and rational. “CPC would have been the party of an open, honest system that doesn’t peddle the agenda of whichever loyalist or special interest can write the biggest cheque. So the exit of such a boastful loudmouth, with no clout to winning an election even in his native home of Gashua is indeed a good riddance to pest infested rubbish.” The group appealed to members of Reformed APC to give the new national leadership of the party a chance to try and right the wrongs, saying “after all, disagreements were not unexpected, they have become a part of the universally accepted Democratic process as such.” “It is not only in our party but, anywhere two or more group of people with a diametrically opposed ideologies co-exist in a community. “However, it is not the disagreements that should worry us for now but, the measure with which to resolve them. In our considered opinion it is too early to pre-empt the capability or otherwise of the new leadership of the party to resolve issues.”