…accuse management of negligence  Students of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka, Anambra State, on Monday, took to the streets over the death of one of their colleagues. The deceased, Francis Chinedu Madubuobi, a 400 level student of the Department of Applied Microbiology and Brewing, reportedly collapsed at the weekend while playing basketball. The protesters, in their thousands, marched round major streets of the state capital, in their black attire, chanting solidarity songs. One of the students who preferred anonymity, accused the medical personnel at the university’s medical centre of negligence. The student, who claimed to be part of the team that rushed the deceased to the medical centre, said personnel at the centre asked them to pray for his survival. “The medical personnel at the university’s medical centre where the deceased was rushed to while he was still gasping for breath, did not do enough to save his life. “I was inside the ambulance holding Francis’ foot. It was damn cold; his eyes were already open. I was scared. I knew only a miracle could save him since he had no pulse. On getting to Amaku, the doctors saw that it was already too late,” he said. The Committee of Faculty Presidents of the university, had in a statement, described the incident as worrisome, saying it was the second time a student of the institution had died in similar circumstances at the university’s medical centre. “The events leading to his (Francis) death is one that is extremely worrisome to students of this institution as it could happen to any one of us or our close friend.” Meanwhile, the Director of Information of the university, Dr. Emmanuel Ojukwu, has refuted the report alleging negligence on the part of the institution, saying the deceased was brought in without a pulse to the medical centre. Ojukwu in a statement, said the deceased was immediately taken to Chukwuemeka Odumegwu Ojukwu Teaching Hospital, Amaku where he was confirmed dead. The statement read partly, “The Management of Nnamdi Azikiwe University, Awka has received with great shock the painful and sudden demise of one of our students, Francis Chinedu Mmadubuobi, a 400 level student of the Department of Applied Microbiology and Brewing. The deceased slumped while playing basketball with friends on Saturday July 21, 2018. “The deceased was quickly rushed to the University medical Centre but had no pulse upon examination. This means that he had died before being brought to the University Medical Centre. He was thereafter taken to Teaching Hospital Amaku for further attempt at salvaging an already bad situation. He was without pulse and confirmed dead. “The Management is deeply saddened at the unfortunate incident and appeals for calm among the students.”