A peace meeting convened by the Minister for State, Petroleum, Dr Ibe Kachikwu, as part of processes to bridge the division in the Delta state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), was Tuesday night frustrated by the failure of the Senator Ovie Omo-Agege/Chief Great Ogboru faction to honour invitation to feuding factions. The peace meeting, called by the Minister for selected leaders of the party, was schedule for 9pm at Kachikwu’s home in Abuja, according to our source, was to find a middle ground in the leadership crisis rocking the party in the state. It would be recalled that Dr Kachikwu was quoted in the media to have said, after he paid a courtesy call on the National Chairmen of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, that he is not vying for the governorship of Delta state, but that his preoccupation is to ensure that the party unites in the state, ahead of 2019 election. “I have said that many times, I don’t know why people think I am going to talk about this thing. I don’t want to be governor, I am not running for governorship, I want to make sure the party unifies and selects a candidate we can work with. That’s my position on that”, the minister had said. He added that the issue was not about taking party structure, but wining elections because “if you take the structure, people do not support you, and then you are going to lose. Our business is to deliver the President and deliver the governorship. We are going to do it in a way that it will be contentious and in all inclusive”. According to a source at the meeting, who spoke on anonymous conditions, “the Ogboru and Omo-Agege camp said they are not willing to enter into any form of reconciliation until the outcome of its consent judgment is implemented by the party national leadership.” The source added that following the minister’s discussions with Comrade Oshiomhole, he called the meeting to broker peace, “but Ogboru and Omo-Agege, in the usual manners of snubbing every other person in the party, shunned the meeting, leaving party leaders wondering what could be their motives”. The content of the text message for the meeting obtained by our correspondent stated: “Good morning all. Please kindly attend a select meeting of APC Delta tonight at 9pm at the home of the honorable Minister of State Dr Kachikwu. “I have been directed by party and Presidency to wade into our issues and commence a reconciliation meeting. Today’s meeting is to flesh out the basis for this reconciliation and you are invited strictly in your capacity as one of the leaders of the state APC.  Please be prompt”. A former Military Administrator, AVM Frank Ajobena (Rtd.), an APC leader in Delta state who attended the meeting confirmed the absence of leaders from the Ogboru and Omo-Agege group, adding that the meeting will be called again until the party is able to harmonize the warring factions. According to him; “what you heard is true, Ogboru and Omo-Agege didn’t show up, but we will meet again until the crisis is resolved.”