World Cup revelation Oghenekaro Etebo speaks about his experience at the Mundial, and surprise move to relegated Stoke City with Taiwo Alimi. Russia World Cup revelation Oghenekaro Peter Etebo has described his debut Mundial as a story of conquest and vanquish. “Russia 2018 was a mixed blessing for me and many of us (Nigerian players) will feel the same way,” 22-year-old Stoke of England new sign-on started. He continued: “We made our mark, even as we failed to progress to the knockout stage. We scored one of the best goals of the tournament through Musa Ahmed and played a vibrant attacking brand of football, even though we paraded the youngest squad at the tournament.” He noted that being grouped in the ‘group of death’ at the Mundial did not stop them from exhibiting their game. “We (Super Eagles) rose to the occasion in spite of the fact that we were the least ranked team in FIFA world ranking, yet we beat Iceland and held our own against world No 5, Argentina.” He added that it took a while for the team to come out the pains of World Cup ouster in the hands of Lionel Messi and gang. “We were determined to win that match or at worse get a draw. We were all downcast at the end of the match because we could have moved to the next stage. You should see us in the changing room. We could not say anything until the coach told us to be cheerful because we impressed him and our fans. Now we can look forward to the challenges ahead.” Looking forward, Etebo is of the opinion that the current crop of Super Eagles will go places. “The World Cup experience is an important one and we have all leant from it. It is one experience that you cannot gain anywhere else and it would help me to hold my own anywhere I find myself.” Etebo set a tournament record of the most dribbles completed in a game in 2018 FIFA World Cup group D encounter between Nigeria and Croatia, according to the stats compiled by Opta. Even though the Super Eagles lost the game 2-0 to Croatia, Etebo set a record as he completed nine dribbles from nine attempts in the encounter. The record, before it was broken by Belgium inspirational captain, Hazard, tallied with that of Brazilian star Neymar Jr and Isco of Spain. The PSG star player also completed nine dribbles against Serbia, same for Isco in their round of exit to Russia. The midfielder was also voted among the best XI players after the first round of games alongside the likes of Cristiano Ronaldo and Diego Costa. Speaking on the individual honours, the former Warri Wolves playmaker modestly replied that it was a win for the team and not him alone. “Given the opportunity to represent my country and to express myself, they (honours) are for the whole members of the team and not about myself alone. I am highly honoured to get the FIFA mention. We all played as a team and with our heart. It was a good World Cup for us, though we could have done better.” He speaks further on growing and other sundry issues. Excerpts: FAMILY SUPPORT I got the right support from my family. They didn’t stop me at anytime not to play football even when I was in my school days. Things began falling in the right path when I signed my first professional contract with Warri Wolves. Though, I have played for some grassroots teams in local competitions such as Oba Cup and the State FA Cup. Actually I was noticed by Warri Wolves while playing for Lord Honour FC and they asked me to sign for them. You would understand my joy because that is the biggest club in Warri and it is the dream of many youngsters to play for them. That move paid off for me as scouts for the national team noticed me especially after scoring a couple of goals and making my presence felt in the midfield. I got some awards too, like the Glo Wondergoal award for the best goal of the 2014-2015 NPFL season and other local awards for playing well in the team. This was closely followed up by the Golden Boot in Africa Cup of Nations (U-23), and Most Promising Talent of the Year award at the CAF Awards. Aside from the passion I have for the game, I also have the support of my family and of course God, who is my biggest motivator. A BELEIVER I am a believer and I must give credit for my growing achievements to the grace of God. All the moments through my football career have been special. I’m still hoping to get the best and even though I’m happy now, with my moments, I’m still counting on the bigger ones ahead. If I was told that I would make such great impact at the World Cup, I would doubt that person, but when Coach (Gernot) Rohr told me that I would play in the first game I told myself that I must put in my all. With the load of talents we have in the team, it is inspiring to even get a look in. I’ve always believed in myself. What you tell yourself will only lift you up or bring you down so I’ve always believed in myself and that is why wherever I am playing, you will always see my game. WORLD CUP EXPERIENCE The Argentina match was one of the toughest games of my career. The result didn’t go our way, however. I am truly honoured and blessed to have this experience. To represent my country at a World Cup competing with the best players in the world at my age was a dream come true. Before that game when we defeated Iceland it gave us the right mentality that we could go all the way. That we could beat Argentina, but things did not quite work that way. However, we are happy about the victory.  It is important that we give our fans something for keeping faith in us and supporting us. That win was for the whole of Nigeria! It is our way of saying thank you to all the supporters for keeping the faith, and continuing to believe in us. The World Cup is very important, not only for me as a player, but for all Nigerians. I have said before that we should not just go there to mess ourselves up. I am happy that we did not mess up and there are moments that our fans can look back to and smile. STOKE MOVE I feel great. I am finally here and I really appreciate the support and the welcome that everybody has given to me. Everybody needs a break after a tournament like the World Cup, but my mind has been here. I knew that I was coming to Stoke City and I was excited about it. I spoke to a lot of friends about the move and the tradition of this club appealed to me – everybody knows that this is a big club, even though we suffered relegation last season. It is important for us to do well this season, to make sure that everything goes well in the future. But I know how difficult a challenge this will be. I had a lot of options this summer from the Premier League, but I signed this deal before I went to the World Cup, and I am happy with that. I did that because of the relationship and the conversations I had. I was happy with what was said – if I wasn’t then I wouldn’t have come to Stoke City. I believe that we are going to make this a great season. I am going to give my best and hopefully that will be enough for the club.