WHATEVER goes around, they say, will certainly come around. That seems the case with the governor of Plateau State, Rt. Hon. Simon Lalong, after the confrontation sparked between him and his Benue State counterpart, Chief Samuel Ortom, over the comments he made on the attacks on some Benue communities by killer herdsmen early in the year. Some herdsmen had invaded some Benue communities on New Year’s Day, killing scores of people and injuring many others. But while the outrage over the unusual compliments lasted, Lalong told State House reporters at the Presidential Villa, Abuja that the killings would have been avoided if Ortom had heeded his advice not to implement the state’s Anti-Grazing law without providing alternative means for herdsmen in the state to graze their cattle. Lalong had also attributed to the peace that Plateau State was enjoying at the time to the fact that his government had brought everyone in his state together, including farmers and herdsmen, and had consulted widely on the need to embrace ranching. He also said he was convinced about the plan by the Federal Government to establish cattle colonies in states as a way of addressing the perennial crises between farmers and herdsmen, adding that he was ready to give his full support to the idea. The Plateau State governor was quoted as saying: “To be honest with you, I advised him. I told the governor of Benue State when he was doing the law. I said, ‘Look, why don’t you tread softly? Just be careful. Take other steps before you start implementation.’ “But you see, states are different. His own concepts are different, and for us on the Plateau, it is different. “I said I will not do the law before implementation. I have not developed the ranching areas so I cannot go and say I put a law. To stop who? If I stop the people, what is the alternative? “So, I said ‘Do consultations. Allow the people to understand and buy into the concepts.’” Asked the secret behind the relative peace in his crisis-prone state, Lalong had responded: “I have said it a number of times that it is a matter of accommodating interests; you take everybody as your own. In Plateau State, I did that. Because when I came, I inherited a protracted crisis in the state, and so my first priority was how to handle these crises and ensure that we have peace in Plateau State. Within three months, we were able to achieve peace. Most of the lingering crisis were between farmers and herdsmen on the Plateau. But today in most parts of the state, you will see beautiful relationships between herdsmen and farmers.” He added: “Let me also say that plateau was one of those (states) that embraced ranching. I had a lot of opposition initially when I said Plateau was keying into ranching. Some states said they don’t have land but I said whether I have land or not we have to provide land for ranching because that is where I see as solution to the conflicts. In Plateau, we have gone far; we have donated land voluntarily. Many people donated land for ranching. For a while, Lalong’s comments on the Benue tragedy became the basis for a face-off between him and Governor Ortom, who did not take kindly to the former’s comments on an issue of such tragic proportion. Ortom promptly took exception to Lalong’s seemingly insensitive comments, insisting that he never received any such advice from the Plateau State chief executive on the Anti-Grazing law, which had been in operation before the killing of more than 73 indigenes of the state. This coupled with the public outrage that followed his comments, prompted the Plateau State governor to tender an apology to Governor Ortom. Speaking with newsmen at a media briefing in Abuja, Lalong did not only apologise to Governor Ortom and the entire people of Benue, he also withdrew his offensive remark, saying that he was extremely sorry for the comments he said were not helpful at the time he should have consoled and sympathised with the government and people of Benue State over the gruesome murder of more than 73 innocent people by rampaging herdsmen. Lalong also extended “heartfelt sympathy and condolences” to the families who lost their loved ones on the New Year Day in Benue. “I extend my condolences to the government and people of Benue over the irreparable loss. I apologize over my comments on the matter,” he said in a rare show of humility and statesmanship. Fate, however, appears not to have discounted Lalong’s misdeed in spite of his apologies and has decided to dish to him in more than equal measure the ugly fate that once befell Ortom. Penultimate Sunday, the world woke up to the news that herdsmen had killed no fewer than 86 people in 11 communities in Barkin Ladi Local Government Area, Plateau State. More than 50 houses were also reported razed while more than 300 inhabitants of the affected communities were said to have received serious gunshot injuries. Receiving the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, who was in Jos on sympathy, Governor Lalong said although he inherited the crisis between herdsmen and farmers in the state, he had thought that his adoption of cattle ranching would stop the crisis. He said: “The summary is that I inherited this problem. When I was in government earlier, we had such problems and we tackled them. I thought we had proffered a practical solution which I was already selling to other states to copy, and with this solution we had peace in Plateau for over three years, and we were in the mood of celebrating the peace when this one came.” Happily though, the security outfit code named Operation Safe Haven in the state has announced the arrest of about 23 suspects involved in the killings, and Governor Lalong has insisted that the suspects would be tried in Plateau State, not taken to Abuja as had been the case in previous experiences. He has also called on the Federal Government to rejig the nation’s security architecture with a view to making it easier for states’ chief executives to take charge of the security of lives and property in their domains. While statesmanship is not a terrain completely new to Lalong, the former Speaker of the Plateau State House of Assembly and erstwhile chair of the nation’s conference of speakers must have found that being the governor and chief security officer of a state is a different kettle of fish.