All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Dr. Kayode Fayemi has traversed the 120 towns and villages in Ekiti State to sell his manifestos to voters. During the campaigns, he also pointed to the projects he executed during his first term in the far-flung communities, which have continued to rekindle nostalgia about his administration. In his view, the people will endorse him at the poll so that the second leg of his rescue mission can commence in October. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU revisits the achievements of the former governor in the Fountain of Knowledge. During his first term, he was on a rescue mission. To him, governance was not a tea party. On assumption of office in 2010, reality dawned on him that it will take a while to reposition Ekiti State for excellence. Dr Kayode Fayemi hit the ground running, following his swearing him. He was prepared for the task. He excelled on the job. Although he could not secure a second term in 2014, his works still speak for him. Four years after, the standard he set has not been met. “I did not owe salaries to workers and pensioners. There is no community today in Ekiti which did not feel the impact of our administration. Where we did not build road, we built schools. Where we did not built schools, we built hospitals. Where we did not build hospitals, we built the palaces of traditional rulers. We took care of the old people by given them stipends monthly,” he recalled at a rally in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. It is an understatement. Fayemi did not claim to have a monopoly of knowledge. He is an advocate of participatory governance. Thus, he carried out regular interactive sessions with indigenes at village squares. That became a veritable opportunity for the former governor to listen directly to people as they outlined their challenges. The projects later implemented were products of need analysis. “The 2012, 2013 and 2014 budgets were products of these interactions,” he said. To the activist-scholar, education was a priority. Many schools were renovated and teachers’ salaries were increased thrice. The administration implemented the N19, 300 minimum wage for workers. Also, 27.5 per cent teachers’ pecuniary allowance was approved. Civil servants who were not promoted in the previous three years were promoted. Pensions and gratuities were paid to pensioners promptly. Free education was restored. WAEC registration fees were paid for candidates. Five braide computers were donated to physically challenged students. One hundered dilapidated schools were renovated. Government established 42 new primary schools, trained 4,160 teachers under the Universal Basic Education Programme, purchased quality books for school libraries, procured instructional materials for schools, promoted 1,953 primary school teachers, established remedial colleges in 16 councils and awarded bursaries to indigent students. Senior principals were promoted to Grade Level 16 in the Civil Service. Ekiti is a poor agrarian state. To assist the elders, a social welfare security scheme was instituted. Under the scheme, N5,000 was paid to senior citizens above 65 years. The initiative was life-prolonging. From 2011 to 2014, N2.5 billion was paid to give the aged a new lease of life. Transparency was the watchword. Through scrutiny of financial books and blockage of loopholes, N7 billion was saved by the government between October 16, 2010 and April 30, 2014. There was alos a consistent devotion to the master plan of the administration, monitored by the Office of Transformation, Strategy and Delivery. This has engendered the implementation of the administration’s eight-point agenda. During the period, there was prompt institutional response to emergencies. N44.9 billion was expended on disaster management, including the provision of relief materials, palliatives, emergency evacuations and cash donations to victims. Royal fathers had god tales to tell about Fayemi, who distributed 123 cars to the monarchs to enhance their effectiveness and performance as key participants in governance. Also, N600 m wer distributed to communities for self-help community projects. In Ekiti, Fayemi contributed to the strengthening of the justice administration through the establishment of palace courts and structures for alternative dispute resolution. The government established the Job Creation and Employment Agency, which trained and engaged 5,000 volunteers in the first batch and additional 5,000 in the second batch. Each participant received N10 monthly stipends. Low-skilled old and young citizens were employed as street sweepers and facility managers. Through this, 1,5000 people were employed. Also, 200 school certificate holders were employed as office assistants in the ministries and departments under the Ekiti Project Volunteer Scheme; 166 youths were employed as fire fighters and paramedics to aid accident victims. Ekiti State Traffic Management Agency (EKSTMA) was created. It employed 300 youths. The Peace Corps Agency, with 800 trained cadet officers, was also set up. Fayemi fought the infrastructure battle with vigour. Many roads were constructed and rehabilitated. Federal roads were not neglected. N8 billion was spent on 1,038 kilometers of federal and state roads. There was the rehabilitation of 829 kilometers of farm access roads. The projects were evenly distributed across the local governments. Also, 105 kilometres of roads across the councils were constructed under the ‘Five kilometer Road Per Local Government. Urban renewal projects were also executed in major towns, including Ado, Ijero, Ikole and Ikere. The evidence are the street lights and quality roads with walkways in the state capital. During the period, five mini-water treatment plant projects were initiated; 167 ‘Eyitayo Fetching Points across various communities in 16 local governments were set up. Under the electrification programme, 125 transformers to boost power supply were erected. “Many communities which hit5herto had no access to electricity in 200 years of their existence, including Oke-Ako in Ikole Council, were connected and linked with the national grid. Fayemi was labour-friendly. His government procured and distributed 100 Suzuki cars and 40 Nissan buses to the transport unions. Six luxury buses, 26-seater coaster buses and 18seater buses were donated as palliatives in the wake of fuel subsidy removal. To boost agriculture, Fayemi attempted to resuscitate the old farm settlements of the Awolowo era. The Youth in Commercial Agricultural Development was established. Under the scheme, 669 youths were involved in cassava planting, rice production, nursery, aquaculture, afforestation, oil palm produce. Loans and other incentives were given to farmers to cultivate rice and maize. Fish farms were established in Efon-Alaaye, Igede and Ijesa-Isu. Twelve tractors valued at N72 million were purchased to support the FADAMA 111 project. Also, 143, 781 bags of fertilizers were distributed to farmers. The Ikun Diary Farm was revived; 209,560 oil palm seedlings were distributed to farmers in 2012, 2013 and 2014. The administration established a N600 million Small Scale Holding Cooperative Farmers Development Programme. In the health sector, the governor recorded some feats. The free medical mission had nine editions. Many communities benefitted from the scheme. Government expended N266 million on the extension, renovation and upgrading of 18 secondary health facilities and 35 upcoming primary health facilities in the state. The administration disbursed over N190 million to procure local and overseas referral services for citizens who needed urgent medical assistance. The administration built two new General Hospitals and organised free eye screening and surgery for 2,000 patients. Fifty cataract surgeries were done. In the area of industrialization, Fayemi provided the right atmosphere for investment to thrive. The state was peaceful during his tenure. Many investments were attracted to the state. The administration scored some feats in tourism. Ekiti State Council of Arts and Culture and Film Village were established. Its best legacy was the Ikogosi Warms Springs Resort. It is distressing to the former governor that the gains were reversed through lack of maintenance culture after he left office. Indeedd, Fayemi embarked on the renewal of the warm spring. The first phase of the development plan was completed with standard suits and VIP accommodation facilities, multi-purpose conference hall, 60-seat meeting and functions rooms, shopping mall, fitness and business centre, standard rooms for students during excusions, reception, multi-purpose building, warm water adult swimming pool, children’s pool, restaurants, amphi-theatre, tourism village, laundry, warehouses, security gadgets, hotels and lodges. 