 There is no end in sight for the confusion trailing leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) even with the Nation still leaking her wounds following early exit of the Super Eagles from the ongoing World cup in Russia. The power tussle between incumbent President of the Federation Amaju Pinnick and Ambassador Chris Giwa which has continued to swing like a pendulum in the courts, took a new dimension on Monday when the Sports Minister Barrister Solomon Dalung directed Pinnick and his Executives to obey the court order of June 5th 2018 delivered by Honorable Justice M. H. Kurya sitting at the Federal High Court Jos. The minister said the directive became necessary after he received a written notification signed for the Attorney-General of the Federation and Minister of Justice requesting the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports to ensure compliance. The notification according to the Minister states thus; ‘I have been directed to notify you of the Orders dated June 5th 2018 made by Honorable Justice M. H. Kurya sitting at the Federal High Court Jos in respect of the above mentioned suit between Yahaya Adama Vs Alhaji Aminu Maigari which states that the election of the NFF held on August 26, 2014 under the leadership of Amb Chris Giwa be given recognition pending the hearing and determination of the motion on notice filed in this case and that  the purported ban of the Executive Committee elected on August 26, 2014 from football activities of the NFF is unconstitutional, null and void. ‘It is trite law that court orders are sacrosanct and any act of disobedience to it constitutes threat to the rule of law. Consequent upon the above, you are hereby advised to comply with the orders of court made therein which for now, is the valid and binding order of court, in the absence of any other subsisting order or judgment to the contrary’. Consequently, Barrister Dalung has however directed the parties involved to comply with the court order. “This is a court order and not from Dalung. I will not want to go to Kuje prison because of disobedience of court orders. Therefore, I hereby comply with the court orders of June 5th 2018, while Mr Amaju Pinnick and others are also directed to comply with same.” the minister’s statement said Dalung who prior to his appointment as Minister of sports was working with the Prisons washed his hands off the consequences of non compliance with the court order saying” “This is a court order and not from Dalung. I will not want to go to Kuje prison because of disobedience of court orders. Therefore, I hereby comply with the court orders of June 5th 2018, while Mr Amaju Pinnick and others are also directed to comply with same.” Giwa reportedly addressed staff of the Glass House on Monday with Amaju Pinnick still in Russia as an Executive member of the World Soccer Ruling body FIFA.  While Giwa supporters insist the ruling means immediate vacation of office by the Amaju Pinnick group, others say continuing the legal battle is almost unnecessary as a new election is due in September with no guarantees that the incumbent will return.        