Frontline female politician and former governorship candidate in Lagos State, Chief Remi Adiukwu, in this interview with Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, urges Nigerians to ignore what she described as the antics of Buba Galadima and other chieftains of the R-APC, saying the group cannot succeed in their attempt to cripple the ruling All progressives Congress (APC) wITH the emergence of the R-APC, will u agree that your, the APC is now factionalised? The APC is not factionalised. I do not wish to see it as such. I’d rather see APC as an onion shedding off its outer, rotten cover leaving its new and healthy inner self exposed to the world. That to me is what is happening. I don’t need to tell you which between R-APC and the real APC is the rotten part. Sometimes, it is good when injuries happen and some rotten part of the flesh is shed to allow for freshness. W e are Nigerians and we have passed this road before. We understand why some people may want to force crisis on a party where there is no crisis simply because they want to do what is in their mind. It is understandable and common in politics. What is not good is the attempt to blackmail others in order to achieve a predetermined intention. That is bad. APC is not in any way fictionalized. It is merely shedding its bad parts. What do you think is the real motive of those who formed the R-APC? You really want to know their motive? As if you don’t know what I know. Okay. I will tell you. I wish to reiterate what I had said earlier somewhere. Not everyone would be like Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu. In the past three years or so, Asiwaju had not been in the ‘kitchen cabinet” of Mr. President. But when he was called upon to take responsibility for the party’s sake, he did it without complaint. Who didn’t know Asiwaju’s contributions in 2015 to the success story of APC? Would you say e has been fairly treated up till nowThese people’s motive is fueled by anger. They are angry and aggrieved because they believe their stomach infrastructures have not been well oiled. Should that be the reason for progressive politicians to jump ship or cause friction within their party? I leave you to answer that. But you also dumped the PDP to join the APC. What was your own motive? You cannot compare how I left PDP for APC to the drama these people are doing. Don’t also forget I have always been a part of the Asiwaju political family that birthed APC. I changed parties largely on principle and you can verify that. My sojourn away from the party was based on principle just as my return today is encouraged by the same principle of supporting only good things that will be beneficial to Lagos. Simply put, my defection was motivated by the sterling performance of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode and the foundation of the ruling party, especially in Lagos state. Like I said before, I am back in the party. And when I say I am back, I am actively back. I am enlightened now. All hands must be on deck to help the APC, President Buhari and Asiwaju Tinubu in this task of saving Nigeria. Don’t you think the APC will be badly affected by this development, especially as it prepares for 2019 elections.? I am not God neither am I a soothsayer, but i know Nigerians are quick to recognize them when they see an assemblage of those who plundered our economic fortune; those who have turned Nigerians to 2nd class citizens in their fatherland. So, I don’t see Nigerians listening to the cries of people who should ordinary be in hiding for the many atrocities they have committed. Awon t’o pe ole ko wa ja, won tun pe oloko ko wa mu ole. ( Those who call in the thief to come and steal, then call the farmer to come and catch the thief). Nigerians know them. Nigerians also know those who have dedicated themselves to the service of this country. It is a choice for the people to make and I am certain the people know the leaders who have been faithful in serving Nigeria. Some people are comparing the R-APC to the nPDP of 2014. do you agree the two are similar? nPDP or R-APC, is there any difference in these people except for some addition and subtraction here and there in the membership? Same people, same motive. But if we are talking about 2015 and 2019, then there is a whole lot of difference. In this present dispensation, you are dealing with a President with a strong personality and a people with better understanding. Most Nigerians are not as politically myopic as these people think. Do you think APC will survive these many crises and the coming of the new coalition? APC will definitely overcome all these rabble rousing. I don’t see it as crises. Where is the crisis? I think the crisis is in R-APC, a new group that wants to be a party. It has nothing to do with APC in my opinion. And talking about the coalition, CUPP indeed! The ink with which the MOU was signed was still wet when 20 out of their 31 briefcase parties pulled out. History has not been kind to coalitions devoid of any meaningful ideology. It can not succeed. Can APC win the 2019 polls? Of course. APC will win the 2019 elections. People talk about an ugly development because some people are threatening what they cannot do. What is the ugly incident Dare? People who have freedom of association, moving to where they please? Politics is dynamic and nobody can stop a determined man. APC has moved on. The leadership has refused to start taking panadol for other people’s headache.