•Restricts tanker drivers to trailer routes More facts emerged yesterday on the tanker that exploded last Thursday on Otedola Bridge, killing nine and left 54 vehicles burnt. According to the Lagos State Government, preliminary investigation revealed that the ill-fated tanker marked NSR 888 YC was registered in Nasarawa Local Government in Kano State and had changed ownership 13 times. Commissioner for Transportation Ladi Lawanson made it known at a news conference in Alausa, Ikeja, alongside representatives of the National Union of Petroleum and Natural Gas Workers (NUPENG)  and the Container Truck Association of Nigeria on development arising from the tanker explosion. Lawanson said: “It (the tanker) was manufactured in 1999 by Mack Trucks Inc at its assembly plant in Winnsboro, United States. This truck was designed as a 14,959kg (approximately 15 ton) drilling rig with low bed, but it was converted in Nigeria from a drilling rig to fuel tank carrier to carry 30 tonnes. “From this preliminary investigation, the truck should not have been loaded to the weight of 30 tonnes, which is twice its pulling capacity.” Further investigation into the current ownership of the tanker and other related details, he said, were progressing. He said that the facts obtained in the course of investigation compelled the review of the legal, economic and social framework of the current management of traffic, involving fule-laden tankers and other cargoes within the state. The state government henceforth directed fuel tanker drivers to ply the designated trailer route – Apapa/Oworonshoki Expressway, via Ogudu to the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway. It also gave a 30-day ultimatum to all articulated vehicles coming into the state to obtain the Ministry of Transportation (MOT) certificate of road worthiness or face sanctions. Lawanson said that 10 operational centres had been designated to process applications immediately, while new centres would be established quickly on the Lagos/Ibadan Expressway to cope with the expected demand for the service. He listed the centres as: Berger Ojodu, Odogunyan Ikorodu, Agric/Ishawo Road, Ikorodu, Worksyard, PWD, Shogunle, NCI Gbagada, VIS Yard, Oko-Afo, Badagry, VIS Yard, Ayobo in Ipaja, Test Centre in Badagry, VIS Yard, Epe and VIS Yard, Oko-Oba Abbatoir. The commissioner said the government would embark on awareness campaign to persuade all vehicle owners to obtain the MOT road worthiness certificate. He said: “We hereby call on motorists and the general public to join hands with us to prevent avoidable deaths due to the presence of vehicles unfit to ply the roads. “Let us protect each other by asking our friends to save lives by obtaining their road worthiness certificates. ‘’ Lawanson said the government in 2017, upgraded vehicle testing operations and launched the Computerised Vehicle Inspection Centres to ensure that vehicles which ply the roads and highways were road worthy. “This measure recorded positive results. Between April 1, 2017 and May 2018, a total of 178, 267 vehicles were tested,’’ he said. Lawanson said that the government was also exploring alternative modes of transportation of petroleum products to separate passenger traffic from cargo movement within the metropolis in the interest of public safety. He also said that government, in partnership with all the stakeholders, would set up joint-enforcement of the operating laws, while barriers would be installed on bridges in Lagos to prevent articulated trucks including Ojuelegba, Mobolaji Bank Anthony, Ekodeso, Abule-Egba, Lekki-Ajah, among others. Giving update on the accident, Commissioner for Special Duties and Intergovernmental Relations, Mr. Seye Oladejo said out of the four injured persons that were taken away from the scene, one unfortunately died while government is taking full responsibility for the treatment of others. He denied allegations that some victims were rejected by the General Hospital in Surulere, saying that the victims were only taken to Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) in Ikeja and Burns and Trauma Centre in Gbagada. Oladeho said: “When you have an incident of that magnitude, as part of our training as emergency responders, we need to be very careful the way we handle our communication so that we don’t raise unnecessary alarm. It is important for members of the public to remain calm while we get all our acts together, otherwise we would also be asking for another emergency. “Altogether, nine people passed on at the incident and they were all burnt beyond recognition. We have set up a helpline at LASEMA to try and open a communication channel with members of the public and with family members of the victims. It is important that DNA is conducted otherwise we would end up giving the wrong bodies to some families to go and inter and that would become another issue entirely. “This kind of situation really calls for patience and understanding on the part of members of the public and most especially, families of the victims. As much as we sympathize and commiserate, things still have to be done professionally.” Besides, the commissioner dismissed claims that the integrity of Otedola Bridge had been compromised following the incident, saying there was no iota of truth in such, while the government plans to fix the damaged section of the road. Commiserating with families of the affected  victims, NUPENG’s Southwest Chairman Tayo Aboyeji said his union was in support of the measures being put up by the government to end tanker accidents in the state. LBS Alumni, NGO visit victims Country Director, Coalition for Good Governance and Economic Justice in Africa, Mr. John Mayaki and a delegation from Lagos Business School Alumni Association/EMBA-7, yesterday visited Gbagada General Hospital to sympathise with victims of the explosion. Mayaki said:  “We are here to console the families, friends and loved ones of those who suffered varying degrees of injuries here receiving treatment. We stand with you all, as one united family to share the burden of your grief. “Nigerians are concerned about your situation and have continued to pray for your quick recovery. We will keep you in our thoughts as you continue on your path towards recovery. “Without apportioning blame, we pray that something of this nature never happen again in this country. In all of these, the conversation should not centre on what past governments did not do but, rather, on what this government must do.” Head of Burns and Trauma Centre, Professor Fadebi described the visit as “extremely complimentary.” 