 Nigeria requires $652 million dollars over the next five years to invest in high-impact family planning interventions including the contraceptives, the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole has said. This, Adewole said would enable the country reach the set Contraceptive Prevalent Rate (CPR) 27% target set for 2020. He therefore challenged state governors on the need to invest more in family planning programme. The minister said more investment in family planning will help the country take advantage of the youthful population to achieve demographic dividend between 2030 and 2050. At the current annual growth rate of 3.2 percent, it is projected that Nigeria will be the 3rd most populous country in the world by 2020, with the population doubling by year 2030. The rapid population growth rate can be attributed mainly to the high Total Fertility Rate (TFR) of 5.5 children per woman and low contraceptive prevalence rate of 15 percent based on the 2013 Demographic and Health Survey (2013 NDHS). He spoke at the inaugural Prof Babatunde Osotimehin Annual Memorial Lecture titled “Implication of the Population of 190 million on economic development and health/wellbeing of future generations of Nigerians” organized by the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) The lecture is in memory of Professor Babatunde Osotimehin, a former Health Minister is regarded as an icon and legend. Osotimehin was the Executive Director of UNFPA until his demise. In his keynote address, the minister said, “The Business Case estimates the costs, impacts and financing scenarios to achieve the modern contraceptive prevalence goals and impact on development. To reach the set CPR target by 2020, Nigeria requires US$652 million dollars over the next five years to invest in high-impact family planning interventions including the contraceptives. “This investment would have enormous benefits: estimated US$1.40 would be saved on maternal and newborn health care for every dollar invested in family planning and another US$ 4 would be saved on treating complications of unplanned pregnancies resulting in 30,000 maternal deaths and 5.19 million unplanned pregnancies averted and cost saving of US$1.02 billion.” Challenging the governors and other stakeholders’ the minister stressed, “I am calling on all stakeholders, from Federal and State governments, the private sector, traditional leaders, health-care workers, Community Based Organisations and Implementing Partners, to help make the changes that would translate into positive contribution to Nigeria’s economic development and even more importantly, significantly enhance the lives of millions of women and children “I will continue to advocate to States to implement youth friendly services and to ensure improved investments in our youths and reduction of unnecessary maternal deaths attributable to adolescent pregnancies and unsafe abortions. These are cardinal issues that Professor Babatunde Osotimehin stood for while on this planet. We can guarantee an enduring legacy of a brighter future for all our women. girls and young ones by staying focused and on track,” he said. He also added, that “Nigeria is at the threshold of reaping the demographic dividend following the expected decline in dependency ratio, or the number of children and elderly (under age 15 and over age 65) divided by the number of working age adults (between ages 15-64), over this period from 83 dependents per 100 workers in 2010 to only 50 dependents per 100 workers by 2050. “The median age of the total population is likewise anticipated to increase from 18.6 to 28.2 years over the 40-year period from 2010 to 2050 (United Nations 2008). Yet, despite observed declining fertility, Nigeria’s population is expected to continue to grow due to population momentum. “There is a demographic dividend in Nigeria’s future, starting from the mid-2020s until 2050 and beyond. It is important to note, however, that the dividend is not automatic but must be carefully planned and worked out. The timing of Nigeria’s demographic dividend varies by geopolitical zone and magnitude of the demographic dividend also varies by geopolitical zone.” The minister who also appreciated the UNFPA for starting the lecture series to immortalize the late Osotimehin said he had worked closely with the late icon and benefited from his kindness. Besides, the minister said he had followed in the footstep of the former minister of Health, who he described as “an unambiguously professed pro family planning advocate.”