 Juventus supporters have declared operation acquire a CR7 jersey ahead of the Monday’s unveiling of former Real Madrid star Cristiano Ronaldo. Delighted fans were seen posing outside Juventus’ official club store on Wednesday with ‘Ronaldo 7’ shirts. Ronaldo, who originally wore the No 9 shirt at Real Madrid before taking the No 7 following Raul’s departure in 2010, would have demanded the shirt number to continue his CR7 brand. Juan Cuadrado is without a shirt number following Cristiano Ronaldo’s arrival at Juventus. The Colombia star, who originally joined the club on loan from Chelsea in 2015, originally wore the No 16 before switching to No 7 in 2016. The former Manchester United star has clothing ranges and hotels in Lisbon and Madeira under CR7 branding. Juventus announced the stunning £100million deal for Ronaldo with the Portugal captain in his usual celebration stance with ‘Cristiano’ accompanying the image. However, they used the No 7 in his name to confirm his new shirt number. Ronaldo’s astonishing £100m transfer from Real Madrid to Juventus will lead to a £10.6m payday for his agent, the Serie A club have confirmed. Jorge Mendes made a proposal to Juve when selling them full back Joao Cancelo from Valencia last month – and the club subsequently made a £88m offer to Real. In addition to the agent’s fee, Ronaldo’s former clubs Sporting Lisbon and Manchester United will share a total of £4.4m, making the deal worth more than £100m. Sponsors Fiat agreed to shoulder the burden of his £26.6m-a-year wages, helping to ease money fears but the total cost to club will be £310m over four years. Ronaldo met club president Andrea Agnelli on Tuesday afternoon in a hotel in Greece before agreeing the four-year deal worth £500,000 a week. He is expected to be officially unveiled on Monday. A member the left-wing union that represents hundreds of thousands of Italian employees Sindacale di Base queried the rationale behind paying millions to one man when many earn take home that can hardly get to the middle of the month. “Is this fair? Is it normal for one person to earn millions, while thousands of families can’t even get to the middle of the month?” he asked       