Worried by conflicting figures on the diverted and invested funds of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), the Governing Council of the agency has asked the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to intervene on the involvement of 17 banks. Executive Secretary/ Chief Executive Officer Prof. Usman Yusuf claimed that N720billion could not be accounted for. Auditors said N138billion was trapped in 17 banks. Some NHIS workers yesterday faulted the Executive Secretary, saying only N405billion was released to the agency in 12 years. Based on the conflicting figures, the Governing Council will meet next week to take a decision on the query given to the NHIS Executive Secretary and how he arrived at “invested” N720billion, which could not be accounted for. The NHIS Council, through its chairman, Dr. Enyantu lfenne, has sought the intervention of the CBN. A source, who spoke in confidence, said: “The NHIS Council has written the CBN  to help reconcile records;  assist in reviewing the involvement of banks in the alleged diverted funds of the agency; and to help recover the trapped cash. “The council is inundated with different claims. We have N720billion; N138billion and the latest representation by some workers that only N405billion was released to NHIS in 12 years (2005-2017) by the Federal Government. “It is left to the CBN to help in getting to the roots of these claims and counter-claims.” It was also learnt that the Governing Council will meet next week on the query given to the NHIS Executive Secretary. A top source said: “The NHIS boss only made a disputed power-point presentation to the council  but he is yet to address many issues in the query. “Some workers have released a document claiming that only N405billion was released to NHIS in 12 years. We will meet next week to hear from Prof. Yusuf on how he arrived at N720billion. “Definitely, there is rot in NHIS and the present board, headed by Dr. Ifenne, is up to the task of cleaning the Augean stable.” A copy of the document made available to council members by workers indicated that NHIS received about N405billion. “”It is notable that the total amount of money received from the Federal Government by NHIS since inception is only a little over N405billion. “Consider that out of this, payments were released for the provision of care to enrollees over the period. Add that to payment of salaries, and staff emoluments, plus funds for administrative purposes. “Out of the funds(between 2005 and 2017), NHIS paid over N206, 543, 351, 980.53 to enrollees and hospitals, including  Capitation(N154, 027, 951, 296.44); HMO Admin Charge(N29, 804, 580, 410.51); and Fee for Service (N22, 710, 820, 273.58). “The balance had covered personnel, overhead cost and about N145 billion left in banks and TSA. “As at Sept. 2015 when the funds were to be moved to Treasury Single Account(TSA), the global fund of NHIS , including investments, was about N145billion. “We have been spending from it because there is no more investment and no more interest. Today, there is about N95billion in banks and TSA for the NHIS. “The NHIS Executive Secretary  does not know the critical technical details of  the Scheme’s operations.”   “This means Yusuf’s allegation of a N720billion that was said to have disappeared is, in the first place almost 100% larger than total receipt by the Scheme in the period. “This is irrespective of whatever percentages of interests on investments of the Scheme’s fund had accrued over the period. “This therefore is another instance of the Executive Secretary misleading government, the public and stakeholders, to attract sympathy, and direct attention away from wanton abuses of  office which are been pressed against him. “These wild, spurious and sensational media screams  are calculated also to distract public attention from serial infractions and breach of Procurement processes, administrative standards and irresponsible disparage of superior authorities, including the Minister and the Governing Council of the Scheme. “The wild allegations were clearly without addressing the issues raised in the Councils’ query to him.” 