Rave-of-the-moment singers, Kizz Daniel, Phyno and Simi are billed to perform at the City of Friends event to mark this year’s World Friendship Day in Calabar and Lagos. Tagged ‘City of Friends’, the event which is scheduled to hold at the Municipal Gardens in Calabar, this Saturday, July 28 and Sunday, July 29, while the Lagos event will hold at the Eagles’ Club in Surulere on August 3 – 4, 2018, is being organised by “33” Export Lager Beer. Announcing the show at Nigerian Breweries Headquarters, Portfolio Manager, Mainstream Lager and Stout Brands, NB Plc, Emmanuel Agu, noted that the City of Friends show has been a core theme of the brand and “we revel in bringing these friendship experiences to our customers across the country.” On the choice of the performing artistes, Agu said: “It was a painstaking and deliberate search. After careful consideration, Phyno, Simi, Kizz Daniel, Harrysongz, Fuji sensation, Wasiu Alabi Pasuma and Mc Galaxy, were selected for several reasons, chief among which are their popularity among young Nigerians, prominence, and the impact they’ve made in the Nigerian music industry in the last one year. They are hard-working and are known to be ambassadors of Friendship.”  He further noted that “33” Export Lager Beer does not just want to celebrate friends on billboards and magazines, but opted to create a city, an enclosed funfair, for friends where great memories can be shared.” The artistes will be thrilling their fans with songs from their latest albums. Phyno will be expected to drop songs ‘Fada Fada’, ‘Authe’ as well as his most recent track NWA, while X3M Music act, Simi, who is loved for her soulful tunes such as ‘Tiff’, ‘Jamb Question’, ‘Joromi’ and many others. In the last two years, Kizz Daniel has proven to be a certified hit maker and will entertain the crowd with tracks like ‘Yeba’, ‘Baba’ among several others. The show will also feature Wasiu Alabi Pasuma who, although is a Fuji act, but his ability to cross over into hip hop and pop is one of the characteristics that have endeared him to millennial generation. MC Galaxy too would be on ground to deliver comedy and music. Aside music and dance, there is also a provision for 33 giant sized games that friends can play, enjoy and also have the opportunity to win over 5,000 gift items.