The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has promised to restore peace in the ruling party by addressing the grievances of defectors from the Peoples Democratic Party, otherwise known as the nPDP, who joined the fold after its formation, prior to the 2015 general elections. Nigerians believe the former Edo State governor and labour leader is equal to the task. LEKE SALAUDEEN reports. ONE of the major challenges that the newly-elected Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, is expected to grapple with is the threat of pulling out of the party by members of the new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP). The nPDP, a splinter group that pulled out from the main opposition party in 2014 and merged with the APC, has indicated that its final position on the matter would be made public this week. As preparations for the next general elections intensify, the relationship between the ruling party at the centre and the group has deteriorated. The crisis climaxed with a petition addressed to President Muhammadu Buhari in which it alleged that despite its contribution to the party’s victory in the 2015 presidential poll that it was being marginalised within the fold by members of the former legacy parties that came together in 2014. In spite of the efforts by the APC leadership to address the group’s grievances, members of nPDP are yet to soft pedal on the threat to quit. Indeed, the group pulled out from peace talk with the party leadership, when it became obvious that President Buhari was not favourably disposed to meeting and discussing with its representatives. The presence of the leaders of nPDP like Senate President Bukola Saraki, the Speaker, House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara and Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto State at the just concluded APC convention had given the impression that the group had soft-pedalled on its threat of leaving the APC. But, recent statements suggest otherwise. On the eve of the convention, Saraki said time will determine his position in the affairs of the APC. Even more disquieting was the comment of the nPDP leader, Alhaji Kawu Baraje, who warned the APC leadership not to celebrate yet, after the recent successful convention. He said the foundation of the convention was already shaky. His words: “We decided to attend the APC convention because we wanted to demonstrate to the entire Nigerians that we are still loyal to the party. That is why we attended the convention. The fact that we attended the convention should not be mistaken for peace within the party.” Oshiomhole had promised in his acceptance speech that all the crises within the party would be resolved amicably. He added: “This is because I am used to managing divergences and this is just another task. It will be done to the satisfaction of our President, governors, senators, representatives, House of Assembly members, and all the rank and file members of our party.” But, how successful will Oshiomhole’s bid to accommodate members of the nPDP in the APC. Lawyer and human rights activist, Mr Monday Ubani, believes the nPDP leaders have made up their mind to leave the APC. He said: “I don’t know the magic wand Oshiomhole would apply to make them drop the defection plan. If he can persuade them, it is good for the APC, because the party cannot afford to lose members, if it wants to win 2019 polls. But, it looks as if the nPDP is adamant to leave. The general public have been inundated with reports that they have entered into negotiations with some parties ahead of 2019 general elections. “But, I don’t know which party they will join. Are they returning to the PDP they left in 2014? What influence would they have on the party when they go back? Can they be trusted by the leadership of the PDP? If they merge with any of the fringe parties, including the Olusegun Obasanjo-led African Democratic Congress (ADC), can they muster enough support to make any impact in the elections? It is better for the likes of Saraki and his group to remain in APC, if they want to remain relevant in 2019 and beyond.” But the former Deputy Senate Minority Leader, Senator Olorunnibe Mamora, believes Oshimohle was on the right part for promising to reconcile aggrieved members of the APC. He said: “As the new national chairman, it is in order for him to mend fences with groups or individual members who have grievances against the party.” Mamora noted that Oshiomhole had promised to resolve differences amicably and restore peace in the APC. He said as a former labour leader, the new APC national chairman has the negotiation skill that would help him to resolve the conflicts in the party. On the speculation that members of the nPDP have made up their minds to leave the APC, Mamora said: “It will be pre-emptive to say that the chairman should close his eyes against them. It will be proper to give them the chance to express themselves to the new chairman. It is one of the reasons why Oshiomhole has promised to do justice to all manner of persons and to work for the benefit of every member of the party. We should bring everybody on board; the more the merrier; we will not like to lose any member now that the 2019 general elections are fast approaching.” A member of the nPDP and Chairman, Senate Committee on Agriculture, Senator Abdullahi Adamu, disagrees. He called on the leadership of the party to ignore the antics of the nPDP. He said it was time the party “ignored the deliberate attempts” by some persons in the APC to distract President Buhari’s focus on governance, pointing out that the admonition was against the backdrop of their recent decision to resurrect the platform of the defunct nPDP to fight their personal battles. Adamu said: “I belonged to the nPDP; and as I had said before, there was nowhere we held a meeting to resurrect the group for the purpose of protesting alleged marginalisation of our former members by the APC-led Federal Government. Apart from that, the basis of the group’s allegation is tenuous.” The senator, who is the Northcentral coordinator for Buhari’s presidential campaign, reiterated that the antics of the so-called nPDP were to portray the Buhari administration as being unfair to the group in its appointment. He hailed President Buhari’s resolve not to interfere in the APC leadership’s meeting with the aggrieved group and added that the president’s decision that Vice President Yemi Osinbajo should interface with them was good for the supremacy of the APC. The speculations that nPDP is set to dump the APC thickened as Adamawa Central senator, Abdul Aziz Nyako, revealed underground moves by the group. He disclosed that he was preparing with the teeming supporters of his father and former Adamawa State Governor, Murtala Nyako, to leave the APC and that he had spoken to former Kano State Governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso, among others who assured him that there was a new party coming up. Nyako said: “We have no option than to go, but we are still discussing the party to move to with our entire structure. I have spoken with Prof. Jerry Gana in the Social Democratic Party (SDP). I also spoke with Attahiru Bafarawa and fixed an appointment for him with Admiral Nyako. Bafarawa wants us to return to the PDP. I went to Abeokuta and discussed with Olusegun Obasanjo about our prospects with the African Democratic Congress (ADC). He directed me to see Col. Oyinlola who assured us that we will be absorbed with our structures, if we join the party. He told me that Kwankwaso spoke to him about a new party coming up and expressed delight that we were leaving the APC before it was too late. “I was given the party’s constitution about a month ago; it’s a new party expected to be approved soon with four others by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). We have done it before, when we left the PDP to form the APC and this time around by the grace of God, our movement will not be in vain.” Apparently calling the bluff of the nPDP leaders, Kaduna State Governor Nasir El-Rufai said if they leave, it won’t have any impact on the electoral fortunes of the APC. His words: “I have no doubt in my mind that if the people threatening to leave, leave it will have absolutely no impact on the 2019 presidential election.” He said leaving the APC is not the issue. The issue is that they have expressed grievances; some of the grievances are legitimate and should be looked into. But, to threaten to leave the party is neither here nor there. He added: “If they are honest with themselves they know that President Buhari will win in their states with or without them. But, if you have a grievance, we are a party and politics is a game of addition and not subtraction, so we don’t want to lose anyone.” However, a political scientist, Professor Ayo Olukotun, has cautioned the APC leaders against shutting the door of reconciliation against the nPDP.  Olukotun said they people concerned are not novice and that they have made their marks in politics. He said given their identities and personality they cannot be treated with levity. Olukotun, a lecturer at the Department of Political Science, Olabisi Onabanjo University, (OOU), Ago-Iwoye, Ogun State, said Oshiomhole can make truce with the aggrieved members through bargaining and leverage. He said: “Going by the famous definition of politics, as who gets what, when and how, if you are able to convince them that there is something for them, if you throw carrot at them, it is not difficult to bring them back into the fold.” Similarly, a chieftain of the APC in Taraba State, Alhaji Isa Tafida, has advised the new leadership of the party to listen and attend to grievances of the group. He said the nPDP has no option than to address the issues raised by the group. Tafida warned that the party could not afford to have internal crisis at this moment, because 2019 is fast approaching. He advised the leadership of the party and the presidency to find a way of addressing the matter, to enhance the chances of the APC in 2019. A public affairs analyst, Mrs Sola Salako-Ajulo, also believes that Oshimhole is up to the task of restoring peace in the APC. She said: “The issues raised by the nPDP can be resolved through negotiation. There is nothing impossible, if they decide to resume talk with the leadership of the APC. Oshiomhole is a master in negotiation, given his background as a trade unionist. He would bring his experience to bear in his new position.” Ajulo said intra-party crises were rampant among Nigerian political parties because they were not rooted in ideology. She added: “People join parties for personal gains and not what the parties stand for. That is why people decamp from one party to the other once their interest is threatened. In the United States, people don’t change parties at will. If they are disenchanted with their party policies or programmes, they will remain independent.”