•Firm to mark 40th anniversary Scib Nigeria & Co Limited, one of the leading broking firms in the country, has achieved N1.6 billion as turnover in about 16 years, the Managing Director, Shola Tinubu has said. He made this known during a briefing on the celebration of the company’s 40th Anniversary. Tinubu, who said the firm has, in about 16 years, been achieving a turnover of about N120 million, stated that it has, since its establishment, been a successful company. He disclosed that the firm’s premium income is about N30 billion, representing five per cent of the industry premium. Tinubu, however, said the rate of exchange could be disheartening. He said: “Sometimes the rate of exchange can dishearten us as a country. It might be possible that we were doing as well as we were 40 years ago because the rate of exchange at that time was N1 to $2. “So, all you needed to make at the end of the year is N1 million in profit and what it means in exchange is that you have a $2 million profit. This is a challenge for many companies to achieve. So, in terms of history, we will dishearten ourselves if we look at exchange.’’ He stressed that the firm has a proud conservative heritage like any other professional institution in the sector operating best practice standards. He explained that the firm has maintained a conservative outlook because of the advice of the management on other people’s risks and protection of their wealth. Looking at the journey so far, Tinubu said it was no news how challenging it is for businesses to survive in the environment over decades with the attendant challenges and inhibiting factors, with significant macro-economic upturns and recessions, political somersaults from military government to civilian rule then military and back to democratic rule. “Scib Nigeria & Co Limited has carved a niche on corporate virtues for itself in the insurance broking profession, both locally and internationally.The visioner and founder of the firm is Olola Olabode Ogunlana, having led as the first Nigerian CEO of companies like Great Nigeria InsuranceCompany and NICON Insurance Plc,” he said. 