Former youth international, Kingsley Michael, has caught the eyes of Bologna’s coach and Italian legend , Filippo Inzaghi, who has promoted him to the senior team from the U-19 youth team ahead of the forthcoming 2018/2019 Serie A season, reports MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Nigeria youth international and newly promoted into the senior team of Bologna in the Italian Serie A, Kingsley Michael, has spoken about his humble beginning even as he enthused about the prospect of strutting his stuff against the like of FIFA World Player of the Year, Cristiano Ronaldo, who has crossed from Real Madrid to Juventus. “Good news, Ronaldo is coming to Juventus; I will have a chance of meeting him or playing against him,” Michael, a FIFA U-17 World Cup winner who will be 19 on August 26, exclaimed recently on one of his social platforms status. The son of a soldier, the road from his Abuja home to his present base in Bologna was not as easy as it seems and he confessed his dad did not fancy his desire to be a footballer. “I started playing football from the streets like most players in Nigeria who started from the street,” stated the guy who loves to be called Kakatrigga – a nickname he coined out of the famous Brazilian striker, Kaka, and trigger of a gun! “Initially, I was just playing football for fun because I felt I knew how to play it but later I found out I was talented to even be a great player which I work towards and by God grace it’s becoming a reality. “I was inspired by Kaka, the Brazilian striker, after watching some of his videos, but like most parents, they wanted me to go to school. “But when they saw I had passion for football they allowed me; at first it wasn’t easy with my dad because he never wanted me to play.  Later, when he saw my passion for it, he had no choice but to support me to the extent he would be begging me to go for training. “Ever since, my mom and dad have encouraged me and my mum was even giving me transport out of her savings to go for trials, which was a big motivation.” His upbringing within the four walls of Mogadishu Cantonment in Abuja must have helped his self determination to excel in his chosen career as a professional as he learnt the tricks of the game at the renown Abuja College of Football, where he was a two-time winner of the annual Karanka Reveria Invitational Tournament in Croatia with his academy in 2013 and 2015. “It was really at College of Football in Abuja that I improved my game and it was there I knew I had a future in football cause my best efforts came out during the training and the coaches around supported me,” he said. It was at the college that he struck eternal friendship with Orji Okonkwo with whom he played for the Golden Eaglets class of 2015 and both are currently together with Bologna. “My friendship with Orji has come a long way; it started from the football college and we have since become so close that we are now more than brothers.” Yet, Michael recalled with nostalgia how his career and that of his tag-mate (Orji) was nearly terminated before it began on the altar of a reported undisciplined conduct which saw the no-nonsense coach Emmanuel Amuneke throw them out of the Golden Eaglets camp at some point before good reason prevailed. “Yes, it’s true, Orji and I ran into problem with coach Amuneke but it was part of what we had to go through to be better for the future. It only made us stronger in terms of pressure, so it helped in a sort of way.” Indeed, Michael actually worked his socks and happily made the Golden Eaglets’ cut to the 2015 FIFA U-17 World Cup in Chile. He went on to post a good performance, especially in the decisive second round match against Brazil where he grabbed what he referred to ‘as the goal of my life’ and got a gold medal eventually, as Nigeria won her record fifth U-17 World Cup. His reminiscence of the conquest in Chile is refreshing: “Every young player in Nigeria will always wish and dream to play in the World Cup. I didn’t only play but won it, as such the memory will always forever.  The day I scored against Brazil will always be my best memory at the World Cup in Chile. “We went into the tournament knowing that nobody expected us to win, so that alone motivated us and we bonded like family with the same objective. We prayed, fasted together like a family and achieved together with the help of the coaching crew and backroom staff. “The goal against Brazil was special because it was my first and only goal in the tournament. I was actually injured before I scored the goal and the goal made people to see me more in the tournament since it was against a big country like Brazil. “Our victory against Brazil (the match ended 4-1 against the South Americans) was very important to us because we met them in Korea (Suwon Football Tournament) and we beat them but nobody took the result serious. They were a very good team, honestly, and we were nervous but we did our work perfectly. “I had a difficult moment before the World Cup with a knee injury and I was almost left out if not for Doctor Deji Olarinoye. I was just so happy to have scored against Brazil and I actually told him I was going to celebrate with him if I scored and that was why I rushed and jumped on him after I scored against Brazil. “Winning the World Cup made me see football in a different perspective and it made me to be where I’m right now as well as the respect of my teammates here in Bologna.” His performance in Chile landed him in Italy with Bologna as the Rossoblù (red and blue) reportedly signed him up in a deal worth about 600 thousand Euros. This term, he has caught the eyes of new coach and Italian legend Filippo Inzaghi, who has promoted him to the team’s senior team from the U-19 youth team ahead of the forthcoming 2018/2019 Serie A season. “Bologna is a place where you can develop as a young player though it wasn’t easy coming and going back to Nigeria to train with them because I was not 18,” he explained. “I was coming to spend a month to train with the first and junior teams. I was able to convince them with my performance. I was determined and focused. “When I started, I was actually not playing in my familiar position and I was either playing from the full back or right attack. But since I started playing in my best position, it has boosted my confidence.” Incidentally, Michael has teamed up with his former teammate at COFA and Golden Eaglets at Bologna and he reckons having him around has really helped his settling down in Italy. He said: “It’s a great feeling to be playing in the same club with Orji. I like him because he’s my kind of person – nice guy and friendly. But I have a feeling we are not going to play for the same club forever; at some point we must go our different ways but I’m really happy we’ve started our professional career together here at Bologna.” SHORT & SHARP WITH MICHAEL Who were your inspirations when you started playing football? My family and internationally, Ricardo Kaka of Brazil Tell us about your family. I’m from a family of five with my dad, mum and two siblings. What are your career goals? To play in the UEFA Champions League and for the Nigeria’s senior national team, Super Eagles. You played for the national U-20 team. Describe your experience playing under coach Emmanuel Amuneke in the last Flying Eagles? It was good but we failed to qualify for the African U-20 Youth Championship that took place in Zambia and so it was not really good for us. Some people believe indiscipline and over confidence killed the team against Sudan in Lagos… That’s what people think but it happened that way; so everybody sees things in different perspectives. Tell us your impression of coach Amuneke. He’s a very aggressive coach and his coaching skill is good for young talents in Nigeria. He’s very technically sound. What makes you happy and sad as a footballer? I’m happy anytime I play a good game but sad when I play badly. What about life outside football? I really don’t know but I always want to be happy every day of my life and I really like playing music and dancing. What kind of music do you like? Nigerian music. Who is your favourite artist? Wizkid. Why do you like him? I like his style of music from when he started. What are other things you like? I don’t think there is any other thing I like other than football and music. What are your dislikes? I really don’t know. What else will you want people to know about you? I don’t think there is anything else. Which nickname do you prefer? Kakatrigga. I think they used to call you Wacko Jacko and Indomie in the Golden Eaglets.. Kakatrigga is my nick name. What is the meaning? It’s a combination of Kaka of Brazil and trigger of a gun. Describe your kind of personality I’m very simple and free.