A governorship aspirant on the platform of the ruling All Progressive Congress in Oyo State, Dr. Sola Ayandele has assured the people of the state that poverty alleviation, free education at all levels, free healthcare to the vulnerable, children, infants will be part of his focus if elected the next governor of the state. Additionally, he said, premium would be placed on agriculture as the basis for industrialization, encouraging regional integration as well as ensuring that the civil service drive all government initiatives and activities. He also vowed to ensure that civil servants get their salary by the 25th of every month. Ayandele, a Director with Integrated Energy Distribution and Marketing limited gave the assurance, Thursday at the Oke-Ado, state party secretariat, Ibadan when he visited the party executives to make his intentions of taking over the job of governance from the incumbent Governor Abiola Ajimobi. The carnival-like visit to the party secretary had in attendance thousands of Ayandele’s supporters who stormed the Oke-Ado office in customized Ankara and t-shirt bearing the image of the astute businessman, who also pledged to stand by the APC manifesto. He said, “I am here at the APC Secretariat to declare my intention to be the next governor of Oyo State by the special grace of God. I want to thank the leadership of APC, thank Governor Abiola Ajimobi for having laid a very solid foundation upon which I intend to build upon. By the special grace of God, we will strictly adhere to the manifesto of the APC. Even after that, we would try to personalize it. “What we will do is poverty alleviation, free education at all levels, free healthcare to the vulnerable women, children, infants. We will focus on Agriculture which will be the basis for our industrialization. In all of these, we will encourage regional integration as well as encourage our civil service to drive all government initiatives. “As I told the party executives, I promise that when I become governor, by the 25th of every month, civil servants will collect their salary. On security, by the special grace of God, whatever the governor is doing right will be deepened, expanded and encouraged. While speaking on the crisis rocking the state chapter of the ruling APC, Ayandele expressed optimism that true progressives remain in the mainstream of the party and that no matter the depth of the crisis or wherever they go, true progressive would always return. “We are not worried because as a true progressive, there is nowhere we will go. The teeth and tongue will fight but they will not leave the mouth. The true progressive will find their way back. We will appeal to them and things will be fine. There has been a lot of efforts and people are discussing,” Ayandele said. 