Inspector-General of Police  (IGP) Ibrahim Idris has asked Senate President Bukola Saraki to report at the Intelligence Response Team (IRT) of the Force today. The invitation, according to the IG, is in connection with the ongoing investigation of the Offa robbery in which many people died. But, to Saraki, it is all a “political game.” According to the letter dated 23rd July, 2018 and signed by the IG, the Senate President is expected to report to the head of the IRT team by 8am. The Police said the invitation was imperative, considering the earlier statement  sent in by the Senate President. Details of the letter of invitation, which was addressed to the Senate President, reads: “Letter of Invitation; Case of Offa robbery and gruesome murder of more than 31 persons and snatching of 21 AK47 rifles on the 5th of April, 2018. “Recall that the Police Intelligence Response Team (IRT) is investigating a case of armed robbery which occurred on the 5th of April, 2018 during which a gang of dare devil armed robbers stormed Offa, Kwara State and attacked a police station, robbed six banks, namely First Bank, Guaranty Trust Bank, Ecobank, Zenith Bank, Union Bank and lbolo Micro Finance Bank, killed over thirty one (31) persons, including nine police officers and pregnant women and snatched twenty (21) AK47 n’fles. “During the investigation of the armed robbery by the Intelligence Response Team, a CCTV footage of the armed robbery in one of the banks, captured the image of two persons. The CCTV footage was circulated on the social media and this led to their identification as Kunle Ogunleye and Micheal Adikwu. The two persons were tracked and arrested by the Police and they made very useful statements and named the five gang leaders who organized the Armed Robbery. “Some of the five gang leaders made confessional statements admitting their participation in this worst armed robbery in the history of Nigeria and that they are political thugs under the name, Youth Liberation Movement, aka ‘Good boys’, allegedly sponsored by you and that you have given them firearms, money and vehicles. It was equally discovered that one of the vehicles, a Lexus Jeep, used by the gang leader (Ayoade Akinnibosun) has a sticker plate number “‘SARAKI’ Kwara State of Harmony”. The letter continues: “The Lexus Jeep was parked in the Government House after the arrest of Ayoade Akinnibosun and in order to conceal evidence, the Chief of Staff to the Executive Governor of Kwara State, arranged for the removal of the sticker plate number “SARAKI Kwara State of Harmony” from the Lexus jeep and quickly registered it in the name of the suspect, six days after the suspect has been arrested by the Police. “Specifically Mr Ayoade Akinnibosun ‘m’ 27 years in his confessional statement, stated that “members of his group are political thugs working for Senator Bukola Saraki and Governor of Kwara State”. That he is the head of the political thugs named Youths Liberation Movement covering about seven (7) local governments areas of Kwara South. “That he gets vehicle and monetary gifts etc from Senator Bukola Saraki through the Chief of Staff to the Governor of Kwara State; that the last money he got directly from Senator Bukola Saraki was five hundred thousand (N500,000) naira. “He made mention of some other thugs in Kwara Central with guns which Senator Bukola Saraki is sponsoring as Alhaji Alawo, Alhaji Dona, Alhaji Jawando, among others, that Senator Bukola Saraki supplies the armsand vehicles to the thugs; that everyone in Kwara Central fear them because of their guns and ability to kill anybody without hesitation.” “Furthermore, the suspect Ayoade Akinibosun, stated that the date you Senator Saraki visited Offa in sympathy with the victims to the palace of the Oba, that he and two other gang members were with you in the convoy. “In your response to the above allegations, you stated: “By virtue of my participation in politics, I have a large followership which makes it impossible for me to know all of them. I can say categorically that I am in no way associated with the vehicle mentioned in your letter nor have I given any arms to any thug or other persons in Kwara State or anywhere else. For the records, your letter under reference did not include the full text of the statements made by the accused persons.” The IG went on: “After a careful perusal of your letter to the Police, it was discovered that the statement requires further clarification and coupled with the fact that you stated that the full text of the statements of the suspects were not shown to you, it is imperative you to report to the Police to make further statements after giving you the full text of the statements of the suspects. “It is in line with the above that you are requested to report to the head of the Investigation Team at the Intelligence Response Team at Guzape Junction, Asokoro Extension Abuja on 24th of July, 2018 at 8am for further investigation on the matter.”