SWEDEN 1-0 SWITZERLAND     FT: There we have it, a fairly dull game until the second half added time, and it’s Emil Forsberg’s deflected goal that seals Sweden’s spot in the quarter-finals for the first time since 1994. Switzerland had their chance to press but their finishing was poor, and they have been punished. Home time for Shaqiri and co. GOAL! SWEDEN 1-0 SWITZERLAND (Forsberg, 66) FINALLY! There’s a breakthrough and hopefully it inspires a bit of quality in this now! Toivonen slips the ball to Forsberg across the top of the area who takes a few strides before striking – but the ball takes a big deflection off the foot of Akanji on the way through and beats Sommer in the net. A cruel blow for Switzerland but they have plenty of time to get back into this yet. HT: Chances for both sides in that first half, but there has been some terrible finishing plus a good save from Yann Sommer to keep Marcus Berg from netting the opening goal. As expected before the game, it has been tight between the two and this game is there for the taking. We have to have a winner this afternoon! WITZERLAND TEAM NEWS Team to play Sweden: Sommer, Lang, Djourou, Akanji, Rodriguez, Behrami, Xhaka, Shaqiri, Dzemaili, Zuber, Drmic. Subs: Mvogo, Burki, Moubandje, Elvedi, Freuler, Fernandes, Zakaria, Embolo, Seferovic, Gavranovic. SWEDEN TEAM NEWS Team to play Switzerland: Olsen, Lustig, Lindelof, Granqvist, Augustinsson, Claesson, Svensson, Ekdal, Forsberg, Berg, Toivonen. Subs: Johnsson, Nordfeldt, Olsson, Helander, Krafth, Jansson, Hiljemark, Rohden, Durmaz, Guidetti, Thelin. FOUR SWISS SWITCHES Switzerland have made four changes from their late 2-2 draw with Costa Rica last time out. Captain Stephan Lichtsteiner and Fabian Schar are suspended, so Michael Lang and Johan Djourou come into the XI. There are also changes up front with Bree Embolo and Mario Gavranovic making way for Steven Zuber and Josip Drmic. Sweden have made one change from the side that beat Mexico 3-0 in their final group game, with Seb Larsson suspended. He is replaced by Gustav Svensson. Captain Andreas Granqvist is in the XI with his wife due to give birth today. 