Chris McAllister, Managing Director, British American Tobacco Nigeria and West Africa, in this interview with IBRAHIM APEKHADE-YUSUF, speaks on his company’s commitment to the nation’s socioeconomic development vis-à-vis challenges besetting the tobacco trade. Excerpts:100 years of doing business in Nigeria We are a longstanding company that is ‘Proudly Nigerian’. We are deeply committed to the country. We recognise that there will be both good times and bad times. But over the long term, with the right government policies, the potential of Nigeria is enormous. The World Bank forecasts that by 2050, Nigeria will be the third most populous country in the World. It is already the largest economy in Africa. From the turn of the millennium to 2014, annual GDP growth was close to 10% and we expect a return to these levels over the medium term. Nigeria is a vibrant, entrepreneurial country with a rapidly expanding middle class. It is this combination of potential and real tangible signs of development that gives BAT Nigeria the confidence to continue to invest in our state-of-the art factory in Ibadan and our recently commissioned West African headquarters in Lagos. Outlook on the economy The current signs of economic recovery are very encouraging. The stability of the exchange rate and the return of consumer purchasing power are leading to a strong recovery in our domestic Nigerian business. Simultaneously our export business is going from strength to strength. We are now the second largest non-oil exporter in Nigeria exporting to 14 different countries. We are now investing in new machinery and recruit more skilled labourers to meet the growing demand. We are excited to be playing our part in the development and diversification of the Nigerian economy though industrialisation and exports. The current government has made a good start on economic reform with its published industrial strategy, commitment to infrastructure and pro-business ‘ease of doing business’ strategy. I would just urge the administration to be bolder, faster and more ambitious in its leadership of the development agenda. What recent increase in excise duties portends for the sector The excise hike, which came into force in June, is undoubtedly painful for the industry and for consumers alike. Notwithstanding, we recognise the need for the government to urgently invest in physical infrastructure in the interests of broader social development. Consequently, we stand ready to play our role as part of a wider initiative traders have returned to dominate the market. The country has suffered a sharp drop in excise revenue and is failing to achieve its stated public health objectives. We will continue to advocate that there should be collaboration and consultation between all relevant stakeholders for tax policies to be balanced and reasonable, reducing the potential for unintended consequences on both the economy and wider government objectives. What the e-cigarettes is all about Most organisations are constantly exploring new offerings for consumers and BATN is no exception. We are fully aware of the health risks from smoking and are actively investing in products which have the potential to reduce harm. One notable example is the emerging technology of e-cigarettes which produce vaporised nicotine without the harmful side effects from tobacco smoke. We will be launching our world leading range of e-cigarettes in Nigeria in the near future. Milestones achieved thus far In 2001, we signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the federal government and one of our commitments was to establish an independent charity organisation, which was the BATN Foundation in 2002. Initially, there was a broad scope of community projects – potable water supply, agricultural development, vocational skills development and sustainable environmental protection. However, in 2012, we repositioned the foundation to focus on one area – agricultural development that concentrates on smallholder farmers and supports the government’s agricultural agenda to guarantee food security, while encouraging entrepreneurial models of farming. A lot of non-governmental organisations fall into the trap of commencing a project and leaving it after the inauguration. This is not a sustainable model. In our case, to ensure the project is sustainable, we conduct a needs assessment in the selected locations; select the right farmers group that meet the criteria; monitor closely through the lifecycle of the project and conduct impact assessments after a few years. So far, with our intervention, the benefitting farmers have increased their capabilities and technical expertise, which is transferred to other crops. It has led to increased output per hectare of crop production, and improved market access as we provide market linkages and increased income and access to cash. On September 24, 2001, British American Tobacco Group signed an MoU with the federal government for the investment of $150m to build a state-of-the-art factory in Ibadan, Oyo State. We have worked with the government to reduce illicit trade from 80 per cent to about 20 per cent, and this is as a result of having a local manufacturing operations that stimulate a whole value chain of local tobacco growers, who grow other food crops in addition to tobacco, bringing in a local packaging company, which caused an additional investment in the country, employment of Nigerians in varying capacities and our foundation, which was a commitment. In addition to all these, we committed to being an exporter and currently, we are the largest exporter of consumer goods to 14 countries across West Africa and earning foreign exchange for the country. Escalating cost of doing business in Nigeria It is costly doing business in Nigeria, and this was discussed recently at the Manufacturers’ Association of Nigeria’s meeting. There are two big things – energy and the logistics needed to support moving goods across the country and different markets. Being an export organisation, we have to compete against other factories in these markets that do not have the same challenges. However, to manage our costs, we localise a lot of our operations – growing, packaging, manufacturing, etc. A number of our competitors who are transactional have challenges with the inflation and foreign exchange pressure. But due to our deep roots, we only see these challenges as opportunities. Future of BAT in Nigeria We hope to be here for another 100 years. We are very aspirational with a reputation we try to preserve. It is always a source of pride when some of our employees move on to other organisations in leadership roles. That is a legacy for us. We moved into a new building in Lagos, known as the Rising Sun, in November 2015. With that, we are creating a lasting legacy that demonstrates and serves as a reminder of our past successes, future ambitions and complete trust in Nigeria’s unfolding adventure.  As an economic development partner, we believe that by highlighting and celebrating the values and attributes that are unique to Nigeria, the private sector can assist the government to achieve its global objectives.