The 2018 Honours Day programme of the City of Knowledge Academy (CKA) Ijebu Ode was not the regular prize giving ceremony for outstanding pupils and teachers. It was specially organized to feature a theatre performance on the theme: “The Rights of a Child”. The Terra Kulture, Victoria Island was therefore a fitting venue for the programme which featured various dance  dramas and folk songs of some of the ethnic groups in Nigeria. The colourful event was graced by several dignitaries including Mrs Abimbola Fashola, wife of the Minster of Works, Power and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola, and Mr Adebola Wiliams, CEO of Red Africa, who was the guest speaker. In his address, Williams shared how he started his career as a teenager to encourage the pupils that they were not too young to dream and act on their dreams. “Youth is a gift that you must maximize.  It is a gift to find purpose and start making impact early in life.  Life is in three phases – morning, afternoon and evening. This is your morning time.  The morning is the best time – the time to capture all you need.  You can take lie easy until the age of 25.  After 25, you are not as risk taking, playful and free to do anything and fail and try again as you were.  In your evening time, you have seen everything. “When I was a teenager, I would have lunch with my afternoon and dinner with my evening.  I spent my time with older people.  I had in my morning time, the benefit of foresight so I could make decisions others at my age couldn’t,” he said. Williams urged them to pay the price for greatness; never stop dreaming, thinking, and believing in themselves. In her speech, the Head of School, Ms. Abiola Lamikanra said the five-year old school grooms its pupils to solve problems on their own. The colourful programme featured presentation of prizes to outstanding pupils, including Omasirichi Tasie Amadi, who had the highest Grade Point Average.  Others were: Sanaa Akindele (best in Science and Technology and ICT), Aple Uwaifor, best in Art/Design/Creativity, and Ebunoluwa Bella (best in Music, Dance and Performance). Many other pupils and teachers were rewarded at the event. 