•Confirms moves by APC leaders to resolve Imo crisis Former Governor of Abia State, Dr. Orji Uzor Kalu, at the weekend, broke his silence over the face-off between him and his successor, Senator Theodor Orji, assuring that he has forgiven the estranged former political associate. Until now, Kalu, who governed Abia State for eight years, between 1999 and 2007, when he handed over power to Orji, who served as his Chief of Staff, has declined making direct statements on their soured relationship. Recalling how his relationship with his successor got bitter, Kalu told The Nation, in an exclusive interview in Lagos at the weekend, that he did not offend Orji in anyway.  “As for the former governor, T. A. Orji, my conscience is clear. I did nothing wrong to him. I did not offend him in any way. This man was in jail and I insisted that he should succeed me as governor. To achieve that, I fought everybody, including the then President Olusegun Obasanjo. At a point they asked me to put my younger brother’s name as the governor instead of Orji and I refused. I made him governor, yet he said all sorts of things against me.” Kalu, who is now a chieftain of All Progressives Congress (APC), however said he has forgiven Orji, explaining that he is moving forward. “I have forgiven him. I have nothing against him in my mind. I have moved forward. I thank God that I am alive today to tell this story. I thank God that I was able to stand and help someone. He never knew how the battle to make him governor was fought and won,” he added. The APC chieftain also explained what the Southeast leaders of the party are doing currently to resolve the Imo crisis. “I believe we are a family and should work together. But allegation about siding one side is not true. People should be sincere. I am not for or against any side in this matter. What I want and what the leaders of APC in the Southeast want is peace in the family so that the party will win elections. I can assure you that our leaders, Dr. Ogbonnaya Onu, Senator Ken Nnamani and the others are on it. They are now working round the clock to settle the frictions in Imo, Enugu and so on. It is a family destined to win, so we will work together and win,” he said. (See full interview on pages 14 and 15). 