•Says party will give economy, unity, security new lease of life 
•Secondus: PDP’ll end cycle of bloodletting Former Vice President Atiku Abubakar said yesterday that he is back in the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) to reclaim what belongs to the party. Atiku who was formally launching his bid for the party’s presidential ticket for next year’s election said the PDP would revamp the economy, re-unite the country and secure the lives and properties of Nigerians. The  former vice president delivered a 17-line speech in which he aimed barbs at the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), and  appealed   to “all of you wherever you may be that it is time to now re-embrace the party that has given us unity, prosperity and security in this country.” He said the APC government has failed, “to unite Nigerians. Today we are more divided than in any time in the history of this country.” Economic growth, according to him has gone down to less than 2% from 7%, adding: “Today we are witnessing the most insecure situation in Nigeria ever since APC took over. “More people have died in Nigeria under the APC than in Iran and Afghanistan. Is that what you want? “Today we have the highest unemployment rate in this country. More than 10 million of our people have been made unemployed under the watch of the APC administration. Is that what you want? “Now what the PDP is going to do is to restore our economy, to unite our country, to ensure we have security of lives and property. “My fellow brothers and sisters of Adamawa State, it’s time we take back our state PDP! Power!” National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, was among party stalwarts at the Ribadu Square, Yola, Adamawa State to witness the declaration. He said at the event that a rebranded and repositioned PDP is clearly the party of choice determined and ready to rescue Nigeria from the hands of APC. “PDP is determined to end the circle of continued bloodletting in the country,” he said. “A sign of a drowning party, the APC administration is threatening everybody, the lives of Reformed-APC leaders are now in danger but we are not afraid, they can’t kill everybody.” 