The Kwara state government said it has, between 2009 and 2018 expended over N6.5 billion on water reticulation scheme in the state. The efforts are aimed at tackling perennial water scarcity in Ilorin and its environs. Addressing reporters at the weekend in Ilorin, the state capital, Commissioner for Water Resources Alhaji Abdulkadir Yusuf said that a sum of N1.9 billion was also captured in the 2018 budget to be spent on tertiary water reticulation in some parts of the state to ensure regular supply of potable water. The commissioner was accompanied by some other aides of the governor, a consultant to the state government on the water rehabilitation project, Prof Sulaiman Adeyemi Prof Adeyemi said that water challenge had lingered for so long in the metropolis because of the need to provide adequate water production, renewal of water distribution network, increase storage capacity, restoration of old pipes, and provision of adequate water treatment plant. The water expert, who said that the state government, since 2003, had been able to double water treatment capacity in the metropolis, added that water connection to communities, particularly in the Ilorin metropolis, would be commissioned in September. Prof Adeyemi explained that water provision project, is in primary,  secondary and tertiary stages. He added that homes would have opportunity to connect to state water corporation pipes after completion of the tertiary water reticulation scheme. He, however, said that the state government would still need to carry out a lot of investment in water project in the near future with daily expansion of the Ilorin metropolis and other parts of the state with attendant increased population. The commissioner, who urged residents of the state to be prepared to pay a token to get regular provision of potable water in their homes, said that dirty water may be cheap, adding that potable water cannot be free and cheaper than that got from water vendor. The commissioner said that administration of Dr.  Bukola Saraki expended about N3.7 billion on water scheme in the state, adding that the present government had spent over N2.4 billion on the scheme while about N858million was spent through infrastructural fund programme of the state government.