The report of the Ad Hoc Committee investigating the incidence of the Senate Chamber invasion was considered Tuesday and 10 of the 11 recommendations were approved and adopted by the lawmakers. The report which was laid in the House Tuesday by the joint Chairperson of the Committee Hon. Betty Apiafi on Wednesday 5th July, 2018 and considered in the Committee of the Whole Tuesday asked for “the immediate suspension of Sen. Ovie Omo- Agege for 180 Legislative sitting days in line with Section 14(2) of the legislative Houses (Powers and Privileges) Act, 2017.” Other recommendations asked for the “immediate prosecution of Senator Omo- Agege and the 6 other suspects for treasonable felony, assault occasioning harm, conspiracy to steal and actual theft of the mace, the symbol of authority of the Parliament; “That Senator Omo- Agege be prosecuted for incitement and breach of peace in the Chamber of the Senate and contempt ex- facie; “the prosecution of Senator Omo- Agege and the six others for obstructing and assaulting officers of the National Assembly in the course of their duty contrary to section 14(1)(C)  of the Legislative Houses ( Powers and Privileges) which states ‘Any member of a Legislative House who assaults or obstructs any officer of the Legislative House while in the execution of his duty shall be guilty of contempt of. Legislative House’ and should be dealt with in accordance with the provision of the law; “That the Nigeria Police’s preliminary investigation on the issue should be concluded to allow for prosecution.” The recommendations further state ” that the management of National Assembly should, as a matter of urgency, review the existing Security Operational Procedure  and indeed the entire Security architecture with a view to improving  the capacity of the Sergeants- at- Arm to enable them take the lead in providing security and encouraging synergy among other agencies to assist in complimentary roles; “And introduce electronic gate screening mechanism with capacity to automatically process authorized persons to Jain access into and out of the National Assembly Complex. “That members should accord the Security Operative the required courtesy and cooperation to enable them discharge their responsibilities effectively and efficiently.” The report commended the House of Representatives, the international community, the media and other well- meaning individuals for their show of support in the side of Senate when “democracy was threatened”. It also recommended for special compensation staff of the Senate Chamber namely Sandra Davou, Chuks Egemuka, Hussaini Yuri, as well as  Timothy Omale and Jacob James Idoko of the House of Representatives Chamber ” who did their best to retrieve the Mace but were overpowered by the thugs. Finally, the report commended the Deputy Senate President and the entire Senate “for refusing to be intimidated by the invasion and upholding their oath of office as prescribed in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria 1999 (as amended.)” Recall that on April 18, 2018, a set of thugs gained entry into the Senate chamber while it was in session and carted the mace away. The Mace was allegedly seen some days later around the Abuja City gate The National Assembly thereafter set up an ad hoc committee with Senator Bala Ibn Na’Allah and Hon. Betty Apiafi as co- Chairmen to investigate the circumstances surrounding the theft of the Mace and come up with recommendations.  