Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State, on Thursday assured young entrepreneurs in the state of the commitment of his administration to provide environment that would enable their businesses to thrive. The governor gave the assurance in a statement signed by the Senior Special Assistant, Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Temiwunmi Tope-Banjoko in Lagos. According to Akinwunmi, his administration has pledged that it will continue to pay greater attention to the growth of young entrepreneurs in the state. “Young entrepreneurs should not push aside their ideas and innovations but understand the rudiments of what they want to embark upon. “The attention from government will also be backed up with an enabling environment and friendly policies that will enhance success of the entrepreneurs’ business initiatives,” he said. He said that the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) was established to ensure financial support for the residents of the state to tackle unemployment and wealth creations. Ambode said the LSETF was also for all young entrepreneurs, without any bureaucracy, for them to meet up with the required criteria. The governor said that the Yaba Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Hub was built as a platform for the congregation of technology and innovative entrepreneurs, capital, infrastructure and allied services for germination. Others he said were for acceleration, penetration and adoption of IT and innovation in up scaling business, administrative functionalities and the ease of daily living. He further urged young entrepreneurial not to sheathe their ideas and innovations but ensure they that did not jump into any business without knowing fully, the rudiments guiding such business. The governor also advised the young entrepreneurs to tap into exhibitions like the TEXPO Technology Exhibition programme that was recently organised. He counselled them to mingle with mentors who could set them on the right path of establishing a business and accomplish their innovations. He also said that such effort could enable them have access to investors that would aid their businesses. The Coordinator of TEXPO, Mr Adetolani Eko, said the annual event was aimed at encouraging young and innovative technology entrepreneurs in Nigeria and Africa. Eko the exercise this was to ensure that young and innovative technology entrepreneurs were a force to reckon with in the world technology market. “This gives stakeholders the ecosystem, an opportunity to interact and showcase their products as it features industry influencers, exhibitors and potential investors. “Youths should not pockets their innovations but continue to strive for its accomplishment,” he said.  NAN