A gubernatorial hopeful on the platform of the All Progressives Congress in Oyo State, Dr. Olusola Ayandele, has disclosed that the weekend victory of Dr. Kayode Fayemi in the Ekiti State governorship election was a good omen for the quick restoration of lost values which made the South Western part of the country the envy of others. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), in the early hours of Sunday, declared Dr. Fayemi the winner of the keenly contested election of July 14, 2019 after the former governor had scored the highest number of lawful votes to defeat his closest rival, Prof. Kolapo Olushola of the PDP and 33 other candidates from various political parties. In his congratulatory message contained in a statement issued on Sunday and made available by the Director-General of his campaign organization, Hon. Ademola Ojo, Dr. Ayandele described Fayemi’s second coming as Ekiti State’s helmsman this time as a golden opportunity to facilitate the cause of regional integration of the Yoruba in the south west geo-political zone. He said, “The emergence of the immediate former minister of solid minerals is highly desirable at this time when the South West, which the whole world looks up to as the pathfinder, needs to present its first eleven to champion the cause of national rebirth and thus enable the country reclaim its position as the true giant of Africa. Read Also: Ekiti APC urges Fayose, Olusola to accept defeat in good faith “In the global community, it is believed that Nigeria is blessed with enormous human resources and little or no explanation has always been welcome for the nation’s backwardness on account of poor leadership. In view of this, the trend would change for the better if each of the six south west states could throw up their best as governors. “Fortunately, the Ekiti success story of last Saturday would begin to propel the Yoruba nation to realize its full potential as we now have a full squad of great minds in all our governors. Meanwhile, we are using this opportunity to call on the electorate in Osun State to toe the line of decency and vote for another capable hand to be nominated by the APC as Gov. Aregbesola’s successor in the coming governorship poll. “While we congratulate the good people of Ekiti State for reclaiming their land from charlatans and divisive elements, it is imperative to charge the governor-elect to be magnanimous in victory as he reaches out to all stakeholders in the build-up to the process of restoring lost glory, rediscovering greater value and transforming the Land of Virtue sooner than expected.” Ayandele stated.