Some days back, the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, the one his aides and admirer still refer to as Comrade even after serving two terms as governor of Edo State, took a step unprecedented, at least to the best of my knowledge.  Oshiomhole wrote ministers who have refused to inaugurated boards of some government agencies. When I read of the letter, I simply said a new Sheriff was in town. Oshiomhole is asserting himself as the chairman of the party, to which members, including ministers, must listen. The inaction of some of these ministers over this matter has denied Nigerians the opportunity of knowing what the likes of Chief Frank Kokori can contribute to the nation. Kokori parades sterling credentials from institutions, such as the University of Ibadan and the Institute of Social Studies, The Haque Netherland (ISS) where he bagged a master’s degree (M.A) in Labour and Development Studies in 1984. Kokori was conferred with the fellowship of the Petroleum Training Institute (FPTI). For 22 years, he was the Secretary General and Chief Executive Officer of NUPENG, which, for me, was Nigeria’s most visible trade union. Kokori is a recipient of several national and international awards, such as the revered George Meany Labour/Human Right award by the American Federation of Labour/Congress of Industrial Organisation (AFL/CIO) for the most outstanding Labour Leader in the world for 1996 and the Febe Elizabeth Valasquez Trade Union/Human Right Award of the Dutch Labour Federation (FNV) for the most outstanding Labour Activist and Human Right Crusader in the world for 1998. He was declared Prisoner of Conscience by the late Nelson Mandela and Pope Saint John Paul II in 1997. Kokori contributed greatly to the struggle for democracy, a development which made the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Amnesty International (AI) and labour federations across the globe declare him prisoner of conscience between August 1994 and June 1998. Kokori was in solitary confinement for four consecutive years in the infamous Bama Prison. He was just dumped there with no charges preferred against him by the evil regime of Gen. Sani Abacha. As the secretary-general of the NUPENG, an affiliate of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), Kokori shone. The NLC was divided and could not provide direction. There was no unity of purpose on the need to challenge the poison Babangida forced down our throats. Kokori provided leadership by rallying oil workers to challenge the annulment. His action provided tonic for the activities of other pro-democracy forces and it was not surprising that the Abacha junta saw him as an enemy that must be cut to size. That we still have him alive now can only be a result of God’s abiding grace. It was thus understandable that Kokori was ecstatic about the declaration of June 12 as Democracy Day and the honour done Chief M.K.O. Abiola who won the June 12, 1993 election, which Babangida shamelessly annulled and still tries to justify till this day. In a statement thanking President Muhamamdu Buhari for the justice done on June 12, Kokori said: “First of all I thank God for everything, I thank God that today the country has finally come to end that big controversy about June 12 and May 29. I thank the president for doing that, at least, at this time. He was the least person I actually expected to do this because we had expected that during the 8 years of President Obasanjo, with the pressure at that time, with Gani Faweyinmi still alive, with people like us still active, we thought he would declare that day the national democracy day and make it a public holiday. “I am the happiest man in this country today because I now realise that the struggle we made, especially my union; NUPENG and PENGASSAN, was not in vain and most of us who suffered terrible deprivation at that time. I am happy to be alive this day. They even said it is above October 1 because that was the day that we really fought for freedom and I have always said it everywhere. I am one of the happiest people on earth today and I appreciate this government because it is this government to come to realise the importance of that day. “Before it used to be only Lagos and some Yoruba state that were recognising it, but now it is a national holiday. What a good news for me and those of us who are still alive, who fought in that struggle in the civil society and labour. I give a special tribute to my union; NUPENG and PENGASSAN. We suffered deprivation, just as people must suffer deprivation in struggle and some will pay the supreme sacrifice. “This is to say that no matter how long injustice lasts, at the end of the day goodness and truth will triumph. That is what has happened to us today. The significance for Nigerians is that it tells us that when you struggle for your country, such struggles are never in vain. Many have mocked us that we have been forgotten, they say those who never struggled for democracy are the ones enjoying our democracy today. “Today we have been recognised and though I’m no more in the union, I will want NUPENG to get involved in this from now on; all June 12, NUPENG can come out and flaunt their muscles that they were the heroes and the arrowhead of that struggle.” Not less than eight months after Buhari appointed this great man the chairman of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF), the board remains not inaugurated. The Urhobo Patriotic and Transparent Movement to recently urged Minister of Labour and Employment Dr. Chris Ngige to inaugurate the board so that Nigeria can benefit from his wealth of experience. The group said: “Chief Frank Kokori was incarcerated for several years by late Gen. Sani Abacha while he was the Secretary General of NUPENG for refusing to call off a nationwide strike that crippled the Nigerian economy over Abiola’s June 12 struggle, it is the same person that is being denied what is due for him. “President Buhari appointing Chief Frank Ovie Kokori as Chairman of NSITF was as a result of the confidence and trust he repose on him as a credible statesman whose credibility is guaranteed owing to the fact that his unique leadership qualities and roles and positions he has held while in active service.” My final take: Now, Oshiomhole has added his voice to the need for Kokori and others to be inaugurated. There should be no further delay. I believe he has a lot to offer Nigeria and he should be given all the support to serve us. Anyone standing against us benefitting from this outstanding Nigerian should have a change of mind and let us have the benefit of the Kokori touch at NSITF.  