Ekiti State Governor-elect, Kayode Fayemi, on Thursday explained why his administration would look into the financial records of the outgoing Governor Ayo Fayose’s administration. He spoke with State House correspondents after meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari behind closed-doors at the Presidential Villa, Abuja. Fayemi also denied the accusation that his party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), was involved in vote buying during the July 14 governorship election in the state. According to him, the essence of looking into the financial records of the state was not targeted at the outgoing governor, but to find out why the government was unable to pay workers’ salaries. He said: “We are in the business of putting the government together. We are in the transition stage and we are beginning to look into the record of the state, its assets and liabilities. We expect the outgoing government to extend its hands of cooperation to us. “We will engage also all of our professionals to ensure that we deliver good governance to Ekiti people. That is what they voted for and that is what we intend to give. So, basically, these three months will be used for this purpose. “What sold us to the people were really the track records of our commitments to social investment, good government, transparency in government, extensive infrastructure and community involvement. These were the things. “Everywhere we went during the campaign, we were able to show what we did for each community. All of our 132 communities, there were projects in all of them and they knew that our government was regular in payment of salaries and support to the weak and vulnerable in the society. That was what really sold us. “We have always been interested in seeing that our people live a decent life, a life without hunger, with social support and that is why we were paying social security benefits to the elderly. We provided youth graduate scheme for the recent graduates and provided support for the communities. “For us, we never saw stomach infrastructure from any pedestrian manner that the current administration has lived it up to. For us, it is about total development of our people, human and capital development in education, health care, in social services and infrastructure development.”  