Elder George Tunde Adedeji is a governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). Associate Editor, Sam Egburonu. Reports on his vision for the state as party goes for the primary election AS the All Progressives Congress (APC) prepares for its governorship primaries, which, according to the Chairman of the party in the state, Mr. Gboyega Famodun, will feature not less than 27 contestants, observers have been curious to know the vision of the aspirants ahead of the primary. One of the visible aspirants for the party’s governorship ticket, Elder George Tunde Adedeji, who recently released his manifesto, told The Nation that if he gets the party’s ticket and wins the election, he will, amongst others, “banish hunger in Osun.” In his manifesto, tagged “A Four Cardinal Programme,” the Director of Skyrun Cocoa Processing Company, Ede, said he will prioritise agriculture, education, health and human development/empowerment of the citizenry. “On agriculture, agroindustry and agribusiness, “my vision is to make Osun the food basket and banish hunger totally. Our good intentioned government will prioritise agriculture; revive the old and existing agricultural settlements across the state; empower the farmers with financial and agricultural tools, including insecticides and pesticide; set up commodity exchange for regulation and coordination of agricultural products; assist in establishing a network of multipurpose cooperative society and encourage setting up of agroindustry and agribusiness in all the previously mapped out nine industrial estates in the state,” he said. Adedeji’s vision for education, according to him, is “to encourage technical and skilled based education from primary to tertiary level to engender multiplier effects. My government, if given the mandate; shall fashion out curricula that will accommodate and have in-built skill acquisition and self- reliance; create attitudinal reorientation in our pupils and students for value sake; train and retrain the teachers to attune with present-day reality of ICT; attitudinal reorientation and value management; establish loans and scholarship boards that will cater for the needs of brilliant and indigent students; parents and re-orient guardians towards reality in the educational system. I will also discourage bad side of sharp and unwholesome practices; reward dedicated and exceptional teachers commensurately and institute various awards for the stakeholders in educational system. Adedeji also believes so much still needs to be done in the area of health services. “I want to make health services available, affordable and comprehensively standard; make primary health care a priority; rehabilitate and equip all our health centres with modern facilitates; absorb all trained health workers and train more hands, encourage health personnel in the state with necessary incentives and of course ensure regular and periodic training and retraining programmes. Another sector that the aspirant promises would engage the government attention if he gets the party ticket and wins the election is human resources development and empowerment of citizenry. As he puts it: “the HRD of my administration is especially designed to boost self-esteem of state workers by evolving a policy framework that will guarantee an enviable, sustainable and enduring career success; give the state work force sense of belonging and belongingness, make civil servants proud of their chosen career; ensure regular training (Local and International) for value addition; encourage exchange programmes between our workers on one hand and workers in other climes. He will also like to implement what he describes as “a comprehensive empowerment policy, to make our people to be self-reliant and self-sustaining for better living.” He explained the motivating factor this way: “Idle hand, they say, is devils workshop; genealogically, our people are known to be hardworking and dedicated citizens. Our government shall provide enabling environment that is conducive and encouraging; put in place entrepreneurial development opportunities in which the people; the youth, women, widows, widowers, the physically challenged, unemployed and underemployed can key into and sustain themselves. We shall provide skill acquisition centres; encourage cooperative movement with enabling policies; facilitate easy access to affordable loans and encourage regular training of our people on skill acquisition and entrepreneurial development opportunities. The retirees will be treated with respect and their entitlements paid as at when due. The technocrat also pledged to make a difference in some specific areas, including provision of road infrastructural facilities. “Our vision is to provide standard road network in towns and cities with feeder roads linking our rural areas; ensure periodic and regular maintenance of our roads; empower and encourage road transport workers and their unions with access to loanable funds to buy and maintain their vehicles for economic and social values,” he said. Other areas where the aspirant expresses peculiar interest include culture, tourism and security. “We have plans to transform our rich culture to wealth; support Culture and Tourism Ministries in all ramifications; rejuvenate Yoruba culture by empowering the custodians, promote our culture to enviable level, reconnect with the Yoruba in diaspora, modernise all our tourist centres and interact favourably with other cultures within and outside the country. “On security, we will “ ensure the state is conducive for peaceful co-habitation; we shall fortify the existing security; train and retrain the personnel locally and internationally; see to the general welfare of men and officers; be proactive on all security issues,” he said. Citing his experience in the private sector and his political career, as evidence that he is prepared for the job, he said; “if given the mandate to serve you, I intend to lead an all-inclusive government, bridge the gap between the rich and poor. In addition, our government shall encourage the women folk by reserving 40 percent of appointment for them. We shall also provide developmental initiatives that are sustainable and positively impactful on the generality of our people. I am committed to building a state where there will be economic buoyancy, a hub of modern development and haven of investors as well as bee-hive of business investments and employment generation activities; above all, a place of peaceful co-habitation and brotherly love.” In an earlier interview, where he also talked about his qualification for the job, Adedeji had said: “I have what it takes in terms of exposure, education and vision to lead Osun State to the next level of development. I have been in politics since 1998. Prior to that, I was active in student politics, a king maker and parliamentarian during my days in University of Ife (now Obafemi Awolowo University Ile-Ife (OAU)). Nobody could have been president of the Students Union without my input. “I attempted the House of Representatives in 1999 and my ticket was ceded to a former Speaker of the House of Representatives. I cooperated with Chief Bisi Akande, our great leader, political father, mentor and great coach. “I have been a loyal party man. I have gained a lot from our progressive leaders. I am a key player in Osun politics. The greatest travail of the progressives was the struggle for the actualisation of the mandate of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. I am glad that I was part of the process. I am able to mix maximally with different kinds of people youth, women, the old, privileged and under privileged. “I have a lot of contacts both locally and internationally that can be harnessed to bring in the much needed investment to develop the state. I served as the chairman of two companies within the Oodua Group of Companies, Askar Paints Nigeria Limited and Wrought Iron Nigeria Limited. I want to leave a legacy of good governance.” It remains to be seen, who will eventually win the primary election and step into Ogbeni Aregbesola’s shoes. One thing seems certain though, Adedeji, a grassroots politician, has emerged a frontrunner in the APC primary election.