Chairman, Pacesetters Schools, Abuja, Kenneth Imansuangbon, has urged the armed forces to be united. Imansuangbon spoke at the graduation of Pacesetters Group of Schools, last Saturday, in Abuja. He advised the armed forces and police not to abide by religious or tribal sentiment, but be loyal to the country. He said: “Hearing that the police and armed forces are divided among religious lines is a shame. “When you become a soldier you have sold yourself to your country, not religion or tribe, or group of people. “We must stop this hatred. Other countries are moving forward in scientific research and explorations, yet we are still murdering ourselves.” Regarding the graduating pupils, he said they had been trained and taught to overcome and succeed despite the odds. He counseled them to shine in all endeavours. “My message to the children should rule and conquer their world. “The coming world will rely on brains. It will not matter then who your father or mother is or was but what you can offer to the world and Nigeria,” he said. He went on to implore citizens to support President Muhammadu Buhari, regardless of personal political affiliation, as a method to bring about peace until the 2019 elections. Also speaking on the occasion, the Catholic Bishop of Sokoto Diocese, Mathew Kukah, whose speech titled ‘Nigeria: One Country, One Nation, One Destiny’ was delivered by a pupil, condemned the violence in the country. “We need to put this ugly past behind us. Prayers are good but they are not enough. “We have a bunch of brilliant young people here. We have to create a future for them,” he said. Former Speaker, House of Representatives, Ghali Na’Abba, also at the event, commended Pacesetters Schools for setting a standard and assisting the children by providing quality education. “Education is a necessary component of human development this is a very wonderful school. The teachers are good and so are the facilities. “The proprietor is interested in them, not for the money but for the training. Scholarships are offered to the students who are indigenes,” he said.