THE look on the faces of my August visitors was alarming, except my friend who brought them. It was such a pitiable sight that the rector broke into tears, I was not moved. I was used to such a condition. If they were crying when they came to wake me up from my slumber, what would they still have done if it was the day a cobra came to feel my body temperature? Or the day I was forced to share the big plastic storage with maggots due to the heavy rain? Anyway, poverty itself was afraid of me because it knew that I was unshaken. I no longer pity myself; my concern was how to make something out of nothing. That night, the rector took me to his house. His wife had already prepared a very hot meal for me. I devoured it the way a hungry vulture devoured a fresh dead body. I was taken to a room at the back of the house where the mother in-law was staying with other extended family members. It was a bungalow with six rooms, by the left after you enter is the guest toilet. Very big and neat!  The building was painted green which made it closer to the well cut grass planted there. Mama Iragbiji, as the mother in law was fondly called, was tall and beautiful. Though elderly, you could see some elements of   modernity in her and her surroundings. Despite, it was in the night, I could see the tribal marks on her cheeks. She held unto me as if she had known for a long time. She asked of my town and when I told her Ofa in Kwara State, she started singing my forefathers’ lyrics; it was at this junction I lost my emotions. I started shedding tears, and they were flowing freely. I could not hold back the tears or control my emotions. She too burst into tears and held me very close as if I was her long lost child. After the whole show, I was taken to my room, a big one to be shared with Risikatu, who is a niece of the rector. Her father I learnt lives in Ivory Coast. She was brought home in order to learn about our Yoruba culture, acculturate herself to her real native environment. She was slim and I wonder if she ever ate at all. She put white powder on her face that night which made her look like ‘ ojuju calabar’. She had a soft voice, and again I wondered if she would not belong to the choristers’ club.  She became my friend instantly. Immediately we entered the room, she showed me my bed because there were two beds in the room. Very big and soft when I touched mine! She also told me where the toilet was in case I wanted to ease myself in the night. There was an old air conditioner by the right corner of the room. Risikatu asked if I wanted it on or off. I just laughed within myself, when did it become a must that I must use this? In my other room in the school bukataria, my air conditioner was the night breeze that gives me goose pimples at night. Per the light, she also wanted to know if I wanted the light on or be put off. Hmmmmm, life changes! I slept like a log of wood and didn’t know when the day broke. The bed was soft, the room was warm and beneath this s the fact that I didn’t need to be half asleep thinking that something was coming to devour me. I was thinking of my life. I was thinking of going back to my former abode the next day. I thought of many things, how some people were out there slugging it out with fate via cold and loneliness. And same fate was playing servant to those that could afford the luxury like the rector and his family. I did not know when I slept off. I wanted to visit the toilet and looked at the time, behold, it was quarter to eight. I jumped out of the bed in a hurry. In my other house, I must wake up by 5am; take my bath so that the owner of the kiosks wouldn’t know I slept there. And if they must know, my presence would not be an impediment to their businesses. As I jumped out of the bed, I noticed there were some faces looking at me by the entrance door I cleared my eyes, then rubbed. It was the Rector, his wife and mama Iragbiji. I knelt down to greet them and asked where the broom was in order to clean the house before going back to my abode.  But what came out of their mouth surprised me. It was one of the turning points of my life, hence the need to burst into crying again. “Good morning Sir and Ma. Thanks form the reception. E seun Sir,” I beckoned to all of them. “How are you? Hope you had a sound sleep? It was the rector’s wife. “Yes Ma, I did. Appreciation once again Ma,” I replied shyly. “Omo mi baby girl, Omo Olofamojo, the great granddaughter of the greatest warriors. Hope you were not disturbed by the noisy generator? Mama Iragbiji asked me, as she came closer to hold me again. “I am grateful Mama. Let me help with the cleaning so that I can go away……” ‘Haaa, go where again” Tunji, come here your daughter wants to go away”. Mama told the rector as they closed the door to go back to the main building. “ Tunji, maybe you should explain to her,” the wife whom I later started calling Aunty Emily told her husband. “Listen and listen carefully. You will start living here as from now. We can’t close our eyes to your plight. I have told my wife to get you some dresses and some toiletries. Once you are done with that, we will fix your educational needs,” the rector said like a real teacher he was, without waiting for me to say no. “ Thanks a lot ma and sir…….” I mustered courage to say it without shedding tears; the wife cut me short. “ Or you don’t like our environment? Even if you don’t like it, we won’t allow you to go back to the cold again. Never . It’s either you stay here with us or go to the female hostel to stay. Is that clear? Madam asked “ It’s clear Ma, I like here but I don’t want to be a burden to you and your family” “I understand, don’t worry, you see what I told you Tunji hours back; this girl is a virtuous one. I pray she gets good husband when it’s time for her to choose,” Mama Iragbiji said. “Mama, you and husband! Hope you won’t force her to marry our President so far you want a good husband for her” The following day, my friends were surprised to see me in one of the cars owned by the Rector. I sat at the owner’s seat as Kerekou drove me to my department. News spread wider of my new status. And many were amazed that despite my condition, it was hard to know that I have no place to call my own. Well, that is their story or thesis, life continues in splendor. I was mindful of where I was coming from; this guarded me by not falling short of good behaviour in my rector’s house. This was how I became part of the family. Life was good. I had a place to lay my head. Good food to eat, nice and decent folks to call mine. My self- confidence was restored. I got new friends, but I didn’t discard my old ones because they were there for me in terms of need. Our rector’s always host different types of parties and at these part, we all had more than enough to eat. Risikatu and I were always pilling the leftovers and store in the large deep freezer by the exit door leading to the generator’s house.   Many times we did include Yisira, the house maid and Alam, the gateman in the sharing formula. I wrote a long letter to my parents to intimate them of my new success. They were happy and they wrote a long and beautiful letter to my guardian which they cherished! At each party, Aunty Emily, the rector’s wife will cloth me and make me look beautiful. There was a day I looked at myself in the mirror that it was unbelievable I was the one. If I couldn’t believe my eyes about my new appearance, how many people then would do? Asides this, I had more than six bags of clothes that Aunty gave me. Beautiful ones! The beauty of it was that we wor same esize. Risikatu was too skinny to wear them, And trust Risi, she is a termite when it comes to eating. She can eat twenty times daily. The rectors International Festival was being hosted in our school. Ramani Ogundipe came with his a father, a multibillionaire with hands in exporting. They were known across Ilesa and environs. It was at the cocktail party Aunty Emily organized that we met. This was the new dimension to my life. ( To be continued)