The Lagos State AIDS Control Agency (LSACA) Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr. Oluseyi Temowo, has called on the private sector to assist the government in funding HIV response. Temowo said this in an interview after attending the second  yearly legislative summit on legislative network for Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Abuja. He appreciated government efforts in working towards having  one per cent Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) for Universal Basic Health Coverage for in the states, but added that it would do the citizens more good if the private sector could contribute to complement government’s efforts in funding HIV/AIDS through their Corporate Social Responsibility Fund (CSR). He said in line with the  agency’s vision of mitigating the effect of HIV/AIDS on those infected and affected, the agency has mounted effective campaign for the reduction of HIV prevalence in Lagos State through behavioural change communication (BCC) and hope to do more. Temowo said, in recognition of the global trend in HIV intervention, which is to eliminate new infections , discrimination and AIDS related deaths, the agency has scaled-up community outreach campaign of HIV  Testing Services (HTS) for early detection and treatment in order to achieve the virus eradication in the state by 2030, using the  90-90-90 initiative which means- 90 per cent of the people must know their HIV status, 90 per cent of those that know their status must  have access to Anti-retroviral treatment and 90 per cent on Anti-retroviral treatment must have suppressed viral load of those living with it and would not be able to infect others. In another development,  Temowo was optimistic that the state can end HIV epidemic by 2030 with its professional human and material resources cum more enlightenment campaign, adding that by taking the message of prevention to the rural areas and engaging the religious, opinion and community leaders and members the more, for them to understand the reason for the prevalence to be low, will aid prevention He made this known at this year’s International Conference on HIV/AIDS organised by the International AIDS Society in Amsterdam, The Netherlands. The conference, he said, focused on the global perspective of ending HIV/AIDS by 2030. To achieve this, he maintained that focus must be more on differentiated services at the  three areas of the 90-90-90 initiative to allow full scale delivery of services  at all levels and emphasis collaborated efforts of all the sectors. By so doing, Temowo reasoned that the target would be met fast. “It is imperative to keep on supporting the UN 90-90-90 initiative by strengthening the tool of collaboration among Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) at different levels of their interventions to meet the target,”he said. He, however, appealed to chairmen of local governments  and the local council development areas to consider HIV/AIDS funding as a priority for better intervention and prevention.