…they are extorting Edo people Over 500 job seekers in Edo State have been reaped of over N10m from a consulting firm claiming to be recruiting environmental officials for the Edo State Government. The firm known as KAI Environment operates from Bins Hotel along Ekenwan Road in Oredo local government area. Investigations showed that prospective job seekers are made to part with N2000 for registration, N2000 for handouts during training and N15, 000 for uniforms. It was gathered that a first batch of 150 persons have already concluded training and waiting to be dispatch to their place of work. A visit to the Bins hotel Monday revealed that many persons were driving to the hotel to buy forms for their friends and relatives while others were seen undergoing interview session. In the poster advertising for available jobs, the firm said it is promoting healthy environment with the Edo State Government on environment matters. Our reporter who posed as a job seeker met with one Franklyn Nwachukwu who said he is a disciplinary officer of the firm. It was observed that new recruits pay salute to the Franklyn whenever they are passing by. Franklyn said his boss was recruiting youths with the permission of the state government through the Ministry of Environment and Sustainability. He said their target is to recruit 500 persons across the state and they would be made to write examination as well as undergo physical fitness. According to him, “We will be responsible for ensuring that people put dirt in Waste bins even when they are inside the vehicle. We will put waste basket in every parts of the state. “We have not posted people out. We are still collecting credentials. We are recruiting for the state government. Without the state government approval, we will not be here. “Officials of the Ministry of Environment were here to talk to the recruits even Road safety people were here. People are to pay for forms and uniform. They can go and buy their boot.” However, officials at the Ministry of Environment and Sustainability said the firm has not been given the nod to carry out at recruited exercise. The officials who pleaded anonymity said the firm’s proposal to Governor Godwin Obaseki was sent to them for further discussion. According to the source, “We are still talking but we were surprised to hear that they are recruiting people and collecting money. However good their intentions are, they should have waited. When contacted for comments, Edo State Commissioner for Environment and Sustainability, Omoua Alonge Oni-Okpaku, said the firm was carrying out illegal and criminal recruitment exercise. Oni-Okpaku said the firm has no approval from the state government to recruit on its behalf. In her words, “We heard they are selling forms and collecting forms from job seekers which is criminal and illegal. “They don’t have documents authorizing them to act on behalf of government. What they are doing is simply extortion. “We have people registered under Edo jobs where we can pull from whenever the need arises. It does not make sense for government to now give job recruitment to outsiders. We understand they are from Lagos State.”