FORMER President Olusegun Obasanjo has urged the need for a review of the nation’s public procurement policies, stressing that it has become inevitable for socio-economic transformation. He gave this charge at a public forum to mark the 6th Annual Christopher Kolade lecture on Business Integrity tagged: ‘The Role of Business Integrity in National Transformation’ in Lagos last weekend. Obasanjo who was the guest speaker specifically called for the review of public procurement policies, noting that it is an ingredient to promote business integrity and eliminate corrupt practices to drive national transformation in Nigeria. The lecture was organised by the Convention on Business Integrity Limited an anti-corruption, research and advocacy organisation with focus on accountability and transparency in public and private sector. The ex-president said the country’s procurement process probably expounded the large source of leakage; saying that awards of contracts, supply, service contracts and others are usually loaded with provisions for bribes and kickbacks. Obasanjo observed that poor investment, poverty, infrastructure decay, institutional inefficiency and wide range of socio-economic crisis are some of the negative consequences of corrupt practices and lack of integrity in public and private businesses. The elder statesman urged Nigerian leaders to re-invigorate efforts to reform public procurement policies, especially the public procurement act which regulates public procurement and aim to minimize the abuse of processes, rules and standards in the awards and execution of public sector contracts The former military leader, who described Dr. Christopher Kolade as a long time friend, said Kolade had distinguished himself as an icon of integrity and transparency throughout his career in the corporate world as well as national and international assignments. “As Africans, we need to look inward; we need value and reorientation that is anchored on our virtues of truthfulness, hospitality, respect, honesty, obedience and patriotism. When justice rules a nation, everyone is glad; when injustice rules everyone groans. Show me a righteous ruler and I will show you a happy people and a wholesome society,” he submitted. In her welcome address, the Chairperson of Governing Board of Integrity, Ibukun Awosika said lack of integrity had a grave human and future cost in a society. “We must not give up because we have a country to build and a future to secure for the generation unborn and this is why we are having this lecture. As organisers of this event, we are committed to carrying on the legacies of Dr Kolade who has helped to build many credible institutions in the country,” she stated. In his response, the former chairman of SURE-P, Dr Christopher Kolade, urged Nigerians to uphold the ethic of integrity in their dealings to make Nigeria a better country. Kolade believed that there is always a price to pay for moral courage to stand for integrity and justice even when one is standing alone. The octogenarian stated that upholding integrity is a lifelong race that outlives personal gains but represent the best contribution to the nation building. “God has created in us the capacity to practice integrity- to know right from wrong and to choose right over wrong. And if many of us are not very pleased with where we are now as a nation and we want to see genuine national transformation, we need to preserve in doing what is right,” he admonished. 