Suspected killer of Khadijat Adenike Oluboyo, daughter of former Deputy Governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo, Adeyemi Alao Wednesday said he slept with the corpse of khadijat for six days in his room. Alao affirmed that late khadijat’s was her lover of over five years. However, he said he had no intention of killing her when he invited her to his residence at Oke-Aro, Akure until he met her making love with another person in his room. The suspected killer was paraded Wednesday at the state police headquarters, Akure, the state capital. He confessed that he dug a grave inside his room in an attempt to bury Khadijat before he was arrested by the Police. Alao was arrested by the Police last Sunday after the discovery of the corpse of Khadijat, a final year student of Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko. Late Khadijat, 20, had earlier been declared missing by her parent when she could not be found by her friends in the campus and her parents at home. The suspect on interrogation confirmed the killing of the deceased. He however denied responsibility for her death, stressing that he met her dead inside his room. He accused the late University final student of being notorious for sex. According to Alao, Late Khadijat could have sexual intercourse with any individual not minding the status or age of the fellow. He said “she called me that she was in Lagos and I asked what she was doing in Lagos, the response she gave was that she was there to perfect the project she was writing. “She told me she would come to visit me after leaving Lagos and she came but the following day she went out and returned with two boys who claimed were his brothers. “I went out one day and when I returned I saw one of the boys she called her friend making love with her. I was furious and I beat her to pulp. The boy escaped because he threatened to shoot me with a gun in his hand.” Alao denied rumours that he killed Khadijat for ritual purpose. He confessed that he made arrangements to bury her inside the room, having dug a grave but was eventually caught. The state commissioner of Police, Gbenga Adeyanju assured that the suspected killer would face the full wrath of the law. He said the suspect will soon be prosecuted, assuring that his other accomplices would be arrested and also face justice.