Stakeholders in the educational sector have said youths prefer studying abroad because of the decay in    education. They spoke at the weekend during a programme on how Nigerians could study abroad with ease, held at the Sheraton Hotels and Towers, Ikeja, Lagos. It was organised by the University of Sunderland, London, United Kingdom. The programme was held simultaneously in Lagos, Benin and Port Harcourt. Larry Jones, a Nigerian lecturer at the University of Sunderland, said the government needed to know why youths preferred studying abroad. He lamented that incessant strikes forced students to spend up to six years for a course that should run for four years. “Why would you want to do a degree for six years? You do one year and the schools are on strike. You end up spending more years. One of the reasons youths want to study abroad is because of the quality of education. Most of our graduates are unemployable; reason being that the lecturers are not committed. “University of Sunderland understands the importance of giving the best. Something is wrong with our educational system, we should change the way we do things. The way forward is for those coming to study abroad to return to Nigeria and change things,” Jones said. The Deputy Director{International}, Ian Moody, said the university had been having students from Nigeria for almost a decade, adding that “we are in Nigeria to help students gain admission to University of Sunderland, which has been in existence for over 100 years.” “We have found out that Nigerian students are of high standard. They add value to the university’s curriculum. We know it has been difficult getting Nigerian students to the UK in terms of visas and fees.” What we want to do is give back to Nigerians and other Africans in terms of offering scholarships. We help students with their visas preparation in order to come to the UK. We give advice on programmes,” he said. Wisdom Okoye, who completed his PhD at the university, said the educational system in Nigeria was very poor, noting that there was need for the government to invest in education. Umeayor Chioma, an undergraduate at the university, lamented that it took longer time to get a degree in Nigeria. She said she would only spend three years to study Nursing, instead of spending four years for the programme in Nigeria.     