Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson has described the spate of violence and senseless killings, particularly in the North as the biggest threat to the nation’s corporate existence since the civil war. He faulted the nation’s lopsided federal structure, over centralisation and politicisation of law and order as threats to contemporary governance. Dickson spoke at the weekend in Abuja while delivering a lecture titled: ‘Cultural Values, National security and challenges of contemporary governance: Perspective from Bayelsa State Experience, organised by Institute of Security Studies (ISS). In a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Deacon Francis Ottah Attah, the governor condemned the recent killings and warned there would be no Nigeria if President Buhari fails to build a non-partisan consensus to avert the nationwide senseless killings. He lamented politicians were using the security structures of the country to torment innocent citizens for their selfish ends, causing national insecurity and instability. The governor maintained that the wind of insecurity blowing across the nation and particularly the killings of innocent in the North were fuelled by the imbalance in the security structure and the politicisation of security by the ruling party. According to him: “It is very clear that Nigeria’s lopsided federal system and over centralisation of security powers and the politicisation of  security by several agencies  are a major clause of instability and poses a threat to national stability. “I was talking about the politics of insecurity and the insecurity of politics occasioned by the abuse of Nigeria’s federal system and the ease at which those who control powers at the federal level undermine law and order in parts of our country and make it difficult for our citizens to feel safe and to feel protected under the law. “When you correct this abuse of federal system, the governor of Benue and Taraba will be in the position to mobilise the security resources of their States.” He called on stakeholders irrespective of their political parties to unite to proffer a solution to the lingering insecurity in the country. Dickson said: “Who are the farmers having clashes with herdsmen in Sokoto, Zamfara and other places? “We must call a spade a spade for the good of our country. We are dealing with a calculated attack on our country. We are dealing with machinery of violence against innocent Nigerians. “Yes we have historical incidence of herdsmen and farmers clash but what is going on is far more than that. “All Nigerians and people of good will should show patriotism and let us interrogate this issue properly.” 