With his newly acquired music company said to be worth millions of naira, Damilola Afolabi, aka L.A.X, is set to take the music industry by storm, just as his Rasaki Group will focus on several aspects of music, including the legal aspect which he said is needed to sort artiste/label rifts. The Caro crooner, who recently returned from his US tour, spoke with ADENIYI ADEWOYIN. WHAT have you been up to lately? I’ve been working on my album, which will be released this year. So, I’ve been working on the mixing and mastering, as well as some collaborations. Do you have some of your already released singles in the album? Yes, I think ‘Runaway’ will be on the album; likewise ‘Gbefun.’ That’s the decision I have made for now. How has the journey been so far since you came into the music industry? Every journey has its ups and downs in life. So, I just live with the positivity and I just keep pushing, keep recording, keep doing my music and that’s why we are here. What is Rasaki Group all about? Rasaki is my dream; it is what I’ve always wanted to do, even before I started music. Since when I was young, I wanted to own something and build it from the scratch. Rasaki is not exactly a record label but like a one-stop place for any artiste, either established or upcoming. Rasaki is where you can come to and record music, do live band sessions and promote your music. We can help you check your legal situations like if you have signed a deal with a record label and you need to change the contract or review it. Even before you sign, we can help you check out everything you need to do before signing the contract. So it’s just something that I am trying to start to change the perception about music in Nigeria. Have you experienced a rift with any music label in the past? No, I haven’t. My contract with Starboy was very good for me because it was almost like a partnership. So, we sat down together to decide on how we are going to go about it and how it will favour both of us. But I just feel like a lot of artistes have been in different situations and I know some of my artiste friends who have found themselves in unfavourable contract situations. So, I just feel like it has to be better. At the end of the day, the label has to make money too but it has to be fair. How is life as a young CEO? The pressure is a lot. To be honest, it’s not easy. Before I started, I thought it would be easy. And trying to structure feels like this is going to be an easy job but it hasn’t been that easy. But in all my life I’ve always liked to be in that position because it keeps me on my toes. So, I feel like I am happy about the pressure that is on me now and I just feel like I have to just keep going the way I am going and everything will fall in place. How have you been able to combine being an artiste and running the company at the same time? I’ve not been around for three months now. I have been on American tour and UK for a couple of shows but the good thing about it is that I have people that I trust, who are here working for me and trying to make everything perfect but it hasn’t been easy. Do you think you’ve been able to secure your future musically, having set up Rasaki Group? I feel like God has the future but at the end of the day, I am happy that I have something that I can nurture and something I can make great for me and a lot of people as well. Are you planning on signing artistes? Yes, I already have an artiste but we haven’t just ‘unleashed’ him yet. But we are trying to just work on the sound, music and the branding so there won’t be any mistake when we are coming out. I will love to sign a lot of artistes. Rasaki Group is a big company. One would wonder if the finance came through your music earning or your background considering the fact that you are of a wealthy background… To be honest, I feel like I am in a blessed position at the end of the day – like from the shows and from my music I am making money as well but I am blessed to have parents or a family that believes in my craft and wants to invest in whatever I am doing. So, at the end of the day, I have investors that invest in Rasaki Group. That is why I am not the only one making decisions in the group. What should your fans be expecting from you in the second half of the year? I will be dropping my album, maybe in the last quarter of the year, but right now I have a new single that will be dropping in a couple of weeks. Are there collaborations on the album? I was trying to make the album all about me but at the end, you just have to think as a business man and think about what the consumers want. So, I will be doing some collaborations. I have Daddy Showkey, Davido, Victoria Kimani and then I have some international artistes on the album as well. What areas do you think the Nigerian music industry needs to improve on? I feel the only problem we have is just structure and the structure is the structure back home. A lot of us are making money outside because when you look at the digital market now, the money that you make off your single is amazing. They are playing our songs in America, London, all over the world and we are making money from it but we are not even making money on radio in Nigeria. But there is COSON handling music rights in Nigeria; are you not a member of COSON? I am a member but to be honest, I haven’t checked for the longest because I am focused on where everything is better. How come you don’t have a baby mama like your colleagues? There’s no time for that to be honest because I am working 24hours round the clock. So, very soon, I will have a wife not a baby mama. I feel like when it comes to the baby mama issues, it’s about the kind of life I want to live. I want to live a life where my children just have one mother, one happy family. Are there pressures to get more hit songs? There’s no artiste that will tell you he has never been in that situation where they are scared of dropping a song because of what the last song did like, ‘are you sure this song is going to blow?’ But me, I just feel like you need to keep dropping because at the end of the day, you don’t even know which one will blow. What informs the choice of Rasaki as your company’s name? Shout out to Sarz and Legendary Beats for that. It was the way I started dressing at some point. They looked at me and were like what’s your Muslim name and I said Rasaki, so they started calling me 2pac Rasaki. To me, it felt like a strong name, so I started calling myself Rasaki. Will you consider rebranding some day and adopt Rasaki as your stage name? To be honest, I wish I called myself Rasaki from the beginning but since it’s L.A.X, we are just going to stick with that.  