Increased attention to matters of theory and curriculum, policy implementation and inclusiveness have been canvassed as some of the adjustments that need to be made if the Nigerian and African educational system is to deliver greater value for the benefit of all. Other areas of improvement have to do with infrastructure, skills acquisition, the focus on certification and poor attention to library development and the effective development of a reading culture. This is the view of a  panel of education sector practitioners, activists and observers who met in Lagos on Thursday at the instance of the pan-African newspaper, The Difference Newspaper to discuss the theme, ‘Rethinking African Education: Redressing foundational deficiencies,’ , They have therefore tasked the governments and peoples of Africa to urgently take steps to institute reform measures that would improve the educational fortunes of the continent. Though they came at the subject from their different perspectives, however the consensus at the end of the day was that a lot has to be done in the area of education reform on the continent to ensure that Africans get increased benefits from education. Members of the panel were Professor Ngozi Osarenren of the Faculty of Education, University of Lagos, Professor Biko Agozino of Virginia Tech, USA, Mr. Ola Opesan of Meadow Hall School, Lekki, Lagos, Uri Ngozichukwuka of EDWIIN, Oluwole Olusanya of Sterling Bank and Raphael James of the CRIMMD Free Public Library, Idimu, Lagos. Among other views raised by him, Agozino called attention to the paradoxical situation of a continent that was inadvertently supplying the west and the ‘developed world’ with ‘foreign aid’ in the mould of educators, doctors and other highly trained professionals; arguing that though this situation was an unsavory one, it still has to be acknowledged for what it is. In her contribution, Professor Osarenren noted that ‘whether we like it or not,. education is our life and we must therefore pay it maximum attention.’ Continuing the former Edo State Commissioner for Education emphasised that ‘what matters is the implementation of policies.’ According to her, though there were a number of educational policies already tabulated, the will was largely still missing to ensure that they were implemented. The session was moderated by the Head of the Department of English of the University of Lagos, Professor Hope Eghagha. In addition to hosting the event as the 3rd edition of its Annual Africa Day Colloquium, The Difference Newspaper also introduced the Vol. 2, No. 2 edition of its quarterly Africa Day Journal at the event. The journal is edited by its series editor, Professor Biko Agozino of Virginia Tech, USA and contributors include the motion picture icon, Elimihe Osezuah and Professor Abiodun Adesegun, Head, Department of History and International Studies, Babcock University, Ilisan, Ogun State.