The Nigerian Army yesterday announced a major shake-up among its senior officers with the redeployment of Command and Staff Officers as well as General Officers Commanding (GOCs). The Theatre Commander  of Operation Lafiya Dole and  Force Commander of Multinational Joint Task Force were also affected by the development. According to a statement signed by the Army Director of Public Relations, Brig. Gen. Texas Chukwu, the posting   “was aimed at inject new hands to further actualize the vision of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai.” The statement reads: “The Nigerian Army has announced a major redeployment of senior officers in Command, Staff and other appointments. “The posting affected Principal Staff Officers both at the Defence and Army Headquarters as well as General Officers Commanding (GOCs). The Theatre Commander, Operation Lafiya Dole and Force Commander, Multinational Joint Task Force are also affected by the posting. “The posting, which also re-organized Operation Lafiya Dole, was aimed at injecting new hands to further actualize the vision of the Chief of Army Staff COAS), Lieutenant General Tukur Yusufu Buratai. “Those affected in the redeployment include Maj. Gen. A.M. Dikko who will take over as Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole, Brig. Gen. A.O. Abdullahi as Acting Commander Sector 2, Operation Lafiya Dole, and Brig. Gen. U.U. Bassey as Acting Commander Sector 3, Operation Lafiya Dole. “Others are Maj. Gen. C.O. Ude posted as Force Commander, Multinational Joint Task Force Ndjamena, Maj. Gen. J. Sarham as General Officer Commanding 6 Division, Maj. Gen. E.B. Kabuk, General Officer Commanding 82 Division, Maj. Gen. M.S. Yusuf, General Officer Commanding 81 Division and Maj. Gen. B.A. Akinroluyo as General Officer Commanding 3 Division. “Among the Principal Staff Officers affected are Maj. Gen. L.E.O. Irabor posted as Chief of Defence Training and Operations in the Defence Headquarters, while Maj. Gen. L.O. Adeosun takes over as Chief of Training and Operations at the Army Headquarters. “Others are Maj. Gen. H.O. Otiki, as Commander Infantry Corps and Maj. Gen. C.U. Agulanna as Chief of Accounts and Budget Nigerian Army. Maj Gen J.E. Jakko is posted to Defence Headquarters as Chief of Defence Finance and Budget, Maj. Gen. A.B. Abubakar, Maj. Gen. A. Mohammed and Maj Gen L.K.J. Ogunewe, among others, will be proceeding to the Nigerian Army Resource Centre on course. All postings and appointments take effect from August 1, 2018.”