WHEN Khadijat Adenike Oluboyo joined the family of the immediate past deputy governor of Ondo State, Alhaji Lasisi Oluboyo and his wife Fatimat some 25 years ago, the joy of the family knew no bounds. Well-wishers came from far and near to rejoice with the Muslim family in Ikare-Akoko, headquarters of Akoko Northeast Local Government, over the arrival of the new baby. Without a doubt, the excited parents must have vowed to live up to their responsibilities to ensure that the beautiful girl ranked among the best in her generation. She began her elementary school early, graduating into secondary school and lately to Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko, where she was in the final year, preparing her project in preparation for her first degree. Unfortunately, Khadijat was cut down in her prime in a mysterious manner. While it is generally believed that death can come at any time, the one that visited Oluboyo’s family while they anxiously awaited the day their affectionate daughter will join others for her graduation after spending a fortune to raise her to this level, was most shocking, given the circumstances that surrounded it. The former deputy governor, his wife and other relations have been traumatised by the avoidable tragedy. His Alagbaka Extension residence in Akure, the state capital, has witnessed an influx of symphatisers since the sad incident. Political associates, religious groups and friends have all expressed shock over the death of the late Khadijat, the second child in the family. The bereaved father has alleged that Khadijat was killed for ritual purposes by her boyfriend, Adeyemi Alao, who was said to have completed his National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) in 2017, although the accused boyfriend has since denied the allegation, saying some strangers Khadijat invited to his house were responsible for her death. Grieving Oluboyo said the suspected killer wanted to give an impression that Khadijat was kidnapped after sniffing life out of her. He also believes that his daughter was hypnotised, considering the situation surrounding her leaving the campus on June 28. The former Deputy Governor said: “We got to know that Khadijat was missing on Monday, July 2. Somebody called us that she was not available on the campus and we started looking for her. “We got in touch with her friends in the university. Her closest friend told us that they finished lecture on a Thursday and took the same vehicle to their houses. “The Friday was lecture-free. When the friend got to the room on Monday morning and could not see her, she started calling her phone numbers ceaselessly.” The bereaved father said he sent some pocket money for Khadijat’s feeding that Friday, stressing that the usual thing was that immediately she got the bank alert, she would call him back to appreciate it. But on that particular day, there was no response, a situation that prompted her mother to start calling her. Oluboyo said Alao gave the impression that Khadijat was kidnapped on her way from his house. He noted that the way her daughter was discovered in the suspect’s room showed that the killing was for ritual purposes, adding that prayers had to be organised before the victim’s decomposed body could be found. However, Oluboyo, a devout Muslim, took his pains in good faith, saying: “I have left everything to God to judge, His judgment is more than the verdict of any human being.” Symphatisers have been trooping in from across the state and beyond to commiserate with the distressed family. Among them were the lawmaker representing Akoko Northwest/Northeast Federal Constituency, Hon. Friday Olemija, who expressed shock over Khadijat’s death. He condemned the manner the deceased was killed by his so-called longtime lover, urging the police to urgently prosecute the case to bring the perpetrators to book and praying God to grant the bereaved families the fortitude to bear the loss. Also, Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu commiserated with Oluboyo over the gruesome murder of his daughter. Akeredolu, who spoke through his deputy, Agboola Alfred Ajayi, while paying a condolence visit to Oluboyo at his residence in Akure, described the incident as a big blow to the bereaved family. The governor was accompanied by the Secretary to the State Government (SSG), Hon. Ifedayo Abegunde, and the State Commissioner for Information, Yemi Olowolabi. He urged the bereaved family, as believers in Allah, to submit to the will of God who gives and takes life. Akeredolu prayed that Allah will comfort the family over the loss and spread His wing of protection over all the people she left behind. The governor lauded the security operatives for being proactive in apprehending the suspect allegedly behind the death of Khadijat. He assured that the suspect would face the wrath of the law if at the end he is found guilty. Oluboyo, who described his daughter’s death as devastating, thanked Akeredolu for showing the family strong support and care despite their different political affiliations.