…Vows to protect Nigerians  President Muhammadu Buhari has condemned the killing of several people, including a district head, in and around the village of Gandi in Rabah local government of Sokoto State by bandits. The President, in a statement by the Senior Special Assistant on Media and publicity, Garba Shehu, said “This wanton violence against innocent people won’t be tolerated by this government, and we are working round the clock to identify the people sponsoring these heartless attacks. “It is curious why any group of mass murderers would be targeting and killing innocent people for no just reason. “Make no mistake about it, my administration remains committed to security as one its core objectives, and any attempt to test our will by any group of anarchists and trouble makers will be met with equal force”, he warned further. President Buhari assured Nigerians that “identifying and defeating these callous killers is receiving priority from this administration, and we shall spare no effort in tracing the root of this evil, especially their sources of funding and arms.” He promised that although these hit and run gangs of mass murderers are using unconventional tacts, they will eventually be defeated. The President also warned that “this administration will not allow any  group of barbarians and criminals hold the country hostage and  destroy life without consequences.” “I wish to assure all Nigerians that their security is receiving the greatest attention from this administration and there is no compromise in this commitment. I appeal for your patience while my security teams crack their brains to put an end to this horrendous violence”, Buhari added. The President extended his condolences to the government, families of the victims and the people of Sokoto State at large over what he called “this incredible losses of lives at the hands of these enemies of humanity.” He assured that the Federal Government will give all possible assistance to the state in dealing with the tragic incident.