The maritime conference on  how to maximise the potential of seaports for speedy economic recovery and growth is holding today in Abuja. The conference, the second in the series, is being organised by The Nation in collaboration with Epsilon Limited. Over 2000 participants are expected to attend. The theme of the conference is: “Intermodal Freight Transport: Key to Unfolding the Potential of Nigerian Seaports for a Speedy Economic Recovery and Growth.” The venue is the NAF Conference Centre, Kado, Abuja. The event’s Chief Host is the Minister of Transport, Rotimi Amaechi. The heads of maritime agencies, such as the Nigerian Ports Authority (NPA), Nigerian Maritime and Safety Administration (NIMASA), Shippers Council, and National Inland Waterways Authority (NIWA) are co-hosts. The conference will build on the success of last year’s. It aims to  actualise the consensus reached to integrate the plans of government and its agencies, and get a deeper buy-in of major stakeholders while carrying the public along. Its major objectives is to: Those expected include middle and senior officials of the NPA, NSC, NIMASA, Nigerian Export Import bank, Nigerian Export Promotion Council (NEPC), Council for the Regulation of Freight Forwarding in Nigeria, Maritime Academy of Nigeria,  Oron, NIWA, Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) and the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NIIT), Zaria. Others are officials from the Federal Ministry of Transport, NCAA, FAAN, Federal Ministry of Finance, Nigeria Customs Service, the BPE, Federal Ministry of Works, NEPZA, the NNPC, DPR, PPMC, NAPIMS, ICRC, NLNG, Information, the CBN, NIPC, BPP, FIRS, OAGF, NBS, NPC, FERMA, ECOWAS, NEPAD, AfDB and UNCTAD. Also expected are Commissioners of Transport of the 36 states and FCTA, directors of transportation; officials of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport, Nigeria Chamber of Shipping, Women in Logistics & Transport. Senior officials are also expected from the Office of the NSA, the Police, Immigration, Nigerian Navy, NDLEA, NAFDAC, SON, FRSC, Office of the Economic Adviser to the President, NEPC, NIPC; senior officials of littoral  state governments (Lagos, Ogun, Ondo, Delta Rivers, and Akwa Ibom States); port-host local government councils, port operators, shipping companies,  major oil marketers and petroleum tank farm operators, major port users, the organised private sector (NACCIMA, MAN, NASME, chambers of commerce), freight forwarders, licensed clearing agents, operators of truck parks, haulage companies and associations, for example, AMATO, NARTO,  service providers. From the banking sector, the Bank of Industry (BoI), Development Bank of Nigeria, the Infrastructure Bank and others are being expected. Others are insurance companies, free trade zones and owners of bonded warehouses, maritime consultants’ lawyers, academia, civil society and international development partners, among others.