President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday promised to fish out and punish politicians instigating violence in some states as a way of seeking relevance in the country’s politics. Speaking as the Special Guest of Honour at the closing events of the 2018 Army Day celebrations, the President repeated what he told Christian leaders on Thursday, that a solution is being found to the deadly clashes between farmers and herdsmen and whosoever is found culpable would be prosecuted. In a statement issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu, President Buhari thanked the armed forces for keeping the country safe. He acknowledged that there were still challenges faced by the nation. He said: “This does not mean there are no challenges. There are pockets of violence in several states. Some deliberately instigated by disgruntled politicians who have lost all arguments and are desperate to cause mayhem as a way of seeking relevance. We shall fish them out and punish according to the provisions of the law.” Making a self-assessment of his administration in the last three years, the President said “we have worked tirelessly to ensure and preserve the dignity and sanctity of life. When I was sworn in as the President and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, I promised that this administration would tackle the challenges of insecurity, poor economy and fight corruption. “We are all witnesses to the fact that our once battered economy as a nation has exited recession and is once again vibrant. Our nation is safe again, thanks to the efforts of our security agencies. “I want to use this opportunity to reassure the world, Nigerians and the families of the remaining kidnapped Chibok girls and Leah Sharebu of the Dapchi School girls that this administration would not relent in our efforts to see that they are all released. “I also want to reassure all Nigerians that the issue of farmers and herdsmen clashes is being tackled and all those found culpable would be brought to justice. Let me quickly remind us at this point to always be tolerant, loving and ready to give peace a chance,” he added.  