Seyi Edun, popularly known as Shai, is a rising actress and producer in the Yoruba movie sector. Presently married to fellow actor Adeniyi Johnson, the actress in this interview with DUPE AYINLA-OLASUNKANMI, speaks on her embarrassing moment with a female fan, career, marriage and other issues. Excerpts Tolerance is one of the virtues of being a movie producer. How do you relate with difficult actors? When you say difficult actors, some are not really the way they are portrayed in the movies. But this is a job and one needs to learn how to deal with each other’s differences on set. I don’t really think we have difficult ones. I have not really had such experience. We see ourselves as colleagues and friends too. As an actor and producer, what challenges do you face? As an actor, it is really not challenging. But as a producer, the challenge is always finance. You can only get to produce good movies when you have the financial capacity within your reach. Sometimes, you might have a very good script, but would not have the funds to produce it. Once you lack it, you won’t be able to meet up with the standard. Other challenges have to do with nature. Sometimes you would plan to shoot and then it starts raining. In such situation, there is nothing you can do than to wait and allow natures take its course. Don’t forget that you have a budget and time limit to shoot. And if it happens that way, it means you have to postpone. Like when we were shooting Eja Nla, we were supposed to spend seven days, but we ended up spending extra three days. There was a lot of rain at that period and it delayed the production. Talking about the movie Eja Nla, do people see you as that character? The challenge we have with our fans is that some of the roles you play using your real character make them see you in a different way. Some are yet to come to terms with the fact that you are an actor. There was a time I travelled and a woman walked up to me screaming ‘you want to snatch my husband’, and she was with her husband. I was really scared, but then she shouted Eja Nla, and that was how I knew she was talking about the movie. Do you have any project at the moment? I have like four movies at hand now; Oko Mi, Ota mi, Case Closed, Wonuola, and Asewo. You mentioned Case Closed, is it an English movie? No, but sometime I work with what blends with the title of the movie. Like when I produced Eja Nja (Big Fish), I went for Eja nla , because the name suited it and I felt it will be easy for people to relate with. But ‘Case Closed’ is a Yoruba movie, but translated in English, and I felt the English title goes well with it after producing. I also did ‘Game Master’, which is also a Yoruba movie, but with English title. You have four movies at hand, how do you intend to make each successful? Whenever I go into production, I do them massively. It’s been like that for the past four years now. I prefer doing them that way because it saves me cost and makes work easier for me. It also saves me the stress of getting new crew.  I work with the same crew making it less difficult getting equipment back on set. But I always make sure that I change cast. But my post-production is also done one after the other.I don’t do that massively. The one I want first will go first and I make sure it has made its mark before pushing another. This is done using the social media and also my marketer. Has any of your movies been to the cinema? Yes. I had Game Master and Dara at the cinemas. Eja Nla was also big, but that was done in our normal premiere way. But I am looking forward to a very big project that will wow the audience at the cinemas. You know doing such movie, you need a huge sum of money to achieve it. In funding a movie that you want to take to the cinema, you need sponsors too. So, I am looking forward to that day when I will have such that will be one of the box office movies in the cinema. When ‘Four Couples’ came out, people were asking why I didn’t take it to the cinemas, because of the storyline which a lot of people appreciated when it was released into the market. I just shot the movie out of flair. I did not do it as a normal planned budget movie with casting and all that. I just had the story in my head and went ahead to do it. Sometimes the movie you produce with huge budget might not even make headlines the way you expect. It is the one you least expect that will draw attention and appreciation from fans. You really can’t tell the story that will make a break, so you just need to put all effort into whatever you are doing. Talking about funds, why haven’t you tried the Bank of Industry? I really can’t say much on that, but I believe the leaders of the Yoruba sector will be in the right position to answer that. We don’t really have direct access to these people. I heard about the fund that one can have access to at the Bank of Industry, which some people have benefitted from. But I believe one day, we will have the chance to partake in it. But I don’t know if they left out the Yoruba producers. Maybe they don’t see us as part of the industry. Or maybe the two sectors; English and Yoruba are not working jointly. Are you aware that Nigeria cinemas do not show epic movies? I don’t know about that but I know Yewande Adekoya produced one and she took it to the cinemas. I think it is not encouraging for Yoruba producers if the cinemas are rejecting epic movies . We have our own fans  who want to see our cultural movies. It should not be about the English movies alone. At the same time, it might be that they don’t get enough crowd for such movies too. At this point, I think it will be best if a movie can be introduced that will attract large audience and make the cinemas see how much these people appreciate such movies. Could the quality of these movies be the challenge? I disagree. We produce more quality movies. I have been to some sets of English movie production and I saw what they did and used. I am not saying they are of lesser quality. If you see behind the scenes of Muyiwa Ademola’s new movie, you would not call that a small or movie that is of lesser quality . And if such movie is taken to the cinema and rejected, I don’t know what they expect of Yoruba producers. They should then let us know what they want. Ali Nuhu premiered a Hausa full length movie at one of the cinemas in the North and there was a large turn-out. I saw it online, it was like a carnival, and they all came out to support their own. If such could happen, then what is the problem in them accepting us? If they allow Yoruba producers to showcase their cultural heritage through movies, the movie Modorisa by Kemi Afolabi should be one of such. A lot was spent on that movie and if it was allowed, I am sure people would have loved it. Have you had the chance to feature in an English movie? Yes, but it was a soap opera. Why the preference for Yoruba movies when your English is fluent? I started with Yoruba movies a decade ago. This is the sector where I found myself and was accepted. So, you cannot just leave your foundation and say you want to move to another sector. But when the time comes, like me producing my own English movie, it will build a relationship and through that, we can be able to know each other. And another thing is, you get called by those who remember you. So if you are not on set, what do you do? I am an entrepreneur. I sell materials like Atiku lace, and others. I used to tell people that if you want to do something, you have to do it wholeheartedly. Your job should be your profile. So, running the two has been a blessing, because my movies have said a lot about me in term of good productions. I am doing movies for money, not for people to see me and give me handshake. No. I am doing it to make money, because if I don’t make money, then why am I doing it? What is it like being married, unlike when you were single and free? I don’t go to club; I am not the going-out type. There is nothing really different, but having peace of mind. Going out with someone you love and care for and finally getting married. What is the challenge of getting married to a colleague? There are challenges, but it is something one can overcome. Even if we were not colleagues, the challenges would have emerged too. We are not always on the same set. We work differently. But we do not see ourselves as colleagues. I see him as a normal person I met and married. I see him as my friend, nothing more than that. That was the mindset when we got involved from the onset. I see him as someone I can share my mind with too. We were friends at a time. As events unfolded, our friendship grew to a greater point.