It all started in May when Governor Godwin Obaseki read reports of a 12-year-old girl, who was sexually assaulted by 58-year-old Lambert Ighodaro. Obaseki, aside ordering the immediate arrest, prosecution of Ighodaro, constituted an inter-ministerial committee to give tooth to the Child’s Right Act. The governor’s worries, his aides said, stemmed from his belief that abused children become disturbed adults, who most likely, become dangers to the society. The committee comprises representatives from the State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development, State Universal Basic Education Board  (SUBEB), media and civil organisations. It was mandated to identify children with traits of sexual assaults, arrest and prosecute their abusers. The thinking is that pupils will not fully benefit from the good-intentioned programmes of the government if they were continuously exposed to paedophiles, whose actions alter their psychological and emotional balance. To achieve its mandate, the committee launched a state-wide campaign to names and shame paedophiles, just as it partnered trained Basic Education Sector Transformation (Edo BEST) teachers, who have been schooled on the art of fishing out pupils going through physical, sexual or emotional abuse. Barely two months into its mandate, the committee, according to SUBEB’s acting Chairperson, Dr. Joan Oviawe, has recorded many arrests, while some cases were being investigated. Among those arrested, Oviawe said, was 65-year-old Matthew Omokhafe, who defiled a 13-year-old pupil in Akoko-Edo Local Government Area of the state. She said Edo SUBEB was instrumental to the suspect’s arrest by ensuring the case was moved from Akoko-Edo Police Division to State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID), Benin City. Oviawe said: “With the collaborative efforts of the Child Protection Network (CPN), SUBEB was able to handover the child’s custody to the State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development.” Another milestone in the campaign against child molesters was the arrest of 70-year-old Francis Ezomo with his two sons, Nosa, 26, and Festus, 29, who defiled their nine-year-old relative. Oviawe said: “The issue came to limelight when the headmistress of the minor’s school noticed a change of behaviour in her. She decided to ask her what the problem was and the pupil narrated her ordeal to the headmistress, who then informed the Education Secretary of the local government council where the alleged crime took place. “We then swung into action and got the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development involved,” Oviawe said. When we could not get the necessary action required from the police, the state government swung into action and these three men were apprehended almost immediately. She said: “What the men have done is bad and their actions have attempted to destroy the life and future of the minor. The three men took advantage of the child and exposed her to trauma. We waded into the case to ensure justice prevails.” Already, a medical report has established the defilement of  the nine-year-old girl, whose hymen was torn. Oviawe explained that the Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development has taken custody of the child who is now in a safe place and assured that SUBEB would ensure that her education is not truncated. Explaining while the suspects were being paraded, Oviawe said it was to send a clear message that Paedophilia was unacceptable in Edo, adding that the Governor has vowed to create a safe society where children can pursue and actualise their dreams. Kokumo said: “Scientific investigation on the minor was sent to the hospital and a doctor’s report has shown that her hymen has been broken. The scientific report has established that the minor was sexually abused. We will investigate the case and charge them to court.” 