Former Miss Charismatic in the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria (MBGN) 2013, Aderonke Tiamiyu has reacted to why women in entertainment are perceived as promiscuous, while the society has refused to see men in the same light. “There are two things that come into play here, hypocrisy and sexism,” she said. “Most men in entertainment are thought to be promiscuous; the only difference is that it’s acceptable for men to be this way. It’s hypocritical. Furthermore, entertainers, men and women, don’t live in this closed off world that operates differently from the rest of society. Nigeria is a promiscuous place, but again, it’s acceptable, sometimes even expected, for men to be promiscuous and cheat. I believe women hold themselves up to higher standards overall than men, but when an individual does fall below them, it’s this terrible thing and when a man does it, it’s just a man being a man. The second part is the sexism. Somehow it’s perceived that a woman can’t be beautiful and sexy and also be smart and a hard worker, whereas a man can be. If a woman embraces her femininity and her sexiness, she must be sleeping her way to the top. If a woman succeeds, it must because she slept her way there. Whereas a man can be sexy and risqué and if he succeeds, it’s because he worked very hard and is very smart. Because of this, it’s even harder for women to succeed because they have to work hard but also fight against these preconceived notions,” she opined. According to the actress cum blogger, “I am a creative person naturally and entertainment is the venue that I express myself, whether it’s through my beauty pageant, my clothing line, my blog, or even my personal modeling. I’m drawn to so many different parts of the industry that each expresses a different side of me. For example, those who know me as a beauty queen might be surprised by the writing I do on my blog, discussing news of Nigeria and the world.” On whether she considers herself as beautiful or sexy, the ex-beauty queen who has launched a beauty pageant of her own ‘Miss Charismatic Nigeria pageant, having been inspired by clinching the Miss Charismatic crown in the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria 2013, said both ascription works for her. “I believe sexiness comes from inside a woman. It’s not just beautiful pictures. To be sexy, a woman must be bold, she must embrace her femininity, and she must have confidence and a true belief in herself and who she is and not live her life based on the judgments of others. Sexy is an attitude and that’s what separates it from simple beauty. When it comes to me, I believe that I have a combination of both. As I said, sexiness to me is an attitude. I live my life and I am true to myself and I don’t care what people think, only those closest to me truly know me,” she explained.