The Speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly,  Hon.  Kola Oluwawole, has taken the campaign of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate, Prof. Kolapo Olusola (aka Eleka), to the nooks and crannies of Moba Local Government Area of the state. The Speaker, who addressed a mammoth rally at Osun-Ekiti, also met with members of Hausa, Fulani and Igbo communities in the local government and assured that the PDP candidate would be committed to their needs. A statement from his Special Assistant on media, Stephen Gbadamosi, said the Speaker came to the Hausa community to thank the members for their deeds of the past. The statement reads: “When I wanted to go to the House of Assembly, you prayed for me and I became successful. We want you to also pray for us now and vote for the PDP in the coming governorship election. Cast your vote where you see the umbrella symbol. “You have been here for a long time. You have been cohabitating with us peacefully. Please, this time, vote for PDP again massively. All your needs will be met.” The Speaker, who was accompanied by PDP leaders in the local government, including Chief Gboyè Afilaka; the State Publicity Secretary, Jackson Adebayo; the local government chairman, Mr Femi Ayeni; among others, spoke similarly in Otun-Ekiti, where he met the Igbo community, as well as all the communities inhabitted by Fulani people. Leaders of the non-indigene communities, including the Séríkí Hausa, Alhaji Yussuf Seriki; the community’s chairman, Muktari Abdulai; the chairman of Ohana’eze Ndigbo in the local government, Chief Francis Okorie; head of the Fulani community in Ikún-Ekiti, Alhaji Umaru Muhammed; and Séríkí Fulani in the entire local government, Alhaji Kayode Sulaiman, thanked the speaker for visiting them. They made various demands bordering on the peculiar needs of their communities and people, while describing the PDP as a good party that is capable of putting an end to the killings going on in the country. Oluwawole, therefore, promised to table their demands before the incoming governor, adding that all of them would be addressed according to their priorities. The leaders of the non-indigene communities disclosed that the performance of the Ayodele Fayose-led government in the state had given them the assurance that they would have a good deal under his deputy.