The Aiteo Group has won declared Indigenous Oil and Gas Company of the Year. This was at the  Nigerian Oil and Gas (NOG) Awards held in Abuja. The gala and awards night rounded off the Nigeria Oil and Gas Conference and Exhibitions organised by  London-based CWC Group. NOG is Nigeria’s yearly oil and gas industry event, which draws key players across the energy sector. It is a viable platform for networking, sharing ideas, and exploring new opportunities and innovations in the industry. This year, many industry professionals came from both the public and private sectors. Aiteo’s CEO and Executive Vice Chairman, Benedict Peters, attributed the company’s emergence as the indigenous oil and gas company of the year to the depth of its human resource, and sustainable investments in the industry, and the economy. “We remain committed to our vision of shaping the future of sustainable energy in Nigeria and beyond, strategically deploying resources and technologies that lead to sustained economic development and value for all stakeholders. This honour from the NOG is fulfilling, particularly coming from our peers and a reputable industry platform. We dedicate this award to the highly committed, talented and industrious people working at Aiteo and making things possible on a daily basis,” Peters added. In the Corporate social responsibility (CSR) arena, Aiteo gives back to the local communities in which it operates through grants and donations, seed capital and philanthropy. It has also supported several social investment projects, including special focus on supporting the study of Engineering in host communities and sports, the CEO said. In sports, Aiteo has become the  major financier of football after a string of contributions to the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) and the  Super Eagles. To support local football, Aiteo took over the sponsorship of the Federation Cup,  and renamed Aiteo Cup. On the continental stage, Aiteo partnered the Confederation of African Football (CAF) to sponsor the African Football Awards in January this year.