The dust raised by Tuesday’s defection of federal legislators may take long to settle. To some Nigerians, the masterminds of the action must be punished. Others feel the defections will not affect the fortune of the ruling party in next year’s general elections. MIKE ODIEGWU (Yenagoa), KOLADE ADEYEMI (Kano) and Onyedi Ojiabor (Abuja), report. REACTIONS yesterday trailed the defections of some National Assembly members from the ruling All Progressives Congress to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), the African Democratic Congress (ADC) and United Progressives Party (UPP). Fourteen senators and 37 representatives defected on Tuesday before the Red and Green chambers adjourned till September 25. The PDP gained 11 of the defecting senators and three pitched tent with the ADC. In the lower legislative chamber, 32 aligned with the PDD, four, all from Oyo State, moved to the ADC, and another one resigned his membership of the ruling party. The rival PDP, which was ecstatic with the harvest of defectors, also lost one of its members in the Green Chamber to the UPP. Not a few Nigerians believe that the defectors were driven by personal motives, rather than the desire to take democratic dividends to their constituents.  APC chief calls for Saraki’s expulsion  Deputy National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Yekini Nabena, called for an immediate expulsion of Senate President Bukola Saraki from the ruling party for anti-party activities. In a statement, Nabena accused Saraki of being in cahoots with the defectors. He said: “Being the ringleader, there was no justification for APC to continue to tolerate Saraki. He must go now. Or be shown the way out.” Nabena, who said that the party leadership and members were not surprised by the defections, said the people were rather shocked by Saraki’s utterances and body language, which revealed unconcealed cooperation with the defectors. His words: “The news of the about 14 senators who reportedly defected from our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), hardly came as a surprise to anyone. What, however, shocked political observers, especially democratic minds, was Senate President Bukola Saraki’s postures and expressions, which clearly communicated his unhidden complicity in the charades against his supposed party. “Clearly, Saraki had a big hand in organising the events that transpired in the National Assembly. He has, therefore, lost the moral justification to remain in APC. The time to expel him from the party is now. “The public outing by the deserters at the National Assembly was the culmination of months of anti-party activities organised and directed by Saraki. And every scene in that dramatic work of shame revealed his hand. “When the senators submitted the letter declaring their intention to leave APC, which was excitedly read by Saraki, the Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan, attempted to point out what should have been the right procedure if APC had a true party man at the helm. “Lawan tried to emphasise the need to allow some time for dialogue, knowing that politics is always a game of negotiation, dialogue, and agreement. Rather than listen to the Senate Leader and stand down the defections, at least temporarily, to see how the situation could be salvaged, Saraki simply gave in to his own consuming interest in the whole affair and enthusiastically shut down the valid intervention by Lawan. “The senate president went on to make a deceitful case for the defectors. APC as a democratic institution of democrats understands that people have the freedom of association. Saraki did not need to remind us or anyone of that fact. “Like we had cause to emphasise in a recent statement, ‘the APC is not averse to dissenting positions. But we reject deceit in every shade or form’. “We have also previously emphasised the fact that the Senate President is the major sponsor of the so-called Reformed All Progressives Congress (rAPC), which has pulled out of APC, and whose members in the National Assembly staged the exit that we saw today (yesterday). “Being the ringleader, therefore, there is no justification for APC’s continued toleration of Saraki. He must go now. Or be shown the way out.”  No soft landing for Kwankwaso in Kano  Welcoming Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso’s defection from the APC, former Kano State Governor Malam Ibrahim Shekarau urged the senator and his supporters to abide by the rules in the PDP. Kwankwaso’s return to the PDP may have reopened old rivalry between him and Shekarau, himself a founding member of the APC, who had to leave the party for Kwankwaso, then as a sitting governor in Kano. The directive was that serving governors who dumped the PDP for the APC should be made party leaders in their states. Reacting to Kwankwaso’s defection through his media aide, Sule Ya’u Sule, the former governor said he hoped Kwankwaso had changed. The development confirmed the fear that the defectors would have to fight for supremacy where some chieftains had institutionalised themselves in the last three years. Sule quoted his principal as saying: “I hope the PDP has received a reformed Kwankwaso. I hope it is not the old Kwankwaso I knew. I hope he will this time around abide by the rules and regulations of the PDP. I hope he will not repeat what he did after he joined APC in 2015. At that time, he took over everything leaving us with empty hand.” Shekarau regretted that the party they had laboured for at the end handed over the leadership of the party to Kwankwaso in 2015. “I hope Kwankwaso is not coming to PDP to repeat the injustice he did in 2015. If everybody will be allowed to play his card according to rules of the party that will be better for him (Kwankwaso) and every member of the party.”  Defection won’t affect Buhari’s re-election  A socio-cultural group, Yoruba Ronu Leadership Forum, believed Tuesday’s defections would be of no political consequence. It will not adversely affect President Muhammadu Buhari’s bid for re-election next year, the forum said in a statement by its Secretary-General, Akin Malaolu. In the statement issued in Abuja, Malaolu said that some political elements were piling undue pressure on democracy. The statement reads: “We are not sad over the political troubles which some reactionary political elements are putting Nigeria’s democracy into gloomy forebodings on account of war against corruption. “They are neither capable, nor with the capacity to turn the table against APC in the 2019 elections. We hold on to these views mainly because Buhari was and still is the tree trunk that others leaned on to get into their seats at the National Assembly. “Such characters’ decision to cross-carpet, though unlawful, will not carry them far and given time they shall all become sober and remorseful soon. “Yoruba Ronu expects APC defectors’ constituencies to ask qualified questions for which they must provide their people with good answers. “The people of Nigeria today, now know their enemies to include looters and purveyors of irrational consolations that dotted our landscape. “This clearly has drawn a line between evil and good, which shall herald us into a better and greater Nigeria of our dreams. “One good thing that has stood for Buhari and his government is the respect for law and order with honesty to right the wrongs done to the helpless and hapless masses.” He called on Nigerians, especially those craving for progressive and people-oriented governance to keep faith with the APC-led government. Yoruba Ronu cautioned the Senate and House of Representatives against any attempt to impeach Buhari. It said: “We must, however, warn against forceful impeachment of the President, the consequences may be amazing in every nooks and crannies of the country. “Anyone or group that pushes 20 million  people into general resentments caused by religious divisions and to the ethnic may not survive it, that is not our wish for Nigeria.” He said that peace-loving Nigerians will remain solidly behind the APC despite the unfair judgments on the government by reactionary forces. “It shall be so into many elections to come. We are glad that the government of Buhari is making progress in the right direction for the teeming masses as his first choice,” Malaolu said.  ADC flag for defectors  A day after pitching tent with the ADC, Senator Abdul Aziz Murtala Nyako (Adamawa Central) yesterday got his new party’s flag and banner yesterday, as symbols of the admission. ADC’s National Chairman Raphael Nwosu, who presented the symbols to Nyako, described yesterday as a special day for the party. Nwosu said that it was instructive that Nyako, unlike most Nigerians, left a party in power to join a party in the making. The senator’s defection to ADC, he said, was indicative of a politician who has service to humanity in mind. Insisting that “destiny beckons on Nyako”, the party chairman noted that it was obvious that Nyako would go places “not only in Adamawa but also in the country.” He said: “Nyako has distinguished himself. He has become a catalyst for transformation of the country. From him we are going to paint the National Assembly ADC. Nyako is the kind of Nigerian ADC is looking for because our party is for the youths, women and for everybody. We are making history today as we hand over our flag and banner to him to fly all over the National Assembly and beyond.” Nyako said that he was elated for the honour the party did to him, promising to fly the ADC flag to greater height. Appreciating the fact that there were high expectations, the senator noted that God will make everything possible for him. He said: “I am from Adamawa State which is very complex. In Adamawa, we have 87 ethnic groups. There about 300 ethnic groups in Nigeria. If we have 87 ethnic groups in our state, that means we have a quarter of the ethnic groups in the country. “There are no empowerment programmes in the state to enable the youths to empower themselves. Anywhere you plant poverty, what you reap is hunger. Once you have hunger what follows are clashes and conflicts. Our people are extremely poor and hungry and they are killing themselves. Everywhere you go in Adamawa, there is one problem or the other.” On why he left the APC, Nyako said that they tried in vain to convince the APC leadership to appreciate the grave injustice done to party members in the name of party congress in the state. According to him, ward congress was conducted in only one ward in the state while the picture was painted that congresses were conducted in all the wards. He said the ADC was on a rescue mission and its members determined to salvage the situation.