A new mobile application developed in Nigeria in collaboration with foreign partners, CarXie, is set to be launched. The app is designed to fix intra/intercity trips at the shortest possible notice by providing cabs that guarantee comfort, security, safety and affordability. At a pre-launch briefing, CarXie  Managing Director, Mr. Chinedu Amadi, the app was born to ensure  the country is a major player in technology-driven transport sector. Ahead of its July 27 launch, the mobile app, Amadi said, is available on the Google Play store and in the very discerning Apples Store. He said: “CarXie is on the path to increase by several notches the definition of innovation in Nigeria in relation to globalisation through mobile transportation. It comes on board with awesome features that answer a number of questions – What challenges do we face when arranging our trips? Will the cab be functional and comfortable with a courteous driver? Can the Police or Vehicle Inspection Officers (VIOs) stop and delay the cab (your trip) for ‘particulars’? Will the trip have an almost zero per cent possibility of having an accident? What of the security of life and luggage? How do we ensure that no one chances the rider in terms of costs? What of the anonymity that is aiding the hydra headed crime that is called kidnapping? The greatest advantage of home-grown technology in collaboration with foreign technical partners is its ability to effectively solve local problems as CarXie is designed to do and enhance technical competence of indigenous firms like Dukan George Limited.” The CarXie chief said the app was conceptualised with features that make car theft and kidnapping impossible “A rider is expected to issue his Bank Verification Number (BVN), as a means of social identification, each vehicle is automatically tracked, and voice chats are possible during rides.The driver and vehicle verification are so thorough that they yield only courteous and comfortable service. There are three tiers of supervision embedded in that CarXie offerto ensure quality and trust,” he said. CarXie, Amadi said, is another opportunity for Nigerians to patronise made for Nigeria goods and services; utilising international collaborations to deliver goods and services that are focused to address the needs of the Nigerians with reference to mobile transportation. He urged Nigerians to download the CarXie App in any of these two categories – as a driver or cab owner, a rider or a partner. Amadi appealed to governments at all levels to continue to improve the road networks across the country. This, he said, would help in delivering people and goods to their destination at shorter time, resulting in money-saving benefits.  