Officials of the Federal Ministry of Transportation (FMoT) have paid an unscheduled visit to the Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Akwa Ibom State, to examine the facility put in place by its management and how it is repositioning the institution for greater The Rector, Maritime Academy of Nigeria (MAN), Oron, Akwa Ibom State, Commodore Duja Emmanuel Effedua (rtd.), was reportedly surprised last week when officials of the Federal Ministry of Transportation paid an unscheduled visit to the institution to see the facilities put in place by the management and how it is remodelling the academy. Investigation revealed that the Rector got notice of the visit less than 24 hours to the arrival of the fact-finding team. The facility tour came at a time critics and mischief-makers were at the peak of their campaign of calummy against the Rector; misinforming the public on the repositioning of the academy, and smearing the institution’s image through various means of propaganda on media and social network platforms. The facility tour, therefore, was timely and necessary to authenticate matters and properly inform the government and the public, based on verifiable evidence. At the end of the four-hour tour, it was learnt that the evidence on ground was too strong and numerous to be contested for any reason, except the spurious. Right from the road leading to the academy and its main gate, the therapeutic ambience, cleanliness and serenity of the environment and the soothing breeze sweeping across the length and breadth of the academy were obvious enough to show that something new has been put in place. The tour also revealed that the transformation in the academy was beyond the well manicured grass and the painting of structures. It was that of infrastructural renaissance as seen in the renovation, refurbishing or remodelling of projects to meet expedient needs, completion of projects abandoned for decades, construction of new ones, and facelift that would create a conducive atmosphere for work and academic activities. The first port of call was the Administrative Block, which houses the Rector’s Office. Apart from giving the block a facelift, more office spaces have been created within the structure by reducing the over-bloated size of the old ones. In addition, a state-of–the-art Reception Office has been built by redesigning the frontage of the Administrative Block, which was once empty and served no specific purpose. According to the Rector, the facelift became necessary because it was inexplicable that an academy over 40 years old had no Reception Office; hence the newly-designed Reception will enhance proper documentation and security checks on visitors as well as give whoever mans the office a sense of responsibility, concentration and comfort to handle his or her duties. Again, with new offices created within the Administrative Block, workers would be freer and more dedicated to their responsibilities. Next was the Academy’s Auditorium. It would be recalled that this was one of the flashpoints during the National Assembly’s last visit, where it was observed that materials used for the building were sub-standard, the design primitive, and the job poorly executed, hence a call for remodelling of the gigantic project. Just as was recommended, work on the remodelling is commendable, with the replacement of the inferior tiles with quality ones, replacement of wooden ceiling with POP, and reinforcement of the windows and doors. According to Effedua, there are plans to properly landscape the undulating grounds around the auditorium and create a car park as soon as major renovations on it were completed. The tour also took the team to the Academic Block within which are four lecture theatres.  It was observed that the lecture theatres, which were once shadows of realities have been renovated to modern standard with the fixing of quality doors, tiling of the floor, provision of two exit doors and adequate ventilation through extension of the windows. The Rector assured that as soon as the renovation was completed, smart white boards and comfortable seats would be provided to create conducive learning environment for both the cadets and their lecturers. From The Nation’s interaction with some principal staff in the Works Department of the academy, it was gathered that the lecture theatres had been abandoned for years even when there were pressing need for them. The Academic Building has a relaxation room for cadets, which is undergoing renovation. Another project site visited was the ongoing twin state-of-the-art survival pool, where construction was ongoing. Giving a brief background and projections on the project, the Rector said the original concept was that of an Olympic size swimming pool. But again, like other projects, it was abandoned for decades, a situation that had deprived generations of cadets of one of the basic trainings they ought to have had before graduating. To meet this need, the Rector re-awarded the contract on the condition that two new pools of quality material and standard be created out of the former one, since the main aim is the training of cadets and other professionals who may need such services. The one-storey, formerly conceived to be the Rector’s Residence,  has also been affected by the wind of change. Because the Rector lives in a rented property outside the academy and considered the apartment to be too big for one individual, he decided to make some structural adjustments on the building to meet part of the academy’s staff accommodation needs. Following this, accommodation has been provided for 15 workers within the building. The next time you visit the academy and you hear of ‘’White House’’,  it is the new name given to the former Rector’s building out of appreciation and joy by the workers. Besides, construction of workers’accommodation projects is ongoing. Also visited was a completed one-storey building, which Effedua said serves as a model for what all classrooms will look like, with teaching aids and comfort, which will gradually phase off congestion and inconvenience. Already, work on the one-storey classroom, which was abandoned at foundation level years ago, has reached advanced stage, just two weeks after commencement of work. It was also observed that two abandoned structures have been renovated and converted into a security quarters and a mosque, while work on the church building is progressing. Another achievement of the Rector is his ability to recall to site or renegotiate with contractors who, for some reasons, abandoned projects contracted to them by the previous management. The Rector said he was able to achieve this because of his accountability, robust diplomacy and provable goodwill to members of the host communities. “Indeed, this intervention has saved us money and the usual rigours of initiating new contracts and related processes. As you can see, the contractors are happy and serious over their work and meeting deadlines. I do this because government’s investment in this academy must be judiciously used, protected and accounted for,’’ Commodore Effedua assured. The Rector’s blueprint for the over 33 abandoned projects, including the Staff Quarters scattered around the Phase Three section of the Academy’s land, holds great promise of relief, especially for workers. There are also four 200-capacity hostel blocks, which, according to the Rector, will soon be completed and a section of it will possibly be used as guest rooms as one of the sources for generating revenue internally from outsiders, who may come to the academy for short-term courses. To facilitate and ensure the cleanliness of the academy’s environment, the Rector has also purchased two brand new mower-propelled tractors, with the labour sourced locally as part of the academy’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and empowerment for the host communities. It was quite humbling to hear that, purchasing the tractors, the Rector had to reject money approved by the National Assembly for his official vehicle and requested that the money be used to buy the tractors. It is no exaggeration to say that, in addition to the new spirit of seriousness and compliance to rules among staff and cadets, the academy is a beehive of activities, particularly the renovation, remodelling and construction of new structures to meet pressing needs. The ingenuity and efforts put in to achieve all of these became even more obvious when pictures of the old structures were shown to the team. The Rector mentioned that the renovation and remodelling exercise are on phases since everything cannot be taken at once. He announced the abolition of charges for Advanced Short Mandatory Courses for cadets and advocated the abolition of tuition fees. It was noteworthy to see these positive changes in the academy since the Rector formally took over the management of the institution. His proactive approach and dedicated response to recommendations made to him by the House of Representatives Committee on Maritime Safety, Education and Administration and the Governing Council during their last inspection visit to the Academy this year are commendable. For sure, those who have not been to the Academy in the last eight months are bound to ask many questions if they do so today. This is Commodore Effedua’s typical style of telling his story. •Okpo is an Uyo-based journalist and public affairs commentator.