The Imo State chapter of the All Progressive Congress (APC), has condemned in strong terms the gruesome murder of deato North Local Government Chairman of the party, Sunny Ejiagwu, by gunmenwho are suspected to be hired assassins. The party warned that it will not condone politically motivated killings in the state, while urging security agencies to fish out the perpetrators of the dastardly act and make them face the wrath of the law. Briefing newsmen, Friday, at the party’s Secretariat in Owerri, the newly elected state Chairman of the party, Mr Daniel Nwafor, described the killing as barbaric and unwarranted, adding that “the Imo political space has been peaceful and we must resist any attempt to introduce political killings in the State”. APC condemns such killing he suspected to have been politically motivated. According to Nwafor, “APC condemn such killing, this should not be happening when our party known for its peaceful existence and has been preaching peace , we cannot start to have political killings, politics should be played without bitterness, people should be allowed to join any party they wish to join because the Nigerian Constitution provides for freedom of association”. While narrating how the incident occurred, Nwafor said that the gunmen had trailed the victim from Owerri where he attended a meeting of the party on Thursday to Akokwa, his home town. Nwafor narrated that, “the victim after noticing he was being trailed increased the speed of his vehicle but unfortunately, his assailants caught up with him, double crossed him as he fell into a gutter in the process, leaving the gunmen little effort to shoot him at close range and he died immediately on the spot. “Ejiagwu was with us in APC meeting with us on Thursday, after the meeting he complained to us how volatile his local government was, only for us to hear today that he has been murdered . It is normal for people to disagree in politics but to degenerate to this level is highly condemnable”. “We call on the IG of police and other security agencies , all culprits must be brought to book , we can’t afford to play this kind of politics in Imo, this has not existed for a long time, we would not tolerate it”, Nwafor stressed. When contacted, the state Police Public Relation Officer(PPRO) Andrew Enwerem confirmed the incident but promised to call back for details.