|It was a day of excitement and joy as the International Foundation Year of the Brookstone/Northern Consortium of United Kingdom Universities (NCUK) Abuja Study Centre had its first graduation and awards day. At a colourful event, parents, guardians, students and invitees savoured the moment as 29 students graduated in the Abuja Study Center of the Brookstone/NCUK. Some students received prizes and recognition for their excellence. Brookstone is in partnership with Northern Consortium of United Kingdom Universities (NCUK) and offers an International Foundation Year (IFY) programme leading to guaranteed admission in over 30 universities in the United Kingdom, Australia and the United States of America. All 29 graduating students gained admission into various universities in the United Kingdom, most having admissions offered to them from three universities abroad at the same time, especially in the United Kingdom. The Chairman of Governing Board, of the Brookstone Schools, Mr. Kalada Apiafi in his speech at the event said: “It is with pleasure I welcome you to the first graduation ceremony of Brookstone International Foundation Schools, Abuja. We are exceedingly happy to have our parents in our midst. I am sure that you are proud of what your children have been able to achieve in the last nine months as ‘A’ Level. “The graduating students are making history today as the first set of graduates of Abuja centre, four students are also making history as our first set of January to June stream. “Our congratulations to you all! All students have shown a high level of discipline, academic excellence, initiative, self-confidence, diligence and teamwork. Consequently, they all had a minimum of three admission offers from universities of their choice.” One of the award and prize winners, Oluwafunsho Olajide said the Brookstone Study Centre has made them “shinning stars.” “There is much to be thankful for,” he said.”First, we have made it to the end of the 2017/2018 academic year, which is the first academic year in Brookstone School, Abuja. Moreover, we have all received a great education.  Yes, during the the period of our stay at Brookstone, we received a great education. Yes, during the period of our stay in Brookstone, we underwent rigorous transformation that has resulted in our becoming shining stars at would shine even brighter as we look to take on the world. “The feat was no wishful thinking. It did not just happen. It took tons of inspiration and perspiration on our part , the students, our diligent teachers, the ever-supporting management , and our incredibly caring and optimistic parents . Another award- winner and one of the graduating student of the Brookstone 2018 set, Hafiz Abdulkareem, in his speech said the experience acquired from the institution is one he would hold dear to his heart for the rest of his life, “This is mainly because of the exceptional individuals I was fortunate to come across during my stay here, the challenges we had to overcome and the moments we made makes it so hard to believe we were only here for some months. “Brookstone International Foundation Year has so many interesting things about it, but what made it for me were the individuals I met here who over the past few months have found a permanent spot in my heart. The people in front of me are men and women of exceptional character. The faces I see in front of me today are people who have the capability and eagerness to take the world by storm and to do the one thing that truly matters, which is going out into the world and breaking uncommon records. “In front of me today, I see indefatigable lawyers, innovative engineers, successful entrepreneurs, world-class medical practitioners and smart professionals who will lead others onto career path ways. I see people who have grown through thick and thin to achieve this academic glory and do not succumb to challenges easily, people who are able to go into the world for what it is today and conquer it, people who although are within my age have taught me valuable lessons and have acted as role models to me.” 