Special Adviser to Lagos State governor on Civic Engagement Benjamin Olabinjo has called on people to develop their communities through volunteer work. He spoke at a workshop organised by the government at the Adeyemi Bero Auditorium in Alausa, Ikeja. Olabinjo noted that globally, volunteerism had become a veritable source of solution to communities’ challenges. “It is important to stress here that volunteerism is not about charity, it is not about people taking pity on one another. It should be seen as a way by which active, apolitical citizenry recognise needs and provide services to address such needs well before the government or other institutions do,” Olabinjo said. Volunteerism, he said, had become a tool for community development in the contemporary world. This realisation, he explained, made the Office of Civic Engagement to embark on the sensitisation of the Community Development Associations (CDAs), the youths and others on the need to embrace this approach as a way of tackling development challenges. “Government is convinced that volunteerism will help in no small measure in building community social relationship where everyone can feel happy, safe and ultimately fulfilled. I want to seize this opportunity to appeal to all community leaders, our youths and all that are present here today to endeavour to identify individuals and groups in your communities that can work together to deliver shared aspiration of the people,” he added. The guest speaker and a Senior lecturer at the Department of Political Science, University of Lagos, Dr. Dele Ashiru, said a volunteer was one who made life easy for others. He said: “Volunteers provide enthusiasm, extra resources and, many times, much needed skills. Volunteers supplement the normal workforce during times of crisis and especially when workload demands peak. Volunteers, who are trained and experienced, provide a ready pool of applicants for employment. Volunteers often provide services outside the normal purview of government employees, such as fund raising and advocacy.”