Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday hosted the kid hyperrealist artist, Waris Olamilekan Kareem, who drew the portrait of French President Emmanuel Macron in two hours during his visit to the country. He drew Macron’s portrait at the Afrika Shirine in Ikeja, Lagos, on July 4. The 11-year-old artist came with his parents, teachers and instructor. The governor promised to give him educational support and also help to make him a great artist. Ambode also promised to support Kareem’s instructor, Adeniyi Adewole Wasiu, who has an Arts Academy, Ayowole Academy of Arts. Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture Steve Ayorinde said the governor’s gesture was to encourage the kid. Ayorinde said: “You would recall that Kareem was one of the star attractions during President Macron’s visit to Afrika Shrine. Before painting the President and presenting the portrait to him, Kareem had become a household name thanks to the special story done by a media house. “So, the governor has invited him and his parents to come and meet him and because the governor is interested in his education and if you like the welfare of his parents, His Excellency has promised to assist just like he did to the Footprint of David boys who had a special performance at the State House during the Children’s Day. “So, the governor is interested in his school. We are happy that Kareem is a product of a public school and you could see that the Principal of his school is here and she is happy. The governor has also acknowledged the contribution of Kareem’s mentor, Adewole who is here and because he also has an Arts Academy that inspired and produced Kareem, the governor thinks that, that Arts Academy should flourish and he is going to also support him, his career and what he is doing.” The commissioner said the government would ensure Kareem got good education and training. “The Ministry of education has been involved from day one since the story was reported but our Ministry (Tourism, Arts and Culture) would also be monitoring Kareem. He is already in JSS1; he is talented as an artist but then that is not the only subject that he would be taking. “We want him to be a successful well-rounded student first and foremost and of course as an artist. It is a long haul thing but first good education and let him continue as a good artist,” Ayorinde said. Kareem said the development was a life-changing moment for him, adding that he was thrilled to meet with President Macron and Governor Ambode. “I am very happy and excited. I thank Governor Ambode for this opportunity. Now, I want to study my arts very well; I want to be a good artist, great artist in the world,” Kareem said. His father, Mutiu Kareem, said his son’s feat was a turning point in their lives. He said: “I thank God for this. What has happened in my life through my son is something I never thought would happen to me but this is a miracle. I am so happy. I want to thank Governor Ambode for all he has done for us and also my son’s instructor who trained him, as well as his teachers and mother.” 