Spectranet 4GLTE has rewarded the first set of Nigerian winners a promo for the 2018 FIFA World Cup As gathered, 216Nigerian subscribers emerged as winners from a draw observed by representatives of lottery regulatory bodies- National Lottery Regulatory Commission, Consumer Protection Council and the Lagos State Lotteries Board. Olanrewaju Olapade emerged the winner of the star prize, Trip to Dubai. 5 customers comprising Bakare Abiola and Nzete Promise got Unlimited Data for 1 year. Nzei Uche, Akinsipe Olaoluwa, and Victoria Obenoh were among 10 subscribers rewarded with 42” LED TV just as 200 subscribers were handed the privilege to choose either 7GB Data or Bluetooth speakers for purchasing Spectranet devices and subscribing to data plans in June when the promotion commenced. Dubbed ‘Connect &Win Big’, the promotion drummed support for Nigeria’s male national team as they jostled for honours at the 2018 FIFA World Cup. Prior to the commencement of the draw, the Chief Executive Officer Spectranet Ajay Awasthi said, “The innovative nature of Spectranet led to the initiative of rewarding customers for supporting the Super Eagles team in the World Cup”. Ajay further revealed that Spectranet is committed to excellent service offering with renewed and upgraded facilities that will continue to improve the subscribers’ experience of the brand even after the World Cup. Commenting on the essence of the promotion, Head of Marketing, Mike Ogor said, “In the spirit of the World Cup, we took a decision to make subscribers enjoy the moments that the competition brings. Our fast and reliable internet services have made this possible. “This is the first draw of the promotion. Both existing and new subscribers are eligible to participate. More winners will emerge in the second and final draw scheduled to hold after the promotion”. The promo which commenced on June 1st ends on July 31st, 2018. One of the many winners who responded to phone calls that he won a 42″ TV set could not hold his excitement as he kept asking when and where he should come for his prize while thanking Spectranet for keeping the promise to reward subscribers who purchased modems within the period of the promotion. It will be recalled that Spectranet gave out 7GB data to every subscriber that renewed prior to Nigeria vs Iceland fixture as result of the two goals scored as well as the victory over the Iceland team while 1GB was also given to subscribers for the goal scored against Argentina. Spectranet 4G LTE is a recipient of multiple awards for Best Internet Service and 4G LTE Provider in Nigeria in 2016, 2017 and 2018.