All Progressives Congress (APC) member in Taraba State have urged the National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to intervene in the crisis rocking the party and save it from self- destruction ahead of next year’s general elections. The stakeholders under the aegis of Taraba APC Neutral Group (TANEG) said Oshiomhole must reconcile the two factions in the state to give them a sense of belonging. The chairman of the group, Aliyu Madaki Babagida, told reporters in Abuja that the friction between the group loyal to the Minister of Women Affairs, Aisha Alhassan and the Integrity Group has put many of them in confusion as they are in the dark as to which faction they should submit to ahead of party primaries. He said: “We want Oshiomhole to intervene and reconcile all the factions before we go into the primaries. Presently, we don’t know which executive to align with. We are confused and those of us who are interested in contesting elections next year are in the dark as to what they should do. “All stakeholders of the party in the state wants unity. But to achieve that unity, they must be prepared to make sacrifice. But unfortunately, none of the two groups wants to back down. Mama Taraba is saying that she has invested in the party and will not allow anyone to take it from her. Those in the Integrity group are also holding on to their stand. “What we want is a strong APC that will be able to defeat the PDP in next year’s election. We don’t want any of the groups to leave the APC”. Babangida said the situation in the party led t9 their resolve “to seek the intervention of the National Chairman to rescue the party from this un-necessary havoc and split because if it is allows to widen up, it won’t arguer well for the party especially as we are approaching electioneering year. He said: “Our decision to take up this matter were informed by series of petitions, complaints of aggrieved party members and potential aspirants, that it appear they will be marginalise and all-inclusive umbrella may not be extended to anyone who did not belong to any of those splinter camp group. “TANEG is realistic and honest enough not to assume that the whole of the APC members in Taraba State belongs to one and same political ideology, but believes in the spirit of alignment and re-alignment in smelting common goals and objectives, which is to oust PDP in power in the state for Good Governance. “To achieve these common objectives is for our party in this state to put its house in order and avoid any suspicion capable of splitting the party which could reduced its strength. Babangida added: “Our group believes in free, fair and all-inclusive leadership that will be neutral to any bonified member of APO in Taraba. Therefore we will welcomes any move to have one solidify APC in Taraba. We are against any division. “In the meantime, we urge the splinter groups within Taraba APC to come together and mend any crack for stronger formidable party. “We seek the intervention of our National Chairman to use his position as the leader of the party who believes in the spirit of unity to rescue Taraba APC from the unnecessary split we are witnessing today. Indeed we have faith in our amiable Chairman His Excellency Comrade Adams Oshiomole.”