The House of Representatives Wednesday urged the Federal Government to make a pronouncement on the commencement of the next census in the fourth quarter. The lawmakers also asked President Muhammadu Buhari to make provisions for census funds in 2019 budget, and mobilize the National Population Commission for the completion of enumeration and preliminary preparation for the census. They also appealed to the international communities to support the proposed head count. The Lawmakers mandated the House Committee on legislative compliance to liaise with the National Population Commission for strict compliance and report back to the House for further legislative action. The resolution of the House was sequel to the passage of a motion of urgent national importance moved by a member, Hon. Prestige Ossy titled: “Need to Conduct census for proper planning and development in Nigeria.” While moving the motion, the lawmaker said: “According to United Nations Fund for Population Activities, Nigeria has a dynamic economy and a large population expected to double in the next two decades. “Note that the National Population Commission is the Agency that saddled with the responsibility of gathering, collating and analyzing demographic data such as census. “Further noted that the most significant feature of any society is human capital. Consequently, census becomes a pivotal and necessary tool for the growth of any emerging society which in turn informs decision making at all faucets and endeavor of both government and private sector.” According to the lawmaker, the last census was held in 2006, “Nigeria’s population was estimated at 140, 431, 790 with estimated growth of less than 3 percent yearly. “Also aware that 12 years after last census, the current population of Nigerian is not known. Thus, the estimated 297 million by the present chairman of the National Population Commission cannot be said to be accurate or reliable.” Ossy expressed concern that the lack of up to date and accurate data on population in Nigeria has affected national, planning , development at all level that culminate into human and agricultural insecurity in Nigeria. He further opined that a census based on biometric data will capture all Nigerians and help, solve the problems of infiltration and internal security challenges such as kidnapping, terrorism, marked robbery, farmers- herdsmen unrest etc. When the Speaker, Hon. Yakubu Dogara called for a vote on the motion, it was passed by a majority of members and referred to the House Committee on National Planning and Economic Development.