Dr Olawale Qazeem is the CEO and Consultant, Olaking Naturopathic Clinic, Nigeria.  He is a graduate of Biochemistry, University of Ilorin. He bagged a Doctor of Natural Medicine from the Indian Board of Alternative Medicine in addition to having a Doctor of Medicine in acupuncture. Qazeem tells OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA that mother nature has answers to all that ail man. What led you to becoming a Naturopath? I’m a Biochemist, Naturopath, and a researcher. I try to know the root cause of patients’ diseases and then treat them naturally, with herbal medicine, diet and nutrition, cupping therapy, and other natural therapies. I hold that there are no incurable diseases, but there may be incurable cases. I’d wanted to be a medical doctor because of my interest in health and fitness. I tried to no avail. I wasn’t admitted. Instead, I was admitted into biochemistry department. Then, I started having interest in researching into herbal remedies. Although, I have the background because my mother is a herbal practitioner coupled with being a nurse. After my first degree, I got started by learning from outstandingly experienced practitioners in Nigeria and then proceeded to study Naturopathic Medicine in Calcutta, India. How has the training in naturopathic, nutrition, herbal and acupuncture treatments been for you? I look at the imbalances in an individual as  multi-faceted. My aim is to always treat patients as a whole by observing the four cornerstones of good health.  Most of the time, there are physical issues, psychological, emotional and structural issues that we need to bring to balance. This for sure, has been helping. I look at each individual’s imbalances, and I also analyse each person’s lifestyle and try to create a programme that is going to enhance their ability about what they do in life more efficiently. Also, I do cupping therapy for patients with diseases like stroke, diabetes, arthritis, hepatitis and so on. What are the challenges from working with patients in independent natural health care setting? In my book, there is nothing like incurable disease, but there may be incurable cases. People with depression, anxiety, and abnormal blood pressure are all rapturous rewarding adjuncts to what I do. I believe that every single person that comes to me is a challenge. But there is a challenge in getting them to understand that they are partners in their own health care, that they are participants in their care, and I’m not to administer to them, I’m here to partner them. Do you consider collaborating with other practitioners as important? Yes, I do. I collaborate with other natural medicine practitioners, but not orthodox medicine practitioners. Since 80 per cent of my patients came from them, we have a team that makes us work together. We discuss patients’ health  issues together and come up with treatment protocols. This has really assisted us all. Our teams have 50 per cent success rates in HIV and Hepatitis treatments, which last for four months. Through team work, we have successfully treated many sickle cell anemia patients, leaving them with no crisis or symptoms for years. Do you believe that HIV is curable? HIV is curable and in fact, to me it seems to be one of the easiest diseases to cure. In my book, there is nothing like incurable disease. Although there can be incurable cases. The most basic is that there are natural non-drug and non-surgical cures for virtually every disease. The treatment duration is a minimum of three months. It’s a nonstop herbal treatment, nothing more. What’s more, the ingredients used are what we know because they are very common and cheap.