The Presidency yesterday attributed the insecurity in parts of the country to corrupt politicians trying to distract Nigerians. It added that the harsh attacks against President Muhammadu Buhari were coming from people who had become used to a life style that they can no longer sustain. The Presidency also said there are 2,000 megawatts of electricity which the Distribution copmpnaies DIsCOs are unable to evacuate for use by Nigerians. Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Mallam Garba Shehu, who spoke to reporters during hisvisit to the All Progressives Congress (APC) national secretariat, said the competition for political power in the country had become so fierce, adding that the stakes were very high and opponents of the President ware doing everything possible to bring him down. However, he said, the ordinary Nigerian is aware that the Nigerian elite are going places, sitting in posh homes around the world, trying to thwart the good will of the President towards the ordinary Nigerians, adding that the economy is being rebuilt, more foreign investment is coming and more infrastructure being provided for Nigerians. He said they were confident that despite the attacks on the President, he would win the 2019 Presidential election especially in places where he did not do win during the 2015 elections. He said: “The problem is that the competition for power in the country has become fiercer and fiercer because the stakes are very high and I will give you one example. “The President has unleashed on the country a war against corruption, the type that has never been seen before. Assets are being recovered from powerful people. The President is lucky that he has a judiciary which is transforming itself and on the same page with the President in fighting corruption. “You know that two former governors are in jail. A lot of people thought that this war against corruption is a joke and that the back and forth that had characterszed the process over time would continue. “One of the two cases that we are talking about was determined after eleven years of back and forth between lawyers and Judges, kicking the ball from this court to that court. But now, there is a new era in the country with the conclusion of these cases. “A lot of these harsh attacks against the President are coming from people who had become used to life style that they can no longer sustain. We have on record that we have people in this country, that because they were influential, they have permanent suites attached to them in major hotels in Abuja. “They will just come, take the key and live lavishly a public expense. When they are leaving, they are accompanied by bags of Ghana must go. The President has blocked access to national resources by lazy people and so, he is being fought not because people are not happy. “This is a government that is building long delayed infrastructure. This country will be a country of railways. There is no stage in the country where a minimum of two federal roads are not being constructed or being reconstructed. On whether the government will release former National Security Adviser, Col. Sambo Dasuki following the bail granted him by the court, he said “I have not been briefed on that, but I read it in the social media. “When I was making inquiries about these things, I came to realize that you may be accused of about five things and you are granted bail on one or two. But I am going to speak with the Attorney General of the Federation and ask him to address the the media on that issue.”