Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) Chairman Alhaji Tunde Balogun yesterday urged Lagosians to collect their Permanent Voter’s Cards (PVCs) ahead of next year’s elections. He also reflected on the reconciliation in the chapter, waving the olive branch to aggrieved chieftains who have taken the party to court over the recent state congress. Balogun, a former Commissioner for Home Affairs, spoke at this year’s empowerment programme organised by House of Representatives member Prince Rotimi Agunsoye for the people of Kosofe Constituency. At the programme, many party leaders, traditional rulers, community development associations, Christian and Muslim clerics and beneficiaries endorsed the legislator for a second term in the Lower Chamber, saying that he has lived up to expectation. At the ceremony were Lagos East APC senatorial leader, Chief Akanni Seriki, his deputy, Chief Adeola Oyedele, Southwest APC Women Leader Chief Kemi Nelson, Commissioner for Women Affairs and Poverty Alleviation Dr. Lola Akande, House of Assembly members Bayo Osinnowo and Tunde Braimoh; Special Adviser on Food Security Ganiyu Okanlawon, Demola Sodiq, Abiodun Salami, Abiodun Aigbe, National Directorate of Employment official Adebowale Ologbenla, Ketu monarch Oba Balogun Oyero, Pastor Oyedapo Oyetunde and Lagos white cap chiefs; Ayodele Oyekan (Bajulaye), Ibikunle Bailey Jakande (Oluwo), Taju Durosinmi-Etti (Etti), and Waheed Ayeni (Sasore). Urging party members to gird their loins, Balogun said: “Let our supporters and followers register at the ward level. After registration, go and collect your PVCs. That is the ticket for voting. If you are in politics or you are involved in politics and you don’t have PVC, you are not in politics. Let everybody go and collect their PVCs to vote for the APC.” He added: “Some members have taken us to court. Let them cease hostilities. They should withdraw their court cases and return to rebuild the party. We will dialogue and reconcile.” Hailing the legislator for his ability to plough back into the constituency, the chairman advised other elected officials to emulate his kind gesture of giving the constituents a sense of belonging. Balogun said: “We have a good representative in Abuja, who has come to plough back to his constituency. Through this empowerment, Agunsoye is campaigning for the party. I urge other elected party members to do the same. Through the empowerment, party members have a sense of belonging. Party members deserve dividends of democracy from the government and their elected leaders.” Beneficiaries of the empowerment programmes receive bicycles, tricycles, hair dryers, grinding machines, wheel biros, gas cookers, popcorn machines, sewing machines, and vulganiser’s pumping machines. To Aigbe, Agunsoye is a party man to the core who has an enviable record of service to the party, the state and the country. He urged party members to follow his footsteps. Prince Oyekan urged the constituents to give the legislator a second term for continuity of productive service to the country. He advised beneficiaries not to sell the empowerment items, adding that they should operate them to make money. He added: “Agunsoye was a good commissioner. He has justified the opportunity given to him to represent Kosofe in the House of Representatives. He is a prince with a mark of blue blood.” Salami, who welcomed the dignitaries, said: “Agunsoye is a jolly good fellow who has mass followership. Agunsoye is about effective and efficient representation. He is always eager to give back to the people.” Okanlawon said: “Agunsoye is always identifying with his people. His second term is assure.” Akande paid tribute to the legislator, saying that, in his first tenure, he has done the party and his constituency proud.  She added: “She is concerned, not about himself, but about other people. I urge the beneficiaries to utilise the equipment well for their economic life.” Seriki said: “Agunsoye has not forgotten his people. His people will not forget him.” Braimoh, a lawyer, endorsed the legislator for a second term, saying that he has justified the confidence reposed in him. Osinnowo called for unity in Kosofe and Lagos East, urging people to shun falsehood and lies. He denied working at cross purpose with Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, stressing that the performance of the governor is commendable. Osinnowo said: “Lagos is sweet because some people laid the foundation. I thank Asiwaju Bola Tinubu for laying the foundation. I thank the governor for building on the foundation. He has brought honour to the party. I am not fighting the governor. Only a mad man will fight the governor. “Lagos West and Central have done eight years. Lagos East must do eight years. I am calling for unity. The season of politics has come. It is the season of eating and lies. It is up to our elders and leaders. If they endorse a person, it is certain. If a person is not endorsed, that is the end.” Agunsoye tendered his stewardship, saying that he has represented the constituency well in the last three years. He also said that the empowerment programme initiated by him has been sustained in the last three years for the benefit of the constituency. These include Kosofe Federal Constituency Empowerment and Wealth Creation Programme, skill acquisition training for 200 youths, training for 200 graduates in skill acquisition in catering and hotel management, agriculture, fashion design, solar energy, ICT; skill acquisition for 50 women in collaboration with the NDE, distribution of block mouldingmachines, grinding machines, embroidery machines, generators, motorcycles and tricycles in 2016 and registration of occupational skill trainees with the Lagos State Entrepreneurial Trust Fund (LSETF).