Youth group supports governor for 2019 Benue State Governor Samuel Ortom said he has not declared for any political party despite the flooding of Makurdi with his campaign posters for the 2019 governorship on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Barely 24 hours after Ortom said the All Progressives Congress (APC) gave him a red card, his campaign posters bearing the PDP symbol for 2019 governorship race took over the streets of Makurdi, the capital. The posters were put in strategic places alongside the earlier ones with APC symbol, but they did not bear the picture of Deputy Governor Benson Abounu. But in a telephone interview with The Nation, Ortom said he was yet to declare for any political party. He said: “Like I said earlier, I have been given a red card and I’m without a party. Maybe those who want to sign me are behind the posters, but I am yet to join any party.” The Benue Youth Alliance for Ortom 2019 (BYAFO 2019), a youth group pushing for Ortom’s re-election, has vowed to continue with the governor in his efforts at giving the state a new direction. A statement by the National Coordinator, Iorliam Shija, said no political leadership in the state will be acceptable outside that which is provided by Ortom. According to them, Ortom’s presence on the political stage in the state is reminiscence of what obtained in the First Republic when the late J.S Tarka attempted to define minority rights in Nigeria. The statement reads: “Ortom must be spared the ongoing persecution. When has it become a crime to stand by the people whose mandate you are holding in trust? We are satisfied with our governor’s unwavering determination to secure the future of our state at the expense of his comfort and political career. “We stand to the end with Ortom in his desire to give a new lease of life and direction in the state.” The group also vowed to move into every nooks and crannies of the state to mobilise against selfish politicians who, because of their personal ambitions, want to hold the state back.