The All Progressives Congress (APC) said yesterday that no gang-up by political parties will make the President Muhammadu Buhari-led administration waiver on its promises to rid the country of corruption and improve Nigerian’s quality of lives. Reacting to Monday’s  formation of a coalition against the ruling party by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and 38 other political parties, APC National Publicity Secretary Bolaji Abdullahi dismissed the coalition, saying the party remained united behind the President. Abdullahi insisted that the “so, called” Reformed-All Progressives Congress was not a faction of the APC as the party remains one. He asked all those who are aggrieved to take advantage of the window of reconciliation to approach the party. The party said: “On Monday July 9, 2018, a group of individuals under the so-called ‘Reformed-All Progressives Congress’ platform purportedly joined a coalition of opposition political parties ahead of the 2019 general elections. “We respect the right of everyone to join any association or group. However, we wish to reiterate that the so-called R-APC is not a faction of our Party.  Our party, the APC remains united under the leadership of our President, H.E. Muhammadu Buhari. “It is also noteworthy that some political parties that have been named as signatories to the MoU have disassociated themselves from the publicised deal. “We once again reiterate the commitment of our party to address real grievances of our genuine members. We call on them to take advantage of this opportunity while the windows for reconciliation are still open. “We are confident that no level of gang-up can make our government under President Buhari to waiver in its promises to Nigerians to rid our country of corruption and improve the quality of lives for our people.” The Buhari Media Organisation cautioned the PDP National Chairman Uche Secondus to desist from making incendiary remarks that are capable of inciting the people against President Buhari and his administration. In a statement signed by its Chairman, Austin Braimoh and Secretary, Cassidy Madueke, the group said it viewed the comments of the PDP chairman at a rally in Ekiti with grave concern as such inflammatory comments are capable of exacerbating the current security situation in the country. “For the information of Mr. Secondus and his co-travellers, we need to remind them that under their past administrations, Nigeria was under siege and nearly collapsed but for the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration that has already brought the situation under control. “As we approach the 2019 elections, he should always weigh the implications of his public comments to avoid the possibility of plunging the country into unnecessary crisis. As the chairman of the leading opposition party, he must realise that he owes it a duty to the country to exhibit the highest sense of decorum in his conduct and public utterances.”