Nigeria’s smart meter manufacturer, Mojec International Limited, has called on the Federal Government to reverse the law permitting meter manufacturers to import 70 per cent of its input as 30 per cent inclusion would not help the industry to grow. Its Managing Director, Chantelle Abdul, made the call in Lagos during the visit of the Chairman and management of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) to the meter factory. She noted that metering the industry would not grow if the policy was retained. She explained that Nigeria has the capacity to produce 70 per cent of its component locally, adding that the huge foreign exchange (forex) expended on import of such inputs would be preserved. Abdul said: “The factory visit is to demonstrate that Nigerian manufacturers can produce more than 70 per cent of meter components and not 30 per cent as the case is now. When this is reversed, more jobs would be created for Nigerians, more meters would be available and the price would also go down. It will grow our GDP, and there would be less pressure on our foreign exchange as more components would be produced locally. “When this is done, there would be higher demand locally and small components factories would begin to spring up locally to feed the market. There are many components inside the meter that nobody has factories in Nigeria to produce them. This is why we advocate for 70 per cent local content. “Today’s factory tour is also about the Meter Asset Provider (MAP) Programme, which is a new initiative under the Ministry of Power and the NERC. This is intended to bridge the metering gap, quoted at five million but we all know that it is about 15 million gap. The result of this policy is that providers who have the money can supply and install meters for utilities (customers). These meters exist, but they are not in people’s homes yet, we have millions of them in the factory warehouse, but the utilities are saying they do not have enough money to buy them.” Abdul pointed out that Mojec has been providing vendor financing, which is to provide meters for electricity distribution companies (DisCos) to pay at a later date, stressing that it has signed agreements with some DisCos to provide 100,000 meters, which 10,000 pieces, would be supplied monthly, for them to pay over 36 months or more. “Mojec has been predominantly leading in vendor financing over the past three years. We are financing six out of 11 contracts that we are running today, but most of our competitors rather prefer cash transactions, which is why Mojec is standing out,” she noted. NERC Chairman/Chief Executive Officer, Professor James Momoh, stated that he was impressed that a Nigerian entrepreneur is contributing immensely to the development of electricity industry, adding that Mojec is one of the best metering companies the team has visited. He said: “We have seen and I am impressed that they are determined to succeed and they have the support of NERC to take us to the next level of industrialisation and the Nigerian electricity revolution. I hope that this will be replicated in other parts of the country because their meters are all over the country. We want to see their presence so that the youths would benefit from all these technologies Mojec is displaying in manufacturing and assembling.’’ On the issue of some DisCos importing meters to the detriment of  local manufacturers, he said they had no choice as there is a law mandating them to patronise the local manufacturers, stressing that NERC  is ready to enforce it.