Former Clerk of the Lagos State House of Assembly Otunba Ganiyu Abiru is a senatorial aspirant in Lagos East District. The All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain spoke with reporters on his ambition and other partisan issues. EMMANUEL OLADESU was there. Since you retired in 2016, almost two years now. How have you been coping, having been a civil servant for a very long time? First and foremost, I want to give thanks to God Almighty who has given me that strength and the opportunity to serve in Lagos State Public Service, which of course, is the most potent, most viral and most focused public service in Africa so to say. I thank God also that I rose to the pinnacle of my career, to the extent that I became the Clerk to the most prestigious Lagos State House of Assembly. Well, I thank God that, having retired in 2016, you know the salary of public servants is very meager. That is an area that we have been clamouring to government to look into with a view to increasing it, because it is not a living wage. It is an existing wage and we think that government should look into it with a view to seeing more of commitment on the part of public servants. But having said that well, I have been in the business of consultancy and also hospitality business and before then, I have been partnering with my wife in the management and production of sachet and bottle water and God has helped us to keep both ends meet. We have not gone beyond our bounds, we are cutting our coat according to our cloth and not according to our size. So, I would say that I and Alhaja, God has been kind, God has been merciful. You entered the public service as a very young man and left as an old man which means the most productive years of your life was spent there. So, what unforgettable experience did you take from the public service? Well, like you rightly said, I joined the service at the age of 27 and retired at the age of 60. Which means that one has put almost 33 years in the service and that long years of service, one would have seen a lot of things, experienced a lot of challenges, well I will say that yes public service is an interesting area to work, because you have the privilege of moving from one ministry to the other, gaining experience you know, preparing you for greater responsibilities in the future. In the course of your movement, you are likely to come across a lot of people with different exposure, different orientations and different backgrounds. And you would really know how to manage all of these people, but the experience that I cannot forget in my life and let me also say that the ministry that most people hate to work, hate to be posted to is perhaps the ministry that I enjoy the most while in service, and that is the Civil Service Commission. The Civil Service Commission should be a hub of public service. In those days, people felt that if you want to be punished, if the government wants to punish you, the best place that you can really get that punishment is to deploy you to civil service commission. And when I was deployed to the civil service commission, some of my friends came to me and ask Segun, who have you offended? Why civil service commission? I said what kind of a question is that, is civil service commission not part of government agencies and ministries? I worked there for almost four years and I can say with gratitude to God that that was where I had an experience that is enriching, that is everlasting, when I look in retrospect an experience that I would love to remember, because when I was there, I was once a director of recruitment. And these are areas where the lives and career of people in the service were being managed and that is why I say and I said it to the head of service then when I was there that the civil service commission should not be a dumping ground for those who know nothing about the norms and nuances the of the civil service.  Civil Service Commission should be  a place where the best of the civil service should be employed, because they are going to manage the career of public servants and they are going to formulate policies that will direct, influence and affect the career of public service and I will tell you for free that we are lucky to work with some commissioners who were forward looking then, and together we were able to redefine what the Civil Service Commission should be. And I can look back in retrospect and say that I found myself very lucky to have had the opportunity of working in the civil service commission. One other experience that I had was at the Pilgrims Board, when an error of judgement nearly cost me my job and I’ve always said it that if not for Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, I wouldn’t have risen to the position of the Clerk. But, because of his generosity, his sense of consideration and kindness. He really played the role of a big father, the role of a considerate governor and gave me another chance. If he had not given me another chance, I wouldn’t have risen to the position that I was and that is why forever in my house and my very self, we will be grateful to Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu for that singular act. Towards the end of your career in the civil service, you were the Clerk of the Lagos State House of Assembly. How were you able to ensure that politicians did’t get you into trouble? That question has always been asked that how were you able to survive among the so called lion’s so to say and then I would say that Lagos State again is very lucky to have the kind of honourable members that we have. I’m not saying this to patronise them. I’m saying this out of sense of responsibility and out of the fact that I have worked with them. When you look at the quality of members in Lagos State in terms of education and exposure you will agree with me that the Clerk or secretary who work with them can hardly have problems. First and foremost, the members are there for the interest of their constituents and to make laws and some other functions, so naturally everybody has different backgrounds, and these are party members with different qualifications, with different family backgrounds, with different orientations and for you to be able to manage them, you have to come down to their level. You have to be extremely patient, you have to be persevering, you have to be enduring, you have to be knowledgeable about your job, because sometimes they can stampede you into doing what is illegal, because they are in a hurry to achieve. Not that they want you to commit illegality, but because they are in a hurry to achieve, they want you to do certain things for them at the expense of bureaucracy or due process, but if you know your job and the manner in which you present the case to them, I think you will not have problems with them. I am lucky that to a reasonable extent we have cool headed members and with my experience like I told you that I have worked virtually in most of the ministries in the public service I have come across different characters that has prepared me for that position. We are able to enjoy ourselves and I think my working or association with them has also improved my ability to manage people, to manage resources and to also appreciate different characters which of cause you come across in the course of your work. Yes one cannot say it has been rosy all the time. Sometimes some of them can be funny in terms of wanting to impose their supremacy on you. To assert themselves on you and in most cases all of these things are done rudely and you will have to be extremely patient in order to really manage them, but I can say it has been good and indeed my relationship with them had enabled me to understand politics as it were and coming now to play politics is not strange to me, because while you are working with them, you are playing politics. The only difference is that you are not playing active politics. Will you say your last experience in the service influenced your decision to go into full time politics and contest the senatorial election? Yes, very correct because, I saw how law was being made and I know all the intricacies around law. I know political intrigues and I know everything that you can talk about politics and if you are talking about Lagos politics, it begins from Lagos State House of Assembly. My interactions with them also has exposed me to a lot of things and good enough the Lagos State House of Assembly like I said is a well focused and well structured organisation that place high premium on human capital development. We have the opportunity of travelling outside of the country to exchange ideas with legislatures outside of this shore and in the course of our discussion we always realise that Lagos is always on top. So, my coming into politics is not accidental. It is something that has been in me. Somebody is occupying that position right now. How do you intends to ensure that you are victorious at the primaries? There is no harm in anybody in the legislature wanting to go several times over, because the constitution allows for that. The legislature unlike the executive does not have any time bound. The more you spend your years there, the more experience you are likely to have and I’m not saying that I’m better than the person that is there, but I know for sure that I can improve on what he has done. I’m a retired public servant and I am not an advocate of money politics. I don’t even have money to spend, but I know that I want to offer myself for services to the improvement of Lagos State, to the improvement of Nigeria and also improvement of Lagos East senatorial district. It’s a game. It’s like a football match. There shouldn’t be any enmity about it. There shouldn’t be any acrimony about it. He has his reasons for wanting to go the third term and I cannot begrudge for that. He is exercising his constitutional rights and I am going for the first time and he also cannot begrudge me. The more the merrier. What matters most is for everyone of us who wants to partake in this election to really know what he wants to do and how the dividends of democracy can be translated to the people of the state and particularly the Lagos East senatorial district. I wish him best of luck and I also want to know that he will also wish me best of luck. Whoever wins, it is in furtherance of our party, the APC and if at the end of the day the party leadership says it is him that will go, I have no choice but to give him my total support and assistance to ensure that our party wins the election. As far as I’m concerned, I don’t believe in politics of bitterness. I don’t believe in politics of acrimony, and I don’t believe in politics that will be running the other person down. What I know is that what our people want is somebody that can alleviate their suffering, somebody that can eliminate their problems, somebody that can do a lot of things that will make them achieve their purpose in life and these are areas that I think I know I can perform. It’s not that we are just going to sit down and start thinking of what to do. before he makes his choice so I would think that Asiwaju Ahmed wouldn’t have made an endorsement on somebody, wouldn’t have opted for somebody without thinking the capacity and ability of that individual. And i want to say that Asiwaju is not the only person that calls the shot. The primaries is going to be held and the primaries is not going to be held in the dark. It is going to be held in the open and everybody will know who comes first and last. And by so doing, i think we should re-emphasize the issue of Asiwaju will endorse. We are presenting him as being undemocratic. I don’t see him as such, I see him as a democrat per excellence and I see him as a person who can read people. When he gave us Fashola, people complained and what did Fashola do? He did wonderfully well. Now when he also opted for Ambode, at least everybody also knew that there were primaries for all of those also. And Ambode also came and you would see the transformation that Ambode has made out of Lagos so which means also that like i said the man has native intelligence and he couldn’t have won against the will of the people. If the will of the people say mr this, I am sure that Asiwaju will also dance along with the people. But whatever happens in politics, the party is supreme. There is always the supremacy of party. If the party says this is where we are going, i have no choice but to follow the party because without the party, I cannot contest and  there is no wau that i can be struggling or be fighting the party because the party knows best and the party knows why it has taken some actions but i think that everyone that wants to contest will have a level playing field so that you can display whatever you have. All the contestants that i know are going round consulting and seeing people to be helpful to them in their cause. Of course I am going round. I have gone to Epe, Ikorodu and things like that. It’s a game and i believe that somebody will win but i always say and that is where i am particularly interested. We should, our politicians must play down the issue of money because when you overplay the issue of money you are likely to have problems. The good people may not want to come in, and you’ll have the bad people having the whole field to themselves. ********* You talked earlier about propelled from your constituency, your community. Who are those behind you in Ikorodu? Who are those big wings that you are sure are behind you? Well, I wouldn’t want to sing my song. I don’t want to exaggerate issues but you can do your investigation and see that God is with us and our people are equally with us. Like i told you initially, i didn’t want to come out for senate. I had my eyes on something else but the pressure was so much to the extent that even the kabiyesi’s around and the elites and particularly the youths you know have to come to me, pressure me. I say well, what am i? If people could come to me and tell me that they want me to play a certain role. I have no choice than to come in and do the little i can do. I’m not saying that I’m the best in Ikorodu. I am not saying that but i can say for sure that i know what i am doing. And i know that if elected, we will change the face of politics in Lagos East senatorial district. The dividends of democracy will be felt by the people in the place. Not in terms of monetary gifts, but in terms of what will impact their lives eternally. ******** How confident are you? Confident in the lord. Whatever is mine will never miss me and whatever misses me surely is not mine. That has been my principle. I’ve never been desperate about any position. Ive never been desperate about anything in my life. When it comes, i believe it’s the will of Allah, and if it does not come, i also believe that this is how God wants it to be. And i also tell my children also tell my children also try, work hard if you achieve, thank God. If you don’t achieve, try again and if you try and try and you don’t achieve, then it means it’s not meant for you. This is my first time of contesting election and it is my belief and prayer to almighty God that with your support I’m going to represent the Lagos East senatorial district 2019 in Abuja.   