GTBank Plc has held its Eighth programme for children living with 
autism in Onikan, Lagos. Oyeyemi Gbenga-Mustapha was there The MUSON Centre, Onikan, Lagos, venue for this year’s GTBank’s eighth autism programme was filled to capacity. The audience gathered for  GTBank’s Orange Ribbon initiatives for community developments programmes on child healthcare. It is an advocacy programme designed to support people with developmental disabilities and special needs, especially those with Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD). With the theme: “Raising a child with autism: the role of family and the community”, parents, care givers, experts in neurology, pediatricians, and those with the disorder came around to know how family and the community can influence the disorder. Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are characterised by social-interaction difficulties, communication challenges and tendency to engage in repetitive behaviours. However, symptoms and their severity vary widely across these three core areas.  Autism is a range of conditions characterised by challenges with social skills, repetitive behaviours, speech and non-verbal communication, as well as unique strengths and differences. According to Guaranty Trust Bank (GTBank) Plc Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Mr Segun Agbaje, the theme of this year’s conference could not be more apt, as it guided the conversation on how to build the expertise, resources and skills required for the effective management of autism. “More importantly, this theme will serve as a constant reminder to all of us, that children living with autism are, ultimately, children. Like every other kids, they have big dreams, amazing talents and incredible potential to contribute to our society. They are just as much the leaders of tomorrow, and it is our collective responsibility to ensure that they reach their full potentials. “Guaranty Trust Bank Plc is a Nigerian financial institution that has maintained a defined Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy since its inception in 1990. The bank actively supports numerous programmes across Africa that positively affects infants and maternal healthcare, education, the Art, Community Development and the Environment,” Agbaje said. Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State on Social Development, Mrs Joyce Onafowokan, said the governor was  dedicated in ensuring that amenities were provided to bridge the gap and provide support to the families of those with autism, adding that the state government would continue to create and impact socio-development policies that would strengthen the importance of public-private partnership in the human development sphere. “With organisations like GTBank rising to the challenge to provide human support services, the future is indeed, bright. We do not take this investment for granted and see this effort as the height of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR). This effort is a functional allowance through which our society can bring out the best quality of service to people living with disabilities across the state,” Mrs Onafowokan said. Founder and Director of Patrick Speech and Languages Centre, Mrs Adedotun Akande, said: “There is the paramount need to educate each and everyone on the disorder, collaborative and collective advocacy for effective campaign of Autism. We can all cause a positive paradigm shift on the disorder.” Executive Director, The Colour of Autism Foundation, United States (US), Camille Proctor challenged participants to “go out there to the community and tell all about autism”. “Tell the world that children with autism are blessed kids. Be your child best advocate, don’t be ashamed of your kids with autism,” she urged. A psychiatrist and the Medical Director of Pinnacle Medical Services, Dr Maymunah Kadiri, who spoke on the “Role of mental health in the community”, said: “One’s illness doesn’t define you, your strength and courage does. The call for community mental services is especially timely. In spite of a clear message from the World health organisation (WHO) in 2011, only a few countries have made adequate progress in this area.’’ Kadiri continued: “In developing mental health in our community, you and I are stakeholders. We must be an advocate, set up facilities and make awareness and lot more. For preventative and treatment in our communities, parents, teachers, trusted friends, professionals (counselors, therapists, psychologists, and psychiatrists) have their part to play in mental health services, make the services more accessible to people living with severe mental disabilities.” She added that Autism doesn’t distinguish, as it can affect anyone, “and implementing anti stigma programmes is necessary. “The Community and professionals should rally round and support people with Autism,” she said. Meanwhile, four days were set aside at Digital Village, Ikeja, Lagos, for consultation. Many specialists were on hand to attend to people.They include: speech therapists, behavioural analysts, nutritionists and psychiatrists. This was because the organisers realised that people with autism have unique needs and needed to be assessed by a variety of medical practitioners. Many were given one-on-one consultations facilitated by health professionals across a wide range of developmental specialists. These consultations provided parents and caregivers with knowledge on how best to help their children make easier transition from childhood to adulthood, so as to grow into responsible citizens that can contribute their quota to national development. 