For some weeks now Governor Nyesom Wike of the oil rich Rivers State has been commissioning some projects initiated by his boss and predecessor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, with so much fanfare. The governor would assemble some market women and his loyalists at night and invite top political figures outside the state to cut the tape. After his invited guest would have finished commissioning the project, the Governor would mount the stage and begin to attack the man whom project he is commissioning. The governor does nothing other than criticise his boss and predecessor, Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi. For record purposes however, every Rivers man will not forget in a hurry the collapsed state of infrastructure in Rivers State before Amaechi took over office in May 2007, as the executive governor. Then, governor Nyesom Wike was Amaechi ‘s Chief of Staff who carried most of these project files that he (Wike) is commissioning today. Some of these projects were awarded to indigenous contractors who would sometimes go through the CoS if they must win the job. If Wike would be sincere to himself and his invited guests he would humbly give credit to Amaechi for most of the projects he is commissioning .Such singular act would have earned him some applause from Rivers people in particular. Amaechi may not have placed priory in commissioning projects when he was on the throne, doesn’t mean that he did nothing has been painted by Governor Wike at every slightest opportunity.  Anyway, the governor could go ahead to invite President Muhammadu Buhari to perform the commissioning as he has boasted or even President Donald Trump of America the interesting thing is that Rivers people know who worked and who is re-asphalting and painting projects. The millions of naira expended for the commissioning of these projects would have been used to construct at least the shortest kilometer of road in any parts of Port Harcourt but Wike would not think in that direction. Wike likes groove and unnecessary show off yet he has nothing to offer the people for three years after he was sworn-in as governor. As the then governor of the state Amaechi focused on project delivery such that a former minister of petroleum Professor Tam David West said, “Any man who cannot see the projects Amaechi is building in all over the State is blinder than a bat”. Professor West assertion was corroborated by Wike himself when as the then Director General of Amaechi Re-election Campaign Organisation in 2011, he told a mammoth crowd of Amaechi supporters in Ahoada West LGA that “ My boss the governor of Rivers State Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi has simplified my work for me.Amaechi’s projects that are in every local government area of Rivers State will speak for us. So believe me,as the DG of his campaign team I can now go to sleep”, Wike said. As the governor, Amaechi worked tirelessly day and night to bring back the glory days of the garden city. He recognized that his primary function as stipulated in the nation’s statute book was to provide adequate security for the people and to maintain absolute law and order. In addition to that was the massive provision of the basic necessities of life such as water, health care, welfare and so on. Amaechi promptly and aggressively confronts a task as if he was fighting with his last blood especially when it has to do with the issue of insecurity .He waged war against criminality and violence which could affect the revenue base of the state. Then, security was well funded as such; the prevalence kidnapping and terrorism in the state had no hiding place. Youths were meaningfully engaged. Some in crafts, others in sports and some in agriculture as the case may be. Young school leavers were hopeful of being incorporated into the system due to the prevailing job opportunities. Corp members posted to the state saw no need returning to their home states due to the chances of securing jobs in Rivers State. Importantly, Amaechi had a shift from sharing public funds to massive infrastructure building especially bridges and roads including a world class stadium which had the capacity to create wealth, jobs etc. Amaechi also systematically tackled social and physical security through promotion of subsistence farming to venture agriculture just to mention a few. Amaechi no doubt revitalised the entire state from the decay it was kept by previous government. Then, anyone who lived in the garden city before October 2007 will concur with my view. During his first year in office Amaechi literally turned the state into a busy construction site due to the volume of construction work ongoing. Some of these roads that have gained facelift  due to Amaechi’s intervention are, dualisation of Elekahia road,dualisation of G.U Ake road, construction and dualisation of the Trans Amadi road, dualisation and expansion of Ikwerre road, construction of Obiri Ikwerre inter- change, construction and dualisation of the Owerri/Airport road which is a federal road just to mention a few. Amaechi was passionate in diversifying the state economy through his passion in investing in agriculture. Here, fish farms were built in some local government areas of the state including the Buguma fish farms. The Ogoni banana farm and the gigantic Songhai farm in Ebubu Eleme are legacies of his administration. When Amaechi held sway, Port Harcourt was a place to dwell in. It was a place to behold, it was a safe haven for investors and investors who CRA, as fondly called by his supporters, was always on his toes to deliver good governance to his people. Time to time he was moving round the communities in the state to inspect ongoing projects to make the contractors deliver in other to improve on performance and governance. For Amaechi, governance was a call to duty nothing more. His sense of openness knows no bound, a man endeared with tremendous dynamism and ponderous intelligence. Amaechi was a cynosure of all eyes. For him, his entire years of stewardship for public resources entrusted to him were hinged on openness and truth and transparency with which the process and operations of government businesses are performed. Amaechi focused on building a new economy that called for massive infrastructural turn around, building of a mega city he called the Greater Port Harcourt City. The establishment of a world class education system that ignited human capital development through oversea scholarships will not be forgotten in a hurry. Non indigenes resident in the state had no course to worry as they fully benefited from Amaechi’s benevolence. For Amaechi, there was nothing like a non-indigenous status in Rivers, there was no segregation at all. This principle of oneness saw Amaechi recruiting over 3000 non indigenes into the state work force. Amaechi consequently reversed the payment of school fees by non-indigenes which was formerly far higher than that of the state indigenes, the fees were pegged at flat rate for all and sundry. Amaechi’s model primary schools are spotted all over the state including the remote communities, the purpose was to bring education closer to the people. The era when children had to travel a far distance to neighboring communities to acquire knowledge became history. Amaechi model primary and secondary schools were akin to standard university in some African countries, Amaechi  received wide spread commendation from both local and international bodies for building schools which are likened to higher institutions of learning.  The schools were fully equipped with modern facilities to aide learning especially for science students. Amaechi’s Education Commissioner Dame Alice Nemi bagged an education ambassador award. Amaechi’s education policy “education for all is the responsibility of all was key to his administration’s mission statement. Amaechi was poised to providing quality education for his people, thus; his slogan, ‘Bring the child to school naked we will provide school uniforms, bags, sandal, books including computers for every child.” Just like every other project he ventured in ,Amaechi embarked on affordable health care delivery. His health policy also received commendation with the introduction of free Medicare for all. Be you indigene or non-indigene ,all you required was to work a stone throw to access the health centers and you would get treated free of charge. The specialist hospitals were there for referral purposes, no matter the nature of illness you were hopeful of getting treated for free. Prompt payments of workers’ salaries and pensions for pensioners were not left out at the time. Civil servants promotion exercise which became almost a dead matter reinvigorated. Civil servants of the state rose up to their duties of providing effective services to government and they both added value to their jobs because of the robust relationship that exist between them and government. That was the Rivers State that I know, a State of so much possibility.