Seventy-one youngsters are being held in five prison, according to the Lagos Criminal Information System (LCIS), an electronic system for tracking and capturing biometric details of suspects and offenders. Commissioner for Justice and Attorney-General Adeniji   Kazeem made this known yesterday at the presentation in the LCIS to stakeholders of Criminal Justice Administration at his ministry’s conference room in Alausa Ikeja. According to him, that was the figure as at May. Kazeem, said it was shameful that the youngsters had been interacting with criminals, adding that under normal circumstances, they should not be detained with adults. The LCIS, which is an improvement on the Crime Data Register introduced about 10 years ago to capture the biometrics of suspects and convicts, such as fingerprints and photographs, has now been enhanced to deliver an all-encompassing automated information system and to provide a broad spectrum of information on suspects and convicts. Kazeem said the data captured so far under the LCIS also revealed the existence of 100 inmates with mental health issues. He said so far, the state had enrolled and taken inventory of over 8,500 inmates in all the prisons in the state under the new electronic system. The scope of the LCIS, apart from its original role of tracking suspects and offenders, had been expanded to capture several other information, including “number of inmates within all prisons in the state; the prevalence of certain offences and the notorious areas; the number of juvenile in custody and the peculiarity of certain inmates with special needs”. He said 4,087. Kirikiri Medium prison, according to him, accounts for 3,294 inmates. He said I,887, 1,600, 516 and 205 inmates were in Ikoyi, Maximum, Badagry and women prisons. The in-house technical partner and researcher of the Ministry of Justice, Mr Musibau Famuyiwa, who took stakeholders through how the LCIS works, said extracts and information generated from data obtained from the prisons, revealed that over 90 per cent of the inmates were within the ages of 18 to 49. About 76 per cent is awaiting trial, 80 per cent has no legal representation. He said 32 per cent of domestic and sexual offences bordered on rape, 30 per cent, defilement and 15 per cent, sexual assaults. Famuyiwa listed five top offences as “conspiracy and robbery, breach of peace, armed robbery, rape and defilement”; five top crime locations as “Ikorodu, Ojo, Agege, Ikeja and Lekki”. He said 96 per cent of the inmates were men and women, four per cent. He listed the top offences among women as drug and child trafficking. The Chief Judge, Justice Opeyemi Oke, who was represented by Justice Doris Okuwobi described the LCIS as a laudable initiative. She commended the Attorney General and his team for the in initiative and expressed happiness that the Lagos has scored another first in criminal justice administration and move far away from what used to obtain.