The police in Lagos have invaded a printing press, O’Naphtali Limited, where alleged fake electoral materials were being printed ahead of the July 14 governorship elections in Ekiti State. Located at 13A and 13B Oguntano Street, Gbagada, the press was alleged to be owned by one Eniola Fayose, a native of Ikere-Ekiti. It was gathered that Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal had led detectives to the place on July 8, following a tipoff that fake electoral materials were being manufactured there. Although the owner of the premises was not around when detectives got there, it was gathered that two- Human Resource Manager and Graphic Artist of the company were apprehended. Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal confirmed the incident, adding that those arrested were assisting investigation. He said: “The report further revealed that some of the printed ballot papers were moved to Ekiti state in three Hilux vans on Friday July 6, while the art works are still in their graphic computers. “Based on the report, a contingent of policemen was immediately deployed to the location to verify the information. “At the scene, it was discovered that the company has two buildings located at number 13A and 13B Oguntona Street, Gbagada Phase 1. It was also discovered that the two buildings are being used for general printing, art work. “A search warrant was executed on the premises and the following items were recovered: “One HP laptop, one Acer laptop, one Booklet of form EC/ EK 8B Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission EKSIEC; three EKEC 50A envelop for miscellaneous materials, two pieces of Ekiti SEC , eight A(1) statement of result, one copy of form Ekiti SEC eight A(1), one income tax clearance certificate of Ekiti state, seven pieces of Ekiti State Internal Revenue Motor receipts and one piece of form EC 8A of Ekiti SEC. “Others include one piece of Ekiti State Voter Card register log book cover for Ado Local Government , one piece of NECO mark/ attendance sheet, Ekiti State Ministry of Education progress report for secondary schools and one colour turn flash drive. “Preliminary investigation indicated that the company is said to be in a contractual agreement with the Ekiti State Independent Electoral Commission to print election materials found during the search.” Edgal said that the recovered laptops are being scrutinized by the police ICT experts with a view to discovering any incriminating information.