Babatunde Adedotun Taiwo is an All Progressives Congress (APC) aspirant for this year’s governorship election in Osun State. In this interview, he tells Daniel Adeleye his intention to rewrite the history of the state and his expectations in the primaries of APC in the state, amongst others. Excerpts WHY are you aspiring to become the next governor of Osun State? It’s about time Osun State moves to the next level. I am one of the ardent believers that Osun State is not where it was at its creation but I know that it is yet to reach the desired destination. I believe Osun has potentials and I am confident I have what it takes to move the state to the desired place in history. My desire is borne out of the fact that I believe things can be done differently and people would be better for it. People deserve better and I believe I have what it takes to rewrite the fortunes of Osun State. I believe I have both intellectual capacity and international exposure to put my people in the advantageous position they deserve. My coming out at this time to aspire for the number one seat of the state is not borne out of personal aggrandizement, it is as a result of genuine concerns for the betterment of the people of Osun. How far have you gone in the race; would you say you are well known in the state to the extent of going to the level of aspiring to become the governor? I am not just joining politics; I’ve been in politics for a long time since the days of Alliance for Democracy (AD) and I was deeply involved in the politics of that period. Ever since then I’ve always been in politics all along. I have to tell you, of all the aspirants that we have in APC vying for governorship of Osun State as at now, am the first person that signified interest to contest. We’ve been doing the underground work for over two years now. So, talking of popularity, I have never held any political office in the state or in Nigeria as a whole. But as of today, the strength of my political movement in Osun State is massive. Majority of other aspirants are either ex-political appointees or even present political office holders. So even if they are not popular, their offices are popular. It’s not really the aspirants that are popular; it’s their offices that earn them the so-called popularity. So, talking about popularity and how far we have gone in the race, we have really done well. We are a force to be reckoned with in this forthcoming election. What would you do to tackle the economic stagnation of the state? In the words of Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, good governance is not a Rocket Science. Good governance is achieved when people in power take deliberate and calculated steps to replace hardship with ease. Economic hardship can be replaced with economic freedom under which every citizen is catered for. Imbalance can be replaced with fairness, unemployment with decent, self-worth and well-paying jobs, making the opportunities available. Good governance is a result of taking the small ever-neglected steps that affect the lives of individuals without losing the sight of their future. So, I have prepared to do things differently by taking hard decisions that previous administrations were unable to take. My administration will look beyond monthly federal allocation and set the state on the path of greatness. I will work assiduously to renegotiate the debts profile of the state, while we build our infrastructures and also use the sustainable ones as source of revenue in the foreseeable future. The coast is large, the coast is clear and we can do all these together with the support of the people of Osun. Considering the plight of the workers who were owed several months of half salaries arrears, how do you want to resolve this menace? It has become a national embarrassment that payment of workers’ salaries has become issues in some states in Nigeria for the past few years. Every worker deserves to be paid; it’s godly to get it done without troubles. The over-dependence of states on federal allocation has to be stopped. And this can be achieved by putting in place alternatives to revenue generation. A process works and becomes sustainable if the right plans are put in place. Osun State is not poor if we set our priorities right and look beyond the usual monthly allocation from Abuja. By improving on all we have, like agriculture, tourism, and infrastructure and by also reducing the cost of governance and eliminate wastes, Osun can afford to pay its workers. Within the first year of my administration, the rhetoric of tagging Osun State a ‘civil service state’ would be changed. Our drive to industrialise the state will change that in no time. What are your plans for the unfinished projects of the incumbent governor? Every project that has direct impact on the betterment of Osun State will be completed. My administration will make continuity in governance robust and I will personally send bills to the State House of Assembly to make sure that abandoned projects in the state become a thing of the past. The incumbent governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, has laid a solid foundation for development in the state; my administration will build on it. That is continuity that has helped major economies in the world irrespective of changes in governance. The qualitative education in the state, which Ogbeni Aregbesola has started, would be the priority of my administration. We will pick it from where he stops and we will not let anything to steal the beauty of our new schools, instead, we will improve on them. Osun State has already acquired dedicated and committed civil service to get things done the right way. Yes, they need to be motivated and that will come through the restructuring I mentioned earlier. You are one of the 28 aspirants seeking the mandate of the people of Osun State to be the next governor; what is your expectation on this Saturday’s APC primaries in the state? Justice, fairness and equity, I have confident in the leadership of the party; they know the best way to resolve problems that may create any form of enmity among contestants and their followers before, during and after the primaries. If option A4, like what we witnessed in Ekiti after the first primary, is adopted here in Osun, I will be happy with it. What I appreciate and desire is justice, fairness and equity.