•Suswam may join APC •‘Governor to submit resignation letter today’ There seems to cracks in the Benue State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) following the decision of the National Working Committee (NEC) to admit Governor Samuel Ortom into the party and dissolve the executive headed by Chief John Ngbede. The deal was allegedly sealed in Ortom’s favour by Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and PDP’s National Chairman Uche Secondus. Investigations showed that the NWC seems to have technically ignored former Governor Gabriel Suswam, who is the sole financier and leader of PDP in the state, by assuring Ortom and Barnabas Gemade of getting the governorship and Zone A senatorial tickets in 2019. The Nation gathered that the executives may be dissolved this week to accommodate the interests of Ortom and Senator Gemade. This may also force Suswan to join the APC and pick the Benue North East Senatorial ticket where he will compete against Gemade. At a funeral in Tarka Local Government at the weekend, Senator George Akume referred to  Suswam as “my beloved son” for the first in about 10 years. Those at the burial said it was an indication that both have reconciled. Efforts to speak with PDP’s state publicity secretary Bemgba Iortyom were unsuccessful and as at last night, Ortom, Suswam and Akume were locked in various meetings to fine tune the new political realignment. Speculations are also rife that Ortom will today submit his resignation letter to chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in his Nzorov ward, Guma Local Government Area. Since Ortom announced that APC had given him a red card, there have been speculations that he may soon defect to another party. But so far the governor has denied joining any party. But rumours have it that Ortom may be heading back to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on whose platform he served as the Minister of State, contested the  governorship primaries and lost, before joining the APC and won the governorship election. It was gathered from the governor’s close aide that after submitting his resignation letter today, Ortom will formally inform his kinsmen in Guma council of his intention to dump the APC. A source who is privy to the deal, said the PDP structure in the state would likely be handed over to Ortom after defecting. But a PDP member seeking election into the House of Assembly said Ortm cannot take over the party structure since former Governor Gabriel Suswam is still the leader. He said: “We can’t stop Governor Ortom from joining PDP, but we are waiting for the sharing formula to be made public before we know the next step to follow.” Another PDP member said: “If the deal to bring Governor Ortom into the party does not favour us, we shall defect to the APC.”