“I met this really exceptional lady 18 months ago. As at then, her boyfriend just broke up with her. According to her, she gave him her all including her virginity. We got along so well, and I assisted her in forgetting him gradually or so I thought. We became friends and gradually the bond grew stronger. We told each other anything and did everything together. Feelings and emotions came to place and of course, I asked her out. We started dating and she constantly reminds me not too love her too much, because she believes that she might hurt me. She happens to mean so much to me and I have decided to love her with no condition. Although, I am way older than her, she is a very young lady who believes that her dreams are major priority for her. She was so scared of commitment but I assured her that I am willing to stay no matter how long it would take. We have been fine and relationship has been smooth until recently, she became all aggressive and secretive. She avoided receiving calls in my presence and went as far as securing her phones. I got so worried and tried all I could to make her talk. I apologized to her in case I had done something I wasn’t conscious of. She was still moody, refused to pick my calls and asked me to stay away from her. I kept pushing hard, trying every means to reach her until finally she gave me a chance to talk to her. She told me that her ex is back and that her love for him is still sincere. She said that she already accepted him back and that I should please, forget about her. My feelings for her hasn’t changed a bit, before she accepted me, she told me how she had been trying to maintain balance in her previous relationship. She complained about how she was the only one showing all the love and care. She said the guy never created time for her and even goes as far as avoiding her calls. She told me how non challant the guy could be and how he makes her cry often. Now, she has decided to go back to that cage. At this point, I am so confused. I really don’t know what to do or say. I love her and I don’t want to lose her. Was it a mistake to have loved someone who recently had heartbreak? Was I wrong to have loved her with all of my heart and mind? How do I tell her that the guy is no good for her? How do I make her realize that she deserves better? Much more better in fact? How do I sleep knowing that she is not happy? How do I make myself unlove her?”   You can also share your story with us @info@thenationonlineng.net