The fixing of the Skywalk Bridge linking terminals one and two of the Oshodi Transport Interchange has been completed, the contractor, Planet Projects Limited, said yesterday. The work, which started on Sunday night lasted till early yesterday. It was supervised by some government agencies, with the support of the police, Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA) and Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA), among others. Planet Project Managing Director Mr Biodun Otunola said the fixing of the bridge was a milestone. All hands, he said, were on deck to ensure the interchange is delivered between October and November. ”This bridge is the longest free-standing bridge in the history of this country. It spans 53.2 metres. It is only supported at the two ends without any support at the middle and it is part of the skywalk for the Oshodi Transport Interchange. ”This particular one links terminal one and terminal two. We also have another one that is linking terminals two and three and that is about 155 metres long. The plan is that people can move from one end of the terminal to another be it from terminals one, two and three and then the nature of the terminal is such that we have six lifts and one escalator, and so in all we have 18 lifts and three escalators. “For anyone to access each of the sky bridge, you have to use the lift and we also have staircase for emergency exit. The skywalk is part of the features of the Oshodi Transport Interchange designed to make travel pleasurable, enjoyable, safe and more comfortable for commuting Lagosians,” Otunola said. Permanent Secretary, Lagos State Ministry of Transportation Taiwo Salaam said the exercise was a critical stage, noting that it was in line with the government’s vision to redefine public transportation in the state. ”What is happening here is connectivity of terminals one and two of the transport interchange which has three terminals. It is a skywalk for pedestrians to link the terminals and this is an intermodal connectivity that is taking place. ”The dream of the government under Governor Akinwunmi Ambode is to bring a befitting public-passenger transport that is sustainable, safe, frequent and reliable to people and the new Bus Reform Project needs all these appurtenances and infrastructure to be able to effectively run public-passenger transportation,” Salaam said.