Medical and Dental students of the University of Ibadan (UI), have held a rally in memory of victims of accidents and ethno-religious crises across the country. No fewer than 200 students in their second year gathered to pray for the victims. They were clad in black attires to mark the day tagged: Mourning Day. They also observed one-minute silence in honour of the departed. The students reflected on the incidents that led to the death of the victims, condemning how the government had handled security of lives and property. Most of the students emphasised the need to place value on lives of Nigerians. One of them, Tolu Oyebanji, said: “We, sometimes, do not value the life we have. We should appreciate the fact that we are alive to do what we want. Importantly, we need to back our prayers over Nigeria with actions by electing leaders, who will do the right thing. We must not recycle people who do not care about loss of lives.” Another student, Clinton Idahosa, in a similar vein, said death remained inevitable, but what mattered, he said, is how people die and what they are remembered for. “Little things like caring, sharing, and good manners preserve us in the heart of many, even after death,” Clinton said. Some of the students believed the country was not being governed the right way, pointing out that there was need to look beyond the current crop of leaders in the next year’s general elections. Another student, Yomi Fola-Oyetayo, wanted her colleagues to advance discussion beyond getting their Permanent Voters’ Cards (PVC) to vote. “Beyond talking about our PVCs to vote for the next president, we should also vote in local government, gubernatorial, and Students’ Union elections because these are the people whose decisions have greater effects on us than the one at the federal level,” he said. In June, the school lost two of its students to different ailments. A few weeks ago, the country witnessed another tragedy involving a petrol-laden tanker and several vehicles at the Otedola Bridge in Lagos, which claimed lives. There were killings by herdsmen in some parts of the country, including Plateau and Benue states. Explaining the motive behind the event, the organisers, Fiyinfoluwa Atinmo, Frank Asibe, Omotola Odeleke and Praise Okunlola, who are course representatives of their class, said they were disturbed by the rate at which lives were being lost in preventable causes. “As doctors on training, we are been taught to value and save lives, but what we are experiencing in the country today is extremely against this ethos. As much as we mourn those that died, we need to remind those who have been  entrusted with the responsibility of securing lives to be alive to their duties,” Fiyinfoluwa said. 