The reconstruction of the Apapa-Oshodi Expressway will begin in two weeks, Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode said yesterday. At the Third Quarterly Town Hall Meeting at Iberekodo, Ibeju-Lekki, Ambode said the road had been in a bad state for too long. He  noted that traffic has improved in the axis in the last one week compared to what it was some few weeks ago. According to him, the gridlock has become perennial, and going and coming is pathetic. “But the challenge is to give a permanent solution and in that reason, the President (Muhammadu Buhari) has directed the Vice President (Yemi Osinbajo)  to visit Lagos and provide permanent solution,” he said. Ambode asked that ports in other states be revived to resolve the perennial traffic congestion in Apapa. Beyond reviving other ports, tankers queuing up to lift petroleum products from tank farms in Apapa is also a major issue causing gridlock and damaging road infrastructure there. The governor said: “It would be very unfair to Lagosians if I don’t talk about issues relating to traffic management and integrated transport management most especially what we have witnessed in the last one week in Apapa, but again I would like to tell Lagosians that every stakeholder that is ?relevant to resolving the Apapa crisis, we have gone to work and you can see that there is a major improvement. “We are grateful to the President for his intervention. We believe that every layer of government should collaborate to resolve the crisis. But we all must know that Apapa crisis is more than traffic issue. “That is where all states depend on for revenue through Customs because the revenue is shared at the Federation Account Allocation Committee (FAAC). If anything goes wrong in the port, whatever they get from the place could reduce. It is a national issue and it must be addressed as same immediately. “It is bad that we still use trucks to lift petroleum products from Apapa to other parts of the country. As it is now, other ports in Nigeria must begin to work immediately to decongest gridlock in Lagos.” Ambode called on the Minister of state of Petroleum and the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) to work towards reviving the pipelines. He thanked the Federal Government for shifting the date for the repair of the Third Mainland Bridge. The governor said his administration had kept faith with the people. “Our promise from the very beginning was that we are going to give you a government of inclusion and it’s very clear that we are on track. When we look at our scorecard, which is to keep Lagos on a trajectory of growth and development, we are on that track,” he said. On his plan for Ibeju Lekki,  Ambode said the construction of the Epe Airport and reconstruction of the Coastal Road were on course, adding that the dualisation of the Eleko Junction to the T-Junction will begin in January. He promised to complete the 27 network of roads in Ojokoro and Ayinke House, among others before the next quarter. He directed the recruitment of 1,000 teachers adding that more would be recruited as the need arises. A physically-challenged graduate of Computer Studies, Michael Ogunyemi, who has been jobless for five years could not hold back his joy when the governor directed the Civil Service Commission to employ him from August 1.