Two years ago, Mark Zuckerberg, the influential founder of Facebook, named Olalekan Olude and his friends, Ayodeji Adewunmi and Opeyemi Awoyemi, as examples of young Nigerians using digital technology to make impact across Africa. The trio in 2009 started a job repository site called Jobberman in their dormitory at the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, Osun State, to help connect people looking for jobs with companies hiring. Jobberman has touched over 60,000 companies and helped millions of people to get their dream job. Olude, the Group Chief Operating Officer of Jobberman, who oversees the company’s operational and monetisation initiatives, in this interview with OLUKOREDE YISHAU, says they were simply in pursuit of adding value to the lives of young Africans. What motivated you and your friends (partners) to start Jobberman, which has become the main source for jobs in Nigeria and sub-Saharan Africa? Jobberman was borne out of a desire to add value to lives. The biggest problem for every graduating student and a lot of graduates out there was and is still getting a job. We also saw what was happening in India with Naukri, a similar economy to Nigeria’s and we decided that if we really wanted to impact on millions of lives, then we had to work on the jobs problem. If we didn’t do it, it was going to be a problem we would have to face when we graduate. So, we decided to solve it for others, providing a platform that makes it easy to find and apply for jobs in Nigeria. One other critical factor that fueled this motivation was easy access to internet in my university, Obafemi Awolowo University. A lot of great talents were unlocked during that time due to this. It’s one of the reasons I am bullish on infrastructure being a key to unlocking rapid growth and  development. What are the challenges you have faced and are facing with the recruitment site? In the early days, the biggest challenge we had was getting jobseekers and employers to trust Jobberman. This was the early days of internet companies in Nigeria. Anything online at the time was labelled as fraud. It took us a while to change that perception – today you find everyone using technology in one way or the other even in rural and remote communities. Another challenge we faced is the relative lack of knowledge on the part of young jobseekers. Most youth do not know what it takes to be employable because our educational systems have not evolved to handhold students to become employable graduates or entrepreneurial graduates. Jobberman has been working tirelessly to change that and because of our efforts we have placed over 500,000 people in jobs since inception. All of this is good news as we need all the help possible to ensure our institutions provide graduates that can hit the ground running. Have there been instances where recruiters’ details given out on your website turn out to be false? Yes, we have had our fair share of scammers trying to leverage on our platform to take advantage of the desperation of unsuspecting Nigerians. We have constantly continued to develop strategies on how to ensure that scammers do not get a chance to either access the platform or use it. We verify companies, blacklist offenders, and also provide tools for jobseekers to report bad/fake companies. Companies with suspicious email addresses are automatically flagged. We have also enlisted the support of law enforcement agents and we have reported lots of fraudsters to the police and EFCC. You have changed the face of recruitment, are there things you still wish like doing but cannot do? It seems to me like we have just scratched the surface. Are there things that we would like to do that we have not done? Yes, a whole lot. I am clear about my calling, which is helping people have a better and meaningful life. It keeps me awake, keeps me motivated, and keeps me going. Jobs is a very powerful tool to make lives better. Its impact is generational – parents, children, relatives of people who get better jobs, and the communities they live,  all benefit. I am hoping to use the Jobberman platform to help grow other initiatives and movements with the similar goal of making lives better Youth unemployment in Nigeria is about 52%, what should we be doing more to solve this ticking time bomb? Crisis is an understatement. However, if we can match more people to available jobs, we would be reducing the unemployment gap. So, the real question is how do we make more jobs available? We need the policies both the federal and state government level to be pro-business. With a pro-business government, you create more jobs locally, attract more investments and create more industries. We need government to be intentional about bringing in companies that can hire a lot of Nigerians here. Early this year, Jobberman helped a foreign technology company to place 400 people with over a thousand more opportunities in Q1/Q2 2019. If I were in government, a core focus would be to drive more of these kind of initiatives. As these new jobs are sourced and created, extensive training to match these jobs need to start happening to ensure that companies also become more productive. We also need to help more youths become entrepreneurial – with high demand skills locally and abroad. There has been a recent spate of Nigerians emigrating to Europe and Canada through dangerous routes. We need to train Nigerian youth enmasse in high demand skills  so that these countries will be pleading to have our skilled people not the other way round. If China and India have perfected this, we can do the  same too. As a critical stakeholder in the tech-ecosystem in Nigeria, how can we deploy technology to solve this problem? I would love to see more use of technology in helping government manage the ecosystem called Nigeria. A lot more use of technology in data gathering, trend and predictive analysis, revenue generation and our ability to project and forecast on the things we should be doing. I also see technology as a key tool to reduce corruption and also enhance service delivery across board. Needless to say, this would entail a lot of investment and education but I strongly believe for our long term sustainability, we need to do this. Lagos is one of the three African cities, where youths are doing great with tech-driven innovations, do you think Ogun State where you are from, can catch up with Lagos tech ecosystem? Absolutely, I believe so. Lagos for one is already an expensive place to live in and once you realize that the only thing a tech company needs to succeed is an ecosystem: good academic institutions, ready to learn youth,and  good access to fast internet/Infrastructure, then you can quickly see that Ogun state can match Lagos like for like in this regard. If you look at Silicon Valley, it extends beyond SanFrancisco itself to its neighboring cities like Palo Alto, San Jose and Cupertino. Ogun fits all of that and has the land and environment to make a Silicon Valley and a better quality of life. Ogun State’s proximity to Lagos makes for easy access to foreign investors and professionals. That proximity also allows for any company/business structure in Lagos to set up back office, development team, strategy, manufacturing, warehouse to run from Ogun. With the rail system and a mass transit system coming up along the corridor, Ogun is the new get-away location to the stress and combustion in Lagos. This not only applies to technology, it applies to every industry from transportation, manufacturing, agriculture and so on. I believe Ogun should not strive to be Lagos, Ogun can be everything Lagos needs to be sustainable. We will feed Lagos and the rest of the country.  