A Nigeria based non-governmental organization (NGO), committed to transforming the learning experience of teachers and children through information sharing, training, and research across Africa, Creative Minds Educators Foundation was launched on Monday in Lagos. The Principal Consultant, Odetola Ebenezer Israel announcing the launch through its 56 WhatsApp platforms, said that the foundation was unofficially founded in 2006 with three WhatsApp platforms to create teaching job vacancies for teachers and establish opportunities for teachers to deliberate with each others in their comfort zones and to receive new knowledge from leaders in education all over the world. He said that the mission of the foundation is to uphold excellence and engender the highest professional standards in the practice of visual arts in Nigeria while encouraging its appreciation through publications, research, education and exhibitions. He noted that in today’s society, information, creativity, and adaptation is key and creative learning offers an opportunity for everyone in the classroom to have a voice, show initiative, collaborate, solve problems and to fully explore their potential to succeed. He added that we are dedicated to transform the learning experience of children, young people and teachers across Africa to prepare them for the opportunities and careers of the 21st century. Israel, who is also the President of the foundation posited that the foundation has been working with organizations, schools, communities and governments to deliver creative learning initiatives through WhatsApp groups, workshops, trainings and conferences that transform how teachers teach and how pupils are best supported to learn. We do all this to help teachers professionally to develop the new skills and to be committed to make a positive impact for the next generation. He said “We believe creativity can transform the lives of young people from all backgrounds, anywhere in the world. It is our belief that the best creative practices provide support for children to do well in learning, in life and in preparation for the world of work”. Isreal continued “To create a 21st learning environment for all children. To use Arts (creativity) to build children’s skills. To create an avenue for teachers and educators to connect with each other’s all over the world. To create an avenue for teachers to receive new knowledge from leaders in education around the globe. He said “We have achieve this by hosting leaders in education from Nigeria, South Africa, Finland, UK, US, Sweden, Germany, Denmark, India and more to come”. Currently the organization operational office is based in Lagos, Nigeria. We are also an International associate academic member, at ILETS Research and Teaching Group, School of Education, University of Glasgow, Sweden branch. Also in partnership with the Society of Nigerian Artists (SNA).”