African Youth has called for the end of Female Genital Mutilation (FGM) through a one million conversations. The campaign which is being supported by The Girl Generation, an Africa-led global collective of partners, kick started on Monday by bringing young people from all over the world to speak out and pledge to make theirs the generation that ends FGM. As part of this, the young activists are calling on their peers and parents as well as leaders from their communities, religion and politics to join them in talking about the issue whether these are people speaking out against it or survivors sharing their experiences. Aware that issues that aren’t spoken about prevail the longest, they hope to spark a million conversations on FGM by posting videos on social media using the hashtags #Ihavespoken and #EndFGM to create awareness and also, inspire others to show support thus breaking the silence that surrounds the issue. However, The Girl Generation will support the African youth achieve their aim by sparking conversations about FGM and breaking the silence which surrounds the issue, growing support for, and putting the spotlight on, the Africa-led movement to end FGM, Unlocking further resource and policy commitments to end FGM. The Global Director of The Girl Generation, Dr Faith Mwangi-Powell, said:
“We’re so excited to watch this movement grow from the minds of young activists in Africa to a million voices all around the world. “These young people are taking action by shattering the silence that surrounds FGM. By inviting and inspiring others to join the movement, they take a giant leap forward towards creating a world that is safer for our girls”. Oumie Sissokho, End-FGM Youth activist from The Gambia said: “I am a survivor of female genital mutilation and am a living testimony of the harm it causes.
“However, I am using my story in a positive a way. I have made a pledge to my daughter that I will protect her with my heart and my soul and I will extend the same protection to all the girls in my family and community. “That’s why I am working endlessly, tirelessly, to ensure that the right people are speaking out against FGM, changing mindsets and attitudes so that we will be able to end it in a generation.” Moussa Drame, Seneglese activist and journalist said: “I am proud to play my part in the global movement to end FGM. By speaking out, we have a huge opportunity to break the taboos that surround FGM and help others better understand the issue. “By talking about FGM, we will ensure that future generations do not carry out the practice. “As the largest African generation ever, we carry great weight behind us, and so ours will be the one that ends FGM forever.“