An Ikeja Special Court for Sexual Offences and Domestic Violence yesterday sentenced  a 31-year old furniture maker, Sunday Salami to 50 years imprisonment for defiling   a 14-year-old girl. Justice Sybil Nwaka held that defilement was a serious offence which should not be treated with kid gloves. “In the court’s opinion, the victim recognized the defendant and she understood what he did to her and she was able to answer all the questions put to her while giving her evidence in the matter. “I hereby find the defendant guilty of the offence of defilement. The offence committed by the defendant carries a life sentence without an option of fine. “The defendant is hereby sentenced to 50 years imprisonment without an option of fine”, Justice Nwaka said. During the trial, the prosecutor, Mr Babajide Boye, said Salami, a furniture maker, who lives at 15, Oluseyi Street Bariga, committed the offence on May, 9 2017 at Ibrahim Street, Bariga. The prosecution said the convict forcefully pulled the survivor   into his shop and had   carnal knowledge of her, after which he pushed her out. Boye said the matter was reported at Bariga Police Station and the statements of the victim, her mother and the defendant were voluntarily taken. A doctor with Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) told the court that there were bruises on the victim’s body and her hymen was broken when the she examined. The doctor, said he did not expect to see sperm on the victim’s after 24-hours because she had taken her bath before the examination Led in defence by his counsel, Worer Oduagbaka, Salami said told he was on his way home after visiting a friend when he was arrested by the police. He denied defiling the survivor. Oduagbaka argued that the prosecution did not prove through a medical report that the defendant was capable of defiling the victim as he is impotent. But the prosecution countered that the defendant never established his impotence in his testimony. In his alocutus, Oduagbaka pleaded for leniency, urging the court to temper justice with mercy. “My Lord, the defendant is in the prime of his youth and he can still be useful to the society, if given a second chance. He has repented in the prison and he is now a born again Christian. “He now fasts and prays every day, that is why he is looking slimmer. We urge your Lordship to give him a light sentence.