Minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), Malam Muhammad Bello has said that the Federal Executive Council (FCT), in 2017, approved $1.3 billion for the construction of the entire Abuja light rail project. He said the implementation of the project has been divided into phases, with phase 1 commissioned at the cost of $823million. Bello disclosed this at the inauguration of the light rail project. He said: “The Federal Executive Council approved the project in 2017 for construction by CCECC at a cost of US$1.3billion. We hope that the Minister of Finance would consider putting this key project in the next borrowing plans, the Minister of Budget and National Planning would agree to it, the National Assembly would approved it and that China Exim Bank would fund it as a mark of goodwill for the cordial relationship between our two countries. “The Abuja Rail Mass Transit System is an integral part of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Transportation Master Plan designed primarily to transport large number of commuters and goods between Satellite Towns into the Metropolitan Public Transport system and the different Phases of the Federal Capital City (FCC). The Abuja rail system is packaged into 6 Lots planned for phased development, based on preferential demand and available financial resources The Abuja Rail Mass Transit System is planned to integrate with the National Rail Network when eventually completed. “The Abuja rail is divided into Six (6) Lots and with total length of 290 kilometres. The Lots are: Lot3: From Transportation Centre via ldu lndustrial Zone ‘0 Nanmad’i Azikwe international Airport; Lot 4; From Kuje Satellite town to Karshi Satellite town with the  remaining legs of the Transit way line 2; Lot 5: From Kubwa via Bwari to Suleja; and Lot 6′. From Airport via Kuje and Gwagwalada to Dobi. “Implementation of the project has been divided into phases, with phase 1 being what we are commissioning today. The segment consists of Lot 1A & 3 with a total length of 45.3 kilometres. Lot1A: starts at ldu lndustrial Zone via Gwagwa-Diedie and terminates at Gbazango Station in Kubwa (18km); Both Lots connect at the ldu Station to enable easy passenger transfer with the National Rail line linking Kaduna  and Abuja. “The project cost US$823,540,545.87 funded 60% by the China- Exim Bank and 40% by the Federal Capital Territory Administration (F CTA). Scope of work include 45.3km 0f double standard gauge rail tracks a maintenance deport, training school, operations control centre and 12 Stations, Abuja Metro Station, Stadium Station, Kukwaba I (National Park Station), Kukwaba ll (Ring Road Station), Wupa Station, Idu Station, Bassaniiwa Station, Airport Station, Gwagwa Station, Deidei Station, Kagini Station and Gbazango Station.” The minister said that the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) has also taken delivery of the three coaches meant for initial operations while awaiting the arrival of the rolling stock of 48 coaches. Bello said FCTA has concluded an infrastructure soft loan agreement with Exim Bank of China for the supply of the remaining coaches, including their maintenance for three years at a cost of US$194,008,602.43 adding that the Bank would fund the project to the tune of US$157,001,049.89 (85%), while the FCTA would bring in a counterpart fund of US$37,007,552.54 (15%). He said: “the rail tracks, signalling, stations and other infrastructure were completed in December, 2017, 6 months ago. In line with International best practices, we spent 2 months testing the rail system without passengers, one month with passengers. i am pleased to state that the Federal Ministry of Transportation after working closely with our team of Engineers, the Construction Company China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC) and the protect Consultants, Messrs Transurb Technical Ltd has granted the Abuia Rail Mass Transit Project (ARMT) (Lot 3 & Lot 1A) Safety Certificate for Commercial Operations. We have also worked and are working closely with the Nigerian Railway Corporation (NRC) In the implementation of the project and they have granted relevant approvals for Operations.