The National Teachers Institute, Kaduna, is organizing training program for teachers on digital literacy and academic leadership. 218 participants will be trained by the institute. Director General, NTI, Dr. Garba Azare, disclosed this during the flag-off ceremony of the maiden edition of academic leadership workshop organised for head teachers and school principals on Tuesday in Abuja. He said the workshop will hold in states of the six  geo-political zones from the 17th – 19th of this month. The centers are in Abuja, Akure, Bauchi, Benin City, Enugu, and Kano. He said: “In my address during the flag-Off ceremony of the 2017 edition of the SDGs workshops, I informed those in attendance that the Institute proposed to expand the scope of the retraining programs to cover other critical areas of teaching profession. “The new areas we are exploring include digital literacy and academic leadership. “The training is aimed at equipping head teachers and school administrators with effective classroom process techniques (classroom observation and feedback, benchmarking, note keeping, etc). “It will also help in developing head teachers and school administrators’ management skills on how to promote school and community relationship (stakeholders) to achieve improved students’ performance; equipping head teachers and school administrators With management process (Planning, Organizing, Directing, Controlling and Delegating); and acquainting head teachers and school administrators with the roles and responsibilities of school managers and administrator with emphasis on team building, effective communication, mentoring, coaching and counseling.” He explained that the academic leadership training programme is a special component under the NTI Kaduna and funded by the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) for Primary and Junior secondary school teacher across the six (6) geo-political zones of the federation. “The need to strengthen Educators and equip them with the requisite knowledge to deliver in their roles as academic leaders cannot be over emphasized and it is against this backdrop that the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on SDGs and NTI decided to include the special component in the SDGs capacity building for teachers,” he added.