Concerned Nigerians have lamented incessant armed robbery, kidnapping and other violent crimes by bandits operating in police uniforms along Kabba –Obajana road in Kogi state. Among them is Mr. Timothy Kayode, a top management staff of Kano-based Clearing and Forwarding company,  Abiyem-Diva International Limited. Kayode, who was recently attacked by armed robbers on the same road called on President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the Inspector-General of Police (IGP) to probe the occurrences with a view to ascertain whether operatives of the Nigerian Police are actually involved in the incidences. Kayode who spoke on behalf of the Chief Executive Officer of the company, told journalists that armed robbers attacked the company’s personnel on official duty in Kogi state, along that route, leaving a number of them wounded. “The incidence happened around 7.30am last Sunday, when the Driver and I, were traveling on the road as we were heading towards a village known as ‘Oke –Ibuku. We first heard gunshots, and suddenly, some men in police uniform emerged and started shooting at our car. “As the shooting continued, the driver quickly maneuvered the car, and put it in a reverse and started moving back on a high speed, but, some of the bullets penetrated the car and hit the driver on one of his legs. Also confirming the incident, Jeremiah Samuel, the driver of the car, revealed that the men in police uniform who opened fire on their vehicle were not seen with any police vehicle as at the time of the incident. Samuel advised  motorists using the road to be more careful whenever, they are being stopped at road-blocks mounted by people wearing police uniforms, who are not seen with police vehicle. Commenting on the development, Oladare John, one of the stakeholders in Kogi West Geo –Zone of Kogi State, called on the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to beef up security on the road, to check the tide of incessant kidnappings and robberies taking place on the road on daily basis. “We the stakeholders in Kogi West are deeply worried by the growing cases of kidnapping, armed robbery and killing of innocent people on this road. We are particularly disturbed because this incidences are being attributed to people seen to be wearing Police Uniforms. “This trend has been continuing for a long time, and the Police leadership seems helpless in tackling this degenerating security situation that is bring hardship and suffering on people in that part of the state. “We want President Muhammadu Buhari to intervene by prevailing on the IGP to address the security challenge confronting the area,” he stated.