 Manchester United have announced their women’s squad ahead of the upcoming 2018-19 campaign. Manager Casey Stoney, a former Liverpool player and England international, has talked up the chances of her ‘young’ and ‘exciting’ squad. Stoney has taken seven players from her former club, while including two current England internationals in Alex Greenwood and Siobhan Chamberlain. The Red Devils Women’s side will get pre-season under way on Sunday against Liverpool MAN UNITED WOMEN’S SQUAD Lizzie Arnot (previous club: Hibernian), Fran Bentley (Man City), Siobhan Chamberlain (Liverpool), Charlie Devlin (Millwall), Leah Galton (Bayern Munich), Mollie Green (Everton), Alex Greenwood (Liverpool), Kirsty Hanson (Doncaster Rovers Belles), Martha Harris (Liverpool), Naomi Hartley (Liverpool), Lauren James (Arsenal), Aimee Palmer (Bristol City), Emily Ramsey (Liverpool), Lucy Roberts (Liverpool), Ebony Salmon (Aston Villa), Jess Sigsworth (Doncaster Rovers Belles), Kirsty Smith (Hibernian), Ella Toone (Man City), Amy Turner (Liverpool), Millie Turner (Bristol City), Katie Zelem (Juventus) Stoney left Liverpool in February after retiring from the game, and has brought both Greenwood and Chamberlain along with Martha Harris, Naomi Hartley, Emily Ramsey, Lucy Roberts and Amy Turner from the red half of Merseyside. Midfielder Katie Zelem has also left Juventus after one season in which she won the Serie A title, to return to Manchester. The team was brought together after United confirmed they would be reassembling their Women’s team and enter into the FA Championship division. Of the fresh squad seven players – Fran Bentley, Kirsty Hanson, Ella Toone, Millie Turner, Hartley, Ramsey and Zelem – have returned to the club where they spent their youth years at the centre of excellence. ‘I’m more than aware that we’re bringing 21 strangers together but I’m really excited about the squad and the future of this team.’ England goalkeeper Chamberlain tweeted following the announcement to reveal her pride at being able to join up with United. She wrote’I’m incredibly honoured to be joining the biggest club in the world. I can’t wait to pull on the shirt and represent the club with such a fantastic group of players and staff” Prior to the birth of the new Ladies in Red, United were the only premier league club without a women’s team having scrapped their side in 2005.The new side will be presented with their first challenge on Sunday, when they come up against Liverpool in a behind-closed-doors friendly.          