Former Anambra governor and now Labour and Productivity Minister, Chris Ngige said on Tuesday in Ado Ekiti that no gang up would stop President Buhari’s re-election in 2019. Ngige said that the gang up against the President by some leaders would fail ahead of next year election, noting that he has brought sanity to the Nigeria’s economy compared to what he met when he assumed office in 2015. The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that the former Senator who spoke in Ado Ekiti, the Ekiti state capital during the grand finale mega rally of the All Progressives Congress, described the parties forming alliance against the president as “mushroom”. He said the APC, which first evolved as Action Congress and later Action Congress of Nigeria before its current name of APC, had remained a progressive party with the vision and mission of uplifting the lives of Nigerians. The former governor said the people of Ekiti should vote wisely by electing Dr. Kayode Fayemi of APC on Saturday, so as to be part of progressives. According to him, parties gathering to unseat Buhari are just wasting their time as nothing will stop President Buhari from winning 2019 Presidential election. “All the gang up against the President will fail and he is going to win with landslide victory. It is obvious that before now, there was strong opposition against President Buhari by same past Nigerian leaders, but their plan to stop him then failed. “I can equally assure you that their gang up now will still fail because those who say Buhari should not run in 2019 are afraid that they may be forced to cough out the public fund they embezzled through dubious means, “he said. He accused Governor Ayo Fayose of impoverishing the people of Ekiti state, especially the Igbo traders by his refusal to pay backlog of salaries. He noted that the non-payment of salaries was fast destroying the businesses of many Igbo people that are into trading in the state, saying a vote for Fayemi would address the current situation.