Eze Ndi-Igbo in Kano, His Royal Highness, Igwe Ikechukwu Oliver Akpudo (Eze Di Ora mma V) on Monday in Kano laid to rest the controversy surrounding a court case involving the Igbo traditional throne in Kano, insisting that he remains the authentic Traditional Ruler of the Igbos resident in Kano, against rumours that he was defeated at the Court. Igwe Akpudo who addressed Reporters in his frowned at reports in a section of the media which involved him in a purported court case between the late Igwe  John Chiejina Nnaji (Eze Di Ora Mma IV) and Chief Boniface Ibekwe who is also laying claims as Eze Di Ora Mma IV in Kano. Igwe Akpudo pointed out that, “At no time did I institute any legal case against Mr. Boniface at the said Kano High Court.” According to him, “my attention has drawn to newspaper publications indicating that I was defeated in a Kano High Court by one Mr. Boniface Ibekwe who is falsely laying claims as Eze Ndigbo in Kano. He described the said reports as sponsored and, “a cheap propaganda and a calculated attempt to smear my name and the integrity of Ndigbo in Kano state.” He insisted that, “there is no legal tussle, whatsoever, disputing my title and its nomenclature, by Mr. Ibekwe or any other person for that matter.” Igwe Akpudo, however, advised Mr. Boniface Ibekwe, “to desist from using blackmail and propaganda to gain cheap popularity at the detriment of the sanctity, integrity, respect and royalty of Ndigbo in Kano and the Igbo nation.” He added that, “I remain, His Royal Highness, Igwe Ikechukwu Oliver Akpudo, Eze Ndigbo in Kano (Eze Di Ora Mma V). “I was duly and constitutionally installed as the fifth Eze Ndigbo in Kano, in line with the Igbo Community Association (ICA) Constitution, after the normal burial rites were accorded to Eze Di Ora Mma IV, the late Igwe John Chiejina Nnaji.” He, therefore, advised Ndigbo in Kano to remain peaceful and law-abiding, “as steps are being taken to resolve any problem the embarrassing stories must have caused my throne and the generality of the Igbos in Kano.”