Many persons were injured on Tuesday after hoodlums went berserk at the Mazamaza Motor Park in Mile Two, Lagos. It was gathered that the fight, which almost snowballed into an ethnic crisis between Yoruba and Igbo factions of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) started Monday morning. Our correspondent learnt that violence erupted after some aggrieved members attempted to impeach the NURTW leader in the area identified simply as Emma. Their plot, it was gathered, was rebuffed by a faction loyal to the leader, who read  ethnic undertones to it. According to a driver, violence erupted in no time, with the factions wielding dangerous weapons such as guns and cutlasses. He said they also set bonfires, forcing motorists and other road users to scamper to safety. “They were shooting anyhow and using cutlass on each other. From where we sat, we saw some injured people being taken away by their members. “There was a man who was unconscious and blood was gushing from his head. I do not know if it was gun injury or cutlass,” said the driver. He said the fight disrupted commercial activities in the axis, adding that policemen came to the scene much later to prevent escalation. Similarly, a social media user, Theresa Doghor said: “This morning (Tuesday), Mazamaza looks like a place where a war was fought. I asked someone in the crowd and she said, ‘Yoruba and Igbo’ “They must have fought for hours. There are burnt tyres on the ground and no one is selling.” Another eyewitness, one Mbakwem Uzor said: “Mazamaza First Gate has been on lock down since Monday night. A serious  fight going on with lots of gunshots. Kindly be careful.” Another eyewitness wrote: “There has been an ongoing fight between Yoruba and Igbo people at Mazamaza near the Young Shall Grow bus park. “Heavy gunshot has been heard and many injured since Monday night. Please avoid that area for now and people should stay indoors.”
Police spokesman, Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent  (CSP) could not be reached for comment at the time of filing this report. However, a police source confirmed to our correspondent that normalcy had been restored in the area.