Contrary to claims by the protesting spy policemen that ExxonMobil has not complied with the Supreme Court order to reabsorb its sacked officers, the oil giant has obeyed the  order and fully paid the officers’ entitlements after they were disengaged, The Nation has learnt. An official of the oil firm stated that it reabsorbed the spy police officers in compliance with the apex court order, but had to disengage them later for operational reasons and due to the business model of Mobil Producing Nigeria Unlimited (MPN), an affiliate of ExxonMobil. The Nation also gathered that the spy policemen were paid their benefits with some getting as much as N20 million. According to the source, the package was communicated to the affected workers on their disengagement contrary to some reports that they were disengaged without entitlement. Also, following the Supreme Court judgment of last April 20,  directing MPN, an affiliate of ExxonMobil, to recognise the spy policemen as employees, the company not only accepted the ruling, but proceeded to comply and acknowledged the number of years the affected officers had spent in the organisation in line with the company’s human capital policy. “We understand that it was on this basis that the compensation package, which reportedly totalled over N1.2billion, was arrived at and communicated to the staff on their disengagement last weekend,” the source said, adding that on individual terms, this translated to about between eight and 10 times the yearly basic salaries of the affected personnel. “In addition to this package, the disengaged staff were also paid their July and August salaries and would also receive pensions in line with the company’s pension policy. The 860 spy policemen to be paid these benefits comprised about 500, who were in the MPN system as at last weekend and 360 others, who had been disengaged from the services of MPN long before the Supreme Court judgment. “Prior to the Supreme Court ruling, the spy policemen’s salaries were being paid through the Nigerian Police Force, with some augmentation by MPN monthly,” the source said, adding that this was the structure of the third party engagement from inception. In view of MPN’s business model, calculating their emoluments and benefits was a challenge. Most of them have secondary school certificates as their highest qualification. Reflecting how the spy policemen came into the oil company, the source said: “They were recruited and trained by the Nigeria Police and deployed to Mobil Producing Nigeria. The company has been paying them through the police. “Administratively, they were being managed by the police, including their promotions and other benefits. Most of the spy policemen, who joined the service in the 1990s, have put in a minimum of 12 years of service. They took MPN to court demanding to be absorbed as full staff members to be entitled to full benefits like every other MPN employees. The case went all the way to the Supreme Court and was decided in their favour. “However, due to the peculiar nature of the oil and gas industry, ExxonMobil was compelled to terminate their appointments, despite agreeing to pay all their benefits, gratuity, leave allowance arrears and pension going back to when they began to work for the company. “ExxonMobil is an oil and gas producing company, and not a security services provider. In all, they were about 900. Of this number, a lot of them have either retired or moved on to other jobs or even died. Those who are still active are about 500, more than all the engineers. “As an operator of a joint venture with the Federal Government, management thought it would be difficult to defend their status as employees on the payroll of the company. The time they were issued letters of employment as directed by the Supreme Court, they were informed the company would not be able to carry them in the company’s books as employees going forward. They were told that those who were strong enough to continue working would be absorbed through a third party security provider to the company for them to continue working for MPN.” The spy policemen had shut ExxonMobil’s operations in Lagos and Eket, Akwa Ibom states, simultaneously over the alleged denial of their entitlements. The Chairman, Security Workforce ExxonMobil, Okon Johnson, said the protesters, some of whom put in about 22 years, accused the management of refusing to comply with Supreme Court order to absorb them as employees of the company. However, the Media & Communications Manager of MPN, Mr. Oge Udeagha, disowned the accusations. He didn’t comment fully on the compensation packages for the disengaged spy policemen. He said the management had fully complied with the Supreme Court order by providing compensation packages for the affected personnel. Udeagha said: “Following the recent judgment of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, Mobil Producing Nigeria (MPN) has provided compensation packages for the affected personnel. The compensation packages cover all categories of affected personnel, including those in active service, and others who had already left the services of the Company before the judgment. “In addition, the company is also offering Human Resources consulting services to assist with employment opportunities with third parties. MPN typically retains security services through third parties who are best positioned to provide these core competencies. “We thank these individuals for their prior service in supporting the safety and security of our operations in Nigeria.”