Speaker of the Kano State House of Assembly Abdullahi Attah Fagge has been removed. He was replaced with former Speaker Kabiru Al-Hassan Rurum. The move followed a motion by Labaran Abdul Madari (Warawa) seconded by Abdullahi Yaryasa (Tudun Wada). Fagge was accused of corruption and not carrying members along in matters relating to the House. The deputy Speaker was replaced by former Deputy Speaker Hamisu Ibrahim Chidari (Makoda); Majority leader Mohammad Butu-Butu was replaced by Baffa Babba Dan Agundi. Ayuba Labaran (Kabo) is the new Majority Whip. Labaran Abdul Madari is the new Chief Whip while Kabiru Hassan Dashi is the new deputy Majority leader. Twenty-seven of the 40 members signed Fagge’s impeachment notice. Rurum pledged to be dedicated and carry members along. He led an impeachment move against Fagge two months ago but he survived it, following Governor Abdullahi Ganduje’s intervention. Ganduje said he had no knowledge of Fagge’s removal until top members of his party told him on the phone. The governor, who described the incident as a proof of internal democracy, said it was good for any progressive democracy. The governor spoke at the Government House when Rurum and his principal officers visited him. They pledged their loyalty to the governor, and reaffirmed their support for his re-election. Ganduje said: “I didn’t know what happened in the House of Assembly. I was informed by top members of our party that the Speaker has been removed. “As you know, there have been, and there would be different interpretations to what has happened, but one thing is that we believe in internal democracy. “I urge you to embrace those who lost their seats and ensure there are no factions within the House. “I welcome you to the Government House, your house, and I reassure you that there shall be synergy between the government and the Assembly for the greater development of the state.” Rurum hailed the Ganduje-led administration, and reaffirmed the lawmakers will work with the governor for the peace and progress of the state. He assured Ganduje there shall be no defections, as efforts are on to win over the six Kwankwansiyya loyalists. 