But for the intervention of security operatives from the military, Department of State Services (DSS) and police, violence would have erupted at the Nigeria Law School in Lagos at the weekend over alleged blasphemy. It was gathered that tension erupted in the school on Saturday following an alleged social media post that Muslim students found offensive and derogatory. One Timothy Mmadu was said to have syndicated a WhatsApp post that painted Prophet Mohammed in bad light, which prompted Muslim students to threaten to lynch him. It was gathered that Mmadu had been contacted by security forces and he explained that he was not the originator of the alleged blasphemous post. “He said he was not the originator. That he merely posted to the group chat a message forwarded to him by one Takwat “We asked for her number in order to invite her too for questioning but her number was switched off. We are on the case and we will get to the bottom of the matter,” said a source. Although the content of the post was not disclosed, it was gathered that the school management sent distress calls to security agencies and operatives were deployed to the premises. It was gathered that there was visible security presence at the school on Sunday and yesterday, to avoid breakdown of law and order. Despite the school’s mediation, the  school’s chapter of the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN) expressed displeasure that Mmadu was not dealt with on consonance with the rules. MSSN described the post as callous and blasphemous against the prophet, adding that it had no regards “to the sensibilities of the Muslim students.” Confirmimg the incident, police spokesman, Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent (CSP) said it had been brought under control. He said: “Everything is under control at the moment. The Bar Beach DPO went to the school and spoke to the authorities before addressing the Muslim and Christian communities. “The Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal has directed that a manhunt be launched for the culprits behind the blasphemous publication. The CP also warned that no individual or group would be allowed to jeopardize the religious harmony in the state.”