The leadership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said on Friday the ongoing reconciliatory moves initiated by the Presidency and the leadership of the All Progress Congress (APC) would not stop the disgruntled members of the APC from defecting to the PDP. President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Chairman of the APC, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole, are spearheading fresh reconciliation moves to dissuade members of the Reformed All Progressives Congress (RAPC) from going ahead with their defection plan. The President had on Thursday met the President of the Senate, Dr. Bukola Saraki, at the Presidential Villa in what many perceived as a new lease in the frosty relationship between members of the RAPC and the mainstream APC. Similarly, Oshiomhole had met with Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, on Thursday at the APC National Secretariat, following announcement by the governor that he was on his way out of the party. Ortom had declared that he was being pushed out of the APC by some forces he declined to name. The PDP, however, has dismissed the reconciliation efforts by President Buhari and Oshiomhole as belated, saying it’s a complete waste of time. The PDP said discussions with the intending defectors from APC have already crossed the rubicon, stressing that there is nothing Buhari, Oshiomhole or anybody in the APC can do to stop a “moving train.” The National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in response to a text message from our correspondent on Friday, said arrangements with the intending defectors had reached a final stage. Ologbondiyan said: “PDP is confident that our discussion with compatriots who are determined to rescue our nation from the shackles of deception, lies, bloodletting, starvation and hunger of the APC-led federal government is boldly ongoing. “As a party, we are very certain that these discussions are near their end and we are just dotting the i(s) and crossing the t(s).” And as if to buttress Ologbondiyan’s position, Governor Ortom had on Friday declared that his decision to quit the APC was intact.  Addressing members of a Tiv group in Abuja on Friday, the governor said nothing would make him change his mind and that the APC in Benue State is a “one man show.” 