Benue State All Progressives Congress (APC) may not miss Samuel Ortom, the embattled governor who jumped ship yesterday. But, the land-locked state, which has nearly been suffocated by poor governance, long before the farmers/herdsmen clashes, will still have to endure some months of ineptitude. Will the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) now give the governor a re-election ticket for next year’s poll, following his defection from the APC? Ortom left along with 10 members of House of Assembly. This fraction is significant. But, does it speak volumes about the popularity of the chief executive? The defected lawmakers can hardly stand on their own. Many of them rode to the House of Assembly on the wings of party leaders who have shunned the carrots of defection. It is not the best of times for the governor, who despite being the number one indigene of the Middle Belt state, cannot stand on the same political pedestal with Senator George Akume, former governor and indomitable party leader. A paper weight politician, Ortom was in a fix for two weeks, not knowing whether to move backward or forward. Benue APC had become too hot him. In distress and confusion, the governor spoke from both sides of the mouth. In a dimension, he denied the rumour of defection, although it was obvious. Yet, in another breath, he owned up to the trick as he whipped up emotion and sentiment, saying he was given a red card by Benue chapter of the party. Ortom saw the danger coming. His chance of survival was slim. The possibility of getting the ticket for 2019 election was remote. He had been isolated from the pack of trusted party leaders. Party faithful were already anticipating the end of an era. Weighing the options, he finally embraced a soft-landing of sorts. When he eventually called it quits with the APC, his decision was not beyond expectation. The chapter was not caught unawares. There was no moment of regret. Ortom was not particularly rated as an asset to the party. He lacked a formidable structure. He could not also build one in the last three years. He has some limitations. He was a puppet to the gladiators are custodians of the governorship crown. Yet, expectations were high when he assumed the reins in 2015.  In the saddle, Ortom has been perceived as a liability by party faithful, who later queried his fitness for the exalted office, based on leadership failure. To them, his endorsement during the previous poll was a mistake. When party members asked him to render accounts, he cried foul, saying it was a red card. The bone of contention between him and the party members was the governor’s inability to pay workers’ salaries for many months despite the federal government allocation, bailout and budget support. The party feared that the people would move against the platform, if Ortom is re-presented as candidate next year. When killer herdsmen invaded the state, it became an opportunity to divert attention from what had been left undone. While Ortom blamed the Federal Government for not averting the mayhem, his Plateau counterpart, Simon Lalong, objected, saying Ortom’s style of governance contributed to the disaster. To party faithful, the governor defected to avert a looming vote of confidence.  The defection was a face-saving device. Now that he has gone to the PDP, will civil servants who are have not been paid for one year reward him for starvation? Will communities that have continued to suffer from the failed infrastructure battle vote for him? Will pensioners who have no hope of getting their pensions support his re-election bid? Will victims of abandoned projects support him? Will PDP governorship aspirants step down for Ortom? More puzzles. Few answers.