With the deadline set by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the submission of the list of candidates and their running mates, political parties in Osun State are set for their shadow contests. ADESOJI ADENIYI reports that the race is more intense within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), with 29 contenders and the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), which has 20 aspirants. THE race to succeed Governor Rauf Aregbesola, who will be stepping down in November after two terms as the Osun State helmsman, has gathered momentum. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has set a July 22 deadline for conclusion of primary election for all political parties which intend to participate in the September 22 governorship election. By next week, all political parties are expected to have elected their candidates and sorted out all complaints and petitions against successful candidates. In line with the INEC deadline, the All Progressives Congress (APC), which had shifted its primary thrice, is set for the exercise today. The leading opposition party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), and the Social Democratic Party (SDP) have both picked July 20 (Saturday) to elect their flag bearers. In all, no fewer than 50 aspirants from about six political parties wish to contest. In the APC, 29 aspirants are vying for the exalted position. In the PDP, 20 aspirants are in the race. The SDP has four aspirants. Six are using the Accord Party (AP) platform to realise their ambition. APC Though there are 29 contenders in the race, only five of them have been campaigning to get the party’s nod for the race. They are the Chief of Staff to the Governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola; a retired Permanent Secretary, Engr. Adelere Oriolowo; House of Assembly Speaker Hon. Najeem Salaam; the Secretary to the State Government, Alhaji Moshood Adeoti; and business man, Ayoade Lawal. The contest for the APC ticket has witnessed a lot of intrigues. This makes today’s primary very highly competitive. One of the most dominant factors in the contest is zoning. Stakeholders from Osun West senatorial district are insisting that it is their turn to produce the next governor after the expiration of Governor Aregbesola’s tenure. The other dominant factor is continuity agenda. Those insisting that it is the turn of Osun West have continued to appeal to emotions of the people, arguing that only the West is yet to occupy the seat of the governor. They say the zone has not had the opportunity to govern the state, except for a period of two years during the aborted Third Republic, when the first elected governor of the state, the late Senator Isiaka Adeleke, occupied the seat briefly. They say Osun Central has spent 11 and a half years on the seat during the tenures of Chief Bisi Akande and Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola and that contestants from the zone should not be allowed to participate in the primary. Aregbesola, from Osun East, is on the verge of completing his two four-year terms in November. These, they added, makes Osun West the only zone that is yet to govern the state for a considerable period of time. Therefore, they believe it would amount to injustice, if the governorship is not zoned to Osun West. However, those rooting for a continuity of “the laudable projects, policies and programmes” of the Aregbesola administration argue that in the interest of democracy the race must be open to all aspirants. In the wisdom of the party leadership, there is nothing like zoning in the APC constitution and, therefore, it should not be a decisive factor in choosing its flag bearer. Osun APC Chairman, Gboyega Famodun has been reminding aspirants rooting for zoning that “the contest is open to aspirants from three senatorial districts”. Going by the chairman’s declaration, all aspirants are eligible to participate in the process. In bid to make the contest more open and transparent, the party leadership has decided to adopt a direct primary approach; rather than the use of delegates to elect the party’s standard bearer. Since the announcement was made, some stakeholders have mounted pressure on the party leaders to shift position on the matter. Not surprisingly, the largest number of aspirants within the APC is from Osun West. They are 19 in all. The aspirants are: Alao Olabisi (Iwo Local Government), Oyebisi Alamu (Iwo) Dr. Isiaka Owoade (Irewole) Tunde Adediji (Aiyedaade), Hon. Akintayo Amere (Iwo) Alhaji Adeyemo Fatai (Aiyedaade), Babatunde Taiwo (Isokan), Ayoade Lawal (Iwo), Dr. Taofeek Olayinka (Iwo) and Mr. Oludayo Oyebanji (Irewole). Others are: Dr. Salam Folasayo (Ejigbo), Dr. Ezekiel Oyemomi (Ayedade), Benedict Olugboyega (Irewole), Mr. Adelere Oriolowo (Iwo), Mr. Peter Babalola (Irewole), Alhaji Moshood Adeoti (Iwo), Dr. Ismail Layonu (Ede North) and Mr. Mumini Raifu (Iwo). Mr. Bola Oyebamiji (Irewole) has already withdrawn from the race. From Osun Central: Jolayemi Kamoru (Ila), Sunday Akere (Boluwaduro), Hon. Sulaimon Lasun Yusuff (Irepodun), Alhaji Adegboyega Oyetola (Boripe), Hon. Yinka Ajayi (Boripe) and Mr. Kunle Adegoke (Olorunda). The contestants from Osun East are: Dr. Samuel Ibiyemi (Ife West), and Senator Jide Omoworare (Ife Central). Of the above aspirants, only four or five  have contacts with the grassroots. Leading the pack is Oyetola. He ran a well-structured and organised campaign to sell himself to the people in the three senatorial districts. His campaign tours were thorough and his message was direct. He was stressing the need for continuity of good policies and programmes of the present administration. This, he said, would further position the state for greater tasks and prospects, if left in the hands of someone with competence and capacity. Oyetola has described himself as the best man for the job, because he has been actively involved in formulation and implementation of policies and programmes of the government in the last eight years as Chief of Staff. He also flaunts his over 30 years experience and accomplishment in the “highly competitive private sector”. He promises an all-inclusive government for all strata of the society, including artisans, civil servants and pensioners, children, youths, women and the aged. In his words: “As part of this government (the Aregbesola administration) for almost eight years as Chief of Staff, I will hit the ground running on assumption of office as governor. I need no briefing about where the work is and where we are going. Everything is in my brain. So, I am Mr. Continuity. I have a successful career in the very competitive private sector for over 30 years’ experience. “So, I have the competence. I have integrity and more importantly I have a very cordial relationship with my Creator, whose fear of Him motivates and drives me to work conscientiously to impact positively on people’s lives, irrespective of their religion, ethnicity, economic and social status. As someone born, brought up and who attended schools in Osun up till my adult age, before venturing outside the state for exposure and further education, I will use my God-given talents to provide ample opportunities for all residents to exhibit their potential so that they can flourish in an atmosphere of love and peace. I know the importance of interconnection and interdependence of all sectors on one another. “Therefore, I will not leave any sector unattended to, so that wealth can spread to the advantage of everyone and our state. My administration will consolidate on our present gains and do a lot more through an unprecedented sense of mission and visionary leadership devoid of narrow and sectional considerations that has no place in modern day democracy.” Adeoti’s campaign tours have taken him all parts of the state. As former chairman of Iwo Local Government, chairman of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), on which Aregbesola rode to power in the face of a hostile administration at the centre, he is a familiar face and a household name in the politics of Osun State. No doubt, Adeoti has paid his dues politically and, therefore, he believes that he should succeed Aregbesola as governor. He promises to touch education, agriculture, tourism, health sectors, among other areas, if he becomes the governor. Similarly, Salam is banking on his legislative experience as Speaker for two terms. He has gone round parts of the state, canvassing for support. He also wants to leverage on leading the 26-member parliament to work harmoniously with the executive, if he gets the chance to govern the state. He has been calling on the party leadership to provide  a level-playing field for all aspirants. Oriolowo is another aspirant that has been campaigning vigorously. The Coordinator of the Osun State Rural Access Mobility Projects (RAMP) believes he is the right candidate party. He said: “I am a retired civil servant, as former Permanent Secretary, a pensioner and someone, who had handled many projects in rural and urban communities across the state.” As one of the aspirants from Osun West, like Adeoti, Oriolowo believes that the clamour for zoning will boost his chances. Also, Yussuf, who is the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, has been campaigning. He promised to provide intervention in education, health, agricultural sectors, if he gets the chance to become governor. During his campaign tours around the state, he assured the people that he would engage the youths in the development of the state. He also promised to industrialise the state, saying his contacts around the globe will help him attract investments to the state. PDP The PDP has also provided a platform for many aspirants to seek opportunities to actualise their aspirations. What makes it easy for many of the aspirants to come on board is because the governorship slot has been zoned to Osun West. Its Chairman, Hon. Soji Adagunodo, said what was important was giving all zones equal participation. Like the APC, the PDP also has a large number of aspirants in the race. It originally stood at 20. They include: Hon. Adejare Bello, Senator Felix Ogunwale, Senator Olasunkanmi Akinlabi, Senator Bamgbetan, Senator Ademola Adeleke, Dr. Lere Oyewumi, Mr. Nathaniel Oke, Mr. Kayode Oduoye, Alhaji Fatai Akinbade, Dr. Ayoade Adewopo, Alhaji Waliyu Adebayo Oladosu, and Prof. Adeolu Durotoye. Others are: Chief Gbenga Owolabi, Hon. Albert Adeogun, Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi, Mr. Jide Adeniji, Mr. Tunde Adewinbi, Prof. Remi Aworemi, Mr. Tunde Esho, Mr. Samuel Jeje, Mr. Rasheed  Olawale, Dr. Amidu Tadese and Mr. Lere Akande. But recently the screening committee for the party’s primary, headed by Austin Opara, pruned down the number to eleven. Aspirants that have cleared to contest are: Senator Olasunkanmi Akinlabi (Ayedaade Local Government in Osun West), Dr. Olalere Oyewumi from (Irewole in Osun West), Mr. Nathaniel Oke (Ayedaade, Osun West), Senator Felix Ogunwale (Boripe, Osun Central), Alhaji Fatai Akinbade (Ola-Oluwa, Osun West), Mr. Jide Adeniji (Ila, Osun Central), Dr. Akin Ogunbiyi (Ayedire, Osun West), Dr. Ayoade Adewepo (Ife Central, Osun East), Hon. Rafiu Bello (Ede, Osun West), Senator Ademola Adeleke (Ede North, Osun West), and Prof. Adeolu Durotoye (Osogbo, Osun Central). The PDP is seriously making efforts to stage a comeback to the political scene in Osun State, after shaking off its many challenges, particularly factionalisation that had bedeviled the party. But the exit of Senator Iyiola Omisore from the fold was a relief to many chieftains of the party. However, political analysts believe the party will face another round of crisis in picking a candidate to fly its flag at the governorship election. Nevertheless, in the thinking of some party chieftains, including Hon. Adejare Bello, who was former Speaker of the state House of Assembly, the PDP in Osun State may pick its governorship candidate through a consensus arrangement. To avoid massive defection of members likely to be aggrieved after the primary poll, if their choice was not picked, it was gathered that the opposition party may consider a consensus candidate with inputs from all sections of the party. Though to get a consensus might be difficult because many of the aspirants hold the strong views that they are better qualified than the rest. So, harmonising diverse interests within the party, no doubt will be an herculean task for the party leadership. SDP Senator Iyiola Omisore and Otunba Oluyemisi Oladeji are the two leading governorship aspirants of the SDP. Since Omisore defected to the party, from the PDP, it has been one crisis or the other. It started with the statement credited to the party chairman, Ademola Isola, that Omisore was not recognised yet as member of the SDP, let alone to be addressed as an aspirant on the party’s platform. His declaration caused a stir among party loyalists. This led to a counter claim by a faction of the party that Omisore is a member. Few weeks after, the Omisore group held ward and state congresses, where his ally, Dr. Bayo Faforiji, emerged the chairman, despite a court injunction against it. For the Accord Party, there are no fewer than three aspirants: Bunmi Ibiloye, Babatunde Olaniyiloye and Pade Okunola. The aspirants have been busy mobilising supporters for their aspirations. For the Alliance for Democracy (AD) and Kowa Party, an architect Olugbenga Akintola and a university don, Prof. Oluseyi Fabiyi, have been picked as candidates. For most of the parties, the real race for the September 222 governorship race would start after their primaries on July 22.