The Minister of Justice and Attorney General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami, Professor of Law, Akin Oyebode and the Solicitor General of the Federation, Dayo Apata, on Thursday identified factors behind the intractable security challenges in the country. Malami attributed the problem to the rising political activities in the country and activities of treasury looters, who are uncomfortable with the current administration’s anti-corruption efforts. Oyebode blamed the problem on inadequate inaction of government and its agencies. Apata called for a collaborative effort of all stakeholders to address the security challenges plaguing the country. They spoke at an event tagged: “An emergency high level dialogue on law, justice and security in Nigeria,” put together by Federal Ministry of Justice in Abuja. The two-day event being attended by states’ Attorneys-General and other stakeholders in the nation’s legal circle, according to Malami, is designed to ensure a more potent legal response to the country’s present security challenges. The AGF regretted the negative effect of the incessant killings on the government’s effort to engender peaceful coexistence among Nigerians. The AGF said: “As we are all aware, these horrendous incidents in Plateau State were not isolated events but followed a pattern in some other states, notably Benue, Taraba, Zamfara and Adamawa States which has become a deep source of concern to the Federal and State authorities. “The statistics of deaths and displacement in these incidents involving various communities are depressing and alarming and appear designed to challenge our common humanity and claims to civilization in the 21st Century. “From an informed assessment of the situation, permit me to first situate the apparent upsurge in these incidents to the advent of another political season of elections and the fierce contestation for power which appears to now over-shadow all pretensions to patriotism and respect for human lives, in certain quarters. “You will recall that when this administration came to power in 2015, it made security of lives and property a cardinal principle of its governance. “Tremendous successes were achieved, particularly in decimating and degrading the Boko Haram terrorist group. “As we approach another general election in 2019, it is easy to see the hands of corrupt politicians with contrary positions in our present security problems as they desperately attempt to discredit all the gains made by this administration, for pure political gain. We must resist these negative tendencies. “The greater danger to our collective survival remains the fact that we are not fully out of the grip of this corrupt, privileged class, despite the best intentions and efforts of the Buhari administration.” 