The Federation Account Allocation Committee ( FAAC ) has resolved to go after all revenue generating agencies to see that they remit true and accurate accruals into the federation account. Next to be targeted, after the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC) underemittances has been addressed is the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). Addressing journalists over weekend on the resolve of the FAAC to go after revenue generating agencies, Chairman Finance Commissioners Forum Mr. Mahmood Yunusa disclosed that they will go after FIRS to explain why there was a drop in what they were suppised to remit to the federation account in May and June 2018. According to Yunusa, on FIRS, “if you look at the FAAC report, there was a sharp drop in FIRS’s May and June collections but there was no opportunity for us to actually engage the FIRS for them to explain to us why there was a sharp drop. I can’t remember vividly but the drop was about N90 billion.” “So FIRS also needs to tell us why the sharp drop. If they think they are not being sweated too, we will sweat them up because you cannot adopt a kind of arm-chair work – you just sit in your office what comes you take it and what doesn’t get to you, you don’t care to pursue it, no!” He noted that “at the state level, we are very willing to cooperate with the FIRS when it comes to VAT (Value Added Tax) remittance because we know as states, we even benefit more than the federal government when it comes to VAT. We are willing to work with FIRS to increase the generation of all the taxes that can be increased for the benefit of the entire country.” Yunusa warned that “It is not just NNPC, if Customs is not doing well we will engage them. We have been asking this questions, we have been engaging them. Every revenue generating agency has a target, and we will apply the necessary rules to ensure that we take value for why every revenue generating agency was established.” Yunusa reiterated that strengthening the revenue collection and remittance of same to the federation account was an issue FAAC had resolved to see to a logical conclusion. According to him, “part of the process of strengthening the system will be to take the collection and remittance of royalty from NNPC to the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) while the collection and remittance of PPT will also be returned to the FIRS in line with the law. Yunusa insisted that “this is part of the process that we are trying to strengthen and we are trying to adopt. It is there, it is part of the law under oil and gas, like in any other IOC, that all royalties should be collected and remitted to the federation account by the DPR, it is DPR’s responsibility. Before DPR collect that royalty, it has to make sure that the actual amount that is supposed to be remitted is remitted.” “If it is under remitted, the DPR will be responsible for the shortfall and I know DPR would not want to be responsible for a shortage that they are not even aware of. If you are supposed to remit X billion of naira, and you remit B billion of naira to them, they won’t accept because it is under remitted. The royalty is calculated and paid based on the oil lifted” he said. He added that “the same thing with PPT, the NNPC has to remit the same amount that has to be remitted to FIRS, if not the FIRS will not accept because they would not want to be responsible for the shortfall or under remittance that ordinarily they shouldn’t be responsible for. So that will balance the revenue collecting system. There should be a kind of check and balance. Had it been we had this, this issue wouldn’t have cropped up. That is the system we are trying to strengthen and adopt.” On the ongoing face-off between FAAC and NNPC, and the oil Corporation’s claim that exiting the Joint Venture Cash Calls agreement was responsible for the drop in remittance to the federation account, Yunusa said ” the Commissioners of finance forum has very experienced people, professional accountant some of whom have worked in the NNPC. We had a workshop on the JVC programme. Whatever it is, if you want to exit the JVC there is a model or a machinery that is in place, even if you dont understanding, come and tell us. What is JVC -it is a joint Cash Call – it is for me to bring x amount of money while the other partner also brings x amount of money to do a business. So I need to know what I am contributing and I equally need to know what the other party is contributing.” Goung forward, he queried NNPC that ” if I am contributing to a JV, I am investing and for every investment there should be return on investment. If there is no return on investment why should you invest? Why should government company invest? It is because it is not your personal company. Government company is your company and it should even invest more than you because your personal company could be restricted just for you and your immediate family. But government company, if it is well sustained, well maintained, well invested and well managed, it could serve even people that are yet unborn and it will keep on driving development in the country.” On the issue of hiring forensic auditors and consultants to work with the NNPC as suggested by the Federation Account Allocation Committee in March, the Chairman of the Forum said, “we are on course, but we want to take these problems one after the other. NNPC is not the only revenue generating agency in the country but NNPC is having this much attention because it is the major driver of revenue, all the tiers of government rely to some extent, on the revenue that is driven from the centre and the major contributor of that revenue from the Centre is NNPC and we can’t afford not to fix whatever problem we see or we presume is there in NNPC, we are risking the entire economy. Be that as it may, we are still sticking to our decision, by the time we solve this problem, we will look at other issues within the NNPC and other parastatals under ministries of finance and petroleum.” The engagement of the consultant he assured “is on course, we will sort all these issues out. NNPC as I have said, is the major contributor of revenue but that does not mean we should take our eyes off other revenue generating agencies like the Customs, FIRS, DPR and the non-mineral sector. We want to take these issues one after the other with a view to solving them entirely.” Speaking on why FAAC was cancelled three times in a series, Yunusa said, “we thought we had concluded our reconciliation where whatever that we have put forward to government based on our projections, is supposed to have been solved so that we can have FAAC, and then we move on. But due to some other issues, the government was not able to get the desired attention it supposed to have gotten in respect to the process we said should be followed.” However, from the reaching FAAC members, Yunusa said “the top management of the NNPC are out of the country for a meeting, by the time they return, all these things will be put to order. It’s just fair that if such decision should be taken, it should be in a joint session that will involve the Governor’s Forum, the Ministry of Finance, the NNPC as well as the Forum of Finance Commissioners. We are on course towards solving all the problems and we are focused.”