Set to grace the screens on August 3, 2018, ‘Seven and a Half Dates’ is the Nollywood movie to look out for. Produced by Toyin Abraham, directed by Biodun Stephen with celebrated media entrepreneur, Samuel Olatunji as Executive Producer through his Broadway TV Production, the movie follows the story of a young lady who was set up on several blind dates by her father in a bid to find true love. Meet the women of ‘Seven and a Half Dates.’ Toyin Abraham WITH her talents evident in blockbuster movies such as ‘Alakada Reloaded’, ‘The Ghost and The Tout’,  ‘Okafor’s Law’ and ‘Celebrity Marriage’, Toyin has earned herself a spot as one of Nollywood’s most sought after actresses. And in ‘Seven and a Half Dates’, Toyin features as an actress, displaying her hilarious part in the role of Biodun,  as well as a Producer of this romantic comedy. Perhaps the beautiful and talented actress and producer is set to break box office for the second time this year with ‘Seven and a Half Dates.’ Mercy Johnson MERCY Johnson is one of the most skilled, talented and professional actress Nollywood has ever encountered. Mercy’s spontaneity and interpretation of roles gives her edge ahead of some of her colleagues. Not only did she breeze her way into the hearts of her viewers and fans but she has found a way to maintain that position with her consistency and talent. Bringing this same talent to ‘Seven and a Half Dates’, Mercy, who plays the role of Bisola Gomez, is a delight to watch. Having dazzled the audience with her performances in award-winning movies like ‘Dumebi the Dirty Girl’, ’30 days in Atlanta’, ’10 Days in Sun City’ and ‘War in the Palace’, Mercy shines once again in this movie. Sola Sobowale VETERAN Nollywood actress, Sola Sobowale, is a formidable performer. Loved by many, respected by all, Sola recently showed her stuff in Nollywood’s highest grossing movies ever, ‘The Wedding Party’ and ‘The Wedding Party 2.’ Having been acting all her life, Sola brought her A-Game to ‘Seven and a Half Date’ where she takes on the role of Mrs Gomez. The actress has featured in hit movies such as Dangerous Twins, Family on Fire and more. Faithia Williams FAITHIA Williams is not a stranger to the Nigerian television screen. The actress has starred, produced and directed several Nigerian films over the years. In 2008, she won the Africa Movie Academy Award for the Most Outstanding Indigenous Actress and her movie Iranse Aje won the best indigenous film of the year. In April 2014, she won the Africa Movie Academy Award, having emerged as best actress of the year. Faithia Williams also won the Best Indigenous Language: Yoruba award for the work done in the film Iya Alalake at the 2015 Africa-Magic Viewers’ Choice Awards AMVCA. Playing the role of Mrs Cole, Faithia brings her exceptional performance set the pace for the dramatic moment in this movie. Bayray McNwinzu BAYRAY McNwinzu came into limelight after winning the third Amstel Malta Box office AMBO) reality show. And since then, the actress has not relented in proving that she’s more than just a beautiful face but also a multitalented actress. Bayray has starred in movies such as ‘The Visit’, ‘Tiwa’s Baggage’, ‘Tales of Eve’ and ‘Lies Men Tell.’ Bayray tells Mabel’s story to a very convincing level.] Biodun Stephen BIODUN Stephen is an actress, producer, writer and a director. As the movie director of ‘Seven and a Half Dates’, she stamps her professional touch on the movie. Biodun is the brain behind movies such as ‘Ovi’s Voice’, ‘Tiwa’s Baggage’, ‘Glimpse’ and ‘Picture Perfect.’ Joy Isi Bewaji JOY Isi Bewaji might be known for her Facebook Rants but something else the world needs to put a stamp on is the fact that she is a fantastic writer. Her writing expertise birthed the movie ‘Seven and a Half Dates’. Words no doubt come naturally to Joy and she is not afraid to tell a story with it.