…It’s time to act now – Osinbajo  Some business stakeholders on Monday insisted that it was still too early for Nigeria to sign the Africa Continental Free Trade Agreement (ACFTA). They bared their minds during the 8th Presidential Quarterly Business Forum held at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja. President Muhammadu Buhari had last week disclosed that he will soon sign the agreement on behalf of Nigeria. While accepting that the agreement will be good for Nigeria in the long run, the stakeholders maintained that many things still need to be put in place in the country before Nigeria can sign the agreement. Among the infrastructures they want in place, include good interstate roads, power, access to ports, efficient rail transportation in the country. If care is not taken, they warned that Nigeria will eventually become a dumping ground. Speaking at the interactive session, the Chairman of NEPAD Business Group and former President of the Lagos Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Chief Mrs. Nike Akande said Nigeria is not ready for the agreement until Nigeria’s goods and services are competitive enough. She pointed out that the government cannot do it alone, otherwise the country will become a dumping ground. According to her, good infrastructure is key to promoting trade and investment. Also speaking, the Vice President of the North-West Zone of the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN), Engineer Ibrahim Usman, said “We are not against signing the agreement, but if we don’t get this right, we will be in trouble. “We agree that the agreement is for services and not goods. If things are still work in progress, why the hurry?” he queried He also urged the government to urgently conduct three studies including export market survey, study on national economic industrial product survey and study of liberalization on manufacturing in the country as a whole. The Director-General of the National Office of Trade Negotiations, Chiedu Osakwe also noted that there are longstanding issues in the Nigerian economy that must be addressed first. Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo, pointed out that this is the time for Nigeria to act on the agreement. According to him, Nigeria cannot afford to take the back seat on the issue. Stressing that some of the fears expressed are not out of place, he said “While the engine is running, we are not going to wait. I think this is the time to go ahead and do something about it.” The Vice President said that the current administration has invested massively on infrastructures in the country. The Minister of Trade and Investment, Okechukwu Enelamah, said that the agreement is a ticket to play. He also disclosed that there would be more engagements on the agreement with the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) and other stakeholders. The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Babatunde Fashola, who noted that the government started at the point of recession, said that the government is focused and has momentum. The government, he said, is supporting business in Nigeria to do what it does best. Whether the agreement is signed or not, he pointed out that Nigeria is already doing international trade with so much goods and services already leaving the shores of Nigeria on a daily basis. Stressing that if other smaller countries with less infrastructures and resources are ready and have signed the agreement, he raised a poser if Nigeria wants to play in the Olympics or Paralympics. According to him, the present administration is making headway in critical infrastructural developments in the country. Stressing that power in the country has been improved, he said that the conversation has changed from lack of power to how to distribute the excess generation. According to him, only 14 private sectors in Nigeria have indicated interest to take advantage of getting their power directly from the Gencos. On road projects, he said “There is no state in Nigeria where the government is not building at least one major road or the other.” The roads, he said are leading to international borders around the country. 