A civil society organization, CLEEN Foundation has advocated against deployment of soldiers for security purposes at future elections. Reviewing the conduct of Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State, the group described deployment of the military for election duties as “contentious” and should be reconsidered. Another civil society organization, the New Generation Girls and Women Development Initiative (NIGAWD) urged parties and candidates aggrieved with the result of the election to seek redress at the tribunal and not to resort to violence. Addressing a news conference in Ado-Ekiti, CLEEN Foundation Assistant Programmes Manager, Mr. Wole Ojewale, described election as a civil matter which should not involve deployment of soldiers. He explained that there is need to pay more attention to the welfare needs of security agents so as to get them fully motivated and committed to the tasks of electoral security. Police authorities, he added, should learn from the success of the Ekiti experience and always pay their officers ahead of election days. Ojewale said part of the recommendations of the group was that all security agents deployed for election duties should be made to sign an oath of allegiance to Police Service Commission Guidelines for the Conduct of Police Officers on Electoral Duty. He explained that the violation of the oath, if the recommendation is adopted, should attract severe penalty. NIGAWD, in a statement on Monday by its Executive Director, Abimbola Aladejare, expressed satisfaction with the conduct of the youth, security agencies and officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on the day of election. Aladejare said: “Election Day proceedings were very peaceful. The challenges observed included a few cases of ballot box snatching and vote buying. The youth, security operatives and INEC conducted themselves very well. We commend Ekiti youth for rejecting violence in a resounding manner and coming out to vote for the candidates of their choice.”