A Multinational Health Wellness and anti-obesity firm, EDMARK International Group of Company on Thursday held the first ever cashless product exhibition in Nigeria tagged “CASHLESS SHOPPING BAZZAR” aimed at promoting transparency, accountability, customers’ satisfaction, stress reduction and risk associated with physical movement of cash to in and out of her outlets across the federation. The bazaar exhibition which took place at the yet-to-be commissioned newly completed Corporate headquarters of the company situated at Aromire Avenue, Ikeja was attended by the company’s distributors popularly known as Crown and Double Crown Managers and several private Business Men and Women including financial institutions who came to display their products and services with only the newly invented mobile application of the firm called ED-POINT accepted as means of payment instead of cash. Invented by ED2E, a subsidiary of the EDMARK International, ED-POINT is a mobile application that can be downloaded from goggle or apple play stores by iphone and android phones users. The mobile payment platform which started in Philippine in 2016 has now been moved to five African countries namely Kenya, Tanzania, South Africa, Ghana and Nigeria. Speaking with news men on the features of the mobile payment platform and the ongoing cashless bazaar which ends today, The Founder/Chairman of the EDMARK Group of Company, Mr. Sam Low said “EDPOINT is a Mobile application that needs to be loaded as currencies in order to avoid the use of physical cash for payments in all the branches across the federation. He said “once the app is loaded, it can be used to purchase our products from our distributors. The App can be reloaded in any of the EDMARK branches across Nigeria. We are of the believe that the new development will make transactions to be fast, user friendly and also for reduce risk associated with movement of cash and promote transparency and accountability and also to make our relationship with our over 450, 000 distributors easy and productive. Low, a Philippine citizen who claimed that his firm has invested over $5billion in Nigeria in the last 10 years, also announced that his company is currently working out a measure that will promote entrepreneurship in Nigeria with about $2milliom through Information Technology, Health and Real Estate. “I started entrepreneurship on the street of Malaysia as a Street hawker, today; I sit over a firm with about $20billion investment in 17 countries of the world. I wasn’t lucky to have people to mentor me but I want to offer the young people of Nigeria what I was not lucky to be offered yet I succeeded. I am committed to abolishing poverty in Nigeria through Information Technology< Health and Real Estate.” Low said in an emotion-laden speech. The Chief Operating Officer of EDMARK International who also doubles as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of ED2E, Mr. Marc Camaligan said that the application is outstanding because it has reload features with 5% bonus. He said the company diverted from traditional to technological method of payment because their distributors are becoming isolated from the global best practices. Some of the company’s Crown Managers and participants who graced the cashless bazaar and products exhibition in an interview with our correspondent expressed joy and happy over the new innovation. To Mr. David T. Obinwizu, a Double Crown Manager at EDMARK International, the new mobile platform will afford him and his colleagues a golden opportunity to showcase their businesses and sell their products with an amazing ease without the use of cash. He said it is an opportunity for distributors to maximize profit and reduce stress of going to banks to make deposit and withdrawal cash. Another participant, Christiana Begusa who came to the exhibition center for shopping said the mobile app is designed in such a way that a low-cadre education person can make use of it and that it is data friendly and it can switch on with limited internet connection. The cashless bazaar and exhibition had several products for sale ranging from clothes, shoes, all EDMARK products, provisions, inspirational books, hair accessories etc using the EDPOINT mobile application.