Babatunde Ayodedeji Ajisola is the Organizing Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Bedfordshire, United Kingdom. In this interview with Adeniyi Adewoyin, he speaks on why Dr. Kayode Fayemi will return as Ekiti Governor among other issues. WITH your wide experience in politics, how will you describe the candidature of Kayode Fayemi as the governorship aspirant in the coming election? It is a good development and worthy step in restoring good governance into our prestigious state. Though there was contention at the primary, but the party was able to handle the situation. The APC UK is happy about the development and I am personally delighted too. I want the entire state to support Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s governorship ambition and ensure he returns as the next governor through their votes. The total development of Ekiti is what concerns all of us and we must all rise to support a visionary leader and I am confident that Fayemi has what it takes to make the state greater. Fayose, his party, PDP, and the candidate, Kolapo Olusola, have nothing to showcase in the last three-and-half years. The projects being enjoyed by the people were the ones he (Fayemi) executed in his first tenure. His projects like civic centres, health centres, five kilometer community roads, school and hospital renovations are flagship projects that will swing votes in APC’s favour. He has also promised that all the human capital development policies like payment of monthly stipends to the aged, free health services, free education, payment of WAEC, NECO, NABTEB and JAMB fees for pupils in public schools will return the moment an APC government takes over in October. Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) assisted projects, employment through Peace Corps, Ekiti Traffic Management Agency (EKSTMA), return of Core Subject Allowances and Rural Teachers’ Allowances, regular payment of workers’ salaries and pensioners’ benefits and the special health intervention programme for Obas and Chiefs tagged “Ilera Laafin,” Local Council Development Areas, Volunteer Corps scheme, among others will also return. I strongly believe Ekiti people desire all these and so will vote APC. What about talks of the people being scared Fayemi will sack workers if elected? I want to debunk the PDP allegation that he would sack teachers and civil servants. Workers enjoyed salary increase three times during his first tenure. Fayose is owing core civil servants, local government workers and teachers between five and nine months salaries. This is regrettable. It is shameful that no worker had collected any salary meant for this 2018 as we speak. It is funny that this current government and the PDP are calling themselves friends of civil servants and teachers and still owing them arrears of salaries despite getting financial reliefs from the Federal Government. PDP will meet its waterloo on election day as Ekiti people who had been deceived will show the umbrella party the way out of the Government House. We urge party members and voters to go back to their units and work because election is not won on the social media but at the polling units. Let’s deal with them (PDP) with our votes, we are going to give them a bloodied nose with our votes on July 14 because Fayemi of today is different from that of yesterday. If the PDP people come here, they have nothing to campaign with and that is why they are resorting to lies but they have exhausted their lies. Go to your units, vote and protect your votes. Election is not done on Facebook, Twitter or WhatsApp, the votes are at the polling units. How will you describe the political atmosphere abroad, especially as politics in Nigeria has begun to gather momentum? Politics in Nigeria is not really different from the Diaspora. We have the positions too. But the APC is on ground as well as following the trend of things. We give kudos to our great leader of the party, Chief Bola Tinubu. Personally, I have known him from my student union days; we have had interactions on several occasions and I respect him for who he is and the tremendous things he is ding to make the party succeed despite all its challenges. He is a progressive leader that is worthy of emulation. I deliberately aligned with the party even when I relocated abroad, because of its philosophy. The party has been doing great under the leadership of the chairman APC UK, Dr Philip Idaewor, who is a member of the APC Convention Planning Committee, and his deputy, honourable Tunde Doherty. APC UK has been doing everything to ensure the Buhari-led government is fully represented and most importantly to counter positions and sponsored movement against President Buhari and the party. I want to state categorically that there is no division in APC United Kingdom under the leadership of Dr Philip Idaewor. The excos and members are full behind him. Though there is a particular person element causing trouble. We have decided to ignore them, because we don’t want to be distracted from moving the party forward. I repeat no faction in the party in UK. Are you satisfied with the way Nigerian politics is going? We are definitely growing and we are going to get there. We don’t have to rush things. There is the need to have a collective development. We must not take community development with a levity. We need to give a lot of sacrifices to develop our immediate environment, community and the nation at large. People get more involved in politicking abroad and there are a lot of party activists, which are rear in Nigeria. How has life been aside politics? It has been interesting, though I had to start life afresh when I got to the UK, because everything was completely different. There were lots of volunteering opportunities and I volunteered with Bedfordshire Police and Green House Mentoring, which trained me on how to mentor youths, as a result of this and other commitments within the community, I was nominated as an Olympic torch bearer during the London 2012 Olympics. I am an IT Consultant and I consult with her Majesty’s Government at the cabinet office at the moment. I love my football and I am a qualified referee. I am a proudly son of Ekiti and I am interested in the development of my home country. My visitation has been planned in the last two years and it has no link to political ambition. In fact, I did not only visit my ward, I also made a formal visit to the APC party secretariat in Ajilosun, Ekiti, where I was received by the party secretary, on behalf of the APC Ekiti in the UK to show our support for the governorship election.