Nigeria, among the nations of the world, is now heavily saddled with the problem of unemployment. Many tertiary institutions in the country have continued to produce a huge number of graduates who end up in the labour market every year. This trend has continued for many years even though things are no longer as rosy as they used to be in the 1970s and early 1980s when graduates had many job opportunities awaiting them before even graduating from school. The situation then was so good that such job opportunities always had attached fringe benefits like official cars, private health care and befitting accommodation serving as incentives. So, it was normal for students in schools then to continue to look forward to white-collar jobs. It was unthinkable then for such students to be engaged in entrepreneurship and skills acquisition trainings. Such entrepreneurship and skills acquisition trainings, then were believed to be for school dropouts and illiterates. Then the problem graduates mostly faced when passing out from their tertiary institutions was how to select the best out of the various job options they had. But all that is now history as the complete opposite is what prevails today. Now, you have graduates, who have no form of entrepreneurship or skills acquisition training, moving from one office to the other in search of employment. Some of them, who have remained unemployed for up to nine years since graduation, have continued to rely on the support of their families and loved one. Others have taken up demeaning jobs, which are not befitting their certificates, just to make ends meet. But to change the trend, the President Muhammadu Buhari’s administration has started to change the orientation of students and pupils in secondary and primary schools. The students are now to be equipped with entrepreneurship and creative skills that will make them, at the end of their tertiary institutions, become their own bosses and employers of labour rather than searching and waiting endlessly for jobs in the labour market. This is to be achieved through the National School Entrepreneurship Programme (N-SEP) launched at the old Banquet Hall of the State House, Abuja, last weekend. During the launching, two schools out of the twenty four that have competed in entrepreneurship skills, were awarded and given prize money of N500,000 each. They were involved in many entrepreneur skills including recycling plastics into inter-locking tiles. The two winning schools, Government Secondary School, Garki, Abuja and Government Girls Secondary School, Abaji, Abuja, will also represent Nigeria at the Student for the Advancement of Global Entrepreneurship (SAGE) 2018 World Cup scheduled for Durban, South Africa from August 8th to 14th. Speaking at the occasion, the Director General/CEO of Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency of Nigeria (SMEDAN), Dr. Dikko Umaru Radda, said “The development of entrepreneurial mind-sets among pupils/students in primary and secondary schools in Nigeria is becoming increasingly important in preparation for catching them young for improving employment generation through wealth creation and self-reliance. “N-SEP is set to provide access to functional and hand-on entrepreneurship and community service education to every primary and secondary school students in Nigeria. “This is to reduce poverty and massive youth unemployment. Also to create a network of leaders who will see the challenges in their communities as their responsibilities. “N-SEP is to empower the students to recognise opportunities, exploit them, and succeed in entrepreneurship and community service. “SMEDAN is mindful of the paradigm shift in today’s education, it is no longer ‘go to school, get a good grade and work in a reputable organization. It is now go to school, get a good grade, acquire the skill and knowledge that will enable you to start your own business’. “The era of brilliant curriculum vitae is over, this is the era of crafting a bankable business plan that will launch the students into being their own bosses.” he said. According to the Vice President,Yemi Osinbajo’s speech  at the occasion, the increasing influence of globalization and emergence of knowledge based economy have led to the adoption of entrepreneurship education as a means of linking knowledge and skill with learning for developing critical human capital and mitigate social consequences of unemployment. “Socio-economic implications of entrepreneurship and human capital development all over the world is seen as booster for wealth creation, employment generation, living standard, poverty and crime reduction which have direct impact on the national economy. “This programme we are launching today is aimed at encouraging an innovative/skills among basic and secondary schools pupils/students as this will enhance entrepreneurship and enterprise development towards poverty reduction and employment generation. “They should cultivate the culture of being their own bosses and not job seekers right from primary and secondary schools. “The development of any nation depends mainly on the creative capacity of the citizens to be capable of effectively exploring and exploiting the country’s natural resources and transforming them into finished products and services through value addition. “The main purpose of entrepreneurship for children in primary/secondary education is to encourage them to think of creativity and innovation.” he stated Despite Nigeria winning the SAGE World Cup eight times in the last ten years, observers have noted that it has not shown any corresponding improvement in self-employment in the country. It is hoped that N-SEP, in no distant future, will boost entrepreneurship and self-employment while also scaling down the unemployment rate in Nigeria.