Four Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) operatives, have been dismissed for alleged armed robbery, kidnapping and extorting a man of N7 million. Sergeants Adeoye Adekunle, Adeniran Adebowale, Lucky Agbi and Odighe Hehosa, all of FSARS, Ikeja, were said to have abducted Chukwudi Odionye alias Bishop, on June 4 and 5 last year. Their dismissal followed their probe after a May 2 petition by the victim to Adamu Ibrahim, the Assistant Inspector-General of Police (AIG) in charge of Zone II, Onikan. According to zonal spokesperson, Dolapo Badmos, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), the panel recommended their dismissal. The AIG upheld the report, she said, adding that the suspects have been charged to court for armed robbery, kidnapping, unlawful detention, intimidation and threatening violence. Badmos said: “The petitioner stated that on June 4, last year, he was in his house around Alagbado, Lagos when the four armed men stormed his residence to effect his arrest on the allegation of performing fake miracles. “He stated that after his arrest, he was taken to a hotel at Agege, where he was detained and threatened to be killed if he failed to cooperate. He explained further that the following day, June 5, he was taken to the bank, where he was made to transfer N7 million to one of the operatives’ account. “On the receipt of the petition, the AIG ordered investigation into the case. It was revealed that no proper police procedure for investigation was followed in Mr Chukwudi’s arrest and that the four FSARS operatives actually abducted the man from his house and unlawfully detained him in the hotel under the guard of the suspects for personal gain. “They were subsequently found guilty during the orderly room trial for professional misconduct, corrupt practices and discreditable conduct and were dismissed.” Badmos quoted the AIG as saying stated that the police would not tolerate acts of misconduct that undermines the value of international best policing practices.