Bauchi State Police Command on Tuesday paraded three suspects who specialize in kidnapping and rapping their victims while in their custody. The Command’s Public Relations Officer (PPRO) Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP) Kamal Datti Abubakar ‎informed that the suspects were arrested at Burga village,Tafawa Balewa Local Government Area, Bauchi state on July 10,2018. Abubakar said, the suspects Dalhart Mamman aged 42,and Yakubu Adamu 23,and one ther kidnapper went to the home of one Ahmadu Adamu 65 in Zungur village, Bauchi local government and robbed him of his GSM telephone handset,killed him and kidnapped his 4 wives. Abubakar added that the 4 wives were taken to Tashan Mai-Alewa mountain where they repeatedly gang rapped .The kidnappers also demanded N1 million ransom before the women could be released. The kidnapped women are Hajja Adama aged twenty, (20) Aishatu Adamu aged eighteen (18) Binta Adamu aged 27,and Ramatu Idris aged 13. According to the Police, Alhaji Yusuf aged 22, a wanted suspect was arrested at his hideout in Lau village, Toro LGA in connection with other series of kidnap and rape cases.  Yusuf while giving a voluntary confession, said “sometime in 2017 he and five others now at large conspired and kidnapped one Alhaji Kalardi of Yumbu village in Warji LGA all in Bauchi state and collected N100,000 from his family before he was released. Others arrested by the Police include,2 arrested for criminal conspiracy, causing grievous harm and robbery. While 2 other suspects were paraded for forgery and possession of letter head belonging to Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation and certificates of state owned Polytechnic,Tatari Ali Polytechnic Bauchi. The suspects,Abdullahi Ibrahim 30,of Birshi Gandu in Bauchi LGA and Aliyu Auwal who volunteered that “I have issued 12000,at the cost of N12,000 only. Weapons and fake certificates recovered from the suspects include 9 certificates, a zione smart computer, 2 hP laptops, a police ID card, photocopy machines, 1 pump action machine gun, 2 cutlasses 1 double edged knife and four forged NNPC letter head papers addressed to different oil marketers across Nigeria.  