Management of Federal Polytechnic, Offa, Offa local government of Kwara state said it has suspended two students of the institution suspected to be cult members. The names of the students include Tajudeen Selim and Temitope Omotosho. The state police command had early in the week paraded some students of the polytechnic for alleged involvement in cult activities. Management added that before the students were paraded by the police, it reported the incidence of forceful initiation to security agencies based on the complaint lodged by the student who was forcefully initiated. In a statement, polytechnic spokesperson Olayinka Aroye said the police’s quick response and intervention was responsible for the arrest. Mr. Aroye said: “The two suspected students were suspended indefinitely pending the outcome of the police investigation and further findings on the matter. Adewusi Vincent who was mentioned along with the two had ceased to be a student of the institution having been withdrawn from the Polytechnic since 2017 for poor performance. “The management wishes to state unequivocally that cases of cultism have been a thing of past in the institution as the new management under Dr. Lateef Ademola Olatunji had purged the institution of all forms of cultism, gangsterism and other anti social vices since he came on board as Rector in 2017. “Other offences such as examination malpractices, sexual harassment are also gross misconduct at the Polytechnic which attract outright expulsion from the institution. Students found culpable are equally handed over to the law enforcement agents for prosecution. “The management, through its directorate of students’ affairs has put a lot of measures in place to checkmate cultism with the introduction of the use of security form for newly admitted students; regular sensitization of students where they are admonished to steer clear of cultism, hooliganism and other forms of social menace. “And that they should be of good conduct everywhere they are in order to ensuring peaceful co-existence within and outside the polytechnic campuses and maintaining harmonious relationship with other colleagues and the host communities. Since then, the students union executives and other students have been well behaved and have not been found wanting both in character and
learning. It is on record that the Polytechnic enjoys a serene atmosphere, peace and tranquility than ever before. “It was likely because of the institution’s zero tolerance for cultism and stern sanctions on offenders who contravene and breach the rule that led the suspects to have taken themselves outside Offa to perpetrate the acts.”