Were he to still be alive, global icon and father of modern Souh Africa, Nelson Mandela, would have be 100 years old on Wednesday, July 18, 2018. However, in recognition of the statesman and Nobel Peace Prize winner, DSTV will launch a special five-day long pop-up channel available to all customers to celebrate and honour the life and legacy of Tata Madiba on the 18th of July. Starting on Madiba’s birthday, July 18, at 6 pm, the channel will feature a mix of films, documentaries and archive footage. “Around the globe, Nelson Mandela is revered as a hero of the struggle and as the man who led South Africa to democracy,” said Yolisa Phahle, General Entertainment CEO, MultiChoice. “While striving for justice and freedom and shaping a nation, he also changed the world with his humility and indomitable spirit. We are immensely proud to dedicate a unique pop-up channel to celebrate the life and legacy of this beacon of selflessness and reconciliation, who gave hope to millions.” Each night at 7 pm – from July 18 to July 21 – viewers can watch a director’s cut of a four-part miniseries of the movie, ‘The Long Walk to Freedom (2013)’, based on Mandela’s autobiography which focuses on his early life and 27 years in prison. The movie stars Idris Elba. Also showing would be Invictus (2009), the Hollywood blockbuster directed by Clint Eastwood, starring Morgan Freeman as Nelson Mandela and Matt Damon as Springbok rugby captain Francois Pienaar. Other highlights to watch out for include ‘The Face of Unity,’ a documentary with previously unscreened footage and tributes from former US President Barack Obama; golf legend Jack Nicklaus; musical genius Ray Charles, and Hollywood luminaries Samuel L. Jackson and George Lucas. In the Name of Mandela, War and Peace – a summary of the political history of South Africa from the time of the discovery of gold in 1886 up to the election of Nelson Mandela as President in 1994. Mandela’s Unsung Heroes – an account of the Rivonia trial in which some of Nelson Mandela’s fellow accused in the trial, that led to his incarceration on Robben Island, share their memories. Countdown to Freedom – an independent documentary chronicles narrated by James Earl Jones and Alfre Woodard, this independent documentary chronicles the behind-the-scenes lead up to the rebirth of a nation and Nelson Mandela’s triumph in South Africa’s first free elections.