Antoine Griezmann said he would care less about France’s style of football as long as they win the World Cup tomorrow against Croatia. Belgium’s Eden Hazard and Thibaut Courtois both criticised France’s tactics following the teams’ semifinal on Tuesday, with Hazard saying that he would “prefer to lose with Belgium than win with France.” When asked to respond to the Belgium players’ comments at a news conference on Friday, Griezmann interrupted the retorted: “I don’t care.” “Don’t even talk to me about this,” Griezmann said. “Courtois played for Atletico as well. He won trophies there and he was not playing attacking football. I don’t care what our style is. All I want is another star on the shirt. I don’t care how we get it. I want it.” Griezmann said after the game against Belgium, which France won 1-0, that defending and scoring from a set piece “was a bit like Atletico [Madrid].” He echoed those comments on Friday, recognising that there are similarities between the way the two sides approach a game. “The defence is the most important thing for our style,” he said. “It’s the base. It is the style we have in my club as well with Diego Simeone, so I am used to it. I know what to do — how and when to accelerate or slow down the game.” With a combined 10 goals in the competition, France has scored fewer times than any of the four semi-finalists — and four of those were against Argentina in the round of 16. Griezmann, who has scored only three goals in the World Cup thus far, said that his approach has changed since he scored six goals at Euro 2016. “I was the top goal scorer in 2016 and we lost, so I told myself this time that I will score less to see if we can win,” he said. “My game has changed. I’m thinking more about the team now.” And although a good performance in the final could earn Griezmann the Ballon d’Or at the end of the year — he said after Atletico won the Europa League that he is one of the three best players in the world — he insisted the individual honours do not matter. “The only thing I’m thinking about right now is the World Cup,” Griezmann said.