HIS credentials are never in doubt as an astute political leader, cerebral activist and prodigious mobiliser. That much has come to light in the short period that Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has been in the saddle as the national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). The immediate past governor of Edo State inherited the seat vacated by his Edo kinsman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, at a time the party was groaning under the yoke of complaints and threats of defection by aggrieved party members who felt that the party had marginalised their interests in one way or the other. But while he has only been in the saddle for barely one month, he has left no one in doubt about his determination to steady the party’s ship. His exploits as a former Edo State governor and erstwhile president of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC) combined with his power of oration had commended him to party faithful the moment his name began to surface as Oyegun’s possible successor. It was, therefore, not a surprise that he eventually became the chairman of APC without having to contest an election. Party members were unanimous in their belief that there could hardly be a better unifying force in the face of the centrifugal forces that threatened to tear the party apart. Even in the opposition camp, there were jitters as the curtains began to draw on Oyegun’s tenure and Oshiomhole’s name began to prop up. In the People’s Democratic Party, for instance, there were warnings from concerned members that the party’s spokespersons would have to sit up if the party must survive the intellect and oratory prowess of the new APC chair. That probably explains why the PDP headed for court in its desperation to stop Oshiomhole from continuing as APC chair after the opposition party’s failed bid to persuade the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) not to recognise his endorsement at the APC national convention on June 23. At a meeting with PDP leaders from Kogi State at the party’s national secretariat in Abuja on June 27, PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said the former Edo State governor could not be recognised by the electoral umpire because his emergence by affirmation was a violation of the democratic requirements of direct voting by delegates. But INEC responded by saying that it had no power to stop Oshiomhole from leading the APC. Oshiomhole, on his part, has since hit the ground running in his bid to fulfill his vow before the popular affirmation that made him the party chairman. In his formal declaration of interest in the seat of the APC chair, Oshiomhole had vowed to reposition and reorganise the crisis-ridden party “based on its philosophy of social democracy, which basically means a people-oriented, membership-driven and mass-based political organisation.” He began by appealing to aggrieved members of the party, particularly the members of the nPDP bloc which later metamorphosed to the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC), that their grievances would be addressed. The group had complained of being marginalised and were threatening to quit the party. Oshiomhole’s words of assurance came as a welcome relief to some members of the bloc who said they were persuaded by his utterances to change their minds about leaving the party. Although his efforts suffered a major blow on Tuesday with the defection of 13 R-APC senators and 37 members of the House of Representatives to other parties, President Muhammadu Buhari did not fail to acknowledge the efforts of the new party chair. Reacting to the defections on his Twitter handle on Tuesday, Buhari noted that the party had done its utmost to stop the defections. He commended Oshiomhole and other leaders of the party for working relentlessly for its unity. “The APC has done its best to stop the defections, and I must commend the party leadership for working tirelessly to unite the party and position it for future victory,” he said. But at an earlier meeting with some members of the CPC bloc in the party, Oshiomhole had made it clear that he was not only out to appease aggrieved party members but also get every member of the party to sit up or ship out. Like the biblical Messiah, his winnowing fork is in his hand to clear his threshing floor and gather the wheat into his granary. But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. In other words, only aggrieved members who by their acts have shown that they deserve to remain in the party would be persuaded to stay. For others not so deserving, it will be good riddance to bad rubbish. The foregoing is the context of his current face-off with the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr. Chris Ngige, over the latter’s delay in constituting the board of the Nigerian Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF). Oshiomhole had issued an ultimatum to Ngige to constitute the board of the agency or get expelled from the party. Earlier at a recent meeting with state chairmen of the defunct Congress for Progressives Change (CPC), one of the parties that joined up to form the All Progressives Congress (APC), Oshiomhole had said his leadership would go to any length to dialogue with all party members with genuine concerns, but would ignore those he called “the Buba Galadimas of this world.” He said: “I listened to Buba Galadima (leader of a splinter group in the CPC bloc of APC who recently defected). I see a bird dancing on the pole and a disgruntled drummer not far away in the bush is drumming for him. “But this is not to say that we are not aware that there are challenges here and there, but anything about APC is considered much more than the sum total of all the challenges we have in many of the states, and by the special grace of God, we shall overcome them and we are already overcoming them. “I am very confident that we can afford to ignore Buba Galadima. And like I said (earlier), I’m ready to go to any length to talk to people who mean well and who have genuine grievances arising from communication gaps or misunderstanding or even from the error of judgment on the part of anyone or even from the way we have managed our patronage. “When we see people who have genuine grievances, we are not ashamed to talk to them. We recognise that democracy is an equaliser and only people who are humble enough to engage can survive, and we have been engaging. We have been meeting with various individuals and groups who we believe really have genuine concerns on certain matters, and we are making progress. “But when we see people who don’t mean well, there are a lot of idle people who don’t have any other thing to do, and once they don’t have access to national honey pot, they begin to complain. For me, there is no cause for alarm. Nobody should panic over one Buba Galadima whose group I believe cannot define us in the next election in 2019.” As the 2019 elections draw nearer, Oshiomhole appears determined to steady the ship of the ruling party. How successfully he pulls this off is a matter to be assessed in the fullness of time.