Lifting students and improving their welfare have remained the focus of the Students’ Union Government (SUG) of Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) in Ondo State, the union president, Temitayo Ayejuyo, has said. Temitayo, who spoke while unveiling N3.1 million worth of projects his administration initiated to cater for students’ welfare, said he wanted his colleagues to feel the impact of unionism, stressing that he would continue to ensure efficient service delivery to students and proactive response to challenges facing them. The union donated a Students’ Relaxation Center and water projects worth N3,127,350 to students. While inuagurating the Relaxation Center, Ayejuyo said the union under his leadership had made progress in improving students’ welfare, pointing out that the efforts were widely recognised and applauded by students. He said: “Today, we have proven that we are responsible and reliable leaders. We have also demonstrated uncommon diligence in leadership and prudence in management of the students’ resources for greater and efficient impact on them. “We have consolidated the tradition of using the resources of students for the benefit of greatest number of them with the strong hope that the succeeding generation of leaders would radically deliver on the same objectives we have set in motion.” The union president, who described himself as “an unrepentant apostle of 21st Century purpose-driven leadership”, said he kept faith in those who would come after him to demonstrate greater capacity to facilitate projects that will give students unforgettable experience in the school. The centre was naamed after a member of the polytechnic’s Governing Council, Jide Ipinshagba. Explaining why the centre was named after Ipinshagba, the union leader said his “warm acceptance” and “generous donation” by the honoree necessitated the union to name the edifice after the council member. The union supplied snooker, furniture and games to ensure the centre attracts students. Temitayo also hailed the rector, Mr Idowu Ologunagba, and council members for supporting the project, adding that the school would continue to enjoy students’ goodwill. While inuagurating the project, Governing Council chairman, Mr Banji Alabi, and Ologunagba praised the gesture of the union and its Welfare Director, Ayodele Ogunbodede, an HND II Science and Laboratory Technology student, who solely donated a water tank to the institution. Ayodele said he embarked on the project in fulfillment of his campaign promise to help occupants of Blocks F and G in the school hostel facing challenges in getting water. Alabi said the donors’ actions were in line with the council’s spirit to take the institution to the highest level. The council chairman urged students to emulate donors gesture, stressing that man‘s essence is to serve humanity. Ologunagba said: “I am elated by the projects. This is coming on board at the time we are coming out of crisis; it is signaling that a new dawn has arrived.” He assured that donor that the water tank would be officially appreciated by the school, adding: “If others emulate this gesture, the institution would go a long way in improving welfare of students and make it first among its equals.”