The variety of lotto in Nigeria allows all citizens play different games and choose the company with the most simple, user-friendly interface, easy-to-follow rules and guarantee of paying money to the luckiest people. Golden Chance is one of the leading firms in this market. Let us see how to play Golden Chance lotto online. Existing since 2005, Golden Chance has built its special online site where all the gamers can play and even win. It is interesting that Golden Chance lotto (unlike many other Nigerian companies) allows betting for both local citizens and foreign visitors. The company has the license issued by Lagos, Ondo, Ogun, Osun, Oyo, and Ekiti State governments. These six Nigerian States allow the firm operating lottery service on their territories. The company also boasts more than 11 thousand lottery point-of-sale-terminals in the Southwestern part of the country. How to play Lotto Golden Chance This game is easy to play on the Internet. You need a computer or laptop, a tablet device or smartphone and fast Internet connection. Just follow this instruction and you will understand this fun process: ·       The game has its own official Golden Chance lotto site. It is www.winnersgoldenchance.com. Go to this website to place bets on the web. ·       There is the main menu on the top just like on many other websites. It says ‘Play,’ ‘Payments,’ ‘Contact Us’ and ‘FAQ.’ You are advised to read all the questions and answers, learn about the payment process and access online lotto in Nigeria though ‘Play’ menu button. ·       Register a profile. You will be asked to enter your real cell phone number. This is how you are able to play the games on your phone. You must be at least 18 years old. Otherwise, you are not allowed playing online or on the phone. ·       After you have created your profile you need to log in with your login details (login and password). ·       Playing without funds is impossible. Therefore, you have to add funds to your account. There are two main ways to fund your account and play a game: 1.     Bank transfer: All FCMB branches allow adding money to your account. You’ll have to name the deposit as your ‘username’ (used on the website in your profile). It is important to use the right account name (Winners Golden Chance Ventures Limited) and number (0137594293 (FCMB)). 2.     Webpay: You can use InterSwitch to add the deposit, but it is important to be logged into your account to do so. ·       Once you have added a deposit, you can choose the type of the lotto game you would like to play from the ‘Play’ menu on the site. Some of the titles are Bravo, Tango, Fortune, Bonaza, Better Life and others. You can find these games on the left. ·       You will see the available to play-now games under ‘Today’s Game’ title. It shows the closed games for the day and games you can play (if you are in time for the draw). ·       Choose your type of the bet called NAP. ·       Think of how many Golden Chance lotto numbers you wish to choose. ·       Each betslip has the field in the corner where you can type in your stake-per-line and you can always enjoy multi-betting through ‘Add’ option. ·       Place as many bet combinations as you wish. ·       Wait for the drawing and see the results. You can do this by clicking on any name of the games you played and choosing the date in the right column under ‘WINNING NUMBER’ menu. You will see all the winning numbers for all the games played that day. Hopefully, you’ll be lucky, see your numbers on this list and win some cash.  