Former member of the Lagos State House of Assembly and one-time Commissioner for Special Duties Dr. Wale Ahmed is the secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Centre of Excellence. He spoke with Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU on the recent national convention, challenges before the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole and preparations for next year’s polls. What are the critical lessons your party should learn from its recent national convention? We should talk about the lessons other parties, other politicians should learn from the convention we just had. We followed the due process. We exhibited a high level of responsibility. We showed patience. At the convention, nobody was too big. Even, Mr. President stayed from the beginning to the end during the process that took over 36 hours to complete. Other parties could have filled the party positions by fiat. So, it was not the lesson we learnt so much. It is more of what lessons other parties, other politicians, other organisations should learn from us. These are lessons on due process, patience, doing things right, democracy, progress. What are your expectations about the Oshiomhole leadership? Vibrancy. He is coming on board with a lot of experience, high level of sense of justice, loyalty to the party and other leaders of the party. I welcome him with very high hopes and expectations. He has been a performer. Eyes have been on him since he was a labour leader. I knew he would go places. He was a good governor. He will be a good chairman. He will boost the morale of the party, re-energise it and the party will record more electoral fortunes. Under the Oshiomhole leadership, what shape should healing and reconciliation take, in view of the raging crisis in some troubled chapters of the party? The national chairman will bring everybody together and make everybody realise that this is our party. We will have disagreements. But, disagreement should not lead to disintegration. Disagreement should not lead to bad blood in a family. We should disagree, discuss, settle issues and come to an agreement. Our laader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, is leading a reconciliation process. The committee is still in place. The activities of the committee have not ended. It is going to continue with the new national chairman. Oshiomhole and Asiwaju will surely know how to bring everybody together. Do you see Oshiomhole stemming the tide of defection from the party? He will avert defection. I am very positive about that. He will do it with other leaders of the party. If there will be defection, it will be defection to the APC. With the cohesion we now have, with the understanding we now have, with the dynamic leadership we now have, with the reconciliation that is on-going, led by Asiwaju Tinubu, all will be well.  All the minor conflicts will be resolved. In this post-Oyegun era, what will not be the fate of the tenure elongation case? We have just had our convention. So, the issue of tenure elongation does not arise anymore. We definitely have to withdraw the case from the court. The convention has taken place. The case went to court because we believed what they were trying to do is not right. At the end of the day, Chief Oyegun himself showed a lot of understanding. And we all came together that we should do what is democratic; what fits the name of our party. So, we have had our convention and there is no need for any case again. In the first place, it was not a case against any personality or anybody. We just asked the court to tell us what can be done and what cannot be done. We have had our convention. The need for that case is no longer there. What are the immediate challenges the new APC executive committee in Lagos is set to tackle? In Lagos, we are one very big family. We are leaders who are responsible and before anything gets out of hand, they show leadership. They respond with speed. They resolve crisis promptly. Party members have faith and trust in the leadership of the party in Lagos. We have a governor who is a performer. He is performing and everybody can attest to his diligence and performance. Even, the opposition parties have respect for our governor. They cannot easily criticise him because he is on course; he is on the right path. His achievements are visible and commendable. He is a model governor and a reference point nationwide. What remains is for the leadership to continue to support the governor, carry all party members along, ventilate the grievances of the aggrieved and bring them back into the fold. We are one big family. in unity, we will approach the electorate for votes. They know the worth of our party and the achievements of our governor. He is the pride of Lagos. The onus is on party members to heed to the clarion call to the task of retaining power in Lagos in 2019. Specifically, until last week, there were pockets of protests over the last ward, local government and state congresses. What is the party doing to pacify the aggrieved. Is there any specific reconciliation in Lagos APC? That has been achieved hundred per cent. Since we came him, we have been able to sort out outstanding issues and we have been able to bring everybody together. Is reconciliation foreclosed with the faction, led by Fuad Oki? There is nothing like Oki’s group. There is no factionalisation in the Lagos APC. The personality whose name you mentioned is our brother. He is a member of our party. If he is not happy with any particular thing, that will be sorted out in-house. But, he is not a faction. One person can’t constitute a faction. He is our brother and party member. What he is not happy about is being looked at in-house. That is what we are doing. It is an intra-party matter in Lagos State. It is a light issue. How prepared is your chapter for the predictable challenges that will arise over the politics of nominations, ahead of next year’s polls? Here, we follow the due process. We have established, recognised leader that we all defer to. The space will not be closed to anybody who has aspiration. The floor is open, democratic and transparent. So, I do not see any challenge we cannot handle. We did it before. We did one in 2015. You were there. It was open and transparent. People voted. Some people won. So, the next exercise will be like that. It will even be better than that.