JULY 14 has become a part of the psyche of the residents of Ekiti State since the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) picked the date to conduct the next governorship election. When the electoral umpire settled for the day about one year ago, it seemed like a very long time. But at the count of months, weeks and days, the day is here. A lot has changed about the atmosphere of Ekiti State since the people entered the week of election. Tension, fear and anxiety have been ruling the air as everyone wonders what the election portends for the destiny of the state. In this part of the world, election is not only a civil and constitutional duty, it is warfare, and it must be won by all means, fair or foul. The efforts put into winning elections could be gleaned from the perks and percussions that go with political office in Nigeria, the joy that goes with victory and the agony that goes with defeat. Ekiti became one of the states with isolated governorship election dates when the Court of Appeal on October 15, 2010 declared Dr. John Kayode Fayemi of the then Action Congress (AC) as the winner of the April 14, 2007 governorship election and the April 25, 2009 rerun governorship election. His victory was consequent upon a protracted legal battle with the then candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Engr. Segun Oni, who had occupied the office for four years. Oni had been sworn in alongside the other winners of the 2007 governorship election on May 29 of that year and was sworn in again on May 5, 2009 after winning the rerun poll. But the Appeal Court verdict which held that a candidate declared as governor begins a fresh four-year term on the day he is sworn in, altered the election sequence of the state. After Fayemi was inaugurated on October 16, 2010, the next election was due for 2014. Mr. Ayo Fayose of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) won the June 21, 2014 governorship election in a landslide victory, defeating the then incumbent, Fayemi, in dramatic circumstances.   Different strokes The governorship election means different things to different people in Ekiti State based on the perspective each individual views it from. Some see election as a simple civic exercise that will come and go, some see it as a war to be fought and won. Others see it as a necessary evil; yet some others perceive it as an opportunity to relax or a chance to make some quick money. The poll has formed the plank of discussions in private homes and public places like offices, motor parks, bus stops, newsstands, schools, pubs and relaxation centres, markets and public buses. Depending on the side of the divide where their sympathy lies, watching some members of the public argue on the chances of the various parties could be as interesting as they are lively. The two major markets in Ado-Ekiti, Oja Oba and Oja Bisi, were besieged on Tuesday by both buyers and sellers. The