 The National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole has met with former Kano State Governor  Rabiu Kwankwaso and Governor Aminu Tambuwal of Sokoto state in his latest round of peace talks with aggrieved members of the party. Oshiomhole had earlier met with Senate President Bukola Saraki,House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara  and the APC caucuses in the two chambers of the National assembly with a view to persuading from dumping the party. More meetings have been scheduled to resolve the issues at stake, his chief press secretary, Simon Ebegbulem told The Nation on Friday. Ebegbulem said Oshiomhole has been very busy since his assumption of office to salvage the situation. He said “Since he assumed office, he has not slept well, always meeting with aggrieved members till the early hours of the morning. “He has met with Saraki, Tambuwal and Dogara. He has been pleading that they should all remain in the party so they can build it together. “He also has this regret that the issues were allowed to linger for too long before he came into office. “He met with the APC Caucus in the senate and the House twice seeking for peace. He met with Tambuwal, Kwankwaso individually and Saraki severally pleading for peace. “As we speak he is still talking to them. We believe that the kind of implosion that people are envisaging may not happen. So his efforts are yielding results and he is determined to ensure that he brings many of them back to the fold. “I want you to also know that he had experienced sleepless night dealing with the crisis in the party and the Ekiti state election. He has stressed the need for party leaders across board to bury their pride so they can achieve success. “For him, the re-election of President Buhari is a priority and he has made it abundantly clear that any party leader who fails to embrace peace may be axed. “For him ensuring peace ahead of the general election is not negotiable and any party leader who constitutes himself into nuisance in the search for peace may suffer the wrath of the party”.