•Governor dissolves exco Chairman of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) in Benue State, Comrade Aayan Godwin, has dismissed reports that Governor Samuel Ortom asked workers to forfeit their one-year salary arrears. Comrade Godwin told The Nation in a telephone interview that the government, either directly or indirectly, has not made such a request to the knowledge of the labour movement. He added that even if such a request was made, nobody would honour it. He, however, said the government owed workers between six and eleven for 2017, depending on the category of worker. The government has been paying promptly since January 2018. Godwin said: “There is nothing like that. What happened is that there was verification and the deputy governor headed the team conducting it. “At the end of the verification, there were some issues – there were many ghost workers and dead retirees on the salary list and the governor needed to implement the report. By that exercise, the wage bill was reduced. “The governor started implementing the report in January. Nobody has forfeited any salary; we are still discussing with him concerning the 2017 arrears. “Who is that person who will ask workers to forfeit their one-year? The governor has not even requested for that and even if he had done that, nobody will listen. “He started paying from January and is up to date on that. What is left is the arrears and we have met with him on that. We will meet with him again at the level of State Executive Council of the NLC so that he will address us on efforts he is making to clear the arrears. “At the state level, workers were paid last in June 2017, and the arrears are from July to December 2017, which is six months. For local government workers, he paid up to February 2017 and owes ten months, while for teachers, he paid last in January 2017 and owes them eleven months’. That is what he owes workers.” Governor Ortom has dissolved his executive council. A statement by the Secretary to the State Government, Tony Ijoho (SAN), directed  commissioners and Special Adviser affected by the dissolution to hand over to the next senior person in their offices. No reason was given for the dissolution but there have been rumours that Ortom and leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state are at logger heads. It was gathered that there is an attempt to deny Ortom the governorship ticket for a second term. Four commissioners – Mike Gusah (AG); Dennis Ityavyar (Education); Bernard Unenge (Lands) and David Olufo (Finance); and six Special Advisers, were retained.