18-YEAR-OLD former Pepsi Academy star, Victor Kebira Dazumi, who plays for Maerle AC of Venice in the Italian regional league has caught the fancy of agents of Bursaspor of Turkey, among other top sides. The attacking midfielder who operates from both sides of the midfield and can also play in the attack moved to Italy three years ago. He enjoyed a blistering form last season to attract the interests of few clubs both in Italy and Turkey but the latter’s admiration for the left-footed player has led to inquiries with huge opening for the fair-skinned player to go on trial. According to Erud Furkri, one of the scouts of Bursaspor, Dazumi will move to Turkey before the start of the new season. He said: “We have closely monitored this lad since we got a hint of his talent.  We have watched his video clips and also travelled from Turkey to Italy on two occasions to see him. We are not in doubt that he is a huge talent. “Victor played with Pegolette Calcio between 2015/2016 season scoring 12 goals.  Salese AC grabbed him for the 2016/2017 season. He netted 15 goals and in the just-concluded season, he played for Maerle AC “We are fortunate that not much is known about him given that he plays in a regional league side. More so, he came into Italy not too long. We are working out plans to land him in Turkey before the new season and that is after the World Cup. “Good a thing he is not playing in the World Cup. That gives us ample opportunity to arrange with him after detailed talks and negotiation.  We are impressed that he will be a big hit in the next couple of years in Turkey. He is quick, skilful and uses both legs. That is the kind of player that excels in the Turkish league. ” Dazumi who was approached last year by some scouts of Serie B side hinted that he is not in any hurry to avoid being misled by agents who could land him contracts that will enslave him, but noted that Bursaspor scouts have shown him true love and concern for his career. “They (Bursaspor) have been here (Italy) twice,” he said. “I am only being careful.  They have seen me play in match situations. That was after watching my video through another agent here. I am good to go because they have really impressed me with their attitude which is really professional in approach.” Recall that Simeon Nwankwo of Crotone was discovered after a sort of drought for Nigerian players in Italy’s Serie A. Before now, the likes of Obafemi Martins, Aliyu Mohammed, Ayo Makinwa, Benjamin Onwuachi and Nnamdi Oduamadi have exploded from relatively unknown clubs to add some value to Nwankwo Kanu who played for Inter Milan, Taribo West for Inter Milan and AC Milan, Sunday Oliseh of Juventus, among others.