The Federal University of Technology, Akure (FUTA) has begun the extention of the cultivation of the new variant of tomatoes it developed to the larger society. FUTA, through its School of Agriculture and Agricultural Technology (SAAT), recently organised a Practical Field Training for selected farmers and agroprenurs on Greenhouse production of the Eva F1 tomatoes and other vegetables at the Teaching and Research Farm of the institution. The Eva F1 Tomato is five times bigger in size and can produce four times more paste than what is available in the market. Also, it has a shelf life of over two weeks from day of harvest. Highlighting practical steps for production of new variant of tomatoes in the Green House, the farm’s Chief Agricultural Superintendent, Mr. Mike Fadimiroye said the Green house ensures large production using a small area thus enhancing management of limited resources. He said the advantages of the Greenhouse include control of insect pests from accessing the crop, which is a part of integrated pest management strategy. Fadimiroye said the Greenhouse should be kept clean, sharp and hot objects kept out, and door always shut. He said soil analysis prior to farming would help the farmer decide on the best system of farming to adopt. Fadimiroye said the indeterminate variety of tomato such as EVA-F1 and Larisa mature in about two months in a green house  after transplanting, making it 90 days from nursery to maturity and harvesting could continue for another three months. Depending on good management, he said farmers could reap 1-2 tons of tomato in one production cycle. The Dean of the school, Prof Timothy Amos said the major goal of the school was to make significant contribution towards attaining food security in Nigeria. He said the Tomato Project was aimed at enabling farmers and citizens practice organic tomato farming and to guarantee the consumption of healthy, wholesome vegetables. FUTA farm Manager Mr. Olajide Adedayo said the Eva F1 seedling was sourced from Israel and carefully developed in FUTA’s Green House under controlled temperature.  Adedayo described the training of farmers to cultivate the new variety as the actualisation of the mandate of the University to put science to work for the society. The Vice-Chancellor, Prof Joseph Fuwape, represented by the Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Development), Prof Philip Oguntunde, described the project as a right step in the right direction. He said the university must impact the lives of the community through appropriate transfer of knowledge. Fuwape said agriculture must take its place as the mainstay of the economy, especially when petroleum resources are fast dwindling. He urged the farmers to use their knowledge for benefit their lives and the society at large. He appealed to  governments, investors and institutions to partner the university to stimulate large-scale farming of the new variety of tomatoes and enhance its contributions to the economy, employment generation and spin off industries.