The second Dr Emmanuel Egbogah Budget Roundtable has been held at the Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK) in Awka, Anambra State. Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Prof Kingsley Moghalu was the guest lecturer at the event with the theme: Budget implementation: The political economy of resource allocation. FRANKLIN ONWUBIKO reports. The Nnamdi Azikiwe University (UNIZIK) Business School, has held the second Dr Emmanuel Egbogah Budget Roundtable. Its theme was: Budget implementation: The political economy of resource allocation. Former Deputy Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Prof Kingsley Moghalu was the guest lecturer. Moghalu, a presidential aspirant, bemoaned what he termed “politics of interest”, which he described as a factor in the country’s budgeting process and resources allocation. He said rather than invest in the country, elected public officers engaged in “reckless spending” that increased the cost of governance. He added that despite huge budgets, citizens kept moving down the poverty lane. The presidential hopeful noted that the nation had been managed by visionless leaders, who, he said, took critical decisions that affected the masses negatively. On abandoned projects, Moghalu alleged that 56,000 projects were abandoned across the country by successive Federal Governments, noting that 15,000 of the projects were in the Southeast. He noted that no government had achieved beyond about 30 per cent budget implementation in the last 16 years, advocating fiscal federalism and restructuring. He called for increased citizen’s participation in budgeting. Anambra State Deputy Governor, Dr Nkem Okeke, suggested sincere leadership as the solution to the challenges bedeviling budget implementation. He said there would be no improvement in budget implementation if there was no clear strategy to achieve the key deliverables. Lending credence to the guest speakers’ submission, the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Joseph Ahaneku, said there were challenges confronting the national budget at every stage of preparation and implementation. He said the executive usually grappled with harmonising spending and resource allocation to the Ministry, Departments and Agencies (MDA), after which the proposed spending is presented to the National Assembly for consideration and passage. Ahaneku, represented by his deputy for Administration, Prof Carol Arinze-Umeobi, said implementation required all-inclusive strategies by the executive. The VC said it was regrettable that the nation had only achieved poor implementation of capital expenditure in budgets yearly. Ahaneku praised Dr Egbogah, chairman Emerald Energy and former Special Adviser on Petroleum to the President, for endowing the Budget Roundtable in the school. Chairman of the event and Secretary to the Anambra State Government, Prof Solo Chukwulobelu, represented by Prof Emma Okoye, said the roundtable would help the public get necessary knowledge about budget implementation and its implication for economy growth. Egbogah, represented by Prof Chijioke Nwaozuzu, said improper budgeting had been the root of the nation’s challenges in achieving economic growth. He said there were irregular processes and procedures in budget implementation, which is having negative impact on service delivery. He said the roundtable would serve as contribution to the national discourse. A public affairs analyst, Dr Okey Ikechukwu, urged public officers to eschew self-aggrandisement and put the collective interest above personal gain in budgeting.