The Lagos State Police Commissioner, Imohimi Edgal has ordered the detention of a policeman, Sergeant Henry Ataneh accused of abducting, raping a teenager, Chinelo Obadike last May 8. Ataneh’s detention followed a fresh investigation ordered by Edgal after our Correspondent brought the incident to his attention. The police boss had directed the Gender Unit of the command to take over the case from the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS), invite the parties with a view to establish the veracity of the rape, pregnancy and abduction allegations against the Sergeant. However, fresh information obtained yesterday from Crime Victims Foundation (CRIVIFON) indicated that Obadike might have been pregnant before the cop abducted, raped her, since she was delivered of the baby on October 26, last year. A Deoxyribonucleic Acid (DNA) test, which would state the paternity of the child, it was gathered, was yet to be conducted because a civilian suspected to be responsible for the pregnancy was yet to be arrested. Our correspondent had reported some weeks ago that the victim was abducted by Ataneh, who forced her on his motorcycle, took her to a hotel, raped her and finally took her to his house, where she was turned into a maid and a sex slave for about 18 days. Obadike fled the home after stealing N10,000 and Ataneh’s mobile phone said to have fallen off his pocket while he was raping her the previous night. The case however took a different turn when the policeman, who was then serving at Ojo Division, reported at FSARS that Obadike stole his N1.5million, prompting operatives to track the victim to her hometown in Umuoji in Anambra. According to the Founder, CRIVIFON, Mrs. Gloria Egbuji, “it was discovered that though Chinelo was abducted by Sergeant Ataneh Henry and reportedly turned into sex slave, her pregnancy had occurred before the abduction by Henry. “This was confirmed by her delivery of a baby last October 26 barely six months after the said abduction. It was then suspected that the beer parlour man, who dated her before Henry abducted her may be the father of the child. “However, Edgal has ordered orderly room trial for the policeman on suspected offence of abduction and rape, which is a serious one.  The police boss has directed the provost to try the Sergeant and sentence him accordingly to serve as a deterrent for other policemen, who may want to follow the same path.”