•Association gets first woman president Lack of biometrics has been hindering the implementation of the transfer window platform that will enable pension contributors and retirees change their Pension Fund Administrator (PFAs), Pension Fund Operators Association of Nigeria (PenOp) has said. This disclosure is coming on the heels of the emergence of the association’s first female President, Mrs. Aderonke Adedeji, at the sixth Annual General Meeting (AGM) of PenOp. Mrs Adedeji, who is also the Leadway Pensure Managing Director, spoke during a chat with reporters said she would further drive pension growth during her tenure. She assured contributors under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS) that the transfer window would soon be opened. According to her, the transfer window is a burning issue and the major challenge has been the lack of biometrics, noting, however, that the association is working  with the National Pension Commission (PenCom) to resolve the issues that will enable the takeoff of the transfer window. She said: “We are optimistic that it will be resolved very soon. The federal government has issued instructions that everybody should consolidate in terms of identification. “So, there is work going on and we have a meeting next week for discussion on biometrics that will set the foundation for us to begin to talk about transfer window. So, I see progress in that area shortly.” Section 13 and Section 106 subsection 1 to 4 of the Pension Reform Act 2004 as repealed by PRA 2014, stipulates that a contributor will be allowed to move his or her RSA account from one PFA to another in not more than once in a year. “Section 106 stipulates that an employee or beneficiary of a (RSA), who is dissatisfied with a decision of the PFA or employer in respect of pension matters under this Bill, may request, in writing, that such decisions be reviewed by PenCom with a view to ensuring that such decision is made in accordance with the provisions of this Bill or any regulations made,”she said. Aside from Mrs Adedeji, other members of PenOp executives are Vice President, Akeeb Akinola (Managing Director, Shell Closed Pension Fund Administrator); Head, Branding Committee, Wale Odutola (Managing Director, ARM Pensions); Head, Legal & Regulatory Committee, Dr. Hamza Sule Wuro Bokki (Managing Director, NPF Pensions); Head, Technical Committee, Dapo Akisanya (Managing Director, AxaMansard Pensions); and Treasurer, Chinedu Ekeocha (Managing Director, Diamond PFC). 