The camps of Transport Minister Rotimi Amaechi and Senator Magnus Abe (Rivers Southeast), are fighting for the soul of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State. The state congress of the party has deepened the acrimony between the two camps. Southsouth Bureau Chief Bisi Olaniyi examines the implications of the division on the party’s preparations for next year’s polls. The leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State Rotimi Amaechi, and his deputy, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, are at loggerheads with Senator Magnus Abe (Rivers Southeast) and his supporters over next year’s governorship race. The intrigues and power-play have created division in the chapter. Abe was the Secretary to the Rivers State Government (SSG) between 2007 and 2011, when Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, was the governor. In 2011, Amaechi supported Abe, an indigene of Bera-Ogoni in Gokana Local Government Area to go to the Senate, while the Ubima, Ikwerre LGA-born governor was re-elected. The face-off between Amaechi and Abe started in 2014, when the senator wanted to succeed the then governor on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). But, Amaechi preferred a riverine person as his successor, to ensure fairness, equity, justice and even development. From 1999, Rivers governors: Dr. Peter Odili, Sir Celestine Omehia and himself were from the upland part of the state. The former member of the House of Representatives, Dr. Dakuku Peterside, now the Director-General of the Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA), emerged as the standard bearer of the APC for the 2015 election, which did not go down well with Abe, who was prevailed upon to return to the Senate. Shortly after emerging victorious at the December 10, 2016 rerun, the senator started showing interest in the 2019 governorship race, which Amaechi was not comfortable with. Abe recently revealed that the transportation minister visited him in his house in Abuja and warned him in the presence of his wife, not to contest as governor in 2019 on APC’s platform. Abe recently held a thanksgiving service and reception in Port Harcourt, the state capital on emerging victorious at the December 10, 2016 rerun, with the reception at Polo Club attended by Wike and many chieftains of PDP, thereby giving the Rivers governor the opportunity to openly abuse some leaders of APC. Abe said that he had no regret inviting Wike, while the senator’s decision did not go down well with the leadership of APC. Abe, in his determination to realise his governorship ambition, recently opened his campaign office on Evo Road, new Government Reservation Area (GRA), Port Harcourt, tagged: “Freedom House,” while claiming that the APC governorship in 2015 was zoned to Rivers Southeast Senatorial District, the only district that has not produced governor since the creation of the state on May 27, 1967, stressing that zoning still subsists. The Deputy National Secretary of APC, Chief Victor Giadom, from Bera-Ogoni as Abe, however, said: “Amaechi is insisting on internal democracy in Rivers APC, but Abe is always talking of undemocratic consensus candidature, without congresses/elections. “Abe should produce the video or audio clip of where it was decided in 2014 or 2015 that the governorship ticket of APC was zoned to Rivers Southeast Senatorial District. There was nothing like that. I want the governorship to be given to us in the Rivers Southeast Senatorial District, but it was not zoned to us during the last general elections by APC. Rivers State is known for upland/riverine dichotomy. “Amaechi is the leader of APC in Rivers State and he has done everything humanly possible to put the party together, but when someone (Abe) has an uncontrolled ambition, it is difficult to have the person under the same roof.” Giadom, a former Rivers Commissioner for Works, also assured that there would be a level playing field for the aspirants and the primaries will be free, fair, transparent, credible and peaceful. On May 4, the eve of APC’s ward congress in the 319 wards across the 23 LGAs thugs invaded the state secretariat of the APC on Forces Avenue, old GRA, directly opposite the old GRA Divisional Police Headquarters, near Government House, Port Harcourt, vandalising, destroying and looting valuable property. Members of the State Working Committee (SWC) of the party and visitors to the secretariat are now operating from under canopies within the premises. The APC’s deputy national secretary, however, declared: “The action of the hoodlums that vandalised the Rivers State secretariat of APC in Port Harcourt was unnecessary, highly regrettable and it was the height of desperation by Abe and his supporters. “We are all from Rivers State and we know the thugs who were at APC secretariat on Friday (May 4). The representative of Ikwerre/Emohua constituency in the House of Representatives,  Chidi Wihioka, who was arrested at the scene of the destruction, is also a supporter of Abe.” On May 4, Amaechi maintained that the ward congress would hold on May 5, as planned, adding that Abe took over with thugs and vandalised the state secretariat for fear of election, thereby looking for consensus candidature, which, he said, would not happen. The minister said that he never hijacked electoral materials for the ward congress, as alleged by Abe and his supporters, adding that was also not aware of any court order stopping the ward congress. The ward congress took place peacefully Option A-4. The turnout of members of the party being so impressive, as confirmed by Chairman of Ward and Local Government Congresses Committee, Joseph Dogo, who came from the national secretariat of APC in Abuja. Members of the APC’s Ward and Local Government Congresses Appeals’ Committee led by Nasiru Olatunji Salawu, also arrived Port Harcourt, immediately after the ward congress, did their job and submitted their report to the national leadership. On May 11, many members of the APC from the 23 LGAs, as early as 7 a.m., took over the Rivers State High Court Complex on Station Road in Port Harcourt, when they got the hint that Abe’s supporters, through the backing of Governor Nyesom Wike  wanted to obtain an injunction to restrain APC from holding the May 12 local government congress, without legal representation by APC, at the court presided over by Justice Chiwendu Nwogu. Prior to the sitting of the court under tight security, allies of Wike mobilised many PDP members to the court and they were shouting: “PDP Power,” leading to confrontation with APC protesters and violence. Scores were injured. Justice Nwogu was hailed by Henry Bello, the counsel to aggrieved APC members loyal to Abe. APC’s lawyer Cuturu Eddeh, accused the suspended Legal Adviser of APC in Rivers, Mr. Chiwikpe Chieme, of professional misconduct, for appearing for the party without being authorised, in his desperation to cause confusion. Hearing was adjourned till June 26. The Publicity Secretary of APC in Rivers State, Chief Chris Finebone, said on May 12 that the party had not been served with any court order, adding that the local government congress would hold as planned, since the processes commenced a long time ago and could not be stopped by any court action. The Chairman of Ward and Local Government Congresses Committee, Joseph Dogo, confirmed on May 13 that the local government congress of APC in Rivers was successful. A 27-member executive in each of the 23 LGAs was elected. Dogo said: “”From what I have seen, Rivers APC is on a sound ground. What members of APC in Rivers State need to do is to keep this momentum going. Once it is on course, and they continue to put their eyes on the ball and not on the spectators, then they are assured that 2019 is for us to pick, because whatever we take, we deserve. We do not take what we do not deserve. What I have seen is that they (APC members) are prepared to take over this state in 2019. “On May 5, we did the ward congresses. On May 12, we had the local government congresses. On May 12, we (members of the committee) went out to monitor the local government congresses in nine of the 23 LGAs. We saw a consensus. We saw unity of purpose. We saw people who are together, working for the advancement of this party (APC). “Rivers people have made me proud. I do hope that by the time we release the pictorial of the events that took place in Rivers State, do not be surprised that people will be coming here to learn how you run this party. We are happy and we are grateful for the warm reception you have given us. “When I addressed the press on May 6, I thought I had seen the best, but on May 12, I was made to realise that what happened on May 5 was just a preamble. The one of May 12 was so superlative. It was a wonderful experience when we went out on May 12 to see how the local government congresses went on. I am satisfied with the results of the local government congresses in Rivers State.” Peterside expressed surprise about the special interest of Wike in APC’s matter. The NIMASA chief said: “I got report from persons that I trust their integrity, that prominent members of the PDP led the protest (on May 11 at the Rivers High Court, Port Harcourt). They were captured on camera. Samuel Nwanosike and Roland Sekibo (Wike’s allies) were physically seen at the court, directing the protest. “Wike’s Chief Security Officer (CSO) called Promise, a police officer, was physically directing the PDP protesters at the court. Wike, a harbinger of violence, is a painful reminder of how far we (Rivers people) still have to go.” Peterside said members APC were peace-loving and law-abiding. He said: “APC is a party that was founded on the basis of justice, equity, peace and unity. The key word is justice. Protest is a fundamental part of democracy. It is allowed in every liberal democracy, provided it is orderly and you do not disrupt other people’s programmes. “I do not see how we (APC leaders) owe anybody any apology over the protest (at the Rivers State High Court Complex in Port Harcourt). The people have the right to protest. I am a man of integrity. On my honour, I am not aware that any property was vandalised or damaged at the court premises. “There is no faction in Rivers APC. Every member of APC in Rivers State subscribes to the leadership of Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, including Abe, my very good friend and brother. “The suspended Legal Adviser (of APC in Rivers State, Mr. Chiwikpe Chieme) has no authority or power to represent the APC in Rivers State. He has no letter issued by the Rivers Chairman of the party (Chief Davies Ikanya), the State Working Committee (SWC), the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, or the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party. If you take an action on an issue that you have no authority, it is a nullity. “APC, Rivers State best represents progressiveness, development, growth, inclusiveness, welfare of Rivers people and it serves as a platform that gives voice to everybody, unlike what Wike and his government represent. APC best represents the aggregate aspiration of Rivers people.” Peterside also maintained that nobody told Abe not to contest the governorship election in 2019, adding that  nobody could force anybody to support the senator’s governorship bid. Abe, in a statement by his spokesperson, Parry Benson, said that justice must prevail, adding that Rivers people would not fold their arms and allow anarchy to envelop the state. The senator lauded the judiciary for the courage to stand boldly as the last hope of the common man and granting the request of some members of APC to seek a peaceful resolution to the crisis that rocked the party after the ward congress, where he said members who paid for forms were wilfully excluded. Abe stressed that it was amendable that party leaders could descend so low by attempting to obstruct the functions of the judiciary and disrupt the court in the face of violent intimidation. The senator said: “We commend some members of the party (APC) who approached the courts, in order to seek a peaceful resolution to the crisis that rocked the party after the ward congresses and for insisting that justice must prevail for those who were disenfranchised. “They have done well, because the absence of law is the presence of anarchy. As Rivers people, we cannot fold our arms and allow anarchy to envelop the state.” May 18, the National Chairman of APC, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, and the National Secretary, Mai Bala Bunu, issued a statement cancelling the May 5 ward congress and the May 12 local government congress, while the May 19 state congress was shifted to May 21. Odigie-Oyegun and Bunu also revealed that fresh ward and local government congresses would hold on May 19 and 20 respectively, in view of complaints and petitions from the supporters of Abe. They noted that the decisions were taken after due consultation with major stakeholders and in view of the fact that the national convention of the party is now scheduled to hold on June 2, 2018, it will give all state chapters, including Rivers, the opportunity to participate. In another statement, Odigie-Oyegun and Bunu declared that the national leadership of APC was yet to be served the court order obtained by Abe’s supporters at the Rivers High Court in Port Harcourt and that the suspended Legal Adviser of the party (APC) in Rivers, Mr. Chiwikpe Chieme, was not authorised to represent the party at the court. Abe and his supporters, however, boycotted the rescheduled ward, local government and state congresses. The allies of the senator insisted that the May 11 order of Rivers High Court in Port Harcourt, presided over by Justice Chiwendu Nwogu, must be obeyed. The fresh ward congress was, however, conducted in the 319 wards on May 19, leading to the election of 27 officers of the party in each ward. The rescheduled local government congress also took place without any hitch in the 23 LGAs with 27-member executive elected in each LGA, as confirmed by Dogo, who monitored the congresses, along with members of the committee and some leaders of the party. The state congress also took place on May 21 in Port Harcourt, leading to the election of Ojukaye Flag-Amachree-led executive. Abe’s supporters, led by former Rivers Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice, Worgu Boms, claimed that conducting fresh congresses was subjudice and that Abe’s allies would not participate in the illegality and jamboree. Boms said that APC had no right to conduct fresh congresses in Rivers state, when the court order had not been vacated. But, Peterside said: “Amaechi is the leader of all. Everybody subscribes to his leadership. He has no such powers to hijack the APC. He is one member of the APC. If he has the support of the majority, you will say he has the support of the majority, including myself. “Abe cannot be the reason (for the crisis in Rivers APC). He is entitled to aspire to any office in the land, including the presidency. No man can stop him from aspiring for any office he chooses to contest. What he cannot guarantee is the support of individuals, because it is their choice. “I am sure there will be others who will make their intentions known.  The party will set the guidelines for the primaries and if he (Abe) wins, everybody will rally round him. We ordinarily expect him to also support whoever emerges from the party.” The rescheduled state congress place on May 21 from 7 a.m. at Elekahia Town Hall in Port Harcourt, the state capital, and was rounded off around 8:15 a.m., but was boycotted by a governorship aspirant of the party (Abe) and his supporters. Since they knew that officers would be elected through consensus and affirmation through voice vote. Supporters of Abe, planned to obtain another injunction at the Rivers High Court, Port Harcourt to stop the state congress, as they did on May 11 to stop the cancelled May 12 local government congress. A two-term Chairman of Asari-Toru Local Government Council of Rivers state, Ojukaye Flag-Amachree, was unanimously elected as the Chairman of APC in Rivers. He succeeded Chief Davies Ikanya. The Rivers Secretary of the party, Chief Emeka Beke, and Publicity Secretary, Chief Chris Finebone, were returned unopposed. Amaechi, who was in Port Harcourt on May 21, decided not to show up at the venue of the state congress. Prince Tonye Princewill, and many stalwarts of APC were in attendance at the state congress. The Chairman of the State Congress Committee in Rivers, James Majit,  lauded the members of the party for their peaceful conduct during the congress, urging the new executive to work much harder to reposition the main opposition party and ensure unity. Majit said: “I am happy for your (Rivers APC members’) peaceful conduct. The congress, from the accreditation to the election, was in accordance with the laid down rules and guidelines of the party. I encourage you not to relent in the task of taking the party to the next level, especially in producing an APC governor in Rivers State in 2019.” Wike, had declared war on Flag-Amachree, an ally of Amaechi, who was dragged to Rivers high court in Port Harcourt, over his alleged murder of a member of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Asari-Toru LGA, during the 2015 general elections. He was remanded in prison for weeks, before he was later granted bail on health grounds, having been brought to court in a stretcher. In his acceptance speech, the newly-elected chairman who is a former President of Buguma Youth Council, promised to work for the unity and victory of the party in 2019. Flag-Amachree said: “I will want to thank God Almighty for this opportunity and for today (yesterday). I will also want to thank the leader of our great party in the state and in the Southsouth zone, the Hon. Minister of Transportation, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Amaechi, for this wonderful opportunity. “I also thank the immediate past Chairman of this party, Chief Davies Ikanya, for a wonderful job he did. He has made my job easy. “With my emergence (as Rivers Chairman of APC), we will do everything within our powers in making sure that in 2019, we will take over the Brick House (Government House, Port Harcourt).” Flag-Amachree said he would work with all the members of APC in Rivers. He said: “We are all party members. All the members of the former executive did well. In the next few days, I am going to meet with members of my executive and the newly-elected chairmen (of wards and local governments) of the party. I will also meet with my predecessor (Ikanya). Members of his executive did their best. At some point, we need to take over from them. They will support us and we will also give them the necessary opportunities to vie for other positions they want to vie for in the party. “I was President of Buguma Youth Council. I was also elected twice as Chairman of Asari-Toru Local Government Council and I did well. The reason for my election as the Chairman of APC in Rivers State is to give the youths the opportunity to aspire and occupy elective positions. Rivers APC will continue with that. I am going to continue with that. At the end of the day, we will have more youths occupying elective positions in Rivers State and also flying our party’s flag.” Peterside expressed satisfaction with the massive turnout of delegates and leaders of APC from the 23 LGAs. He said: “We are all witnesses to the peaceful, orderly and credible party congress at the state level. There had been insinuations in the media about a divided APC in Rivers State. That has been laid to rest today (on May 21). Members of APC in Rivers State spoke with one voice. We were unanimous on the direction we want to go. First, we have a united party. We have a brand new state executive committee. “We are determined to uproot the government in Rivers State today, led by Wike (in 2019), because he has failed Rivers people. He has robbed Rivers people of their dignity. He has disappointed Rivers people. He has dashed our hopes. He has robbed us silly, in every sense of the word. “We have got so much resources and there is absolutely nothing to show for the funds. Rather, what we have to deal with is series of death, either occasioned by soot or by insecurity, through criminals unleashed on us as a people. We do not deserve these. Rivers people deserve better. “APC has commenced the march to Government House, Port Harcourt, by the election of a new executive committee. We thank our party members. We thank Rivers people for standing with us.”