Few, if any other spatial areas of human body contains as much diverse organs as the human abdomen, popularly known as “tummy”, “stomach” or “belly”.  Perhaps the other space that is as competitive to the abdomen is the head that houses multiple organs within the same space. As indicated above, there are many names that folks call abdomen. I wish to make the clarification that the “stomach” is just one of the many organs that is present within the abdominal space but doctors and other clinicians do recognize and accept patient’s terms when they refer to abdomen as “stomach.” Clinicians make the necessary adjustment when listening to patient’s use of medical terms. That said, abdominal pain is an extremely common complaint in clinical practice.  Children and adults, both men and women will somehow suffer from some causes of abdominal pain or the other. More importantly, women, by the very nature of their reproductive structure or anatomy are more likely to encounter more abdominal pain than men. Let’s return a little bit to some organs and structures that are contained within the abdomen: In this space are parts of the gullet (eosophagus), stomach, small intestines, large intestines comprising ascending column, transverse column, descending column, sigmoid column, appendix and rectum). Other organs are kidney with ureters, spleen, pancreas, liver, gall bladder and omentum. Extending a bit downward towards the reproductive areas is called pelvis. The pelvis in men contains essentially, the bladder, epididymis, the urethra and the prostate and projecting into the outside world are the penis and the scrotal sac with testes. Similar pelvis in women is more complicated, comprising the bladder, urethra, the uterus (womb), the cervix, the vagina, the Fallopian tubes, the ovaries and the pouch of Douglas. As the reader can see, the abdomen is not just the “stomach.” Yet, pain or ache can arise in each of all the organs that I have listed above. Further, the doctors attending will have to determine exactly where your pain is coming from before he or she can offer you a credible solution to your pain. Therefore, let us start to list possible causes of pain in each of the organs: Starting from the stomach, you “stomach pain” may be due to indigestion, acid reflux and commonly peptic ulcer. In some occasions, especially when the illness has gone far, stomach ache may be due to cancer of the stomach. For small intestines, your “tummy” ache may be caused by duodenal ulcer. It may also be due to intestinal obstructions: a very deadly disease in both children and adult. Pancreatic disorders may cause you severe abdominal pain especially if you are a heavy alcoholic consumer. Similarly, infections such as viral hepatitis A, B, C, D, E, F may all give rise to varying severities of “tummy” pain especially on the right side of the abdomen. Gall bladder are closely related to and indeed is a neighour of the liver. Stones in the gall bladder, infections of the gall bladder, obstructions of the gall bladder may all lead to severe pain on the right sides of the “stomach”. Kidneys are found in both flanks of the abdomen. Infections by bacteria, viruses, and parasites affecting the kidneys and ureters and a common cause of “stomach” pain in all ages. Similarly, presence of stones or obstruction of the ureters and kidneys are source of severe pains in the abdomen. Also, diseases affecting any part of the colon may lead to ache, discomfort and pain. Examples of such illnesses are food poisoning, ulcerative colitis, irritable bowel, polyps, cancers, constipation and obstruction to the movement of food wastes. In the meantime, in the pelvis in women, pelvic inflammatory diseases (caused by infection and agents of infections), ectopic pregnancy, threatened miscarriage, incomplete abortion, cysts of the ovary, and torsion/twisting of cyst of the ovary could all give rise to abdominal pains. In men, diseases affecting the scrotum, testes, urethra and prostate may lead to pain of various nature. In both genders, diseases of the bladder such as infections could cause pain being felt in the lower part of the “tummy”.  As the reader can see, dealing with “stomach pain” is more complex that you could imagine.  Your doctor will need to methodically go through each of these organs before zooming in on the particular area. Solutions and Treatment: The key message is that any suspicion of pain in anyone be it a child or an adult may not be as innocent as you may think especially if the pain persists or if the pain is intensifying in its presentation or becoming distressful in spite of having tried all available home helps. Therefore, my advice is for you to seek the opinion of a competent medical doctor as soon as possible. Women experiencing  “stomach pain” should endeavor to seek the attention of a Gynaecologist as a matter of utmost urgency.