Group Managing Director/CEO Access Bank Plc, Herbert Wigwe has said the bank willalways support woem-led businesses. The bank chief said lending to women presents little or no risks to his bank as they have over the years paid back their loans without defaulting. He spoke yesterday during a Power Breakfast Meeting with Herbert– organised by the bank at its head office in Lagos. The bank chief said the lender has not recorded any bad loan from several loans it granted to women-owned businesses in recent time adding that the bank started the ‘W’ Initiative to empower women and women-owned businesses. He said: “When women are involved, things get better. The ‘W’ Initiative is to empower and inspire women. We do not even have one per cent bad loans for supporting women. We are committed to ensuring that women succeed in their businesses”. He said the meeting was to enable the lender listen to the women and identify their business needs in order to meet them. The bank CEO also used opportunity of the gathering to discuss financial literacy for women, trainings and workshops for start-ups, business succession plan and business sustainability. He said: “Allow your children to pursue their passion. There is no guaranty that your children will be interested in your line of business. All you need is to train them to succeed in their areas of passion”. Also speaking, Access Bank Group Head, Retail Banking, Opeyemi Wemi-Jones, said the bank’s ‘W’ Initiative has been a huge success and will continue to guide women to success in their fields of endeavours. Continuing, she said: “We are the bank for women. We are going to create tomorrow together. We are into offshore investment services, private banking offerings. Our Evergreen Account waves all charges in the personal account of women from 60 years old and above. But if the account holder borrows, she will also pay charges on the loan”. She said ‘W’ Initiative has helped many women build businesses and planned their business succession scheme to enable them hand over their businesses to the next generation. She said: “We are also introducing more women to private banking. Our card services can also allow you attach your card to your children studying abroad. Our Family Fortune Promo has also helped many families own their homes and cars among other winnings”. Wemi-Jones said the ‘W’ Initiative was part of the bank’s efforts to offer women exclusive access to a wide range of lifestyle-oriented value added benefits and privileges.  