The Director General, National Youth Service Corps ( NYSC ), Brigadier General Suleiman Kazaure, has urged corps members to disclose their health status so they could be well taken care of. He spoke while responding to questions at the closing of the orientation course for 2018 Batch A corps members at the NYSC Iyana Ipaja camp, Lagos Wednesday. Kazaure assured the corps members that disclosure of any health challenge would not lead to their expulsion from camp. “When you disclose your health status; when you are sick, it is not that you will be expelled from camp but for you to be moved closer to your doctors.  Please help us appeal to corps members to always disclose their health status,” he said. Responding to questions on quality of food served corps members on camp, the DG praised state coordinators for making the most of the N650 daily allowance they are given to feed each corps member. “I think the state coordinators are trying.  How much are they paid? As at last year, it was N500 per day but now they have increased it to N650 per day – maybe divided into N200, N200 and N250 per meal.  What kind of food will you cook with N200? I think the state coordinators have been trying,” he said. In his speech, the Lagos State NYSC Coordinator, Prince Mohammed Momoh, praised the corsp members for their discipline while in camp. He however appealed to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to expedite action on the construction of a new camp on the land he allocated to the NYSC in Agbowa, Ikorodu, saying the Iyana Ipaja camp was too congested for the 2,794 corps members it hosted. “We are indeed very grateful for the allocation of land at Agbowa for the construction of a befitting orientation camp and it is our fervent hope that the construction of the camp be urgently looked into as the present facility is grossly inadequate considering the number of corps members deployed to the Centre of Excellence,” he said. Attesting to the inadequacy of the camp, Jennifer Obi, who won the most outstanding corps member award, said the overcrowding of the camp was one of the few issues she had during the three-week programme. “I enjoyed the camp.  It gave me an opportunity to learn a lot about things outside the classroom.  The camp officials were like our parents.  We were able to network, tap into our talents.  But the feeding wasn’t too good; the stew was watery.  Also the accommodation was not good.  We were 32 in a room and ventilation was an issue,” the graduate of Geography from the Obafemi Awolowo University said. In his speech, Governor Ambode, who was represented by the Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Affairs, Oluseye Oladejo, urged employers of labour to accept corps members posted to their organisations.