The Federal High Court in Lagos yesterday heard how 147 cartons of NSNOWS gas refrigerants with cloned Standard Organisation of Nigeria (SON) logos were allegedly found with the Managing Director of Agastorm Ltd, Nonso Udoye. A prosecution witness, Aladesuyi Oluwadare, told Justice Saliu Saidu that a SON patrol team discovered the products at the warehouse of Agastrom Ltd in Ebute-Meta, Lagos. Udoye, of 36, Ayilara Street, Surulere, Lagos, is standing trial on a 15-count charge of forgery and counterfeiting. The defendant has been on remand following his inability to perfect his bail terms. At the beginning of proceedings yesterday, Oluwadare was led in examination-in-chief by SON’s counsel, Amaka Allen-Ngbale. The witness testified that he was part of a five-man team investigating the case following a petition by SON’s director-general to the inspector-general of Police (IGP). Oluwadare said: “It was stated in the petition that on December 7, 2017, during a patrol by a SON patrol unit, they intercepted a warehouse at 137, Borno Way, Ebute-Meta, belonging to the defendant. On inspection of the goods inside the warehouse, they discovered cartons of NSNOWS gas refrigerants and cylinders with unauthorised SON seal. So they locked up the warehouse.” He told the court that following Udoye’s arrest, the businessman took the police investigative team to another warehouse, “where another product, Chap gas refrigerant cylinder, was discovered.” The witness testified that SON told the police team that it did not authorise the use of its seal on the products.” Following a brief cross-examination by defence counsel, Emmanuel Okoroafor, Justice Saidu adjourned till May 18 for continuation of trial. According to the charge, Udoye allegedly “made an impression of a production registration counterfeit seal … on 147 cartons of NSNOWS gas refrigerants of 12 cylinders each stored at the warehouse.” The court also heard that he imported “1,441 cartons of refrigerant gas that did not comply with industrial standard, among others.” The alleged offences contravened sections 465, 467, 467(4)(v) and 468 of the Criminal Code Act, 2004 and sections 26(2) (b) and 26 (2) (b) (iii) of the Standard Organisation of Nigeria Act, 2015.