A group of men and women yesterday in Lagos protest against what it called the “needless killings” in some parts of the country. The protest tagged: “National day of mourning, one death too many” was organised by the Women Advocates Research and Documentation Centre (WARDC) and other civil society organisations (CSOs), with the support of MacArthur Foundation. Clad in black Tee shirt, the group walked from the Airport Hotel to the Allen Roundabout on Obafemi Awolowo Road, Ikeja, singing dirge. Detailing killings in Borno, Zamfara, Benue, Adamawa, Plateau, Nasarawa, Taraba, Kaduna, Rivers, Akwa Ibom, Kogi, Kwara, Lagos and Edo states, among others, WARDC Executive Director Dr Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi urged the government to bring the killers to book. She said: “We say no to these killings. Our people are being killed like animals, they are being slaughtered in their homes on a daily basis; enough of these killing. According to her, Nigerians can no longer tolerate these deaths. Akiyode-Afolabi: “And that is why we say no to the death of our wives, husbands and children that are being killed by herdsmen. We are saying that we need prompt action from government; this must stop. Our security arm must be investigated, from Boko Haram to herdsmen, who knows what is next.” A representative of the Federation of Muslin Women’s Association of Nigeria (FOMWAN), Lagos State, Alhaja Zainab Dawodu lamented that women were mostly the victims of killings by Boko Haram, herdsmen and bandits. A representative of the Women’s Wing of the Christian Association of Nigeria (WOWICAN), Lagos State, Mrs Elizabeth Bassey, said farmers could no longer go their to farms because of the fear of being killed. “We cannot continue like this, we cannot keep quiet because we are in Lagos; it is our business. Many people have lost their lives. It is uncalled for and we say enough is enough. Some of these deaths are preventable; government must find lasting solution,” she said. At 11:59 am, a minute’s silence was observed for the dead.