These are definitely not the best of times for Super Eagles Russia-bound midfielder John Ogu. The media is awash with the separation from his wife, Veronica, who he married almost three years ago amid pomp and ceremony. Guests who were at the wedding wished the young couples marital bliss, while also praying that the relationship would stand the test of time. Journalists who covered the ‘talk-of-the-town’ wedding were also excited that the mercurial midfielder would become more focused on his career, while his beautiful wife takes care of the home front. Alas, all these were not to be as the couple could not get over the storm which comes with marriage. While still leaving concerned Nigerian guessing what could have led to the crisis, the couple have disconnected from each other on social media platforms, thus confirming that the relationship is over. Additional information, which emerged on social media last weekend, revealed that the couple, who wedded at the Ikoyi Registry, have not only gone for each other’s jugular but have deleted all they have posted in common and have gone ahead to stop following each other on Instagram. Ogu’s wife, Vera, has reverted to her maiden name, Akaolisa, on her Instagram page. For Ogu, he would have wished that the crisis wasn’t coming at this time. He is currently in camp with 29 other players jostling for a place in the final Super Eagles 23-man list that will represent Nigeria at the 2018 World Cup in Russia. No doubt, Ogu’s attention will be divided and he will need to be very strong to concentrate fully in camp. He is still young and how he weather this current storm would go a long way in shaping his career in future. Every player going to the World Cup or any championship, must be physically and emotionally ready and Ogu must quickly (if he can) put the present disappointment behind him and get to work with the Super Eagles. The reasons for the problem are still unknown. But sources close to the midfielder said he is taking it in good faith, while confirming the crisis. However, Coach Gernot Rohr, will decide whether the Israeli Premier League winner is in the right frame of mind when the Eagles confront DR Congo in a friendly game in Port Harcourt on Monday. Again, Ogu must borrow a leaf from people who have bounced back from crises of this nature to become legends. To achieve this, he will have to bury his head in his work and focus on the task of making the World Cup squad. That is the only way he can show that he has put the sordid episode behind him. Typical of broken homes, the children often suffer the brunt. With the kids living with one of the parents, it might be difficult for them to get proper care. So, the estranged couple will have to devise a strategy that will ensure that their only daughter does not suffer. Though the couple is rich by today’s standard, they will need to make out time to take care of the little girl. Happily enough, both parties have not thrown jibes at each other and the separation is not acrimonious like some of his colleagues have experienced recently. This has given hope that there could be light at the end of this tunnel. Many are also hoping that the energetic midfielder muscles his way out of this tight and unfriendly situation. Profile Born 20 April 1988 in Lagos, John Ogu plays as a central midfielder for Israeli Premier League side Hapoel Be’er Sheva. He joined Drava Ptuj on 23 September 2006 in the Slovenian Premier League and played for four seasons, playing 97 games and scoring 8 goals. In summer 2010, he moved to Atlético CP playing in Third Division in Portugal, but after six months, he moved to Almería B from Third Division in Spain. The 2010-11 season was difficult for Ogu, but a breakthrough was in the offing. In November 2011, U.D. Leiria in Premier League in Portugal signed Ogu, but at the end of the season dropped to the Second Division. He signed for Académica Premier League in Portugal in July 2012. Ogu scored his first goal for Académica in Portuguese cup matches win on Ponte da Barca. He scored his first league goal against Vitória de Setúbal in a decisive away win which would grant Académica safety in the Portuguese Premier League. On 7 September 2014, Ogu signed a fouryear contract in Hapoel Be’er Sheva from Israeli Premier League. On 29 November, he scored his first goal for Hapoel Be’er Sheva against Maccabi Netanya in a 4-0 win at the Vasermil Stadium. In the 2014-15 season, he qualified with his team to the cup finals. International career In March 2013, Ogu was called up to the Nigerian national side for a 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifier. He debuted against Kenya in a 1–1 draw, where he was used as a substitute to replace injured Victor Moses. On 31 May 2013, Ogu scored his first international goal against Mexico in a friendly game, which took place at the Reliant Stadium in Houston. On 9 June 2013, Nigerian Coach Stephen Keshi selected Ogu as one of the 23 players to participate in the 2013 FIFA Confederations Cup. On 18 March 2015, he was called up amongst 27 other players for the proposed friendly matches against Bolivia and South Africa. In May 2018, he was named in Nigeria’s preliminary 30-man squad for the 2018 World Cup in Russia.