Miral Pharm Limited, an indigenous pharmaceutical company, has affirmed its commitment to ridding the nation of malaria. The firm is calling for entries for the second edition of Ravimal Essay, an initiative aimed at promoting awareness on efforts to end malaria. Speaking at a briefing held in Lagos to announce the contest, the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) President, Ahmed Ibrahim Yakasai, said the essay with the theme: Ready to beat malaria: Challenges and opportunities, was open to Pharmacy students  and young graduates. According to Yakasai, cash prizes of N500,000, N300,000 and N200,000 will be presented to the three winning entries. He said deans of pharmacy schools with the highest number of participants and winners would be awarded N500,000 each. Consolation prizes will be given to runners-up, he said. Yakasai said he was delighted with the tripartite partnership among PSN, Miral Pharm Ltd and Young Pharmacists Group, noting that the collaboration would encourage and mobilise young pharmacists and students to join the initiative aimed at fighting malaria. To participate in the contest, Yakasai said participants were required to register and submit their essays on www.miralpharm.com/essay. The deadline for the submission of the essay is June 25. Yakasai lamented that the $37 million global funds to provide mosquito nets was not invested in the country. He  lamented that the nets were imported. He called on the government and manufacturers to engage in research   to eradicate the scourge. Miral Pharm Managing Director Mr Onyeka Onyeibor said he expected that the essays would uncover actionable research interests that could lead to the end of malaria, adding that the firm was disposed to supporting the research. Through the essay contest, Onyeibor said his firm intended to encourage critical thinking among young people with the aim to contribute knowledge to research base. He said: “At Miral Pharm, we value people, excellence, courage and goodness. Thus, we are committed to encouraging people to be the best they can be. We take pride in investing in the lives of the next generation by empowering them with what they need to take on this stride.” Quoting World Health Organisation (WHO) statistics, Onyeibor said about 3.4 billion people live in areas with high risk for the transmission of malaria. He said there were reports that Nigeria accounted for the highest number of malaria cases and deaths globally. This, he said, is far from the expectation of WHO in global action against malaria. He said elimination of malaria required that pre-elimination stage was expected to observe less than one case per 1,000 persons. Achieving the feat, he said, involves efforts that require research and collaborations. Onyeibor led the company’s workers to present first aid kits to Oshodi Senior High School and Oshodi Junior High School. As part of the activities to commemorate the World Malaria Day, Onyeibor presented a laptop to Oluwakemi Abiodun of Oshodi Senior High School, who was the first prize winner (senior category) of Ravimal Ends Malaria for Good Essay Competition. Sanni Khadijat of Oshodi Junior High School, who won the junior school category, also received a laptop. Miral Pharm Ltd initiated the contest lat year to promote the WHO initiative.