Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje yesterday attributed the agitation by some members of the defunct new Peoples Democratic Party (nPDP) in the All Progressives Congress (APC) to corruption fighting back. He dismissed their claims that they had been marginalised in the APC. Ganduje told reporters at a news conference to mark the third anniversary of his administration, that people like Senate President Bukola Saraki and  House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara should have no reason to complain. He said: “Some few members of the nPDP (which is not even a group in that nomenclature, because now we are one in the APC) went to the party’s national secretariat and presented a paper that they were marginalised. “The majority of the defunct nPDP (which I am a member) also went to the national secretariat to mention that those that were there earlier in the name of nPDP were not the true representatives of the nPDP. Also, we indicated that we are not part of those who are being marginalised. “I will give you an analysis that will show that they are not being marginalised. First of all, the Senate President is from the defunct nPDP, he is now the Senate President; he controls very important Committees in which he singlehandedly approved chairmen of 30 committees – that is not marginalisation. “You have the governor of Kwara State who is also a member of the nPDP. He has a whole government; how can he say he is marginalised? “The Governor of Adamawa State is nPDP and he is now a governor. I am from nPDP and I am now a governor. We have most of us from the nPDP who are senators and House of Representatives members. “You have the Speaker of House of Representatives who is a member of the nPDP and a Speaker under the banner of APC; how can he say he is being marginalized? He controls lucrative committees. He appoints the chairmen and membership of the committees singlehandedly, without interference from the executive. How can he say he is being marginalized? “So, if you take this issue one by one, you can see that the issue of marginalisation is not there. Therefore, we the majority of the nPDP are disclaiming the allegation and we believe that we are not being marginalised. “So, I believe that there must be something underground. You know Mr. President is facing a difficult moment; corruption is fighting back. So, you will soon see why marginalisation is coming out now. This is not the issue of marginalization; this is the issue of corruption fighting back. So, you will see what will happen.” Ganduje also insisted that Kano will mobilise over five million votes for President Muhammadu Buhari in next year’s presidential election even if the former Governor, Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, decides to leave APC. “Well, we are begging Kwankwaso not to move to another party, but if he decides to go, no problem–that is individual difference; and it cannot affect Buhari’s fortune of getting five million votes from Kano. “Twice, we were in government in Kano State from another party and twice Buhari won Kano from a different party; and we won our own election. “So it is not the issue of the former governor taking his paraphernalia to another party. It is the issue of our commitment to win elections.   We are not going to say that there will be no obstacle; there will be obstacle, but we will surmount it; so, Buhari will get five million votes from Kano.”