Critics of President Muhammadu Buhari have been advised to desist from violating his constitutional right to seek re-election. A group, the Buhari Votes Guard and Awareness (BVGA), said President Buhari has performed well in the areas of anti-corruption fight security and economy, adding that he deserves a second term. Briefing reporters yesterday in Abuja on the state of the nation, National Coordinator of BVGA. Kailani Muhammad said President Buhari has always been committed to the unity of the country adding that those fighting against his re-election wants corruption to continue. Muhammad faulted comments by the National Chairman of the Poeples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, that former Nigeria presidents and leaders are united against Buhari’s second term tenure. President Buhari, he said, has made a lot of enemies, especially with his anti-corruption war, adding that the war has bruised so many former: “untouchables. We expected a backlash, but not of this magnitude.” Muhammad said: “Recent developments on the political scene in this part of our clime, to serious political analysts and observers, are quite amusing, at the same time, disturbing. The terrain, actors and event -makers seem to be at variance with reality and are instead wrapped in their mixedup emotions and grapping at straws within reach without the slightest idea of where the fierce wind of destiny and “Change” will dump them. “The political gladiators who reigned and ruined the nation, her economy and her citizens seem to be at a loss as to what political theory to use that will bounce them back to recognition and relevance in the nation’s political space. Hence, the tragic strategy of twisting and twitting of mixed up messages and wrong signals to gain sympathy from the people they collectively covertly or otherwise sent into poverty. in the midst of plenty, Nigerians became slaves in Libya, sex merchants in Italy, France and other parts of the world under their watch. He added: “Also under their watch as supposed leaders, Chibok girls were abducted by the Boko Haram insurgents while writing exams and kept hostages for a period spanning over four good years until Buhari came to the rescue. “The twisting of the statement of PMB while in London is a typical example of a vain drowning group. We know Mr President has made a lot of enemies, especially, with his anticorruption War. This war against corruption has bruised so many former untouchables. Yes, we expected a backlash, but not of this magnitude. 