Heads of various security agencies in Aba and its environs has assured residents and visitors of the city of their safety. This is as the leadership of the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) has warned residents and shop owners to close down business ahead of the planned sit-at-home of the group in the southeast. The sit-at-home protest which has become annual is used by the IPOB to honour their dead and to further push the agitation for the actualization for the Sovereign State of Biafra. This is even as the pro-Biafra group has ordered the closure of markets, schools, private and public offices especially in the southeast in solidarity of the group’s call. Speaking at the end of a joint show of force operation by police, army and other security agencies including Civil Defence and National Drug Law Enforcement Agency (NDLEA) on Monday after patrolling round major roads and streets in Aba, the State Police Commissioner of Police, Anthony Ogbizi represented by Aba Area Commander, Peter Okpara urged residents and visitors to go about their lawful activities. Okpara who hinted that efforts have been made by the police and other security agencies to ensure there would be peace in Aba on Democracy Day, also warned that the police and its sister agencies would deal decisively with anyone or group of persons who would want to disrupt the peace in Aba. According to him, there would be deployment of its personnel at various strategic positions and places in Aba including markets to ensure that people move about without molestation from any person or group of persons. “Tomorrow is democracy day and as you know, IPOB and others are threatening the peace of our community. They said that there won’t be movement from tomorrow’s midnight till 30th of May. “They have perfected their plans to harass people who will come out on 30th. DPOs, tactical commanders and others should monitor their areas. We will have a response team here (Aba Area Command); mobile men and conventional policemen who will respond to any threat to peace in Aba area. So, you people should be vigilant even in your own private capacity. If you see anything going wrong, call your DPO, call the control room, I am sure that by the grace of God, we are on top of the situation,” Okpara stated while addressing the joint personnel at the end of the show of force.