The Police in Suleja, Niger, has confirmed the arrest and detention of parents and a marriage guardian over a complaint by their son in-law (the bridegroom) for sudden disappearance of their daughter (the bride) few hours after wedding.
Insp. Aliyu Lawal, Officer-in-charge of Kaduna-Road Police outpost in Suleja, told the confirmation to News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Sunday in Suleja that they acted upon a complaint lodged by Shuaib Dauda, a motor mechanic.
Lawal said the incidence occurred on May 6 when the bridegroom complained to the police that he sent a team for the traditional conveyance of the bride to her matrimonial home after wedding Fatiha.
He added that when the team went to the house of the bride for the escort, they were unable to see the bride after the traditional request by the bridegroom’s delegation.
Lawal said the delay by the brides’ family to deliver the bride to the bridegroom led to the disruption of peace in the area, hence the arrest of the parents and the marriage guardian.
“They were arrested on Sunday, May 6, and granted bail on Monday May 7,” he said.
But Mr Abubakar Haruna, popularly known as Zakiru and a resident of Hayi along Kaduna Road, told NAN that he gave out the hand of his daughter Fiddausi to Dauda and Saliha to Muhammadu Murtala.
He said before the marriage, Dauda and Murtala promised to comply with all the religious and traditional obligations for the marriage such as the dowry and buying of clothes and boxes for the brides.
“After the wedding ceremony, Dauda said he could not afford to buy the clothes and boxes to the bride as promised earlier.
“Fiddausi realising that Murtala (the husband to Saliha) had redeemed his promise and presented the traditional gifts and Dauda did not, Fiddausi run away to the neighboring house until her bridegroom fulfilled his own promise,’’ he said.
Haruna said already beddings, traditional kitchen wares, furniture and other domestic utensils had been taken to the house of Dauda ahead of conveyance of Fiddausi to her new home.
He explained that while they were searching for Fiddausi, the team sent by the bridegroom to convey Fiddausi to the matrimonial home hinted Dauda of the sudden disappearance of the bride.
He said Dauda therefore mobilised his friends who forcefully entered his compound insisting that Fiddausi must be produced and in the process they molested him and brutalised his wife (Bayi).
“Some other female guests from Kano were also brutalised, food items and other valuables they brought for the wedding ceremony were stolen by the hoodlums who attacked us for our alleged failure to produce the bride,’’ anguished Haruna said.
Haruna said while the hoodlums were molesting his family and his guests, the police officers from Kaduna Road out post arrested him, his wife and his younger brother who is also the marriage guardian (Umar Musa).
He dismissed the allegation by the police that he was arrested for disrupting public peace in the community, explaining that the police asked him to refund N260,000 being the amount expended by Dauda on the marriage.
Haruna said while he failed to pay the money as demanded, he was detained together with his wife and his younger brother by the police.
According to him, they were detained overnight at the police outpost and were granted bail following the intervention of his lawyer, Mr Aliyu Musa.
He said the bail was obtained on the condition that they would bring the money the following day or risk prosecution.
Meanwhile, Fiddausi has returned to her father’s house. (NAN)