•StanbicIBTC Pension to capture informal sector The proposed Micro Pension Scheme aimed at capturing the informal sector, the self- employed and the multi-fund structure under the Contributory Pension Scheme (CPS), which categorises pension fund investment, will change the dynamics of the pension industry, Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited Chief Executive, Eric Fajemisin, has said. He spoke at a parley with the media on the company’s preparedness for the two programmes at Radission Blu, Victoria Island, Lagos. Fajemisin said the micro pension scheme and the multi fund structure, are initiatives with great potentials and capability aimed at taking the industry into the next phase of growth. He said the multi-fund structure, is expected to kick off on July 1, adding that schemes categorise pension fund investments into four funds by aligning the age and risk profile of RSA holders to match the four funds. He said the Fund One is targeted at people of 49 years and below, who want higher returns and are willing to take higher risks. Fajemisin said: “Membership into this fund is strictly based on request. Fund Two is aimed at people who are aged 49 years and below and still working but are satisfied with moderate returns and levels of risks. Fund Three targets people who are 50 years and above but still working and have very low risk appetite. In Fund Four are retirees, who have the lowest risk profile of all categories. “The most outstanding feature of this scheme, apart from diversification of pension fund portfolio, is the resolution of risk appetite based on the various categories of funds. For PFAs, the multi-fund structure provides considerable flexibility in terms of risks associated with the four classification “Whether we are speaking of the micro pension scheme, the multi-fund structure, or the pension industry in general, one key imperative is public enlightenment and awareness. PENCOM and the operators in the industry could never do too much in this regards,” he stated. He said regardless of the inner challenges, the micro pension has a capacity to deepen asset formation in the country, considering that 70 per cent of the Nigerian working population operate in the informal sector. Highlighting other benefits of micro pension, Fajemisin said, it will improve the standard of living for the elderly and provide safety of funds, provide other incentives, such as mortgage facilities where there is regular savings or streams of income for the pension account, providing health insurance and establish planning in majority of Nigerians, flexible contribution remittances at the contributors convenience, opportunity to make withdrawal prior to retirement and the enhancement of financial inclusion in the country. Fajemisin, however, said the company is ready to kickstart the micro pension scheme, as soon as the regulator unveils the guidelines. He said Stanbic IBTC Pension Managers Limited is the largest pension fund administrator in Nigeria with assets under management in excess of N2.53 trillion and over 1.6 million retirement savings account holders nationwide, saying that from inception to December 2017, the company has paid N66.5 billion to 37,772 retirees. “We see tremendous opportunity not just to grow our assets, but to be of service to 70 per cent of population of Nigerians, who are in the informal sector. We believe that everybody requires a life after retirement. “We have put in place high level technology that will enable smooth relationship with our customers. We will also find other creative ways of communicating with them. We have a 24-hour functioning call centre in English, Yoruba, Ibo and Hausa. We will be ingenious in how we will communicate with the market. We will also take guide from people to know what their needs.        