 Athletico Madrid impressive striker Fernando Torres will continue his impressive run for the club after being included in the 20-man squad to face Super Eagles Tuesday at the 30,000 capacity Godswill Akpabio Stadium on Tuesday. The 34 year old former Liverpool and Chelsea ace was in superlative form on Sunday grabbing two goals to seal his exit in style. An appreciative Athletico have so far lavished praises on the player whose sojourn in the Spanish club has been dubbed fruitful.  Torres played 404 times for our club and scored 129 goals. He came to Atlético de Madrid as a kid and he’s leaving as a legend. Against Eibar on the last match day of the season, Fernando Torres played his last match for our club. In total, he defended our red and white colours a total of 404 times and scored 129 times “the club enthused. Torres joined our academy when he was 11 years old and he was an Atlético fan through and through thanks to his maternal grandfather Eulalio. At just 17 years old, on 27 May, 2001 he made his debut at the Vicente Calderón against Leganés. Just seven days later, he scored his first goal for Atleti and gave us the win against Albacete. Just a year later, he played his first match for our club in First Division in a magical stadium: the Camp Nou. Match after match, Torres kept on leaving his mark both on and off the pitch and was building his status as an Atlético legend. Tuesday’s tie will provide Torres who is well appreciated by the club to once again shine for the club and their fans, Meanwhile Super Eagles under coach Salisu Yusuf intensified training ahead of the tie on Monday. The  match is not only aimed at exposing local players but also identify players that will be on stand by ahead of the world cup final squad due for release on June 4th. Below is the full Athletic Madrid squad for the Tuesday showdown. GK – Jan Oblak, Axel Werner DEF – JuanFran, Sergio González, Francisco Montero, Rafael Muñoz, Andrés Solano MID – Gabi Fernández ©, Ángel Correa, Víctor ‘Vitolo’ Pérez, Thomas Partey, Roberto Olabe, Juan Aguero Núñez, Antonio Moya, Mikel Carro, Joaquín Muñoz   ST – Fernando Torres, Kevin Gameiro, Borja Garces          