The Lagos-Ibadan commercial speed train service is expected to come on stream in December, 19 months after it was launched by then Acting President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo. Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed gave the project a pass mark after an inspection. ADEYINKA ADERIBIGBE reports. For the Minister of Transportation, Rotimi Amaechi, last Tuesday’s tour of the speed train project by his Information and Culture counterpart, Alhaji Lai Mohammed was a welcome development. The tour convinced Mohammed that Amaechi can deliver  the Buhari administration’s flagship train project on schedule. Even Mohammed’s media team agreed that the contractor – China Civil Engineering Construction Company (CCECC) – will, in the next seven months, give Nigeria its first commercially-viable speed train route, 35 years after the botched Itakpe-Ajaokuta-Warri standard gauge rail line. In the last 14 months, new cities,    have been springing up from the tropical virgin forests of the West. At Abule-Ijoko, Itori and Papalanto in Ogun State, up to the deep recesses of Ibadan, the Oyo State capital, new cities have been emerging, with the capacity to becoming major hubs once the speed train takes off. Showpiece Mohammed gave the project a pass mark. He said the aim of the visit was to showcase to Nigerians the volume of work the government had put into the railway in the last three years. He told reporters: “We have come to have a foreknowledge of the infrastructure development going on in the railway sector under this administration and we started with the railway because of the capacity of the rail to transform the economy and we are satisfied with the level of work. “The idea is to let Nigerians know that this administration has done a lot in the area of infrastructure development.This is especially because people continue to complain that they do not know what we have done, so we want to show people what we have achieved. He concluded on a note that was cheery to Amaechi, when he said: “I think one thing we have achieved in the last two hours when we started our meeting with the contractor is that the December date for the Lagos-Ibadan modern gauge is not negotiable and I’m happy to say that both the consultants and the contractor and everyone involved have seen why it is important to meet this deadline.” What Mohammed did not say is that delivering the Lagos-Ibadan speed train on schedule will boost the administration’s profile and acceptability as it gets set for the  2019 general elections. That is why everything is tied to delivering the 156.65-kilometre, Lot II of the Lagos-Kano standard gauge rail line, which costs the government $1.5 billion by December. As at September 2016, Amaechi confirmed the administration had paid the counterpart funding for the project. By restating the demand for its completion, the Information Minister was harping what Amaechi has been drumming since 2016, to the contractor. The same contractor, CCECC, handled the Abuja-Kaduna standard gauge which lasted 15 years, and they initially could not understand why the Buhari administration is in a hurry to get them to deliver Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge within 24 months. Busy corridor When the government took delivery of the Abuja-Kaduna railway in December 2015, a critic had carpeted the move as “merely linking the old Hausa/Fulani political capital with the nation’s. The source, a lecturer who refused to be named, said the new Lagos-Ibadan project offers more prospect once it takes off as it is the nation’s busiest motorised gateway for which a speed train could profitably cash into. If the government achieved its delivery target and start commercial operation a month after as Amaechi insisted, it would be the first time a government is delivering such a gargantuan project within its first term and the Minister of Transportation seemed poised to get it done. “We have detractors who have been asking what have we been doing and we want to use this to prove to our detractors wrong. We want them to see that you can actually begin a project as big as a standard gauge and end it within your tenure and that it doesn’t need to become inconclusive as the past governments almost made us believe,” Amaechi said. Going by the March assessment, track-laying ought to begin by April,  the reason the monitoring team resolved to shift the April meeting till monthend. Even at that, track-laying seems not to have started as planned. In fact, it didn’t seem to have started at Itori until early May, few days to the ministers’ visit. This explains why it was only 1.7 km of tracks that could be laid by the visit. Despite this however, the contractor put two track-laying machines each with a capacity for 1.2 km tracks daily on the site. The idea was to complete the Itori to Ibadan end, (which had much less encumbrances before attending to the Lagos end which had been dropped for its encumbrances. With the capacity to do 2.4 km per day, CCECC is sure to deliver 72 km in the next 30 days, covering the entire spectrum of the project within two months. But the Lagos side, which poses some challenges may require more nimble engineering solutions to prevent an undue spiral of the cost of the project. Such was the decision to shift the alignment of the rail at Abeokuta, Ogun State, when it was discovered that the original alignment could have led to the demolition of 1004 buildings and increase the cost by over N2.8 billion in compensation. Chief among the encumbrances faced along the Lagos corridor are the removal of some level crossings intersecting the project, the removal of gas pipelines at the Apapa end of the project, removal of water pipes and water mains, removal of structures, including army barracks and residential houses of NRC workers and at least three bridges as well as high tension power cables. That was why the contractor decided to address the Lagos end of the project last. A top Team Consults’ source, who asked not to be named, said: “The project could have achieved more strides by now, if the contractor had started from the hinterland which had but little challenges outside payment of compensations for those whose land or buildings are acquired for the project, but had first started working from Lagos, beginning from Ebute-Metta (where the then Acting President Yemi Osinbajo) flagged it off in March 2016. “They had to stop when it was discovered that little or no progress was being made and today, we are living witnesses to what can be done if the CCECC has less encumbrances to contend with and the December delivery date seemed less threatened by uncertainty,” he said. Relocating barracks, others Addressing the challenges on the Lagos axis, Amaechi said about 60 percent of the problems had been resolved. One of such is the military barracks at Yaba that needed to be pulled down for the project. Amaechi said the army has  agreed that the unit be demolished, that it would be mobilised before month end to facilitate the barracks temporary relocation. The project’s other challenges  are the bridges.The Minister of Transportation insisted that the bridges within Lagos were the least challenge to the project. “What is important is the track- laying and we have been assured that this can be achieved despite the advent of the rainy season. The bridges, or the removal of the pipes, poses no threat as the contractor have the competence to achieve this with minimal disruption to people’s lives,” he said. He said Lagos being a built up environment can pose such a challenge, adding that what is important is that the government is determined to achieve its aim of improving on the transportation infrastructure and would not stop in making this possible. He said the civil works could be suspended if the hindrance because of the season until the August break in September. In the interim, works, he said,would continue on track- laying as it would not be delayed or disturbed by the rain. Amaechi believes the contractor has no excuse delaying the project. They should assist the government to shore its image by giving Nigerians a new deal in rail transport from next January, just 30 days to the next general election.