Kano state government Tuesday described as false the allegations by the former Commissioner former Land, Alhaji Farouk Bibi Farouk that his current trials in the court for alleged corruption was as a result of his refusal to be an actor in the leadership crisis that rocked the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state. The Nation recalls that Bibi Farouk while speaking to journalists recently shortly after a court sitting in Kano over his alleged involvement in land racketeering claimed that his arraignment in the court was in connection to his refusal to make funds available to fuel crisis within the APC leadership in the state. In a Press Statement signed by the state Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba and made available to The Nation in Kano, the state government described Bibi Farouk’s claims as, “false, laughable, cheap blackmail and the ranting of a sinking man.” Malam Garba further advised Bibi Farouk, “to face the charges of corruption leveled against him in the court rather than deceiving the public with concocted lies.” According to Garba, “Kano state government is surprised that somebody like Bibi Farouk could go to the extent of concocting lies to gain the sympathy of the public. “To put the records straight, there was never a time Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje held a meeting with Bibi Farouk or any other Commissioner for that matter, asking for the remission of N10 million from the Ministry of Land. “The genesis of the crisis that rocked the APC leadership in the state is in public domain   and the facts are there for people to verify. Today, APC in Kano remains one family as all the leadership crises have been carefully resolved. “We have duly elected leaders who emerged in the just concluded congresses which have been adjudged as the most peaceful and hitch-free in the country. Those who instigated crisis in the party know themselves and Bibi Farouk should know better. “So, we urge him to face his trials in the court and defend himself from the charges against him. The administration of Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje does not and will not condone corruption. Anybody who is found wanting should be ready to face the music no matter how highly placed,” the statement concluded. 