A university don, Prof. Henry Agboola Odeyinka, has appealed to the Federal Government to ensure that studies into quantity surveying problems receive adequate research grants. He said it was sad that quantity surveying does not receive necessary attention that would encourage researchers to move the frontiers of knowledge forward. The Professor of Quantity Surveying and Construction Project Management in the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife’s 318th inaugural lecture series, advised the FG to urgently address the issue. In the lecture titled “Unsettling the Uncertainty of Construction in an Uncertain World: The Cost, the Challenges and Conquests,” Odeyinka there abounds great potentials in risk and uncertainty research in construction domain for “those who may be interested in that area.” According to him: “For instance,  we need to understand risk impacts on project cost in other procurement methods like management contracting, public/ partnership (PPP) and construction joint venture. With the advent of Building Information Modeling (BIM), we expect some risk factors to be eliminated but the issue is that BIM itself will create its own risk and this also needs researching. “Besides, our knowledge of risk impacts on the cost of infrastructure projects needs to be unlocked. In addition, while I have concentrated on the use of MLR and ANN to develop risk assessment models, some other modeling methods need to be employed such as fuzzy logic or neuro-fuzzy which may have the potential of yielding better modelling predictions.” Speaking with reporters after his inaugural lecture, Odeyinka said there will be a lasting solution to myriads of challenges facing the nation if the Federal Government pays serious attention to research development. He said: “There are a lot of uncertainties in the country which border on insecurity with attendant Boko Haram insurgency, kidnapping, herdsmen’s killings, economic malaise, poverty among other socio-political and economic challenges. These problems could be solved if only the academics in the tertiary institutions would devote more attention to high quality researches. “It is not the number of papers that academics had in their archives, libraries nor academic journals that matter but those that are relevant and had the target capacity to address peculiar challenges in the environments where they are found. So, I will advise the academics in tertiary institutions to focus their research works much more on the different sectors of the economy through which issues of economic travails, poverty, insecurity and other national crises could be effectively addressed. “In advanced countries, national crises and crucial issues are addressed through education, relevant data and information which could only be accessed and developed through research work in the academia. But in Nigeria, there is a laxity in these areas. Stakeholders, especially in the government circle do not reckon so much with information and data to find the root causes of problems before proffering solutions to them and that is why the problems linger.” The university don, therefore, called on the Federal Government to support academic  researches through adequate funding to enable scholars devise relevant data and information that could serve as solutions to the nation’s problems and, at the end, engender socio- economic development.