Like in 4x100m relay, the first tenure of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari today marks the third year anniversary.  The anniversary also marks the beginning of the last lap of the administration, which will terminate on May 29,2019. Just like in the 4x100m race, the athletes put in their very last effort in the last lap in order to win the race. So the last one year of this first four years tenure is so significant that it will have impact, whether minor or major, on the success rate of President Buhari getting a second term in 2019 or otherwise. It will offer opportunity for the government to tackle any of the remaining promises yet to be fulfilled. While the government is believed to have done well in fighting corruption and securing the nation (although herdsmen killings increased this year in Benue, Nasarawa, Taraba and other states) in the past three years, many Nigerians believe that there is still more to be done to improve the Nigerian economy. So, it was a cheering news last Wednesday, at the end of the Federal Executive Council meeting, to hear that the Nigerian economic indices for the first quarter of 2018 were not only encouraging, but will ensure achievement of the targets set for the whole of 2018. Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udoma Udo Udoma, had said “I presented the latest NBS GDP result which was released on Monday. It showed a GDP growth rate of 1.95 percent with both the oil as well as the non-oil sectors continuing to grow. “Council was most encouraged by this result particularly because the first quarter is usually the weakest quarter. “With this first quarter achieving 1.95 percent, we are on track to achieve the 3.5 percent GDP growth rate which is our target for this year. “Particularly, we believe that once the infrastructure spending in the 2018 starts to kick in, the whole economy will receive a further boost as more jobs will be created, consumer spending will increase thereby improving the performance of the servicing sector. “And apart from the GDP numbers, Council is also very happy to see the positive trend in all other major economic indices including inflation which has been trending down and capital importation which has been going up as well as our Foreign Currency Reserve which has been going up. “You will recall that our FOREX 2016 were about $23 billion and it is now $47billion.” he stated. With the latest figures, some well-meaning Nigerians are hoping that at the end of the year there will be more jobs, less hunger in the land and general buoyancy of the Nigerian economy. It is also hoped that the campaign activities and other political issues that will crop up ahead of the 2019 elections will not be allowed to distract the government. Buhari, fasting and multiple gains Nigerian Muslims, just like their counterparts across the globe, are presently observing one month Ramadan fasting, being one of the five pillars of Islam. For every day of the month, they are expected to abstain from food, drink and sexual activity from dawn to sunset. Through the fasting, Muslims are expected to be involve in act of deeply personal worship towards raising their level of closeness to God. Muslims are expected to avoid all obscene and irreligious stimuli in order to remain pure in thought and action.They are also expected to follow strictly the teachings of Islam by refraining from violence, anger, envy, greed, gossip, and also try to get along with each other better. Despite the spiritual gains that come from such fasting, some Muslims, who do not fall within the exception categories, may look for one reason or the other to avoid it. But President Muhammadu Buhari last week Tuesday hammered on the medical benefits of fasting besides the spiritual gains. He asked those who may want to avoid the fasting to reconsider their decisions. While breaking fast with members of the Federal Executive Council (FEC), service chiefs and heads of security agencies at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, President Buhari highlighted the health benefits of fasting. He specifically recommended fasting for those who are fat and overweighed. The President stated “I think it is not a matter of making speeches here. I just said I should start with the Executive Council and the service chiefs so that we would share our experiences. “For those who have too much weight I think (fasting) is very healthy for them,’’ he said.Following the President’s recommendation, those in the new Banquet Hall venue of the fast breaking laughed and clapped for the number one citizens Buhari and VP seat humour President Muhammadu Buhari last Friday again showed his visitors how humorous he could be. He joked about the Vice President’s seat in the 2019 election despite the fact that his visitors, Nigerian Female Parliamentarians, were serious about their demands. The venue was the Council Chamber of the State. Topmost among the demands made by Elizabeth Ativie on behalf of the delegation, which comprised elected lawmakers from the nation’s 36 states, was the reservation for women the seat of Vice President of Nigeria from the 2019 elections upward. “Whenever the president is a man, the Vice President should be a woman,” she had demanded The main reason she gave for this and other demands was that Nigerian women were being marginalized by their male counterparts. But rather than respond seriously to the demand, President Buhari cracked a joke with the issue even as the Vice President Yemi Osinbajo was not at the event. He said “It is a pity that the Vice President is not here, but I am sure the Secretary to the Government of the Federation will brief him that his position is threatened.” Some of those in the hall, who caught the President’s joke, could not help but laughed.