The barriers faced by People With Disabilities (PWDs) in the electoral process as voters, candidates, observers and staff within the commission’s structure, Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) Chairman Mahmood Yakubu, has assured. Prof Mahmood Yakubu made the disclosure yesterday in Abuja at a one-day meeting on “Mainstreaming PWDs into Political Parties’ Activities.” Represented by a National Commissioner, Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Ahmed Tijjani Mu’azu, Yakubu said a framework on access and participation for PWDs had been developed by the electoral umpire. The policy document, according to him, is scheduled to be validated by stakeholders on June 4. He said that the document underscored INEC’s guiding principles and commitment toward unhindered participation of PWDs in the electoral process. Yakubu said: “In Nigeria, it is estimated that there are over 25 million men, women and children with disabilities. This represents 15 per cent of Nigeria‘s over 170 million population. “Despite the huge population of PWDs in the country, their participation in the mainstream electoral activities, including integration into political parties’ activities, structures and decision making processes is abysmally low. “Institutional, socioeconomic and political constraints in the country have significantly impeded the access and participation of PWDs in all stages of the electoral process.’’ Yakubu said INEC, as a responsive institution of government, has always been at the forefront of engaging stakeholders on matters of electoral education, inclusion and participation, especially the participation of the PWDs in the electoral process. “As a clear mark of its commitment, the commission organised several forums to enlighten and encourage PWDs to participate actively in the electoral process,’’ the INEC chair said. INEC National Commissioner and Chairman of Out Reach and Partnership Committee Adekunle Ogunmola said the commission was not unmindful of the difficulty faced by PWDs.