Will the Super Eagles fly high at the 2018 FIFA World Cup championship holding in Russia from June 14 to July 15 or will they be grounded by poor funding. This is the question on the lips of some football-loving Nigerians, who believe that the successful outing of the team in Russia is hanging in the balance. Their fears were fuelled last Thursday by the poor turnout of donors at the Russia 2018 fund-raise/gala night for Super Eagles at the old Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. The N3billion needed to ensure adequate preparations and execution of the one month tournament for the team is still far from being realised. While N1.5billion is expected to be made available by the Federal Government, the balance of N1.5billion was planned to be generated through such fund-raising last Thursday night. A substantial part of the fund expected from the private sector, could be hanging as a result of the past general perception of the team by Nigerians. Many captains of industries in the private sector may be keeping a hold on their funds in the fear that the team will go to Russia next month on jamboree spree. Their fears may not be out of place as the Super Eagles or Green Eagles, as it was formerly known, never brought anything tangible back to the country in the history of the FIFA World Cup championship at the senior level. Many state governments, Ministers of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and many of those invited from the private sector, failed to show up for the fund-raising dinner. The Minister of Sports, Solomon Dalung, set the ball rolling for the fund-raising last Thursday night with his personal donation of N1 million. Those who turned up and responded to the call included the Aiteo Group of company donating N50million, while the representative of the company also made personal donation of N1 million. Kano and Abia state governments donated N5 million each for the Super Eagles World Cup outing. Arthur Eze, who was represented at the fund-raising event, donated N25million for the team. Lagos State government, who pledged to support the team, said the amount to be donated will be disclosed to the organisers. The representatives of Sterling Bank at the event followed the footsteps of Lagos State government. Kebbi State government also promised to make its donation, that will come along with bags of rice, known to the organisers. Speaking on the not too impressive turn out for the fund-raising event, the organiser of the fund-raising dinner and President of Para-Powerlifting Federation, Queen Oboh Idris said “I took it upon myself to liaise with the Federal Ministry of Youth and Sports to host fund-raising for the Super Eagles because I know that funding in the sports industry has always been a problem. “I know that they will fly high and I know that by the grace of God they will bring back the cup. But the only thing that could hinder them is fund. “That’s why I decided to host fund-raising dinner in order to speak to our captain of industries and philanthropists to make it possible for our great Super Eagles to go to Russia and bring back the cup. “It amazes me that Nigerians are not ready to give to the sports industry. I gave out cards to almost everybody. I gave out invitation cards to all the state governors, captain of industries and ministers. “Its our country, its our nation, Super Eagles is for every Nigerian citizen. There is no need sitting down in your house not wanting to make it possible for the sports industry to excel. “I will follow up with phone calls, especially those that said they will not disclose in the open what they are giving in support of the Super Eagles. “Even our guests that didn’t show up, we are going to follow up with phone calls. Even if it is one naira, we want to bring it back to the Super Eagles.” she said In the interim, she urged the team not to be deterred, saying: “I will ask them to keep flying high, and I will keep reaching out to captains of industries so that fund will not be a big deal for them. “They should keep flying high because I know they will come back with the cup.” she said Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who was represented at the fund-raising dinner, by the Sports Minister, Solomon Dalung, assured that the Super Eagles’ outing in Russia next month would be a departure from past experiences. He was certain that Nigeria’s participation at the World Cup in Russia won’t be a jamboree. He said: “As you all know our preparation and participation in regional and international sports competitions have sometimes been marred with fund constraint. “The challenges of funding have limiting effect on the welfare and administration of sports men and women, which in turn have potential implication for low and poor performance and achievements. “Indeed in the past, a number of medals have eluded us due to inadequate and untimely funding, which often led to poor and lacklustre performance. “We are determined to change this unsatisfactory outcome with presidential support and guidance as well as stakeholders engagement and buy in. “Knowing very well that government alone cannot shoulder all sports expenses, we have decided to strengthen our collaboration with the private sector to mobilise non-state resources. “We are focused on ensuring that funds mobilised are judiciously used to facilitate participation of the Super Eagles in the tournament. “We are determined and we have no choice than to operate in line with the change agenda of Mr. President’s anti-corruption posture. “The Super Eagles have come of age and they are equal to the big task ahead. We are not going to Russia as a participating but as a competing nation.” he stated While some sports-loving Nigerians have stepped up prays for the private sector to give the current Super Eagles squad benefit of doubt and let the funds rolling in, it is hoped that the team will really give their best and fly high in Russia. If they cannot come back home with the trophy, the team should at least endeavour to put Nigeria among the top four countries in the world by reaching the semi-final stage. Anything less than that may give the skeptical Nigerians the impression that the team went to Russia only on jamboree.