I  do not mind if mosquitoes bite me at night while I sleep, because I know I can prevent their bites from giving me malaria fever. This is not just because I am AS genotype, that red blood cell type which, unlike the AA genotype, is not readily beaten ‘red and blue’ as me say, by the malaria fever-causing parasite in the mosquito’s saliva. What I hate about the mosquito is when it chooses to enjoy itself, singing merrily into my ears, thereby disturbing my sleep, instead of biting and taking whatever blood it wants and leaving me in peace to enjoy deserved night sleep. It is a stupid, tiny brat, a thief, ever searching for more blood to suck, too greedy that it doesn’t know when not to return on yet another mission during which,  heavily laden with stolen blood, it is unable to fly fast away from danger and, in all possibility, it gets killed. I am not one of those people who kill themselves instalmentally because they want to kill all the mosquitoes around them. Such people flit their offices and houses with anti-mosquitoes insecticides or light anti-mosquitoes coils, the smoke of which kills mosquitoes as do the insecticides. Years ago, I almost fell for the anti-mosquito body cream.When you rub it on, some brands repel mosquitoes for about six hours, long enough for you to have an undisturbed night sleep. But I soon discovered that such creams were likely to be insecticides mixed with fragrance and carrier oil! The producers of such creams advise us that the amount of insecticide in such creams is negligible or too little to cause harm. But they do not say what happens when, night after night, the pores of the skin absorb the insecticide, which is then invaginated into the blood stream and, from there, into the various organs. I have friends who flit their bedroom and stay out for hours, so the odour can thin out or disappear. They do not realise that the molecules of such insecticides are bio-nondegradable. That means they are indestructible. They settle on the bed linen, and are inhaled. They settle on clothes which are worn later. On the skin, these molecules may cause havoc, which may warrant doctor visits and the wrong diagnosis and medication. In the end, the ”enemy” next door may be to blame and the church may profit from ”deliverance” prayer! In www.quora.com Uthuman answers the question what long and short term effects does anti-mosquito liquid vapouriser have on human health. He says:” First of all, these repellants won’t kill the mosquitoes. They make them faint and you can see a lot of mosquitoes on the floor when repellant odour is very high and comes alive when repellant smell fades away. My feeling is that there is no permanent solution to eradicate mosquitoes similar to cockroaches. We have to learn to live with these living things till this world comes to an end. ”Since the repellant makes the mosquito to faint, meaning it really creates an impact with a living thing, similarly it creates an impact with human beings (similar living things like mosquitoes, only size differs)on continuous usage. We, human beings, breathe in the air mixed with repellant chemicals for more than seven hours daily on regular basis. On regular use of repellants or coils, humans will have all lungs related disease like cold, cough, wheezing, and asthmae.t.c. You might be taking medicines to control your cough, cold, wheezing, asthma, e.t.c, any lung-related diseases but you won’t see any permanent cure due to the regular use of repellants and coils. All these lung-related diseases are the side effects of repellants and coils. I have seen the difference in my breathing after I stopped using repellants/coils in my home. There is no doctor visit for my kids related to cold, cough, wheezing e.t.c which they had earlier. Note: there is no point doing a pranayama  (breathing exercise) or yoga in the morning after inhaling the impure air throughout the night.  Ways out  Uthuman Hameed offered options to coils and mosquitoes sprays, some of which I may comment upon. He suggests: ”You can burn gingerly/till/mustard oil after 5.30p.m. till 7p.m in a lamp. You can grow lemon grass plant in your balcony. Avoid dumping used clothes in your bedroom. Use exhaust fan at night times to have better air circulation. Use mosquito nets and bats to escape from mosquitoes if they are more in number. Try to have good blood in your body because mosquitoes don’t like good blood.  Good blood  I do not know what Uthuman Hameed means by ”good blood”. My understanding of it is well-composed blood with optimal radiation. The human blood is a product of the animating core of man, the spirit. It begins to circulate in the fetus at incarnation of the spirit, and ceases to flow when the spirit takes its exit at physical or earthly death. The spirit charges the body and the blood with energy, life. The blood of an inactive spirit must, therefore be weak, and accessible to all sorts of influences, including germs, disembodied souls and even the mosquito, going by Hameed’s hypothesis. I wish to add that there are other factors which contribute to the composition of the blood and its energy. These include the right diet, especially greens, for the earth is not green for the fun of it, radiations of the stars, the earth, and of those manifestations of the forces of nature,(forest, trees, hills, rivers e.t.c.) which we erroneously call Nature. A few years ago, the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) reported the findings of a study which buttresses the hypothesis of Hameed. The researchers collected pairs of socks from different men. They hung them out on windows at night. In the morning, they found mosquitoes in some. Mosquitoes were not present in some. The ones which had mosquitoes in them were found smelling. The researchers concluded that certain emanations fromthe human body attracted mosquitoes to the bodies which produced them than did other emanations.  Beating Malaria  The world was on stand by for the mosquitoes two Wednesdays ago (April 25) It was THE WORLD MALARIA DAY (2018), and the theme was READY TO BEAT MALARIA. Incidentally April 25 was the 70th birthday of the World Health Organisation (WHO) which, in those long 70 years, has been fighting the mosquitoes to no avail. In 2015, there were about 212 million new cases of malaria fever, although malaria death fell by about 29 percent between 2010 and 2015. Malaria-causing parasites, plasmodium falciparum and plasmodium vivax, are no longer killed by many malaria drugs. But they seem to easily yield way to herbal medicine. As the World Malaria Day and the African Malaria Day aim to expand education and information about the causes and effective treatment of malaria, with the ultimate goal of an annihilating this disease like many others, this column presents some herbs which may be incorporated into the daily diet for this purpose.  Malaria Process  Like everything else, malaria fever has a process or procedure under which it happens. The environment must host a viable population of mosquitoes. Like bees sensitive to the aroma of plant nectar or ants attracted by the scent of sugar, themosquitoes knows where the human being is, even if the windows of his bedroom and the doors are protected by impenetrablenets, or if in addition to these, he sleeps under the cover of a bed net. Some studies suggest the mosquito prefers the blood of children to that of adults. The male mosquito does not bite for blood. It is the female which does. It needs protein in the blood to make its eggs mature. It can lay about 500 eggs before she expires and dies. It has been around for about 210 million years, despite assaults from many predators, including birds and bats. When the mosquito bites to suck blood, it saliva mixes with the blood. The contact is what causes the pain of a bite. The saliva introduces the parasites which causes malaria fever. The parasite may be plasmodiumfaciparum or plasmodium vivax. In addition to the parasite type, the mosquito injects an anti-coagulant into the blood stream to keep the blood flowing steadily, and may siphon up to three times its weight. Besides, it injects a mild pain killers, to help it prevent detection as it steals the blood. Every five days or so, the female mosquito goes, blood hunting. Plasmodium faciparum is prevalent in tropical and sub tropical regions, especially in Africa. Plasmodium vivax is found chiefly in Latin America, Asia and some parts of Africa. In the bloodstream, plasmodium facaparum is more violent than plasmodium vivax. It attracts and destroy red blood cells, causinganaemia, and invades the liver as well. People challenged with sickle cell disease are most hit. It is bad news for any-one as well. Destruction of red blood cells means less oxygen supply to the cells. Then Carbon dioxide and other toxins accumulate. The body gets more toxic, becoming a breeding ground for germs and diseases. The bone marrow is called upon to make more red blood cells when it is not getting enough or more oxygen to do the job. As more red blood cells break down, emptying their contents into the bloodstream, the liver has to work extra hard to conjugate or fix the debris. The yellowish part of the broken down materials, bilurubin, is particularly dangerous if it occurs in abnormal levels in the blood stream. It causes the yellowing of the skin, of finger nails, of the eyes and may cross the Brain/Blood Barrier (BBB) to complicate cerebral malaria in adults or brain damage in infants and children. Many people survive malaria attacks. But many do not. Many, still, have been made vegetable by malaria. I have seen people who succumb to a single mosquito bite, who have tried almost all known pharmaceutical and traditional herbs to no avail, and who have, thereby, resigned themselves to fate.  Such people often benefit from some of the protocols suggested here.  Protocols  We must start with the blood. It must be well composed. That means a life of greens. I say, always, that the earth is not green for the fun of it. Green include such stuff as Chlorophyll, Spiralina, Kale, Wheat grass, lemon grass. e.t.c. Next is antioxidant protection for the red blood cell. My first proprietary blend option is JOBELYN. To this should be added Vitamin A, Vitamin E, Vitamin C, and Selenium. Jobelyn helps the body to generate more blood cells in anaemic conditions. The antioxidant serves as body guards, so to say. Where the bone marrow is under pressure to make more red blood cells, the proprietary product BONE MARROW is suggested. It has been found to help even chemotherapy patients with damaged bone marrow to improve their well-being and overcome bone pain and anaemia. The liver is not to be neglected. It does a lot of work to clear the ”rubbish” mounds. Sometimes, it is inflamed and tender from overwork. MILK THISTLE protect it from poisons. So do herbs, such as JERUSALEM ARTICHOKE and bitters, in particular the proprietary MARIA-TREBEN BITTERS is also useful. For about 40 years, I have made no visit to any doctor because of malaria fever. This is not just because I am AS genotype. I live a life, which strives to make medicines out of food. I do not eat valueless food. I eat for various parts of my body. I ensure the brain gets lots of Omega-3 oil by eating Titus fish almost everyday. I take corn pap with Spirulina powder and Marigold powder. Spirulina gives me all amino acids so that I do not subsist only on carbohydrates. Two Wednesdays ago, I checked my blood sugar at a pharmacy after a breakfast of corn pap, one teaspoonful of Spirulina powder and one teaspoonful of Marigold flower powder for Lutin, Zeazanthing, e.t.c. for my eyes. My random blood sugar was 95. Sometimes, I take with rice and beans, Lemongrass powder, of which I will soon speak. That is not to forget Wheatgrass and the good old kale. They all Vitaminise, mineralise, provide fibre for digestion and offer the body a wide-range of nutritional benefits for immune function.  Anti -Malaria Herbs  Mother nature’s treasure trove is never exhaustible. For it would appear that, in immunity boosting, bitter principles are anti-plasmodium. Many of these herbs grow almost everywhere in Nigeria. The herb, which the Asians call Chanka Piedra because it crushes or dissolves kidney and gall bladder stones, but which the Yorubas call Ehinbisowo or Ehin Olube is anti-malaria. Papaya (pawpaw) leaf is another. When I use it as an anti-malaria, preferring the whole leaf powder drawn as tea or added to meals or smoothes, I do not differentiate, as some people do, between the leaves of the male or female papaya. Many people believe that the fallen, brownish male papaya leaf is more potent, when it is boiled and the water extract is taken as tea. There is, also, that one the Igbos call Utazi, the whole powder of which I sold decades ago for what these Nigerians in the southeast of the country traditionally use it for … flattening the tummies of women who have just been delivered of babies. The leaves are made into pepersoup for them to take alone or with meals. Because it helps these women get the muscles and other tissue of their abdomens backinto pre-pregnancy shape or near to it,I encouraged ”pregnant” men, that is men with protruded abdomens to try it, and it worked wonders for many of them. I cannot easily forget KARELA, the name under which Balsam Pear (the yorubas call it EJINRIN d.d: d:) was sold in Lagos and other parts of Nigeria about two decades ago. It was used for diverse purposes, including the shrinking of uterine fibroids, reduction of high blood sugar and in the treatment of malaria fever. I remember the Nigerian proprietary blend named AJADI LOPEA, formulated in the 1990s by Dr. Ajadi, an English lecturer at the University of Ilorin. This blend fizzled out of the market because it caked or moulded on the shelf. Prof. Maurice Iwu confirmed at a traditional medicine conference in Senegal, I believe in 2006, that the U.S. Army showed an initial interest in it for more investigations but gave it up afterwards. What about NEEM leaves and seeds. Neem is your good old friend the Yoruba call DOGONYARO.When I attend a traditional medicine conference in Senegal, I was privileged to meet the French wife of the then President. She told me she used Neem seeds to produce anti-malarial syrup for children because her country did not have money to import CHLOROQUINE to which, in any case, the malaria parasite has become resistant. The young leaves of the Mango tree (Mangiferaindica) are no push over either in the war of malaria fever. What about ORUWO (d:mm:r:), which botanists call Morinda Lucida? And AWOPA (r: r: r:) or Enanti or Chlorantna my children hated the herb EGUNGUN EJA (r: r: r:   r: r). Although this translates in English language as Fish bone, it is not. Egunguneja is a bitter herb which the Yorubas of South-Western Nigeria routinely use in the treatment of Malaria Fever. The list is stretchable to include AHUN(d : m:) or (Alstoniaboonei). Today, the star anti-malarial herb I would like to propose is LEMON GRASS. It is a common sight in many Nigerian villages where, traditionally, it has featured in anti-malarial recipes, although it is said to serve such other useful purpose as an anti-snake plant. It has been researched, and found to indeed possess valuable anti-malarial properties, by the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) and the College of Medicine of the University of Lagos resident at the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH).  Lemon grass  The studies mentioned above refer only to the water extract of lemon grass when it is boiled. In other therapies, the whole plant in powder form is used. So, the following health benefits ascribed to Lemon grass may come more from the whole plant. To its credit, Lemon grass has been found beneficial for malaria treatment, digestion, stomach problems, anti-oxidant values, high blood pressure, prevention of cholesterol accumulation, fat burning, boosting metabolism, healthy skin and hair, curbing cools and flu, relieve of menstrual pain, curbing of insomnia, infections, rheumatism, edena. One of the constituents of Lemon grass, CITRAL, has been found to inhibit the growth of cancer cells. It is cited, also, as effective in the treatment of Type 2 diabetes, Obesity and to be a great detoxifier. More informationon the healing benefits of Lemon grass may be found in www.olufemikusa.com. With malaria parasite resistant to the choice medicines of the 1950s and 60s such as QUININE and with medicines such as CHLOROQUINE and ARTEMESIA, which came after it, becoming uneffective in the treatment of malaria, Mother Nature is waiting with warm, open arms for whoever thinks he or she may profit from her treasure trone of medicine.  