Association of Senior Staff of Banks, Insurance and Financial Institutions (ASSBIFI) President, Comrade Oyinkan Olasanoye has said job creation is the key factor for poverty reduction, lives improvement, and meeting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. Olasanoye, therefore, urged the Federal Government to create an enabling environment for the private sector to create jobs. She said: “Creating more jobs requires economic transformation that would open up opportunities to move workers from lower to higher productivity activities. It also means a spatial transformation with urbanisation pulling villagers into secondary towns and cities. “This shift will need to be led by the private sector, the main engine of job growth. For this to happen on a scale large enough, government needs to look at what has worked best to create jobs, focusing on sectors that have the highest potential. “Agriculture still accounts for almost 70 per cent of total employment in the country. The challenge here is for agriculture and the food system to generate high value-added jobs across the value chain, especially for women and youth,” he told The Nation in Lagos. The ASSBIFI chief said manufacturing, which has driven economic growth in many countries, is changing with new technologies and shifting patterns of globalisation. “While some industries remain feasible entry points for low-skill employment, technological innovations could cause substantial job losses,” she said. She said governments needed to take public policy actions to create an enabling environment. “Government at all levels need to invest in education, from early childhood to adulthood, to build the human capital needed for a rapidly evolving global economy. They need to build quality infrastructure to connect domestically and globally. They need to set up the right ecosystem for private investments, especially for smaller businesses and entrepreneurs,” she said.   She said China has in recent decades, succeeded in creating millions of employment opportunities and absorbing millions of new entrants into its labour market, while transforming its economy and society. According to her, China’s path offers useful lessons for others as it has moved higher on the global value chain; China is also creating fresh opportunities for other developing countries. “We call on the Federal Government to work with China to share lessons of job creation and economic transformation and use them to support other developing countries. By looking closely at these successes, the Federal Government can identify what other governments can do to generate incomes and create jobs, by engaging the private sector and unleashing people’s energy and creativity,”she said.  