THE leaders of markets in Lagos metropolis have endorsed Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for a second term. The endorsement came under the aegis of The Market Leaders’ Association of Nigeria (TMLAN), an umbrella body for men and women engaged in trading in various markets in Lagos and other states of the federation. Those who graced the event which took place in Lagos recently were mostly non-indigenes from the Southeast, the Southsouth, the North and elsewhere in the Southwest, representing markets in the following areas in Lagos: Ladipo, Aswani, Ilasamaja, Festac Town, Alaba, Computer Village, Tejuoso, Oyingbo, Oke-Arin and Mile 12. Justifying the move to endorse Ambode for a second term, its President, Mr. Charles Obih, said, though the association is non-partisan, it considers it a civic responsibility for members to participate in electioneering processes. He said Governor Ambode has particularly impressed Lagosians, including members of the association, since he took over power in 2015. Obih, a former President-General, Ladipo Auto Market Central Executive Committee, said: “Since 2015 till date, we have witnessed laudable programmes of this administration. The Ambode-led government has performed so excellently that no right-thinking mind would hesitate to urge him to continue beyond 2019. “In the last three years, we have seen a lot of positive developments. For instance, there have been massive improvements in physical infrastructure, in security of lives and property, in provision of health centres and related facilities, ultra-modern markets, empowerment projects and social rehabilitation, to mention but a few. “With the coming on board in 2015 of Governor Ambode, Lagos State assumed a new status and a higher dimension of excellence; as he continued the good works of his predecessors in office, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu and Mr. Babatunde Fashola. What Lagosians have enjoyed since 2015 till date motivates everyone to begin to demand ‘AMBO…. L’ ekan si’, indicating the desire to have Governor Akinwunmi Ambode continue beyond 2019.” The Market Leaders Association president described the governor as a symbol of integrity, diligence, equity, justice, unity and progress “and remains the man to beat in 2019”. The President, Computer and Allied Products Dealers Association of Nigeria (CAPDAN), Mr. Adeniyi Ojikutu, said more than any other governor that Ambode has supported their business in one way or the other. He said: “For instance, he ensured we have access to foreign exchange for our business. That is why market leaders in Lagos are backing him for a second term. The truth is that a good term deserves another. We are going to mobilise our members to vote for him, so that the number of votes he would get in 2019 would surpass that of 2015.” Ojikutu, who represented the multi-billion naira Computer Village, Ikeja, at the gathering, said Governor Ambode’s administration has been very inclusive and proactive, by reaching out to all segments of the society to ensure that Lagos remains ahead when it comes to investment in the country. 