Kwara State police command has paraded  a police officer’s son, Lanre Mohammed Soliu and five other persons for alleged murder and cultism. Others paraded with him are Abolaji Safti Ojulari, Azeez Mayaki, Suleiman Babatunde, Yusuf Habeeb and Umar Yahaya. They all confessed to be members of Aiye Confraternity, adding that they have been involved in some killings and criminal activities in Ilorin, the state capital. Parading the suspects in Ilorin, the state commissioner of police (CP), Aminu Saleh said the ex-policeman’s son aka Askari was arrested on Tuesday after a manhunt for him over alleged killing of late Yemi Bayero of Ago market, Ilorin. The commissioner added that the suspect had confessed to have carried out the killing with one Abolaji Safti Ojulari, Adeyi and Tiro. The CP said Abolaji Safti Ojulari of Kankatu area in the metropolis has been a notorious cultist. Mr. Sale added that the suspect alongside 13 of his accomplices, had killed 11 people, including a notorious hoodlum Bayo Ajia, between 2016 and 2018. The commissioner said that “the suspect was arrested on May 5, 2018 after a manhunt. He has been in the command’s wanted list for over two years. He lives at Kankatu area Ilorin where he was hiding. He confessed to be an active member of Aiye confraternity. He also named his 13 accomplices.” He added that the 26 years old Azeez Mayaki was also arrested on Tuesday, saying that the suspect had confessed to killing of one Lateef on February 2, 2018 at Ode Alfa Nda Ilorin. “Also, one Suleiman Babatunde, male 26 of Gambari area of Ilorin was arrested after a discreet investigation linked him to killing of one Owolabi, male at Amilegbe area of Ilorin in July, 2017 with one accomplice, Olaitan,” he said. The police boss added that Yusuf Habeeb and Umar Yahaya were arrested for alleged criminal conspiracy and being members of secret cult. He said that the suspects among others who fled, were arrested while congregating at Kangile village, via Royal Valley Estate, Ilorin.