The Coordinator of the Afenifere Independent Group (AIG), Prince Niyi Jafojo, in this interview with MUSA ODOSHIMOKHE, explains why the group is supporting Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for a second term. How has Afenifere Independent Group, (AIG) impacted on the people? The Afenifere Independent Group (AIG) which was founded by my late father is an off-shot of the Afenifere. My father was a member of the Afenifere and like the Afenifere Renewal Group (ARG) too, we are all progressives and prospecting progressive ideas. We are working for the benefit of all Nigerians through the message of love, peace and progress. This is the message my late father preached to us and that is what we do at AIG. This is the message we spread to our people, so that everybody will be comfortable and at the same time enjoy the dividend of democracy. I can say that the people are benefitting in many ways through what we do and how we propagate the messages espoused by Afenifere. If your message is about progress, people are equally complaining that the Lagos tax regime is high and demolition is being carried out without compensation, what has been your effort to reach out to government? If you look at Lagos, it is one state that is marching on progressively. And don’t forget that we are talking in term of megacity. To have a megacity, roads must be constructed and expanded. Like roads, other infrastructures need to be in place for Lagos to meet up to the standard of a megacity. This will definitely affect some people in terms of business and earning a living. The governor has equally been pleading with them to be patient that thing would get better. He has promised to meet their needs and in that case, we all must co-operate with government to achieve the development that Lagos craves for. In order for us to get to where we are going, some of these things are needed to make life better. That is why in newly developing areas; if you are going to build your house you must provide a space of 30 feet backward. Those who suffered in term of roads expansion are those who have gone against the rule. To avoid what these people now face, they need to obey rules set aside. If you notice in Lagos most houses are very close to the roads and that has negative effects, but something has to be done. How would you assess Governor Akinwunmi Ambode’s performance? The governor is our person, a hard working man and love by the people. We are really proud to have him as the governor of the Centre of Excellence. He has done so much for the state and we know that he is going to do more. And by the grace of God in 2019 after winning the second term he will do better. We at the Afenifere Independent Group, we have always endorse the governor. We are praying that God should see him through this time around, we know by God’s grace he is going to be there. He is doing great job in term of infrastructure development, Lagos State is being reckoned as Nigeria mega city. There are other things the governor is planning to bring into the public domain. He is trying to make Lagos tourism destination. The PDP think that his second term may not witness the same progress Lagos is making this time around… Governor Ambode is not that kind of person. You can see that when he came into office, he is doing many things to make the people feel the impact of democracy. It is not going to stop there and definitely he will do more. What you mentioned is the old style of practicing democracy, but now things have changed. One of his priorities is for the people to enjoy the dividend of democracy. The only way to the people can enjoy it to open up the entire avenue that will make life better for the people. What is the level of mobilisation you group is embarking on to ensure victory for the governor? AIG is a group spread across the entire Lagos and one of the things that we always do is to ensure that members get their PVC because the PVC their power. The people can be registered and vote accordingly. We want our governor and that is the only way to achieve that. We will mobilise to ensure that people go out and vote. And by doing that we are creating that awareness across the state. Again, that takes me to my leader who is the Speaker, Lagos State House of Assembly Rt. Hon. Mudashiru Obasa, who will be seeking another mandate, will surely come back because we want him there. A lot of things that we are enjoying in the Agege Constituency is happening because of him. Some of the things are not there prior to his becoming the Speaker. When God smile on Agege and allowed us to have a speaker in the person of Obasa, lots of things have changed for us. We can point our fingers to many things that have come our way because of the Speaker and definitely we are all supporting him for re-election in 2019. We know he is going to do better job than what he is presently doing. The people love him and I am he will win the Agege Constituency election. We at the AIG is also throwing its support behind him. What level of understand do you think exist between the governor and the Speaker? Basically, what transpire are the checks and balances to make governance better. But the good things about all this thing is that since both are working together that is why Lagos is moving better for the people. There is no cause to be worry like in some states where the assembly is fighting the executive. Lagos has continued to witness notable growth because of the understanding of both arms of government. I can also say that a lot of what the governor wanted to execute have been well accepted by the legislature. If they don’t approve what the governor put forward before them Lagos will suffer but that is not the case. There should always be that understanding between the legislature and executive in the interest of the people. It is a great thing that we are enjoying and we have always enjoyed that rapport in Lagos. We should keep on praying that the relationship remain like this in Lagos. 