I had a dog several years ago. It is often a spectacle each time it comes into the living room and looks in the mirror. My dog will start fighting the “other” dog in the mirror, scratching, barking and howling, all at the same time. It will go on and on until it gets tired. Psychologists would tell us that we are the only ones with the innate ability to recognise our own images. So, when we look in the mirror, who do we actually see? Our immediate reply would be: “Of course, I see myself!” But recognising yourself is more than just identifying the face in the mirror as your own. When you flip through your photo album, you see yourself in that snapshot of a toddler on a tricycle, that picture of a primary-school boy standing behind a school project, the high school yearbook portrait of an awkward adolescent, and that photo of a young adult in a university convocation gown. None of these look like the face staring back in the mirror. Yet somehow you’re able to self-tie all these disparate persons together. The concept of self is related to a number of ideas that include mind and consciousness. As Israeli neurobiologist Yochai Ataria points out, the subjective experience of a self that transcends the body is so compelling that it simply cannot be dismissed. And yet all evidence indicates that this experience of self somehow emerges from the electrochemical activity of that three-pound blob of fat and protein inside your cranium. When the brain dies, so does the self. In the last couple of months, we have been inundated with unbelievable stories of what Nigerians are going through in Libya. Recently, CNN ran an embarrassing story about how Black Africans – mainly Nigerians – are being sold as slaves for as low as $400! Their stories are also everywhere on social media. Some of these stories, to some Nigerians, would be just what they are; stories. But they’re not mere “stories” but real life experiences that seriously calls us to look ourselves in the mirror and answer the simply – yet, not so simple – question of why our youths are risking their lives to get out of Nigeria. I had a firsthand experience what our youth go through from my generator technician who was a Libya returnee. After roaming the streets without job for years, his family got together, contributed money and said the “best” option is for him to leave for Europe. Since he could not secure visas from several European embassies, the “only” option was to go through land and sea. A friend introduced him to a “businessman” who specialises in taking people to Libya, and from there into Europe. They met with this “businessman” who told them “it’s just three days trip from Nigeria through Niger republic to Libya.” Unknown to him at that time, he was dealing with a well organised international criminal gang specialising in ferrying West Africans across the desert into Libya and Europe. He converted the N5 million his family contributed into dollars and began his “three days” journey to Libya. That was the beginning of this tale of misery. It was a smooth ride from Nigeria to Niger where they were handed over to another gang of human traffickers; mostly Touaregs, who took over from their Nigerian partners to take the illegal migrants across the desert to Libya. Here, language became a huge barrier as the Touaregs do not speak or understand English. Only about 60-70% eventually makes it to Libya. Many die along the way because of the harsh desert conditions and they are buried in the sand. He said those who thought the money they paid in Nigeria would take them to Libya got the shock of their lives when they were told a new “contract” has to be entered into with the Touaregs. “Two Nigerians who had no more money on them were told to disembark from the vehicle. One of them tried to argue and he was shot in the leg. They were left right there in the desert while we proceeded. I often wonder what eventually happened to them,” he said. “Going through the desert that eventually took fifteen days, and not the three days we were told, has remained the worst experience in my life.” He described the unbearable heat in the day and the extreme cold at night as something better imagined than lived through. “If a grain of sand touches your body, it will feel as if a hot iron has been pressed into your skin. Those of us that eventually made it to Libya were not necessarily lucky. Some were kidnapped at the border by Arab militants, turned into slaves, and asked to contact their families back home to pay ransom. The men were beaten; the women were raped. I was weeping in my soul when I saw how a young lady was being brutally raped right in front of us.” After suffering in Libya for four months, he swallowed whatever pride he had left after a period of serious soul searching and decided to come home. But the challenge remained how? The opportunity came when he was repatriated. He came home and decided to serve as an apprentice specialising in heavy duty generator repairs. “I will not even advise my worst enemy to undertake the trip to Libya by road,” was his conclusion. The images that we have seen from Libyan slave camps are sad. But, suffice it to say that Arab racism has been an issue and violence towards foreigners is not necessarily new in Libya, but it is what it is because now the issue is not strictly racism but the Libyan people’s desperation for survival in a state without a government since the fall of Muammar Ghaddafi. As we look ourselves in the mirror, the question to ask is why some Nigerian youth would risk everything – family, comfort, parental love, childhood memories, familiarity, and others in a quest to flee their own country. Why would they be hitched to a dream of Eldorado, but sadly, inevitable disaster? Who made this country such a dreadful place in the first place, where fellow citizens that ought to salvage it are deserting in droves? Yet, these are questions we should be asking and conversation we should be having, especially now that the bells of 2019 have started ringing. It is estimated that about 400, 000 – 600, 000 Nigerians are trapped in Libya. Over 17, 000 were repatriated by the Obasanjo government. The Buhari government has also repatriated over 1, 000 Nigerians from Libya and counting; but there is no hope that all of them can be brought back home. It is reported that many will like to return home, but they don’t even have the means to transport themselves to the evacuation points. Those that are not enslaved are still hoping to make enough money to be able to cross to Europe at whatever cost. This reminds me of an undercover documentary I watched on CNN years ago. In his quest to “live” the experience of real immigrants, a CNN reporter joined the quest giving detailed description of the journey. At the end of the journey, he asked one of the immigrants who made it from France to the UK by hiding under a truck what his next move is now that he has arrived London. “I don’t know,” was his surprising reply. Back home, the promises of creating millions of jobs will start flying around. But Nigerians should not be carried away by politicians who are now “focusing” on the youths. Ask anyone promising jobs to tell you how he intend to create the jobs and from where he would get the money in a depressed economy. A businessman once told me that Nigeria is a “high risk” country to invest in despite what we are being told. It’s time to have a hard long talk about getting out of the mess that allows a vibrant section of our population to risk everything to get out. Should our leaders look in the mirror and tell us what they see?