President Muham-madu Buhari yesterday commis-sioned two new Mi35 fighter helicopters into the fleet of the Nigerian Air Force to enhance the fight against insurgency and other security challenges ravaging the country. The fighter helicopters were procured from the Russian Federation and delivered to Nigeria on April 30. The newly delivered helicopters, which are capable of night fighting, are the most sophisticated in the Mi-series of helicopter gunships. The President who commissioned the helicopters during the 54th anniversary celebration of NAF in Kaduna, reiterated the commitment and firm resolve of his administration to take Nigeria to the next level. He said Nigeria Air Force has undergone several developmental stages and the government has over the years acquired various weapons systems to enable NAF effectively perform its role, adding that the most recent platforms added to the NAF’s   inventory under his administration includes the Super Mushshak, the Diamond and other various Helicopters and the recently delivered Mi 35 Helicopters. Represented by the Minister of Defence, Muhammad Mansur Dan-Ali, the president said “Acquisition of the new weapons arose out of the need to train personnel to man and maintain the new aircrafts and the Nigerian Air Force have within the last two years recruited over 5000 personnel to adequately boost its human capacity, while creating jobs for unemployed youths,” he added.” The president while commending the leadership of NAF and other security agencies for their tireless effort towards defeating Boko Haram and other threat to the nation’s security stated that his administration remains determined to overcome all security challenges hindering the nation’s development. In his address, the Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Baba Abubakar said the newly inducted Mi-35M helicopters will significantly boost the effectiveness and combat capability of the Nigerian Air Force, especially in the counter-insurgency operations in the Northeast. He said the gap between force projection and force protection has been substantially bridged with training of about 1000 Special Forces. According to him, “The growth of the NAF since the inception of the current administration has been particularly outstanding. Hitherto 12 grounded aircraft have been reactivated, personnel strength has been increased by 7,500 men and 400 officers. “Two Commands and two new branches have been established and new platforms acquired and inducted into service to meet the evolving security challenges we are faced with. “The gap between force projection and force protection has been substantially bridged with training of about 1000 Special Forces. These forces have been deployed as part of the intervention force to deal with the Internal Security challenges of the Northcentral geopolitical zone. “The current administration is clearly exemplified by the recent payment for Super Tucano aircraft to be purchased from the United States. The NAF also not long ago took delivery of 10 Super Mushak aircraft from Pakistan and the first batch of Mi35M attack helicopters procured from the Russian Federation,” the CAS added.