Former Deputy Chairman, Delta State, All Progressive Congress (APC), Mr. Cyril Ogodor on Monday emerged as the state chairman of the party at a congress which  held in Asaba- the State’ s capital. The congress which held at the play ground of the temporary site of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Asaba, was peaceful. Ogodor polled 731 votes to defeat Mr. Fred Obe who polled 99 votes in the delegates’ election. The other positions were returned unopposed through voice affirmation. The congress was conducted by a five-member committee from the national secretariat of the party. Members of the committee include Eugene Odoh (chairman), John Dabwan (secretary), Jonathan Jibril, Ibrahim Nagogo and Mezia Linus (members). Meanwhile, the incumbent state chairman, Jones Erue retained his seat at a parallel congress conducted weekend by the Gbenga Obadara-led committee at St. Mulumba College, Okpanam, a suburb of Asaba. The new chairman, Mr. Ogodor extended olive branch to his opponents as well as those of the faction led by Senator Obie Omo-Agege, saying that now was the time to unite the party ahead of the 2019 general election. Leader of the party in the state, O’tega Emerhor who addressed newsmen at Monday’s exercise described it as the authentic congress, saying that the presence of party chieftains testified to it. His words, “I am here, Victor Ochei, Cairo Ojougboh, Hyacinth Enuha, Pat Utomi is on his way, Dr. Leroy, we are here. The minister, Dr. Ibe Kachukwu would have been here but he travelled. “We cannot afford the bickering and division among ourselves. After today’s congress, we will reach out to others who feel aggrieved because we have the People Democratic Party (PDP) as a common enemy in the 2019 general election to contend with. “But one thing is that anything outside this exercise is null and void. You can see the democratic process as conducted by the assigned committee from Abuja and witnessed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).”