The All Progressives Congress (APC) held two parallel congresses, which have now become a bone of contention between Senate President Bukola Saraki and Information and Culture Minister Lai Mohammed. Correspondent ADEKUNLE JIMOH examines the source of discord. The parallel congresses of the All Progressives Congress (APC) that took place in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, were rancour-free. Party chieftains loyal to President Muhammadu Buhari adopted the affirmation procedure, while the camp of Senate President Bukola Saraki hand-picked its executives through consensus. Earlier in the year, there were signs of cracks in the party. Some members of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN), the Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) and the All Nigerian Peoples Party (ANPP) accused the All Progressives Congress (APC) of unfair treatment. The defunct ACN, ANPP, CPC and nPDP were the legacy parties that formed the ruling APC. But, the spokesperson of APC  Sulyman Buhari, dismissed that the allegations are false. The aggrieved members under the Caucus for Progressive Change (CPC) said APC appointments and positions in the state had been tilted towards the nPDP. The leader of the group, Samari Abdullahi said: “It is regrettable that the PDP family in our marriage has not only behaved as a superior partner but had done so with impunity.” Abdulahi, who is the former caretaker secretary of ACN, said: “The party leadership in Kwara State and nay government, are allergic to alternative advice and constructive criticisms and has deployed everything within its powers to stifle (mostly legacy) party members that did so.” He added: “We are concerned about the injustice, inequality within the party and lack of purposeful leadership.  We therefore demand that the party leadership be restructured. The present arrangement where the state party chairman, women leader, youth leader and publicity secretary are from the same senatorial district is unacceptable for fair play and equity. It is even unheard that both women leader and youth leader are from the same local government of Ilorin West. “We thought the party will make use of the last year congresses to correct the injustices when it filled up other vacant positions within the party. “Most of the APC (legacy) aspirants for the last local government election in the state were technically suppressed because of the way the party has been deliberately structured down to the wards, to fence away presumed distrusted members. “So far, appointments to the state from the federal are lopsided. 95 percent of federal appointment including the recently released board memberships only went to the nPDP members within the APC in Kwara State. “Replacement created by natural exit of (legacy) party membership from the state executive was deliberately filled with nPDP members e.g state organising secretary, state treasurer and ex-officials. “While we await response from the relevant authorities, we are constrained to announce men and women of proven characters to lead this reformation group to warm the party back into the hearts of the electorates and cause justice to reign in the party. Loyalists of President Buhari  held their congress at Arca Santa Event Hall and that of Senator Saraki held at the Kwara State Government Banquet Hall in Ilorin. The former executive members of the Bukola Saraki-led APC were returned unopposed. The exercise was witnessed by Senate President Saraki, all members of the National Assembly from the state, Governor Abdulfattah Ahmed, the deputy governors and the Speaker of the House of Assembly, Dr Ali Ahmad. Also in attendance was the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi, Alhaji Kawu Baraje and representatives of the INEC from Abuja and Kwara. The new executive committee members had been picked through a consensus. The Chairman congress committee of the party, Senator Saliu Hussein, who supervised the exercise, expressed delight over the arrangement, saying it had made his  job easy. “We received return forms from 34 candidates with no opposition but we will still go ahead with voting for affirmation” he said. Hussein disclosed that the committee was not aware of any faction of the party in the state as he described the APC as one big family in Kwara. Speaking at the event, Saraki, commended party members, saying politicians have a lot to learn from the Kwara model of politicking. He said: “This is the third stage of the journey that started with ward Congress which was adjudged as the best in Nigeria. In Kwara we don’t have problems of people fighting themselves and that is while you can see two former governors sitting together to participate in an electoral process with the incumbent.” He challenged the youths, who have been elected into executive offices at the ward level, to prove their mettle in the general elections. “In Kwara we have started a new trend where we have youths in leadership positions and I know that soon many States  will begin to emulate us,” he said. The elected officers are Alhaji Ishola Balogun Fulani (chairman), Christopher Tunji Ayeni (secretary), Sulyman Buhari (spokesperson) and others. At the Arca Santa Hall, the faction loyal to the president elected former House of Representatives member, Basir Bolarinwa as its chairman and 2015 Kwara state House of Assembly aspirant, Kayode Oyin-Zubir as its spokesperson. Dignitaries are the event included former Special Adviser on the Inter-parliamentary Matters, Protocols and Special Duties to Senate President Bukola Saraki, Alhaji Moshood Mustapha, a member of the House of Assembly, Prince Saheed Popoola, former Secretary to Government Alhaji Abdulganiyu Cook-Olododo and ex-Information Commissioner  Alhaji Raheem Adedoyin. Bolarinwa said the event was a watershed in the history of the state, adding: “Kwarans have decided to rewrite the history of our state thereby restoring lost hope and pride to the good people of the state.” He added: “As you are aware party politics occupies a central position in democracy and the promotion of good governance. This is the springboard for the desired growth and development the good people of our dear state are yearning for, which can only come when we get it right at party level through active participation of members, credible primaries and consolidating internal democracy. “Our great party, the APC came into existence in 2014 with different interest groups coming together with the sole aim of ending maladministration and high handedness in the corridor of power. “We gave the merger and new party every life needed to grow but some came in with a different agenda. Some members have done more to suffocate the merger bringing in antics inimical to the growth of democracy. The time to change the narrative is now. We have resolved that never shall we watch a few clique fondling with our destiny.” Bolarinwa accused some members of the party of connivane with members of its National Working Committee (NWC) to cause parallel state congresses in about 21 states. He said the predetermined attempt was aimed at frustrating congresses and eventually making the coming national convention joke. The factional chairman also said that the target of the purported plan is President Buhari, who, he said, had done more to expose those that had pilfered the common wealth, adding that, “President Buhari will not be forgiven by the “chop I chop” politicians. Bolarinwa stressed: “We have watched and carefully studied every inch of members of the PDP, particularly those from Kwara state, they have resolved to destroy the party and remain aloft until their new found homes in Peoples Democratic Party PDP and/or Social Democratic Party SDP are ready. “Until the decayed tooth is removed from the mouth, the mouth will not have peace. The earlier we send those that have changed the slogan of APC in Kwara state from “Change” to “Progress” packing, the better. It is clear that they are set to seek asylum elsewhere but must destroy our party before anything is done.” The APC Congress Appeal Committee in Kwara State has said that there is no petition or appeal against the state congress conducted by the national secretariat of the party at the Banquet hall, Ilorin. Speaking during a courtesy visit to the state governor at the Government House, the chairman of the committee, Hon. Osita Egwuatu, who said they were in the state for hearing of election petition that might have arisen from the congress confirmed that the committee had not received any complaint against the congress. Governor Ahmed said the state would continue to strengthen the party to give it the much desired support that would ensure victory and sustenance in power at the national level. The governor said the congress was a reflection of what happened at the ward and local government congresses in the state, which he said, was largely due to the inclusive process that allows input into the selection and election processes. He said: “The successful ward, local government and state congresses was largely due to the peaceful environment and most importantly the inclusive process that the state party system allows”. He said the inclusive style of the party allows for ventilation of grievances and amicable resolution of conflict, adding that the appeal committee is not unlikely to receive petitions, but the petition may not be a genuine one.