The handcuffs on my hands were no longer tight again as I used to feel before now. And it was before my ordeal. I loved my husband and was ready to do anything to make him successful in all his endeavours. But a chance meeting at Akure, the capital of Ondo State, changed all that we shared together. His innocence became another thing as his appetite for women lured him to his untimely death. Foolish idiot. Hmmmmmm, I breathed aloud in order to savour fresh air.  If I had my way tomorrow, I would do same thing that landed me in prison. I wouldn’t care whose is ox is gored. I wouldn’t listen to the sermon of any clergyman. What would side talks add to my life and what would soothing words from all and sundry, especially the pretenders do to my life? Nothing! It was a beautiful evening in the month of December. The frenzy was there for the shoppers who were preparing for Christmas and the New Year. You know Nigerians shopping as if tomorrow would not come. Traffic logjam all over. Human traffic logjam meeting vehicular road logjam. All jammed together in the name of just two days holiday. I joined the crazy people also to do the shopping.  I bought more than enough for my two children, the nieces who came for the holiday, my house girl and even my husband, the stupid rabble-rouser. On the 24th of December, I had followed my husband incognito to his love-nest. That was where he camped Agorilla the daughter of Obobode. He never suspected my move and I did not betray any emotion that I was atop a game. This was not the first time I would do such a thing in the last three years. Despite the fact that I felt hurt, the deep love I had for him kept me going. I didn’t allow him to know ,instead, I intensified more love for him. I just felt that ‘over do don do’, that is, enough of this bad rubbish.  Each time, I stumbled on something in form of a scoop, such time, I tried to shower him, I mean my husband, Emmanuel Akokoyo, true love that has no rival. But like a stubborn goat which he is, he will never change from his bad ways. Please tell me the truth. What is the value of a rotten plantain? What is the meaning of a loveless marriage or one-sided love? Why keeping a dirty rag in your wardrobe to be occupying space? Nothing!   I felt so far  my marriage to Emman had become an avenue or arena of cheating, why keeping on to him and the useless love? I did join other shoppers for the festive shopping. I brought a very beautiful perfume for my husband. It was his favourite. The same one he wore during our first night together. He loved it not because it was just too expensive, but because it was his favourite. “Honey,thanks a lot. Do you know how it has taken us almost three years to get this perfume? From one shopping mall to another, all was to no avail. You make me remember those good old days. Thanks my love.” Emmanuel said to me while getting up from his reading chair to hug me. “It is my pleasure, Honey,” I replied him with love. “But where did you get here having looked for this to no avail? “I purposely ordered for them from the makers in other to make you happy. Your happiness is my joy. “Thanks, my love. I will never forsake you,” he said while still hugging me. I am giving you this scenario to let you into our love life. We were madly in love, but his inability to control his libido is the major problem in his life; and this was not so until we got to Akure, the capital city of Ondo State. Pardon me for repeating this. Between me and you, it cost me a fortune in terms of money and time to get that gift for him. But because I had made up my mind that it was going to be his last one from me, I did not look at the hassles. In fact, I was more than eager to do so for him. As he drove to Oke Eda on that day, I waited in one corner after paying the hired cab driver. ”Madam, do I come back to pick you Ma?” The driver asked with smiles after seeing that I paid him more than he deserved. “Don’t bother my brother. I have the passion to help people and having seeing the way you drove me meticulously, even in the midst of many drunkards on wheels; I am delighted to know you and ready to help you,” I replied him faking a long smile “Ok. Madam, you know where you got me, and you can easily come there to hire me at will” “I will, my brother. Thanks a lot”. I was happy that he was going in order for me to have time for the business of the day. Initially, I tiptoed round the mini bungalow. Later, I came back to the gate to press the bell. The gateman didn’t want to open it. But when I mentioned the name of his boss and also mentioned that the man who just entered minutes back was my brother. And that we were supposed to come together to come and see his new wife. The man relaxed and opened the gate. I discouraged him from carrying my hand bag for me. It mattered less to me.  By the time I got in, my husband was in knickers and his mistress in a mini nightgown, blue and white in colour. The fluorescent was on thus making the room a bit dull. They were not moved at the sound of the door.  May be they felt it was the gateman that came in. I moved to the corner or just where I felt I could put on the light. I pressed a button by the right hand and suddenly the place became brighter. This jolted them into the reality that someone was around. I clapped three times and the shock written on their faces could not be described. “Just stay glued together, you twosome,” I yelled at them. “Please Maria, you don’t need to do this,” it was my husband who was begging me trying to get on his knees. “Madam, what rubbish is this? I didn’t come to your house. What audacity is this? The foolish Jezebel whose real name is Koloeba said to me. Her audacity and lack of remorse drew more anger in me. I was annoyed. Yes, I was coming to kill them, but I felt if they could show remorse, I would likely change my mind. Here was the unrepentant whore talking to me after romancing the man I picked from gutter as husband. “Perhaps, your lover didn’t tell you the stuff I am made of. That is why you are saying nonsense,” I barked at her. My husband knew that once I had made up my mind, there was no going back. He begged me. But this lady was not ready to succumb. “If you are a tigress at home, must you jump the fence to  my house? I want you out or else I will call the security operatives to bundle you out of here” she said “ You might do that in your next world. I have frozen all your telecommunication gadgets. And just to show you the stuff I made of, here is the first salvo”. As I said that, I opened my handbag and brought out the AK4, her face frozen at the sight of the gun. I moved back, shot her legs and left arm. I didn’t want her to die at once. It has to be bit by bit.  My husband screamed almost same time the beast screamed.  I was unperturbed. Good riddance to bad rubbish. She was begging me. I did not even listen to her. Facing my husband, I said: “ Because I love you dearly, you will die at once. No more  agony for you, but as for  this beast, she will die with agony. I moved closer and shot him on the  head. He died immediately. I opened the  wine they put on the table, served myself, drank some and spat at her . She was rolling on the floor with blood littering the large sitting room……. (To be continued)