There are many words that come to mind when “investment” is dangled in the face of the Idealistic business mind, and Pork isn’t one of them; but there are indications that Pork is the most commonly consumed meat in the world, and the pork industry in Nigeria and Ghana is reportedly worth over $3Billion dollars. Over 80% of the Pork consumed in this part of the world is imported, with the highest consumption ranking in Ghana and Nigeria. Ideally, if the monies spent on these imports are invested to improve the localized breeding of Pork in the two countries, it will likely create many financial opportunities for farmers, wholesalers, retailers and the population at large. Agribusiness in Nigeria plays a significant role in the development of the economy, it has been stipulated that a focus on this sector will improve the standard of living and possibly end the recession by reducing the poverty rates. According to the BBC World Africa report, despite economic growths, poverty rates in Nigeria increased from 54.7% in 2004 to 60.9% in 2010. Recent studies have shown that these numbers have increased to an alarming 67% as at
January 2018. Prior to the dependence on oil, agriculture sustained the economy with the production of cash crops such as cocoa, coffee, cassava, oil palm, groundnuts, to name a few. Livestock farming has also been common practice, especially for the provision of meat and other protein foods such as eggs, milk, and butter. Commercial livestock farming is lucrative and has the potential to earn huge profits, and the typical first choice for livestock farmers is usually cattle, poultry, and fishery; with pig farming as a minor option amongst others. The PorkMoney initiative explores the unique opportunities associated with pig farming bearing foremost that breeding pigs is not capital intensive. Pigs are omnivores and typically lean eaters and high breeders – one pig can give birth to as many as 15 piglets in a farrow, they are easily confined to their breeding spaces and can fetch a huge profit on sale. There is also the health benefits to the meat produced from pigs, Pork, as it is called, is high in protein, essential vitamins, minerals, amino acid and is good for overall health; some pork parts like that of tenderloin, loin chops and sirloin roast made from the lean cuts are healthier than chicken. PorkMoney aims to create more opportunities for the Nigerian public into pig farming and expanding the production of pork in Africa. More importantly, the PorkMoney initiative is created to reduce the large importation of pork into Africa and increase the production, selling and exportation rate in Africa.  The business model for PorkMoney is aimed at dominating the Pork Industry in West Africa through collective entrepreneurship, accountability, proper management and marketing. In designing the concept, a lot of research was done to enable us accommodate interested parties not limited to people in Agribusiness alone, but the general public with an interest in farming, and business investments. The opportunity will afford investors profit as high as 35% in 11 months through a partnership plan, created for this purpose. The PorkMoney partnership has built a relationship with Ghanaian business man and actor John Dumelo, who is also into Agri-business, with a focus to introduce the PorkMoney model into Ghana, one of the highest consumers of pork alongside Nigeria. A strategic partnership has also been finalized with the Oke-Aro Pig Farm, reportedly the largest pig farm in Africa, with a farrow-to-finish operation over N5Billion in revenue annually. The strategic partnerships will enable PorkMoney meet up with the deliverables aligned in the business model towards its partners, consumers and export targets. PorkMoney’s partnership with Oke-Aro is much needed at this point as we can now finally do something that the farm has been unable to achieve, meet the demand for Pork by increasing investments. There is a good chance that our business model is the alternative to the limitations that plague farmers and would be agricultural entrepreneurs and enthusiasts. PorkMoney has created an opportunity to finally dictate and accelerate the growth of our own industries, in this case, the Pork Industry. Folorunsho Muyiwa is the CEO and Founder of PorkMoney.com – He is a Multi-faceted entrepreneur with over a decade’s experience in branding and marketing, with expertise in e- commerce, transportation and Real Estate.