The Osun State University was Monday closed down by the authorities following the institution’s non-academic staff union protest. The university’s Governing Council said the closure took immediate effect because of the protest “now pose danger to lives and properties within and around the university environment.” Registrar and Secretary to Council, Gafar Adebayo Shittu, in a statement said: “The Management wishes to sincerely apologize to parents, guardians and students for any inconveniences that this closure may cause. Efforts are geared towards addressing the prevalent lawlessness. “We urge our law abiding staff and students to remain calm and stay away from the campuses in the mean time.” Meanwhile, the Chairman of Non-Academic Staff Union of UNIOSUN, Mr. Comrade Isaiah Fayemi, has expressed shock over the closure of the institution. He said: “We are surprised that the management decided to close down the university. Our protest has been very peaceful. We started the protest last week Wednesday. We are protesting because the management wants to sack some union leaders for exposing the atrocities of the Vice Chancellor.” Also, there was tension in the university after some operatives of the Department of State Security (DSS) in the state allegedly attacked some workers  during the protest. It was gathered that the members of the non-teaching staff of the university had converged at the University Guest House at Olu Alabi Way, Opposite Ilelabo, G.R.A. Oke Fia, Osogbo to solidarise with some of their union leaders appearing before the Staff Disciplinary Committee of the school. The heavily armed DSS officers were said to have prevented some of the union leaders from gaining entry into the Guest House despite their explanation that they had been invited. The treasurer of the National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT), Comrade Hameed Owoh, was said to have been kicked with boots. Owoh, who reportedly lost consciousness following the alleged attack, was later rushed to a nearby private hospital where he was resuscitated and treated.