Robust economic policies and entrepreneurship, Prof May Ifeoma Nwoye observed, are key to poverty alleviation and sustainable quality life. The don delivered the 10th inaugural lecture of the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU) in Lapai, Niger State. ABDULSALAM MAHMUD reports. Job creation reduces poverty, creates economic opportunities and guarantees quality life for the people. For any developing country to create jobs and achieve economic prosperity, Prof May Ifeoma Nwoye said such a nation must shift from an economic model which gives handouts to people and focus on entrepreneurship. This, the don said, will create the wealth to lead the nation out of poverty. Nwoye, a professor of Business Administration at the Ibrahim Badamasi Babangida University (IBBU) in Lapai, Niger State, stressed the need for developing African countries to adopt economic policies that support entrepreneurial spirit of young people, which, she said, generates wealth and reduces poverty. She delivered the institution’s 10th inaugural lecture titled: That evil called poverty, entrepreneurial escape to a comfort zone. It was held at the school auditorium. Noting that no person ever became wealthy and self-sufficient through handouts, the don advocated an economic system that supports economic freedom for low-income earners and unemployed youths. She said: “Instead of governments giving handouts to people in the name of social security scheme, the poor and the unemployed should be empowered through skill acquisition and vocational programmes. To achieve maximum results, these poverty alleviation programmes need to be managed by people who are entrepreneurially-oriented. The programmes need to be run in collaboration with non-governmental organisations. To achieve prosperity, these empowerment programmes must be sustainability.” She said efficient business policies had the potential to enhance commercial productivity and fast-track national growth. The unemployed youths and impoverished citizens, she said, could be economically empowered with viable policies. Pointing out that charity and alms giving could only cushion the economic hardship faced by the poor, but said such could not help the poor to be economic independent. “Civil servants should not be involved in poverty alleviation programmes. Rather, they need to focus on formulating policies that will make businesses thrive and activities that will harness entrepreneurial spirit of the youths,” Nwoye said. She urged governments at all levels to provide the enabling environment for businesses to thrive and also invest in youth entrepreneurship, noting that a major hindrance to self-empowerment is lack of start-up capital. She said: “Investments in business enterprises remain the surest way for poor communities to be economically independent and quit poverty zone for prosperity. Policies of government at all level must support free enterprise and promote self-reliant. This would lead to create employment opportunities.” The Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Muhammad Nasir Maiturare, urged the government to expedite action in tackling unemployment, saying its effect on the economy was ravaging. The VC described the inaugural lecturer as a “seasoned academic”, saying her expertise in business development could not be rivalled. Highpoint of the event was the presentation of a meritorious award to Nwoye by the VC, for her scholarly works and research accomplishments. Eminent personalities who graced the event included representatives of Niger State Governor, Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello, the Emir of Lapai, Alhaji Umar Bago Tafida and  principal officers of the university.