 Feminists who believe that women are marginalised and have limited opportunities have been told to tell that to the marines as the situation has since changed for the better with women having more opportunities to touch the sky. American tennis idol and seven Grand Slam winner Venus Williams made the submission in an interview with ELLE’s Magazine June edition, entitled modern Love. The 37 year old elder sister of glamour lady and 23 Grand Slam winner Serena Williams stated point blank that she does not believe in labels, insisting that there is nothing limiting women in pursuit of their dreams. She said: ‘I don’t like labels, though I do think as women we have much more power and opportunities in our hands than ever before. ‘We truly don’t know how powerful we are. There’s nothing like a powerful woman walking into a room; her presence is like nothing else.’ Venus said she is grateful for the opportunities available for women in sport in this day and age. She said: ‘There are so many emerging forces; there’s been so much growth for women in sports. It’s very exciting. ‘You have to be able to stand up for what you believe in and I think I’ve done a good job. I guess I don’t have too many regrets.’ Venus was asked about equality and women’s rights: She said: ‘For me, the conversation [around equality] was never there. There are always challenges that you have to overcome on a daily basis. ‘Unfortunately, people have the tendency to want to dominate one another, but fortunately, there are people who want to build other women up. It’s up to those people who want to build to hopefully eliminate all that negativity.’ Despite being ranked one of the world’s best tennis players, Venus said she has had to make sacrifices along the way. She continued: ‘ I’ve worked so hard all of my life, so one of my personal goals is to actually have a life.’ Her sister Serena, 36, also spoke to the magazine, where she praised her sibling. She offered: ‘I think Venus’s best qualities are just how incredibly strong and powerful she is – she is a true overachiever. She’s one of the best tennis players in the world and still always has that desire to continue to better herself. ‘Venus is someone who has overcome so many obstacles – from tennis to her health – and she runs two businesses. She faces obstacles every day. I think that everything she’s gone through, from age 18 to now, has shaped her to become the amazing woman she is.’ Serena also credited her sister for being someone who has protected her throughout her life. She said: ‘I have a lot of memories of Venus, mostly of me doing whatever she did. She always set an example for me. ‘I remember playing with Venus in the yard when we were kids. It was back when we were in elementary school, and some of the other kids were picking on me. ‘I was a grade younger than her and was about to defend myself, but I hadn’t even opened my mouth and she was somehow there – it was so weird…. That’s how it’s been my whole life. Venus has been there, protecting me.’             