 Super Eagles’ star, Victor Moses was in action for Chelsea on Saturday as they defeated Manchester united to win the FA Cup for the eight time. Eden Hazard’s first-half penalty proved the difference at the Wembley stadium. United improved in the second period and probably deserved an leveler. However, Thibaut   Courtois made some important saves to deny United  with Paul Pogba missing an absolute sitter Player rating for match shows that Moses who was in action for 90 minutes was a class of second best of players in the game that left  Jose Mourinho side defeated. Moses who was sent out in the last FA Cup final against Arsenal last year was today marked 6 in the same class with Fabrigas, Kante, Alonso, Hasard and Giroud in the players rating for the match. PLAYER RATINGS Chelsea: Courtois (8), Azpilicueta (6), Cahill (8), Rudiger (7), Moses (6), Fabregas (6), Kante (8), Bakayoko (6), Alonso (6), Hazard (8), Giroud (6). Subs: Morata (5), Willian (5). Man Utd: De Gea (6), Valencia (5), Smalling (6), Jones (5), Young (5), Herrera (6), Matic (6), Pogba (5), Lingard (5), Rashford (6), Sanchez (5). Subs: Mata (5), Lukaku (6), Martial (6). Man of the match: Eden Hazard  Meanwhile Manchester United boss Jose Mourinho as said Chelsea did not deserve to win. His words, “I congratulate them because they won but I don’t think they deserved to win. “I congratulated them. I am Manchester United manager and I have to be respectful, not just because they are my previous club but because they are the opponents today but I think we deserved to win. “I am quite curious to know what you say or what people write because if my team plays like Chelsea did I can imagine what people would say. I am quite curious. “It was a bit hard for us to play without Lukaku against a team that defends with nine players. You need that presence. Every defeat hurts but I go home with the feeling we gave everything. No regrets. “Chelsea are not stupid. They know our team without Lukaku or Fellaini does not have a presence so putting eight or nine players in front of the box they knew they would be dominant in that direct football. We tried everything by other ways but they had a huge block of compacted players. “The image of the game is that David de Gea did not touch the ball. He touched the ball to grab it in the net.” 