The race to reduce housing deficit in the country has taken a leap, following the inauguration of a 249 housing units estate, valued at about N10 billion in Abuja. The estate, known as ASO Garden Estate, stakeholders in the built environment said, was a reflection of what having a virile mortgage system in the country can offer. The project, The Nation gathered, was conceived and financed by ASO Savings and Loans and developed by Global High Property Development Limited. It is expected to raise the bar in housing projects delivery and also for mortgage institutions’ participation in housing development across the country. Indeed, for a country that is faced with a monumental housing shortage which has rendered millions of the citizens without homes or decent accommodation, it was a delight for the crowd that gathered to witness the inauguration of the first phase of the estate project. The ASO Gardens Estate comprises of 249 housing units. A breakdown of the units further revealed that it is made up of 129 units of  2-bedroom apartments; 117 units of 3-bedroom apartments and three units of 4-bedroom terrace houses. This brings the total construction cost of the estate to N10 billion. Located in the Karsana East District, which is part of Abuja Phase IV, the ASO Garden Estate is a serene community of exquisite homes on a 27 hectare site, just after Gwarinpa, along the Kubwa Express Road, precisely beside the Papal Ground. The estate will be developed in phases. To provide the ultimate lifestyle experience, the estate is in a serene environment and displays high quality infrastructures, recreational area and civic facilities. The Managing Director of Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN), Ahmed Dangiwa, who led dignitaries on a tour of the estate commended the Board, Management and Staff of ASO Savings and Loans Plc for “successfully completing a project of this magnitude in spite of the challenging economic environment.” Describing the ASO Gardens Estate project as a landmark achievement, especially in the country’s difficult journey toward addressing her housing shortage, Dangiwa expressed conviction that the project will go a long way in ameliorating the housing needs of people desiring to have their own homes in Abuja. “I therefore want to specially commend and congratulate ASO Savings and Loans Plc., and its partner on this project, because they are the financiers and mortgage provider. We are happy that these institutions are complementing the efforts of Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria and other agencies doing all within their capabilities to advance the cause of home-ownership for Nigerians of all classes,” he noted. The Chairman, Board of Directors of ASO Savings and Loans Plc, Ali Magashi said: “For those of you stakeholders, you know what a tough economic operating environment it has been for primary mortgage banks in Nigeria, as such, the delivery of the estate is no small feat for ASO. In similar vein, the Executive Director, Corporate Services, ASO Savings & Loans Plc, Risikatu Ahmed, said the successful completion of the project is a further testimony to ASO Savings’ vision to be the mortgage bank of choice in Nigeria in terms of client service and housing provision for the citizens. “The successful completion of this project in spite of the daunting challenges due to the difficult operating environment attests to the doggedness of our management team and our   never say fail spirit no matter how intimidating the odds are. We are determined to continue to surpass the expectations of our stake-holders,” she said.