Queens from various kingdoms in the nine states of the Niger Delta region at the weekend pledged to work with their husbands to sustain the existing peace in the region. Rising from their maiden summit convened by the Queen of the Brass Kingdom, Her Majesty, Dr. Josephine Diete-Spiff, in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State, the queens said there was no alternative to peace and expressed their commitment to ensuring peaceful coexistence in their kingdoms. The queens in a communique after their deliberations said they would henceforth address issues bordering on peace affecting the region under an association to be called the Niger Delta Royal Queens Forum (NDRQF). The forum appealed to the government at all levels to intensify efforts to protect women, the girl-child and children from abuses and deprivation. The royal queens said they would launch sustained campaigns to end all forms of gender-based violence. The forum tasked all royal queens to advocate for the education of the girl-child and promote adult and functional education to change the status of women and girls in the region. They insisted that tackling such issues would promote peace, end restiveness and attract development to the region. The forum also asked its members to be proactive in supporting their husbands in developing their domains and empowering their subjects. They vowed to work against rape, defilements, trafficking, organ harvesting and abuse of orphanages. The maiden summit with a theme, an enlightened queen is an enlightened community, was attended by Royal queens from the nine states of Abia, Akwa Ibom, Bayelsa, Cross River, Delta, Edo, Imo, Ondo no Rivers State. The summit, which was declared open by the Arch Bishop of the Niger Delta Anglican Communion, Ignatius Kattey and chaired by the Chairman of Bayelsa State Council of Traditional Rulers, His Royal Majesty King Alfred Diete-Spiff, was hosted by the state’s First Lady, Dr. Rachel Dickson. The queens commended the state Governor Seriake Dickson, his wife, Rachel, Senator Ben Bruce, Mr. Sunny Goli, Nigerian Agip Oil Company (NAOC) and the Belema Oil for supporting their peace summit.