Through a two-day career workshop in Lagos, Knowledge Exchange Centre (KEC) has changed the game for jobless youths, honing their skills for the market and enhancing their employability. DANIEL ESSIET reports Youth unemployment is one of the most pressing challenges facing Nigeria. Over the last decade, the rate of youths between the ages of 15 and 24 in the labour market has been hovering around 30 percent – making it one of the highest in the world. Although a young labour force represents a source of great potential, governments at all levels are struggling to create opportunities for them. To solve the problem, Knowledge Exchange Centre (KEC) last week held its Career workshop in Lagos. The event featured experts who looked at the problem and proffered solutions. Ahead of that, the Lagos State Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment, Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yussuf, said a skilled workforce was central to  economic revival. Mrs Akinbile-Yussuf, represented by the Head of Department of Employment of the ministry, Mrs Iyabo Seriki-Bello, reiterated  thegovernment‘s determination to ensure that education and training systems promote the employability skills that young people need. She said the ministry was organising a reorientation and employability skills training soon, adding that attendance was a requirement for the Graduate Internship Placement (GIP). She explained that GIP was a six-month programme that covers online application, selection and screenings as well as placement into various organisations in the state where interns were expected to translate their knowledge into practice. She praised KEC for planning the programme, adding that it was in line with the mandate of the ministry. According to her, the programme themed, Winning in the 21st century job market, was critical as youths need knowledge on how to search and secure lasting jobs and relevant skills for future work. Such skills, she said include critical thinking, reasoning and creative skills, passion for achievement and success, value, problem-solving and resourcefulness, team spirit, time management and curiosity. Centre for Entrepreneurship Knowledge Exchange founder and XL Africa Group Executive Chairman Charles Nwodo Jnr said the vision was to equip young people with entrepreneurial and employability skills. Nwodo, represented by Head, Group Business & Marketing Support, and Chizoba Onwuzolum said the KEC was established to fill the knowledge gap in development policy and social studies. He said its GIP is an intensive programme designed to equip fresh graduates with relevant workplace skills. The training involves both classroom and experiential learning methods to provide them with theoretical and practical knowledge which is missing in the university curriculum. The aim of the GIP is not only to enable the participants be employed but to acquire the necessary skills in their chosen career fields. According to him, KEC programme is supported by a broader strategy to develop career-ready graduates who are marketable in an increasingly competitive employment market. KEC Executive Secretary, Maria Glover said Nigeria is faced with growing employment crisis. She said: “There are 10 to 12 million youth entrants into the African labour market annually. By 2020,only one in four youths in Africa would find a wage paying job and by which time the population of unemployed youths is expected to rise to 200 million. This population of youth represent a group of extremely brilliant people capable of contributing to the development of the continent.” She added: “In Nigeria, the case is not better as 1.9 million graduates enter the already saturated labour market. As at the third quarter of 2017, the labour force population increased to 85.1 million from 83.9 million in the second quarter of the year. The number of unemployed/underemployed people stands at 18 million and 31.8 per cent of this figure constitute unemployed graduates.” To ensure that Nigeria has the graduates and skills needed to meet its goal of becoming a high-income, knowledge-based economy, the executive secretary said the organisation was taking significant steps to produce “industry ready” graduates through an approach involving greater career awareness, industry exposure, and enhancing skills for employability. She expressed concern that graduates are ill-prepared, urging them to use the forum to gain new knowledge and skills. According to her, the organisation’s Graduate Advancement Programme (GAP) is aimed at helping youths gain employment. She said 400 people have either acquired job skills or built a business after graduating from KEC. She explained that KEC works with partners on employment and entrepreneurs. Having etched their names as successful business people and entrepreneurs in their industries, the panelists shared their journey to pursuing their passions and how they overcame the challenges head on to achieve their goals. Aside from hearing the remarkable stories of the panelists, participants in attendance had the opportunity to engage with the panelists during the question and answer session which proved to be both inspiring and insightful. Participants of the programme are guided on how to write resumes, send job applications, and how to conduct themselves during interviews. There was a motivational talk for the participants. One of the beneficiaries is Adeyemi Seun, a graduate of Quantity Surveying of the Federal University of Technology, Akure, Ondo State. He praised KEC for helping to alleviate poverty and create jobs for youths. Since graduation, Seun had challenges on getting a job. He felt hopeless. But after attending the workshop, he told The Nation that programme helped him assess his weaknesses and why he had been successful in his job hunts. He said such programmes have a key role in helping graduates find jobs. He told The Nation he was encouraged to take advantage of job opportunities. Another beneficiary and Caleb University’s Microbiology graduate, Miss Fiyin Olaniyan, said she was prepared to embrace and embark on entrepreneurship once she get a job and work for some years. She said the training came at the right time to enable her to be self-employed. For watchers, Lagos is experiencing a staggering youth boom, with more than half of the 20million people in the state who are under 20. This is a huge proportion of young people who have the potential to significantly boost the prosperity, stability, and well-being and create a future in which they will thrive.