A niger Delta rights group, Ijaw People’s Development Initiative (IPDI) has lambasted the Federal Government for failing to allocate funds to the Federal University of Petroleum Resources (FUPRE), Effurun,Delta State. It warned the government to appropriate resources or its members would return to the creeks over the matter. Its National President, Austin Ozobo, in a statement, said: “As critical stakeholders, we make bold to say that the Federal Government is pushing the Niger Delta region and its agitators back to the creeks, as starving the University of Fund is provocative and capable of fanning the embers of discord. “We believe that FUPRE is starved financially because the university is located in the Niger Delta. This is a threat to the peace in the region. “The government should learn a lesson from how nepotism and injustice against the Niger Delta region could crumble the country’s economy and put it under unimaginable recession.” It claimed FUFRE was not captured in the 2018 Budget, thereby depriving the institution of cash. Noting that the varsity was established by the Federal Government to promote local training, development and research in the oil sector, it lamented that the FUFRE was grappling with under-funding and infrastructural deficit. IPDI said: “To starve FUPRE of funds while the National Institute of Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS) and National College of Petroleum, Kaduna, established in the north, were granted N15 billion and N10.4 billion by the Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) at takeoff stage is not good. FUPRE has graduated students, yet for 11 years, it has not received any funding from PTDF.’’ Alleging that N45 billion was appropriated for the Northeast Development Commission (NEDC) in this year’s budget, the body said this was shocking because the NEDC Act was signed a week after that of FUPRE Act. The group recalled that the House of Representatives, in a motion: Implementation of Laws Enacted by the Eighth Assembly on December 21, last year, mandated the House Committee  on Appropriations to ensure that adequate budgetary provisions were made in the 2018 Appropriation Bill for the university. “Still, the lawmakers and Federal Government shared over N152 billion from increase in the oil benchmark without consideration for FUPRE Act, while all representations made by stakeholders to the Federal Government and the National Assembly seem to have fallen on deaf ears. “We, thus, feel disturbed that this is a deliberate neglect of the university and feel that the Federal Government has abandoned its responsibility to the varsity. “As Niger Delta stakeholders, we demand that funds be made available for FUPRE from the excess crude funds realised from the increase in oil prices which rose from $45 per barrel, thereby yielding an excess of about N152 billion. “However, N152 billion has been disbursed for projects the government feel were more important than FUPRE, located in the Niger Delta area from where the funds were derived,” the statement added.