Oyo State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant Francis Adeniji, in this interview with Musa Odoshimokhe and Evelyn Osagie, speaks on his ambition and how the party can retain power in the state. Why do you want to be governor of Oyo State? I am contesting for the position of Oyo State governor basically for two reasons. One, it is a call for to impact on my society beyond my practice of law and business.  These are the two major reasons. What is the level of consultation so far on your ambition? I am contesting under the banner of my great party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), and my consultation with the people is at all levels, given that I am a grassroots person. You have a pattern in Oyo State which is factored in party hierarchy. That is from the top leadership and each of the areas like the zones, the seven zones in Oyo State made up of its leaders. There is no way you will be the governor of Oyo State without taking these leaders along. For instance, you have the Ibadan Central, you have the Ogbomoso zone, you have the Oyo zone, you have the Oke Ogun 1 and 2. All these areas under our party, there is no way you would want to be the governor without interacting with the leaders and also the traditional rulers in the zones. These are critical sectors that one needs to consult, this we have done and we are still doing. Before now, what has been your contribution to better the lives of the people before deciding to serve them in a higher capacity? Most politicians often engage in drama of show off because they wanted an office now or in the future. They start sinking boreholes and providing buses for school children because they want to go for public office. But real service for me is clearly stated by our Lord Jesus Christ, who said for those who will lead you, you must be the servant. If you have that perspective or understanding, you will know that service is never a quick thing you do just once. Service should be part and parcel of you. All my life, I believe in service to humanity. I don’t like to brag about it but, I must say that I have scholarship for children in schools, scholarship for the orphans, widows etc. I have an empowerment programme which I finance out of my professional intake. When I have I give, when I don’t have I equally give. So it not until I am expecting something that I give in anticipation. It is really a personal thing; it is not what you dramatized about. This I have been doing all my life. On what developmental ideology are you planning to transform the state? A good politician must have an ideology. Anyway, what is an ideology? It is what you call body of ideas, you concretize it to enable you fashion they policies that will serve the people. May be, at this juncture, I should let you know my own view and that will give you a clear idea of the ideology I am talking about. Chief Obafemi Awolowo, the late sage, when they taught us Mahatma Ghandi and Lee Kuan Yew, these are my own heroes. The ideology set by these heroes served the people. The ideology of the greatest benefit for the greatest number of people could be realized when you have the state apparatus. Again, you say what is the deliverable to the people in terms of education? In this part of the world, where poverty is holding majority of the people down from fulfilling their God given purpose, leaders should consider education the best option to battle the shortcoming.  So, whenever you give quality education the people will be affected. The major difference between the individual is anchored on education. If you look at Nigeria’s golden years, when we have monumental development, it is because there was good education in the right place. The then leaders believe that giving education a priority it would lead to progress. They equally prioritize the health sector because if you don’t develop the health of our people it will affect development. Education and health are both inter married. Again, you must give attention to where we have comparative advantage; agriculture. The entire Oke Ogun, Ibarapa is made up of massive agricultural land. If you don’t develop that so whatever you do is like begging the question. These are things that we think we need to promote in Oyo State. What are you doing to ensure the people support what you are planning to put in place? To be honest with you, in the course of this movement, I have toured every part of Oyo State. I observation is that the people are yearning for development in the state. Development is not when you give N5,000 or N10,000 to the people. You have to provide them with the means of livelihood; they must have the place to work in order to earn a living. These are critical areas that government needs to be involved. It has to get involved in production, distribution and even to consumption. If you read the developmental pattern of old western region, Awolowo started from productivity to marketing board and even up to consumption by giving loans. So, at every stage government is involved. I think the damage to that came from the military intervention. Since then government has been struggling without understanding the fundamental of good governance. How do you intend to drive these fundamentals of good governance when elected? They should give us the opportunity to do that in Oyo and they will see what we can do. I have been a professional; I have been involved in private entrepreneurship. What happens without carrying the people along could be very negative. If you go about governance without carrying the people along there will be no result for you to point to. The people must be involved because in democracy, the people remain the centerpiece. That is why democracy is government of the people by the people and for the people. People should be the centre of development and that is what we are going to do. Nigerians are saying that the APC has fulfilled its promises. How will it get over this to win the election? In judging the APC both in the state and at national level, I don’t want us to make the wrong judgment. And we have to be careful and if we compare the administration of the APC within the last three years and those who are criticizing APC for non performance either at the party level by the People Democratic Party (PDP) having spent 16 years and the individual that are common in attacking the performance of the party, honestly it is just unfair. I want to say that the APC is above board in term of accountability, good governance and transparency. It is also above board in the delivery of its promises to the people. The 16 years of PDP is a great setback for this country. Some have said it is wrong for President Muhammadu Buhari to show support for former Governor Adams Oshiomhole for the APC chairman position… Let me make some correction here and in respect to the national structure of the party. The national leader of APC Senator Bola Tinubu was on the side of constitutionality and respect for the rule of law. That is what President Buhari has also supported and all the governors of the party and leaders of the party are on the same page. We have to respect the ground norms of the party which is the constitution. The follow up to that is that the party has now ordered that the constitution of the party must be respected. We have to go and do the convention. And convention starts from the wards, local governments, state and national. So, there is no misgiving about what the party is set to do and achieve. All what we are doing is a respect for the constitution of the party. It is our opponents that are trying to say that the APC is in conflict. And mind you, politics is all about conflict management, there is no party without it own conflict. It is how you manage your conflict and get out of it that makes you a better party. Again, the President has not come out to say he is supporting any contestant for the position of the chairman. Have you heard the President saying he is supporting a particular candidate? It is simply an allegation and no matter how beautiful an allegation is, it cannot be the fact. So, the President has not said this is my candidate for the position of chairman of the party. So, let wait until the APC national chairman is elected. 