Akinloye Ayegbusi is a governorship aspirant on the platform of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in Ekiti State. In this interview with reporters in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital, he speaks on his vision for the state and other issues. ODUNAYO OGUNMOLA was there. Many Nigerians are pushing  the generational shift. What is your view? Those leaders who have made such comments including professor Wole Soyinka, Former Military President, Ibrahim Babangida, Former president olusegun Obasanjo were merely stating the obvious. Some of these leaders became heads of state when they were less than 30 years old. Today after several decades, they are still in the corridors of power. The youth must be allow to take over the leadership of this country. The older generations have done their best in piloting the affairs of this nation. My take is that our youths have the modern tools, they have the budding energy as well as the determination to govern the country. the youths are less bugged down by tribal and religious sentiment. They are more educated. The summary is that they are better equipped to provide leadership at a time like this when the country is at a cross road. Your party is relatively young in Ekiti and the governorship election is less than three months away. How can it beat more formidable parties like PDP and APC during the election? The Social Democratic Party (SDP) is not a new political party. Though the party was defunct due to its proscription. But, the spirit of the June 12, and its symbol, Chief MKO Abiola, has sustained the party. The party is a political movement in Ekiti at a time that people are tired of the old order. The platform has become an alternative choice between the good and the bad. It has become the a platform designed to rescue people from the untold hardship brought on them by several years of misrule. Let me also say that SDP is a good brand, populated by people of integrity. People who are determine to liberate the youths, the women, the children and the vulnerable people, especially the elderly in the society. So far people of like minds who have felt oppressed in other established party are daily trooping to our party. I can assure you, that SDP has become so formidable that it will give APC and the PDP a bloody nose in July 14, the voting day for the governorship. The contact and mobilization committee and other leaders of our party have been doing a yeoman job to recruit members in all the 177 wards of the state. Why do you want to be governor of Ekiti State? I have a mission to lead a tpeople-oriented and goal-getting government in the state so as to restore her dignity, rich socio-cultural and political values, hopes; ensure equitable distribution of the hard-earned dividends of our nascent democracy; rejuvenate and strengthen the state’s emaciating economic potentialities. I also have a vision is to lift Ekiti State to an enviable platform in the comity of the Federated States of Nigeria; to touch and impact positively on the life of the entire citizenry of the State. Education is considered the most cherished value of the state. What is your plan? Education is known world-wide as a dynamic instrument for transforming any society. Incidentally, education is the major Industry in the state. Unfortunately too, this industry has suffered serious neglect over the years. The focus of my administration, if given the opportunity, will be on, providing qualitative education at all levels, guaranteed and sustained government subsidy on cost of education at all levels, building of more classrooms in primary and secondary schools, employment of more teachers, for both the primary and secondary schools. I will also ensure regular payment of teachers’ salaries at all levels, provision of enhanced welfare package for teachers so as to motivate and promote their efficiency and dedication, effective supervision of primary schools, re-introduction of Local Education Officers,  establishment of a State Polytechnic to cater for the admission quests of thousands of applicants seeking admission into satellite campuses of other polytechnics within and outside Ekiti State. What are the other ways you think the youths can be engaged? Our youths will be made to embrace agriculture. Ekiti is basically an agrarian society. Deliberate, effort will be geared towards tapping and utilizing the agricultural potentialities of the State. A government led by me will pay due attention to agriculture via the following: Full integration of Cocoa-Rebirth Programme. Large scale production of yams, cassava, maize and some other tree crops. Encouragement farmers to form Cooperative Societies with a view to getting government loans to purchase tractors and other equipment for large scale farming. Sustained incentives to farmer via loans and subsidized equipment. Encouraging irrigation on farming Revamping of the Ikun Dairy Project, The establishment of small-scale Agro-allied industries to readily utilize available raw agricultural materials within the State. Ekiti State is not poor, though it may not be as rich as some other State of the Federation. Ekiti State is endowed by God with ebullient, abundantly and qualitative manpower and material resources. God had provided all these in commensurate and limitless quantities. The matching of human resources with natural resources required a God-fearing, skilled, experienced, dynamic and goal-getting manager. My appeal is that we should all join hands to positively change the course of our history by ushering in a people-oriented and God-fearing Government this time around.