The National Congress Committee of the All Progressive Congress (APC) to monitor the scheduled Local Government Congress in Oyo state has announced a shifting of the election to tomorrow, Sunday. The Committee said the shift is inevitable in view of the earlier schedule local government election in the state. Chairman of the committee, Mr Musa Halilu-Ahmed made the disclosure while addressing stakeholders at the state party secretariat, Oke Ado, Ibadan. The press conference was attended by representatives from all the 33 LGAs in the state, party chieftains, women leaders, lawmakers among others. Senator Monsurat Sunmonu (Oyo Central) led other members of the state house of Assembly to represent the Unity Forum faction at the meeting. He said the decision was reached after wide consultation with all the relevant stakeholders coupled with the recommendations of the state police command. Halilu-Ahmed told the stakeholders that his committee had earlier on arrival in the state to prepare for the second phase of the assignment received a formal letter from the state party chairman, Chief Akin Oke intimating the congress committee of the proposed LG elections which had long been scheduled for May 12. He disclosed that parts of step taken were to consult widely the stakeholders and particularly the state commissioner of police and other security operatives. He added that, the state police command after series of brainstorming in a letter written to the committee also recommended the shifting of one of the elections and suggested that shifting the LG congress would be better since it is a party affair while the LG polls concern all political parties in the state. While informing all the party members that all the necessary forms for participants at the LG congress is readily available for aspirants who have made the required payment to pick, Halilu-Ahmed called on the security agencies, particularly the police and Director of State Service to ensure the safety and security of the party secre Reasons given by the police in the letter to the Committee, which was read out to the stakeholders was inadequate manpower to cover both the LG elections and LG congress at the same time in addition to the fact that the police are also stakeholders in the election. In making the announcement, Halilu-Ahmed however noted that, the choice of shifting the LG Congress is more appropriate because of the restriction of human and vehicular movement within the state on the ground of the LG polls. 