Mr Bala Tsoho, Principal, FCT Rehabilitation and Vocational Training Centre, Bwari, on Monday called on Non-Governmental Organisations (NGO’s), as well as individuals to support the training centre to achieve its goals. Tsoho, who spoke in an interview with the newsmen in Abuja, said that the call was necessary because the government alone cannot provide all the necessary facilities. According to him, the government has so many other pressing responsibilities to attend to and so, may delay the needs of the centre, which may also cause a setback to the centre’s set goals. ”It is not the responsibility of the government alone but that of every Nigerian to take care of their own because, if we don’t, they may come back and terrorise us. ”Government cannot do this alone; they have other responsibilities, it should not be left for the government alone. “Yes, we get support from local NGOs once a while but we are calling for more support from other bodies and even individuals, who are capable, to please support the centres.” The principal said the centre, which has approximately 70 students at the moment, is committed to training especially, people living with disability to become professionals in various skills. He noted that other students comprised of apprehended prostitutes, hawkers and some times, those suffering from insanity. He also said that although the centre has an age limit of 14 to 35 years old trainees, it can, however, accommodate severe or special cases. ” This is because the whole idea is to rehabilitate and also train people to become better citizens by standing on their own, that is to be self-reliant and contribute to the economy. ” As such, in rare cases such as abandoned children or orphans whom might be below the required age, we still admit or else, letting them go would make no sense. “What makes this centre different from other similar centres is that, we trained graduate as a professional, we do not just train for the sake of training. “That is why, immediately you graduate, it is expected that you invest in yourselves.” Tsoho explained that it was the duty of the FCT administration to provide and award the graduates with N100, 000 and a starter pack to help the them begin and sustain their profession. This, he noted, was irrespective of the skill one has acquired. The principal also added that the centre, since inception, graduated over 100 students every year, while also noting that the period of graduation differs, depending on availability of funds. He, however, said that the centre was not able to graduate its 2017 students because of the delay in the release of funds from the government. In spite of this challenge, Tsoho said that some of the graduating students have located and joined with those who have since established their profession outside the school and are doing well. NAN