Is the fume from a neighbour’s locomotive generator the cause of a widow, Mrs. Stella Ikwunne’s health challenge? Ikwunne, 52, is alleging that she is suffering from pneumonia, chest pains, catarrh and related ailments because of her inhalation of the smoke from Mr Christian Anyanwu’s generator. Ikwunne and Anyanwu are tenants at 3, Rafiu Ipaye Street, Ijesha. She operates a beer parlour; while Anyanwu also runs a beer parlour and repairs generator from two shops. A medical report from Itire-Ikate Primary Health Centre (PHC) indicated that the sound of her chest was dull and that there was poor air entrance to her lungs. Signed by Dr. Nkechi Nani, the report said: “The patient presented complaint of bilateral chest pains, catarrh and weakness. Pains are said to be internal in the lungs and causes difficulty in breathing. History notes the inhaling of generator fumes/smokes from a neighbour’s mounted generator. “She had previously been treated several times for the same complaints in a private hospital. Chest sounds are dull and there is poor air entrance to lungs. The diagnosis of pneumonia secondary to smoke inhalation was made and treatment was initiated.” Another report from Uwemedimo Hospital confirmed that the woman was on May 29, 2016, managed for complaints of chest pain and difficulty in breathing. Mrs. Ikwunne told our correspondent that a scan conducted on her 16-year-old daughter, Jennifer, showed she was suffering from chest, lung diseases and had been warned to stay away from fumes. Ikwunne, a mother of seven, said she had repeatedly met with Anyanwu over the issue and also reported to the police. Ikwunne, who said she had gone to the Office of Public Defender (OPD), Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Ijesha Police Station, the landlady and caretaker, claimed that Anyanwu rebuffed all entreaties to relocate the generator. She said: “In the past three years I have been in and out of the hospital. I am always having chest pain and difficulty in breathing. It was at the hospital that they told me my problem was caused by generator fume. “Since then, I have told Mr. Anyanwu to remove the generator but he refused. He has enough space on the other side, why can’t he take it there?  Each time he sees customers in my shop, he would turn on the generator and they would leave immediately because of the fume and noise. “When I could not take it anymore, I went to the police and they came and saw it. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) then told him what he was doing was bad, he claimed it was the generators that he repairs that used to cause the fume. “They tried to resolve the matter and he was asked to connect an exhaust pipe so that the fumes would not be coming to my shop, but still the issue is worst. Now, my daughter fell sick and when they did scan on her, they said there was stain in her heart, caused by generator fume and that she should stay away from smoke. “I took the matter to our caretaker and landlady and he told them he would remove the generator in two weeks. But that was before Easter. He still has not moved it. He is bragging that the worst case scenario would be for the landlady to give us quit notice and we would leave the premises. He said he would leave and go to his own house but that I will not have anywhere to do business. “I am begging the governor and those in authority to come and see things for themselves and take action against him. His generator is killing my children and I slowly. “I was advised to go to Crime Victims Foundation (CRIVIFON) because the man wrote a petition alleging that I was threatening his life and I was arrested. But the police looked into the matter and told him what he did was wrong and that he should relocate the generator but he still has not. My life and those of my children are at risk and my business, which is my only source of livelihood is being threatened.” CRIVIFON Executive Director Mrs. Gloria Egbuji said her agency would petition Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) and the Commissioner of Police over the matter. Contacted, the landlady of the property, Mrs. Makinde Ipaye confirmed that Anyanwu was asked to relocate his generator within two weeks. She said: “Yes, the matter was brought before me. I went and inspected the place and I told Anyanwu to relocate the generator to his other shop. But he later called me that Mrs. Ikwunne reported him to OPD. “I am tired of the matter. I am not happy he did not listen to my advice. I support that higher authorities should come into the matter and resolve it or I will have to give both of them quit notice.” Anyanwu denied Mrs Ikwunne’s allegations, saying he had been in the shop for over two decades before she came. He said the generator was kept there because that is where he does generator repairs. He said: “Before she moved into this place, I have been here. This is the shop where I repair generators and engines. I repair big generators here and I have been doing that before she moved in. We were staying here peacefully until about three years ago when we had an issue. “It was from that issue that she started complaining that my generator was disturbing her. Then, it was a smaller one. I changed to this big one because I got more freezers and the smaller one could not carry them. “This woman has carried me everywhere. She has taken me to the police seven times and has reported me to different places. Even when we went to the landlady, I agreed to relocate the generator within two weeks but she went to OPD to report me again. That is why I left the generator there for OPD to finish their investigation.”