In this report, Assistant Editor, Dare Odufowokan, examines the struggle for the governorship ticket of the frontline political parties in Osun State ahead of the 2018 gubernatorial election. He reports on the changing dynamics of the race following some developments within the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) BARRING any change in the plans of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), voters in Osun State, Southwest Nigeria, will on September 22, 2018, troop out to elect a new governor for the state to replace incumbent Governor Rauf Aregbesola, who will be completing his second term of four years in office much later in the year. Expectedly, politicians from various parts of the state are already jostling for the coveted seat. Although there are currently about 20 political parties boasting of their readiness to field candidates for the September election, the struggles for the gubernatorial tickets of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), appear to be more profound. Pundits say this may be so because of the widespread belief that the next gubernatorial contest in the state is a straight fight between the two parties. While the APC is not resting on its oars in its bid to remain in government beyond 2018, the opposition PDP is daily putting its house in order as it prepares to challenge Governor Aregbesola and his party to a political duel which, if won, will see the party returning to power for the first time since 2009 when it was displaced by a Supreme Court judgement that sacked the then governor, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola, from office, and replaced him with Aregbesola, then the candidate of the now defunct Action Congress (AC). Aregbesola still ‘silent’ Amidst rumour that he is planning to install one of his close aides as his successor and claims by some aspirants to have been endorsed by him as successor, Governor Aregbesola is still keeping the public guessing about who he is likely to back for the plum job on the platform of his party. While his camp hinged his continued silence on the matter on the need for him to ensure a level playing ground ahead of the party primary, some observers claim the APC leader may be unsure of where the pendulum should swing. Tade Lucas, Country Director of Voters’ Alliance Africa (VAA), wonders why the APC and its leadership is keeping mum on the issue of Aregbesola’s likely successor. According to the pro-democracy activist, it is unusual for the people to be kept guessing barely five months to the gubernatorial election. “This is Africa and we all know our brand of democracy is different. For the governor to still be silent on who he wants to succeed him at this time is strange. I just hope the APC is not finding it difficult to arrive at a decision,” he said. But Kunle Oyatomi, APC’s spokesperson in the state, thinks otherwise. According to him, APC parades a good number of capable men and will easily choose one of them as its candidate at the appropriate time through the proper process. He said the party would consider someone with the ability to continue the developmental successes of the Aregbesola administration, not someone who will drag the state backward. “A saboteur cannot qualify. An undisciplined person cannot qualify and a person who is not ingrained in and with all the developments that have taken place under Aregbesola cannot be trusted to succeed him. Anybody who has motives inconsistent with and treacherous in the main, against what Aregbesola has done can never, ever be the party’s choice in Osun. Also anyone who is looking outside Osun APC to win the party’s nomination will fail and therefore cannot succeed Aregbesola,” he explained. Like Oyatomi said, the APC currently has about 20 aspirants seeking the party’s ticket. Among them is Alhaji Moshood Adeoti, the incumbent Secretary to the State Government (SSG) and a former Chairman of the defunct Acton Congress of Nigeria (ACN) in the state. The 65 year old politician hails from Iwo in Osun West Senatorial District. Going by what his supporters say, he is banking on an unwritten zoning arrangement to sway the ticket his way. Also said to have thrown his hat into the ring of the contest for the APC ticket is Hon. Najeem Salaam, the current Speaker of Osun State House of Assembly. A close political ally of Aregbesola, the Ejigbo-born politician, according to close aides, is one of those aspirants believed to be waiting to know Aregbesola’s preference before going all out. “If the Governor is not supporting him, Mr. Speaker will forget the ambition,” an aide to the Speaker told The Nation. For nearly two years now, incumbent Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Rt. Hon. Lasun Yussuf, has been working hard on his ambition to be the next governor of the state. The Ilobu-born lawmaker, according to party sources, is also advocating that the governorship should be ceded to Osun West. But his soured relationship with the leadership of the party as well as Aregbesola is seen by many as a huge obstacle. There is also Gboyega Oyetola, the current Chief of Staff to the governor. His visibility has increased rapidly in recent weeks, amidst talks that he may actually be the governor’s choice. Already, some leading chieftains of the party have publicly endorsed the Iragbiji-born technocrat turned politician who is from Osun Central Senatorial District. But supporters of the zoning arrangement are objecting to his aspiration. Enter Senator Adeleke Just as the PDP appears to be narrowing its search for the gubernatorial candidate for the September election to a new set of frontrunners following the trouncing of the political camp of former Deputy Governor, Senator Iyiola Omisore, at the last state congress which produced Hon. Soji Adagunodo as State Chairman, the Senator representing Osun West, Ademola Adeleke, declared his intent to run for the governorship position.  The lawmaker made his intention known in a letter written to the state chapter of the party. The senator said his intention was based on his conviction that he can unite the party in the state. He added that he has the ability to “galvanise the general electorate towards ensuring a resounding victory for the PDP in the forthcoming polls.” He urged the leadership of the party to give him the opportunity to fly its flag in the forthcoming gubernatorial election in the state. Adeleke was elected senator last year to replace his late brother, Isiaka Adeleke, who died three months earlier, before the expiration of his term, at the senate. His interest in the PDP governorship ticket, according to party sources, is fast changing several permutations within the opposition party. Adeleke is from Ede in Osun West Senatorial District. His ambition therefore, is favorably viewed by pro-zoning agitators within the party. Comrade Fasiu Ajetunmobi, a former ex-officio member of the PDP in Ife Zone, told The Nation that the PDP may have to give Adeleke’s interest in the race some very serious thought. He explained that as a party desirous of winning the election ‘we must not leave any stone unturned. Adeleke is not just another aspirant; he is a serving senator and Osun PDP’s most senior political office holder. “There is also the issue of visibility. Currently, no PDP politician can boast of being as visible across the state as Senator Adeleke. Beyond his politics, he is hugely popular among our people for his humanitarian gestures and his dancing steps. His family name is another plus for him. And pro-zoning agitators will also find him attractive. So, he is not an aspirant any serious party can overlook just like that,” he explained. Before Adeleke’s emergence on the scene, the PDP had Gbenga Owolabi, a Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN), Ayoade Adewopo, youthful Ife-born legal practitioner, former Secretary to the State Government, Fatai Akinbade, a business tycoon, Dr. Kayode Oduoye, and Lere Oyewumi, as frontline aspirants in the race for its ticket.  Speaking to The Nation recently at a prayer session organised by the party, Adagunodo said any one of these aspirants was capable of winning the governorship election in September. “We are looking for a young, capable and acceptable candidate who will change the voting dynamics and deliver the votes to the PDP. We have a number of them and we are settling for one of them soon. In the same vein, we are equally considering who will be the deputy governorship candidate. We want to come out with a ticket that will attract the people of Osun to once again vote for PDP,” a party executive said. Feelers from party sources a couple of weeks back had indicated that majority of the party’s chieftains and members across the state may have settled for the candidacy of Adewopo, who Ajetunmobi described as the ‘new face of Osun PDP’. There were even talks that either Lere Oyewunmi or Fatai Akinbade should be paired with him as deputy governorship candidate because, according to them, Adewopo’s youthful vibrancy will be greatly helped by the maturity and political experience of any of these two old warhorses. “But with Adeleke now officially in the race, it is uncertain if the status quo will remain the same. This is because party leaders as we speak are seriously weighing the options available for the PDP,”Ajetunmobi revealed. He added that factors, including but not limited to financial muscle, current position, political structure, as well as visibility, will help the Senator make a good showing in the ongoing struggle for the PDP ticket. Omisore, SDP, et al But if the APC and the PDP think Senator Omisore is out of the race for the governorship position in September for good upon demystification in the PDP, then they better wait for this; the former Deputy Governor, according to close aides, is making plans to run on the platform of a new party in September. As a prelude to this, his supporters are reported to be moving in droves to join the Social Democratic Party (SDP) in the state. Omisore, during the week, held a closed-door meeting with a former governor of the state, Prince Olagunsoye Oyinlola in the latter’s home in Okuku. The meeting, sources said, might not be unconnected to Omisore’s gubernatorial ambition. It was gathered that Omisore, who arrived Okuku around 12.15 pm, with his aides and political associates entered into a closed door session that lasted till 5.15pm with Oyinlola before he departed. In Omisore’s entourage to Okuku were the former ambassador of Nigeria to Philippines, Ambassador Yemi Farounbi, former Minister for Police Affairs, Alhaji Jelili Adesiyan, Mr. Kayode Alufa, Hon Ismaila Kolawole, Alhaji Yemi Omisore, Hon Bade Falade, Hon Debo Ayinde and host of others. Though still a chieftain of the ruling APC, Oyinlola is one of the national leaders of the political coalition being championed by former President Olusegun Obasanjo, as an alternative to both APC and PDP. There were also reports that the embattled former Deputy Governor is in talks with the leadership of the SDP concerning his 2018 governorship bid. “You must understand the fact that Omisore is a political heavyweight anyway in Osun. What we need now is just a platform and we are working round the clock to sort that out. Once that is done, it will be time to free the people of Osun from political bondage,” a close aide of the Senator said. Similarly, there are talks that former Minister of Aviation, Femi Fani-Kayode, may run in the September governorship election in Osun State. Sources close to him say he is under pressure to join the race on the platform of the opposition PDP. Recently, a youth group, claiming to be the youth wing of the PDP in the South West region, urged him to run in the election. But sources close to the ex-minister revealed that he may not seek the ticket of the PDP considering the fact that he has not been part of the party’s activities since 2015. “Rather, it is likely that he will seek to use the platform of another political party unless the PDP unanimously offer him its ticket to be the governorship candidate in September. One thing I can tell you is that the people of Osu are beckoning on him to come and govern them,” a source said.