You recently published a book. What is it about? My book is about bilateral relations and how Nigeria and Britain have cooperated so far to eradicate human trafficking. It talks about trafficking in terms of what the problems are. It also talks about the solutions that have been applied from the context of the source-country and the destination-country and what we should be doing going forward. What inspired the book? I’ve been working on this area for over 10 years, looking into trafficking. I used to work in the UK, looking into cases of trafficking. And we found out that sometimes our cases grow pending. We never complete them because there are some missing pieces. So I felt that a research was necessary. So I applied to get a scholarship which enabled me to embark on my Ph.D. Where did you do your Ph.D? I did it at the University of Hull in the UK. I used to be a former Beauty Queen, so I’ve been interested in this. Back in 2004, I was the first runner-up of the Most Beautiful Girl in Nigeria. Then I went ahead to represent Nigeria in Cape Verde and I won the pageant for Miss West Africa. And I started working with Civil Society Organistions in the area of peace keeping and human rights. Actually that has basically been my journey working in West African countries and Europe in this issue. So this book is just one of the latest things I’ve done. Otherwise, I have been working in this area for a long time. I came back to Nigeria less than two years ago. I’m a member of the Edo State Anti-trafficking Task Force, working on this same issue. So people will generally refer to me as an anti-trafficking expert. As a former beauty queen, one would expect you to be all about glamour. What is it about this topic? Have you had experiences? Like I said, I have worked with a lot of victims in the UK. I have seen how it has destroyed some people’s lives; so I think that this is necessary. You may have seen them on TV or heard some victims talk about their experiences, but I’ve had to see firsthand where a victim is not clarified as trafficked and is treated as a criminal. And we don’t want that happening. We want the victims to get the support that they need. But they need to be clarified and allocated in order to access the support that they need. For how long have you been doing this? I’ve been doing this or over 10 years. Could you recall the most touching or the most memorable case you have had to handle? Because of how sensitive some of these things are, if I talk about certain cases, people may be able to tell who I’m talking about. So I wouldn’t want to do that. You also studied up to Ph.D level. What fired you to do that? I just felt that there need to be a researcher in that area. Was there a time when you almost gave up, especially due to the sensitive nature of the topic? No, actually. This makes me really happy. I’d always known and felt that I have a calling for this kind of work. And although I have a skin care business, I also love this as well. Tell us about the skin care business I run a skincare business called L’Avyanna Skin Naturals. I started in the UK, and now we are in Nigeria. We have two offices here. We actually produce skin care products for men and women. It’s a commercial business. How has business been, especially considering the state of the Nigerian economy? It’s actually been good. It’s been a learning process. In fact, I think that doing this business, I like doing my Ph.D all over again. In a nutshell, how would you describe yourself? I’m a very ambitious person as you can see. I get my hands on too many things. I want to be the best in whatever I do. At the same time, I also love to relax. I know just working is not life, so I try to make sure that I also play a little bit. I enjoy what I do. Reading and writing are things that fire me up. Considering the cause that you have taken on, and with your Ph.D in Law, is it possible that we will see you go into politics? I don’t know about that. Let’s just watch and see. I’ve always thought that I would love to serve my country. That’s the way I see it. Are you married? Not at the moment, I’m not. What has life taught you? Every time, I try to work on my consciousness, my energy, who I am, trying to make sure I don’t lose sight of who I am or what I’m doing, but life has taught me something. If you want something, and you want it badly, you should work for it. It is not going to be easy, but you will enjoy the journey, both the things that are bad about that journey and the things that are good about it because essentially, you know where you’re headed. In fact, I would say that in my Ph.D, the most important thing I learnt was not the books. It was patience. I learnt patience, because I’d never been that patient to do something over and over and over again for many years. Did you go through any trying moments that period? The last six months of my Ph.D were the hardest. I had to read a hundred thousand words, and they’ll tell me I was not quite there yet. And I’ll go back to read another hundred thousand words because my thesis was 70,000 words. When I went  back with all confidence, they still told me I was not quite there yet. Can you imagine that happening to you for another six times? It was so hard. And I’m sure everybody has had that in their lives when they think they are so close to something and they are not there. Life taught me to be patient. When I’m doing anything in life right now, I am patient, I am thorough. In fact, it is that discipline that I learnt more from my Ph.D. That was more valuable than the books I read. Today, I apply it in everything I do. What would you say to other young ladies out there who are still struggling to find their bearing? I will urge them to be consistent, be tenacious and be honest to themselves. Because that is one thing I think a lot of women lack these days with the whole social media stuff. People are never honest with themselves. They never live their truth, they never hold their truth. We are not perfect people. We are only trying to be perfect. And people put themselves under unnecessary pressure. Be yourself. It’s okay to be down sometimes. In fact, I’ve come to realise that the times that I’m down, something big is about to happen in my life. So live your truth. You can lie to everybody on social media, you cannot lie to yourself.