Over 500 residents of Fagbo community in Ondo East Local Government Area of the state, on Saturday benefited from the free medical treatment, organized by an Ondo town based Non-Governmental Organisation, (NGO) Dr. Rhoda Makinde Initiative (DROMI) The organisation also distributed drugs worth several thousands of naira to the people of the agrarian community who have health related challenges, while several others were tested for blood pressure. Speaking on the occasion, the founder of the organisation, US based Medical Doctor, Rhoda Makinde said the programme has no political undertone. According to her, it was organised to complement the effort of the State Government in the areas of taking healthcare facilities to the grassroots. Makinde who is also one of the medical team and experts assembled for the  exercise, added that the programme was aimed at paying back to the people to have direct contact with medical specialists and enjoy free drugs provided in order to meet their health needs. She unfolded plans of the organization to sustain the programme by making it a bi-monthly exercise. This development, she explained would provide more opportunities for the people in the rural area who have various health challenges to benefit from the free drug distributed during the exercise. Makinde said the exercise which is one of the philanthropic gesture of the organisation targeted towards assisting the less privileged especially those at the rural areas. She noted that several ailments such as Arthritis, hypertension, diabetes, rheumatism, malaria, high blood pressure to mention a few were given medical examination,  free drug and prescription. According to her, those found to have complicated cases would be be referred to the hospital at the expense of the organisation. Beneficiaries including the aged, community leaders, students, youths and people with disabilities, lauded DROMI for organizing the programme. RMS. Victoria Adeduro particularly thanked the Initiators for the timely intervention on her case which she said could have caused an unwholesome circumstance. She explained that her blood pressure was very high before the programme but was given medication and place on admission for proper monitoring for hours. Adeduro however called on the public spirited individuals, corporate and religious organizations and other NGO’s to emulate the organization  by organizing similar programmes to compliment government effort.