The 2nd edition of an International Law book titled Complete International Law, Text, Cases and Material has been unveiled in commemoration of the 50th birthday of Professor Ademola Abass, at Sky Lounge Bar of Eko Hotel, Lagos, at the weekend. An exquisite gathering, there was no boring moment at the book presentation, as guests were treated to the best, not losing sight of the celebrant’s golden age. With Comedian Senator, a master of ceremony that cracked guests up; musical interlude with Nigerian soulful singer, Jodie and so much to eat and drink, the event soared. The launch of the book was helmed by the Nobel Laureate, Professor Wole Soyinka who congratulated the celebrant, endorsing the book as the most essential for all International Law students. Soyinka who was Special Guest at the event urged the Federal Government to place serious emphasis on education and security in the country. For the celebrant, it was more than just celebrating 50, “It’s about impacting Nigerian students,” he said. “Today is focused on what I’m trying to use my birthday to celebrate, which is to make one of my books available to Nigerian students. I had my International Law book published in the UK which unfortunately, Nigerian students had no access to but I was ready to take it back to Nigeria and publish here, so I’m here today to present the book. “Actually my birthday was 24th of April, but I was away from the country. I just thought I could bring a few friends together and have some fun,” he said. Prof. Abass further pressed on how to make the book affordable and acceptable to all students, saying that books published in the UK are a bit expensive: “My worry is that what will be the value I am adding to Nigerian students, especially of International Law. So, I thought the book should be published by a Nigerian publisher. It’s an essential book for all international law students to have.” He finally persuaded Law students not to only focus in the practicing of law in court, but they should also write, teach and research Law. The event was graced by other distinguished personalities like Prof. Pat Utomi and Vice-Chancellor of the Lagos State University, Prof. Olanrewaju Fagbohun and others. Professor Ademola Abass was educated at the University of Lagos, Nottingham and Cambridge, where he obtained a PhD in International Law. Currently serving as the Special Adviser to the Governor of Lagos State on Overseas Affairs and Investment, Prof Abass previously taught law in various British universities, and was Professor of International Law and Organization. His recent works include Protecting Human Security in Africa (Oxford University Press, 2010); Complete International Law, Text, Cases and Materials (Oxford University Press, 2012, 2014); Regional Protection of Asylum Seekers: An International Legal Perspective (with Francesca Ippolito) (Ashgate, 2013).