United Nations Special Representative of the Secretary-General for West Africa and the Sahel (UNOWAS), Dr Mohammed Ibn Chambers, has called for sustained fight against the weakened Boko Haram insurgents. Chambers made the call in an interview with newsmen on Tuesday in Maiduguri. He said though the insurgents had been weakened but had yet to be completely defeated. He was speaking on the sideline of the two-day Lake Chad Governors’ Forum for Regional Cooperation on Stabilisation, Peace-building and Sustainable Development. “Boko Haram is by no means defeated but certainly weakened. The fight needs to continue,” Chambers said. He said the UN and the international community would continue to support the region to get rid of Boko Haram insurgents in the Lake Chad. The UN official said the forum was encouraged by the reports and presentation from the Commander of the Multi-national Joint Task Force (MNJTF), Maj.-Gen. Lucky Irabor, during the technical session. He commended the MNJTF for its efforts at decimating the Boko Haram, “the previous efforts were very much appreciated’’. ”The heads of states of the region, the countries of the region came together and created a joint force, a MNJTF that took the fight to Boko Haram. “They pushed Boko Haram out of the territories in which it was operating and generally demonstrated that if countries stand together, collaborate and join forces together, they can defeat Boko Haram. “This effort is supported and will continue to receive the support of the United Nations and  the international community. “The fight needs to be pursued. We are very encouraged by what we have heard from the force commander of the MNJTF. “We want to assure MNJTF of the UN and the international community support in this legitimate fight to rid the Lake Chad of Boko Haram. “Today’s initiative on the part of the government is to see how at the local level they can begin to collaborate in the area of humanitarian development and reintegration. “One of the important efforts is bringing back life to the people, creating livelihood for the people and the best way to do that is through the governors of the Lake Chad region. “ This is why the UN is here with a large delegation.” Edward Kallon, UN Humanitarian Coordinator and UNDP Representative in Nigeria, said more needed to be done on the humanitarian situation in the Lake Chad area in spite of the progress made on the security situation. Kallon said the people must be assured of their safety, protection of human rights and dignity, return of their means of livelihood and prosperity. He urged the forum to develop good strategies that would ensure effective participation of local communities to define pathways to the crisis. “This crisis cannot be solved through a unitary approach. We must pursue a multi-pronged approach-humanitarian development, peace and counter-terrorism,” he said. (NAN)