The Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) has pledged to fight indiscipline among its clerics and members. This followed the effects of false prophesies on the church and their consequences on people’s lives. The church’s General Evangelist Worldwide, Prophet Hezekiah Oladeji, said this was part of efforts to flush out fake prophets and eliminate false prophecies to restore people’s confidence in the church. The cleric said the church would henceforth constantly monitor prophets within the mission to ensure their compliance with the patriarchs’ standards. Oladeji spoke at the weekend at Apostle Joseph Ayo Babalola Memorial Grounds at Ikeji Arakeji in Osun State during his inauguration as CAC General Evangelist Worldwide and Duty Commencement Service. The church leader advised members to cooperate with CAC clerics to reawaken evangelism, which he called the hallmark of the church. Oladeji was appointed the fifth CAC General Evangelist five months ago, following the retirement of his predecessor, Prophet Samuel Abiara. CAC President, Pastor Abraham Akinosun, who presided over the event which was graced by clerics from various denominations, Christians, traditional rulers and crème-la-crème of society, extolled the virtues of the new general evangelist, who he said had taken giant strides to move the church forward within the few weeks of assumption of office. Senate President Bukola Saraki lauded the appointment of Oladeji, who he described as a preacher of righteousness and a reformer. He added: “It is a new dawn.” Saraki, who was represented by his Deputy Chief of Staff, Gbenga Makanjuola, said the new CAC General Evangelist “is trustworthy, God-fearing and humble,” adding: “With this new responsibility, I pray that the Lord gives him the spirit and anointing to carry on.”  Akeredolu, Dogara, others excited by CAC’s unification Eminent Nigerians at the weekend converged on Joseph Ayo Babalola Memorial Camp at Ikeji-Arakeji in Osun State for the inauguration/duty commencement service of Prophet Hezekiah Oladeji as the New General Evangelist of CAC (Worldwide). At the impressive ceremony, Ondo State Governor Oluwarotimi Akeredolu (SAN), Ekiti State Deputy Governor Kolapo Olusola, former Attorney-General and Minister of Justice, Akin Olujimi (SAN), among others, attended the event. Oladeji, 51, from Odo-Owa in Kwara State, succeeded Prophet Kayode Abiara, an indigene of Erin-Ijesa in Osun State. Akeredolu expressed delight about the moves by CAC leadership to settle their aged-long dispute to embrace unity. As one of the lawyers who handled the church’s litigation alongside Olujimi, the governor recalled the past acrimony and rejoiced with CAC leadership and members for the new development, especially the enviable heights attained by Joseph Ayo Babalola University (JABU), which he said was founded with good vision. Akeredolu described Oladeji as a “great Evangelist” who would use his position to win many souls and enhance unity within the CAC’s fold. House of Representatives Speaker Yakubu Dogara, who was represented by Biodun Adeogun, representing Ife Federal Constituency, hailed Oladeji’s elevation as General Evangelist. The speaker said he was ready to support evangelism and unity within the church. Olusola, who is also a Pastor in the church, said the story of the humble beginning of the new General Evangelist would rekindle an end-time revival of unity as the helmsman is a “young man” with greater testimony. He said: “This is the era of youths. It had never happened in the history of CAC for a 51 year-old to become its General Evangelist.” CAC President Abraham Akinosun congratulated Oladeji and urged him to re-invigorate evangelism across the world. According to him, grassroots evangelism has suffered, mostly in the hands of mass media revivals. He said: “Church ministry is a battleground. You should imitate greater evangelists, be exemplary and remain an embodiment of spiritual reality.” 