All is not well with the Niger Delta University (NDU). The university located on Wilberforce Island, Amassoma, Southern Ijaw has suddenly become a theatre of war. The once peaceful Bayelsa State-owned university is now a shadow of itself. NDU’s recent travails started with a protest. Women of Amassoma, the host community, commenced a demonstration that is threatening the existence of the pioneer tertiary institution founded by their late son and former Governor Diepreye Alamiyeiseigha. The protest was not ordinary. It was laced with oddity and soon involved youths of the community. Most of the aged women who trooped out to engage in the protest bared it all. Some were half naked, others bared their flappy breasts. They barricaded the main road leading to Amassoma preventing students and other stakeholders from accessing the community. Some youths from the community helped them to carry a mock coffin draped with the pictures of the Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson. They freely abused the governor, who brought some laudable projects including the soon-to-be completed International Cargo Airport to their community. They later buried the mock coffin after ritual that was described as a bad omen. The protesters were not done. They continued to occupy the road denying people movement to their legitimate businesses. In fact, they occupied the road. The protesters took their anger to the university and poured their venom on workers on campus. They bolted the university’s gate. To permanently close the main campus, they hired services of a welder, who sealed the gate. Why the protest The protest was directed at the management of the university. Most of the protesters were removed from the payroll of the university for reaching retirement age. Others were retrenched for redundancy. The university was bleeding financially and there was an urgent need to ensure efficiency and productivity. Hitherto, the state government allocated over N500m monthly to the university. The entire money was used to pay only salaries. No project was undertaken and no wall was painted from the money. The school was overpopulated by workers and it was carrying a ratio of 70 non-academic workers to 30 academic employees. It became obvious that the development could no longer be sustained especially when the government adopted a productive template for the five state tertiary institutions as a state policy. Tertiary institutions in the state including NDU were asked to key into the ongoing public sector reform in the state. They were urged to employ only the number of workers required for them to efficiently discharge their functions like their counterparts in other states. The state government decided to give monthly subventions to all the tertiary institutions. NDU receives the highest subvention of N350m. The College of Education (COE) gets N100m; University of Africa (UOA), N75m; Aleibiri Polytechnic N50m and the Health Technology N40m. The Governing Council of NDU chaired by Prof. Steve Azaiki and the school’s management in the spirits of the reforms allowed a verification exercise that revealed employment illegalities. Ghost workers, overaged and many redundant workers were discovered and the school decided to weed them off. About 1700 workers of the university were penciled down for redeployment, retirement and outright dismissal. Describing the reforms as good for the university, Azaiki expressed the council’s readiness to implement the government’s policy of sanitizing the public service. He  noted that a practice where the university solely depended on the state government to fund its over-bloated workforce was unsustainable. He commended Governor Dickson for his bold steps and absolved the governor of any blames in the current shake-up that affected 1,700 workers in the university. He said: “It was the leadership of the university that listed the affected staff following the outcome of a discreet verification to make for more efficiency, better service delivery as well as create space for the employment of young qualified people, particularly Bayelsans. “The amount of money that government has been giving to NDU is not sustainable. Suppose oil price falls or there are issues of governance or politics, anything can happen and then the university will collapse. So, we need to look inwards and see how we can come up with a sustainable figure”. In fact, the protesters were among those fired by the school management. They decided to make Amassoma uninhabitable until their names are returned to the payroll. But Dickson waded into the crisis between the host community and the school management. He promised to give the affected workers additional three-month salaries. Foreboding pervades Amassoma It was obvious that trouble was lurking around when the protesters remained adamant. Looming danger became more visible when the state police command insisted that public procession must be conducted within the confines of the law and good judgment. The command in a statement signed by its Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), Asinim Butswat, warned against increasing public procession and blockage of access roads by agitators, interest groups, communities and protesters without formal notifications or approval from the relevant authority. The statement said: “This conduct is not only illegal but has the potential for miscreants and undesirable elements in the society to take undue advantage to pose threat to lives and property. “The command recognizes the constitutional rights of law abiding citizens for processions, picketing or other forms of protest but these rights must be exercised within the confines of the law.   The command will process and provide security cover for any legitimate procession or public protest which is part of democratic policing. “The command therefore warns all those involved in these unwholesome practices to stop forthwith and desist from this act which will likely give rise to invitation to treat to hoodlums and never do wells that are looking for the slightest opportunity to disrupt the harmony and tranquility of the State. “The command will not hesitate to visit the full weight of the law on any individual or group of persons that takes law into his or her hands. The command wish to solicit for the cooperation of the good people of Bayelsa State to be law abiding and to report any suspicious movement of persons to the nearest police station. “Bayelsans must never allow the peace and security in the State to be disrupted.  The command is fully prepared and motivated to protect life and property and deal with mischief makers decisively in accordance to the law”. Condemnation trails casket-bearing protesters Some Ijaw leaders also appealed to the protesters to apply restraint. While acknowledging their rights to protest, they insisted that they method adopted by the aggrieved persons was offensive and lacked decency. A former President of the Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, Mr. Udengs Eradiri, said it was unfortunate that such uncivil protest was targeted at Dickson despite his efforts to better the lives of his people. “It is unfortunate that a governor like Dickson who has been doing a lot to better the lives of the people will be reduced to this level. But whoever carried such coffin carried it on his head”, he said. He described the developments in NDU, where the number of non-academic staff was far greater than the academic staff, and other public institutions in the state as unsustainable. He said previous administrations including former governors Goodluck Jonathan and Timipre Sylva were afraid to confront the corruption in the civil service to avoid backlashes. But he said Dickson deserved praises for demonstrating courage to remove fraudsters from the system to ensure a discipline workforce. Eradiri appealed to the governor not to allow protests and opposition to stop him from achieving the objectives of the reforms. He said: “What Governor Dickson needs is the support of Bayelsans. No state can sustain what is happening in Bayelsa where the wage bill will be competing with Lagos State. “The wage bill in Bayelsa is about third in the country. How many are we? This is happening because of irregularities in the civil service. But the governor decided that he would not sit down and allow the system to collapse. He decided to take a decision to sanitize the system. “If what is happening is allowed to continue, the system will definitely collapse. You see what is happening to oil. It is no longer fashionable and everybody is looking for an alternative source of income. “There has been an embargo in employment in Bayelsa State. Young people have not been employed, yet they are graduating every year. There are many unqualified people in the state civil service. Some are supposed to have retired, others have fake certificates and false promotions. Eradiri added that Dickson showed a human face in implementing the reforms by paying affected persons three-month salaries in lieu of retirement. “I think Dickson needs to be commended instead of the protest and ridicule they are exposing the state to. I want to appeal to the governor that he should not allow this blackmail to dampen his resolve to implement the reforms. “No amount of blackmail should make him change his mind. If the aim is to create a discipline workforce and create jobs for the teeming young people, he should continue because posterity won’t forget him. “Creating jobs for the young people will help to reduce the crimes in our society because people are graduating without jobs. Our parents are the ones occupying the positions thy are not supposed to occupy. Dickson should begin the process of recruitment so that as you are laying off, you are recruiting”. Also speaking a female member of the Bayelsa State House of Assembly, Kate Owoko, condemned the coffin-carrying protesters saying it was the handiwork of disgruntled elements. Owoko, who represents Southern Ijaw Constituency 1 said: “The protesters are not true daughters and sons of Amassoma but were imported from neighbouring communities. The protest was politically-motivated”. To avert an impending disaster, the government dispatched a team led by the Chief of Staff, Talford Ongolo and the Commissioner for Education, Jonathan Obuebite to meet with the school authority and negotiate with the protesters. At the end of the parley, the parties agreed that the school should be reopened and that the school management should review the list of sacked workers. A communique containing the agreement was issued at the negotiation. But the community later reneged and refused to reopen the school. The Riot In fact, the community will not forget in a hurry the event of May 22. Detachment of riot policemen and operatives of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) and soldiers took over the gate of the school. The armed security operatives arrived early in the morning forcefully opened the school’s gate. The forceful opening of the school did not go down well with the community folks. Youths mobilised in their numbers and surged towards the security operatives. It resulted to a clash that forced security operatives to call for reinforcement. Guns boomed in the community; teargas saturated the air; businesses were forced to close down and people ran to different direction for safety. Some youths died in the ensuing melee and many others were injured. The community was in disarray and the incident sent tongues wagging. While some persons blamed the school management for mismanaging the situation, others knocked the community for overreacting and attacking security operatives on duty. A former Acting Governor of the state, Chief Nestor Binabo, asked security operatives to apply caution insisting that the problem could only be resolved by sustained dialogue between the community and the government. Binabo urged security operatives to immediately leave Amassoma community to avoid further bloodshed in the area. He said: “This whole issue shouldn’t have been allowed to escalate to this level. Security operatives including soldiers have no business in this matter. But the police said they arrested 18 persons in connection with the riot. They said the protesters attacked them first with guns and injured some of their officials. According to Butswat, the PPRO, the protesters vandalised their vehicles and torched their divisional headquarters in the community. The Bayelsa State Government blamed the uprising in Amassoma on hoodlums and cultists. It assured indigenes and residents of adequate protection from hoodlums and cultists in the community. The government urges all residents of the community to go about their normal activities without fear of intimidation or harassment. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Public Affairs, Mr. Daniel Alabrah, said the security personnel deployed in Amassoma were on duty to ensure protection of lives and property, including the NDU, which is a state government investment. Alabrah called on leaders of the community to collaborate with security operatives to ensure residents are protected and to go about their businesses without any hindrance. Alabrah stated further that the hoodlums attacked and vandalised the police division, part of the university and attempted to disarm security personnel who were deployed to keep the peace. He also said these elements were not staff of the NDU and are not affected by the reforms. Opposition Reacts The opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) also condemned the Tuesday’s incident. In a statement released on Wednesday and signed by APC’s State Publicity Secretary-Elect, Mr. Doifie Buokoribo, the party described the killings as an unwarranted display of raw power against defenceless natives. It blamed the government for failing to exercise mature leadership through sincere dialogue with the protesting residents, but opted for the use of force on the citizens. APC lamented what it called “pointless cruelty” by the government against the community.