Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola has said his administration has turned Osun from a civil service state into a commercial, industrial and agricultural-based state. Aregbesola was special guest of honour on Sunday at Raufnomics III, the colloquium organised in his honour on his 61st birthday at Aurora Events Centre in Osogbo, the capital. The governor thanked God for making his aspirations come to fruition, adding that his administration, in the last seven and a half years, impacted positively on every resident. He said: “Against all odds, the joy I have is the fact that our administration has given Osun a true identity it deserves. We have executed myriads of pro-people projects that have, one way or the other, impacted greatly on their lives. “Today, we are proud that Osun has transited from a civil service economy to rural agrarian, commercial and industrial-based economy, as being reflected in the latest rating of Osun as a state with highest human condition of happiness in Nigeria. “We have done so much for our people. We have put in place indelible landmarks that are hard to be surpassed by anyone. Osun, as of today, is being rated one of the most peaceful states with minimal unemployment rate in Nigeria.” Aregbesola described ‘Jonathanomics’, the economic philosophy of former President Goodluck Jonathan, as one in which oil proceeds were shared directly by Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) leaders and their cronies without remittance to the Federation Account. The amount lost to this, the governor said, was over N8 trillion from which Osun’s share should have been N75 billion, an amount that could complete his administration’s projects and pay workers full salaries. He said: “Jonathanomics is undoubtedly the direct spending of oil proceeds by PDP big wigs without remittance to the Federation Account in an unmitigated primitive accumulation of the commonwealth by a coterie of government insiders and their outside cronies. While PDP leaders were becoming stupendously rich, the country and its states became poorer.” The guest speaker, who is the registrar and chief executive officer of Joint Admission and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Is-haq Olanrewaju Oloyede, described the infrastructural development in Osun under Aregbesola as unprecedented in the state.