•Council dismisses petition against Supreme Court Justice, others THE National Judicial Council (NJC) has recommended the compulsory retirement of Justice Michael Goji of the High Court of Adamawa State for refusing to proceed on transfer to the court’s Mubi Judicial Division since July, 2017. The NJC, at its 86th meeting, which was held on May 8 and 9, found Justice Goji guilty of misconduct and recommended his compulsory retirement to Adamawa State Governor Bindo Umaru Jibrilla. NJC’s Director of Information Soji Oye, in a statement yesterday, said the council directed that Justice Goji be immediately suspended from office, pending when the governor will effect his compulsory retirement. The statement added: “Aside from the recommendation for compulsory retirement, council also directed that he should refund all salaries received by him from July, 2017 till date, failing which the Adamawa State Government is to deduct the amount from any entitlement due to him and remit same to the NJC, which pays salaries of judicial officers in the federation.” Oye said the NJC has also recommended the appointment of 21 judges, including a member for the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT). The appointment of a member to the CCT will raise the number of its members to three from the present two. The NJC, Oye said, dismissed petitions against some judicial officers, including Justice Paul Galinje of the Supreme Court. It set up seven panels to investigate petitions by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) against judges and others. Part of the statement reads: “Council considered the reports of various investigation committees and dismissed petitions written against Justice Paul Adamu Galinje of the Supreme Court, Justice Aminu Sabo Ringim, Chief Judge, Jigawa State, and Justice Peter Umeadi, Chief Judge, Enugu State. “The petition against Justice Galinje was dismissed sequel to its withdrawal by Yaro Abarshi and John Yobi Yarafa and others, who alleged that he interfered in a chieftaincy matter in Taraba State. “The petition against Justice Ringim was also dismissed because the Petitioner, Dr. Jamil Gwamna, who wrote to Babatunde Raji Fashola, SAN, Minister of Power and Works, who in turn forwarded same to the National Judicial Council, withdrew the petition. “The allegation was that the judge ordered the arrest, assault, and detention of staff of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO) when they disconnected the electricity at the State High Court and the judge’s house for non-payment of bills. “The committee that investigated the matter found that the petitioner could not show or prove that Justice Ringim instructed or directed the arrest of KEDCO’s staff. “Council did not find any reason to further investigate Justices Paul Galinje and Aminu Ringim after the withdrawals.” The statement added: “Petitions against various judges were dismissed for lack of establishment of misconduct, being subjudice or that such petitions were matters for appeal. “The dismissed petitions were against Justices A. I. Chikere and J. T Tsoho, Emeka Nwite and Nnamdi Dimgba of the Federal High Court; Justice Adetokunbo Banjoko of FCT High Court, Justice Taminu Zailani, Chief Judge, Kaduna, Justice M. A. Adeigbe, High Court, Osun State (who had already retired from the Bench) and Justice E. N. Ogbuiji, High Court, Rivers State. “Council at the meeting also recommended 21 judges for appointment as Chief Judges, Grand Kadi, High Court judges, Sharia Court Kadis, President, Customary Court of Appeal, and one member, Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT).”  