Restructuring – the popular pill for Nigeria’s numerous ailments – returned to the front burner yesterday. In Kaduna, a Coalition of the North’s  socio-political groups, supported structural reforms, with a condition –  those who will carry the banner  should be within the 18 to 60 years bracket. They said the older men who have been speaking and running the country since independence and after, should not take the front seats at their envisaged national discourse. Also in Kaduna, Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson met with Governor Nasir El-Rufai, who chaired the All Progressives Congress (APC) restructuring committee which made some recommendations , including  state police. Dickson is urging El-Rufai to join the push for the Federal Government to embrace restructuring. In the Anambra State capital where Ohanaeze Ndigbo organised a summit on state of the nation, the Igbo socio-cultural group, its Yoruba counterpart Egbe Afenifere and the Southsouth leadership, led by Chief Edwin Clark, also canvassed restructuring of the country. Leaders of all leading Northern youth groups, civil society organisations, students bodies, professional societies, trade and women associations at a summit convened by the Coalition of Northern Groups (CNG), said in a five-page communique signed by their spokesperson, Abdul-Azeez Suleiman: “For the avoidance of doubt, the North fully supports the restructuring of the country and shall be prepared to represent itself in any debate on the issue. “The North shall however not settle for any restructuring plan that falls short of a total, comprehensive and holistic reordering that should first and foremost include the peaceful, democratic and civil determination of the people or groups of people that truly and sincerely wish to remain part of the Nigerian federation. “The seeming endorsement by some northern leaders of a brand of restructuring that clearly places the region at a disadvantage is unacceptable and must be discountenanced. “Any reorganisation process that fails to involve the discussion of the limits and extents of all the federating components with regards to available space and resources shall not be acceptable to the North. “And that older generation Nigerians above age 70 must not take up more 15 per cent of the delegate composition to the proposed national dialogue on restructuring. “It is important to note here that those who fall within the above definition of old generation Nigerians have in the past participated in debates that gave birth to the current national arrangement that is largely acknowledged as having failed our national aspirations. “Nigerians of between the ages of 18 to 60 should therefore competently compose 85 per cent of the delegation to the new debate process for the reorganisation of the country. “This is in recognition of the reality that Nigerians within this age bracket are growing worried that the nation has not fared well by being on the same political and economic lanes for 58 years (1960-date), resulting in no meaningful developmental impact. “This shall therefore eventually form the cornerstone for a platform for Nigeria to deliberate, decide, design, and develop a roadmap for an ultimate generational power transition.” The group insisted that “the recommendations by both the committees set up by the northern state governors and the All Progressives Congress (APC) be discredited and abandoned”. “Specifically, the Summit reviewed the distractions facing the North in the form of multiple and varied threats and the options that are available to the region as it prepares to engage other sections of the country in the restructuring debate. “The Summit particularly noted that in spite of the intensity of the clamour for restructuring from other parts of the country, the North appears not yet able to approach the issue with the required determination and to properly take a collective and definite stand. “It also critically examined the various attempts being made by external forces at totally undermining its economic and social fabrics, by encouraging rampant poverty, pervasive corruption and social problems like armed robbery, kidnapping, prostitution, drug and substance abuse. “Resulting from this is an instigated mutual distrust that is giving rise to widespread security challenges that are yet to be holistically addressed. “The Summit as well recognised that without proper preparation, the North stands the risk of continuing to bear the brunt from the fallout of renewed agitations for secession and the recent clamour for restructuring. “Consequently, the Summit agreed that the discordant tunes coming out of the North suggest that it is too overwhelmed  to even comprehend the true import of the brand of restructuring being called for, and its likely implication on the nation at large, to northerners in particular and to the younger generation most especially. “The group frowns at the mistake about to be committed by the present crop of northern political leaders in accepting a proposal that could mortgage the region’s collective interest and its future but suggested that in their place, a new all-encompassing process that will ensure the accurate representation of all interests be constituted. “It is time they formed a rallying point from which younger Nigerians can make a strong demand for a new political order, to usher in a generational power shift, as reparation for past marginalisation in the nation’s political leadership.” The group recommended the immediate setting up of a multi-purpose committee in the North with the mandate to embark on a massive campaign for the enlightenment and sensitisation of all northerners in preparation for the national debate on restructuring. Security was heavy at Awka during the summit of ethnic leaders. It was to forestall the threat by proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) to attack the leaders. The leaders decided that the only solution to the problem of the country is restructuring. Ohaneze appealed to the Federal Government to unban IPOB. Chief Clark, Chief Adebanjo and Chief Nwodo, said Nigeria must be restructured to a true federal state. The summit also proposed a single six-year term for the President and a constitution review to bring about a regional system of government and resource control. Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu supported the proposals. He said he would be at the forefront of a bill along that line at the National Assembly. To Ekweremadu, Nigeria’s resources are enough to make her the world’s greatest nation. He said: “We will network with our brothers and sisters from other parts of Nigeria, carry everybody along in the exercise and engage those not sufficiently convinced that Nigeria will be greater if restructured.” Prof Jerry Gana, a former minister of I,nformation said it was for the rest of Nigeria to consider the proposals of various parts of the country, and see which is really good. “Let us agree and restructure Nigeria for the security and development of Nigeria,”he said, adding: “The democratic position is to allow for dialogue and free will discussions that will arrive at a beneficial conclusion for the benefit of all.” Gana also advised that the National Assembly be allowed to discuss the issues and refer them for public referendum before they pass the bill into law. Adebanjo said restructuring was being proposed “because we love ourselves”. “Without restructuring, we are only paying lip service to national change.” He rhetorically asked the opponents of restructuring if they could be wiser than their founding fathers – Sir Ahmadu Bello, Chief Obafemi Awolowo and Dr. Nnamdi Azikiwe – such that they were hesitant to restore the country the way those founding fathers set it up. Clark advocated that the youth should be carried along in the process. “The youth have been treated very unkindly by the Federal Government of Nigeria,” the elder statesman said.