The crisis rocking the Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC) has escalated, following the parallel congresses held by the two groups struggling for the soul of the party. Correspondent OKUNGBOWA AIWERIE examines the logjam and its effects on the troubled chapter. All is not well with the opposition All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State. Following the emergence of parallel executive council members at the ward local government  and state levels, the party crisis has escalated. Two factions are fighting for the soul of the party. The dramatis personae in the first camp are Minister of State for Petroleum Dr. Ibe Kachukwu ,  ex-governorship candidate and leader of the party Olorogun O’tega Emerhor, Chief Hyacinth Enuha, ex-Speaker Victor Ochei, Dr. Cairo Ojugbouh, and Cyril Ogodo. Others are Prof Pat Utomi, Dr. Leroy and Dr. Charles Nwandiani. In the second camp are Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Chief Frank Kokori, Chief Great Ogboru, Helen Uboh, Mrs. Mariam Alli, and Mr. Jones Erue The crux of the matter is the struggle for the control of party structure, following the inability of the dramatis personae to reach an agreement. The crisis that have bedeviled the Delta APC congress started at the ward  and local government levels when some party chieftains alleged that the chairman of the Ward and Local Government Congress Committee Sani Dododo, had violated the guidelines, thereby compromising the entire process. The national leadership of the party sacked the controversial chairman. Dododo allegedly connived with some interests in the party to hijack the process and unilaterally announced doctored results for  the ward congresses, without the imput or knowledge of the six  members of his committee. The national leadership of the party replaced Dododo with a new committee chairman, Hon Emmanuel Chindah, who supervised the subsequent exercise. Following the sack of Dododo as chairman of the committee by the National Working Committee (NWC), the stage was set for further crisis, which led to parallel congresses. Matters came to a head during the congress when a faction, led by senator Ovie Omo-Agege, despite a court order restraining them from conducting the state congress, went ahead to return the incumbent chairman Mr. Jones Erue. The congress, which held at St. Muluamba Secondary School, Okpanam, Asaba was conducted by the Senator Olugbenga Obadara led committee. The National Working Committee of the party appointed the committee to conduct the congress. The congress, which was conducted by voice affirmation, led to the return of Jones Erue unopposed. Others elected officers include: Mr Elvis Ayemanor, Deputy Chairman, Mr Chidi Okonji as state Secretary. The congress was attended by APC Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Chief Great Ogboru, Mrs. Marian Ali, and Chief Frank Kokori among other party chieftains. While addressing reporters,  shortly after the exercise, Omo-Agege said the Obadara-led committee was empowered to conduct the congress and that there was no counter-directive to that effect. Omo-Agege said any other committee outside the Senator Obadara committee was null and void, and their action was of no consequences. But, in the parallel state congress led by Emerhor, ex- Deputy Chairman of the Delta State APC, Mr. Cyril Ogodo, emerged as state chairman. The congress held at the play- ground of the temporary site of the Federal College of Education (Technical), Asaba, was peaceful. Ogodor polled 731 votes to defeat Mr. Fred Obe, who polled 99 votes in the delegates’ election. The other positions were returned unopposed through voice affirmation. The congress was conducted by a five-member committee from the national secretariat of the party. Members of the committee include Eugene Odoh (chairman), John Dabwan (secretary), Jonathan Jibril, Ibrahim Nagogo and Mezia Linus (members). Ogodo extended an olive branch to his opponents and the faction led by Omo-Agege, saying that now was the time to unite the party ahead of the next year’s general elections. The leader of the party Emerhor, who addressed reporters at the end of the exercise described it as the authentic congress, saying that the presence of party chieftains testified to it. His words: ”I am here, Victor Ochei, Cairo Ojougboh, Hyacinth Enuha, Pat Utomi is on his way, Dr. Leroy, we are here. The minister, Dr. Ibe Kachukwu would have been here but he travelled”. “We cannot afford the bickering and division among ourselves. After today’s congress, we will reach out to others who feel aggrieved because we have the People Democratic Party (PDP) as a common enemy in the 2019 general elections to contend with. “But, one thing is that anything outside this exercise is null and void. You can see the democratic process as conducted by the assigned committee from Abuja and witnessed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).” It is yet unclear whether the contending party men will sheathe their swords in the overall interest of the party as the 2019 governorship election draws near. 