A former Ekiti State Deputy Governor Adebisi Omoyeni has secured the ticket of People Alliance for National Development and Liberty Party (PANDEL) to contest the July 14 governorship election. Omoyeni, a former WEMA Bank Managing Director, addressed reporters yesterday in his Ikere-Ekiti country home. The politician pledged that if elected, his administration’s industrialisation agenda would be anchored on agriculture and education to give the state a new economy and change its character from the civil service state tag. He pledged to create within four years at least 10,000 high-paying agriculture and agro-allied jobs for the youths of the state. “Within four years, we will give Ekiti a new character that will be different from the tag of civil service state. Our government will target rice, cocoa and cassava production and build industry and wealth around the value chain by partnering with key industries and private sector. “We will create 10,000 quality jobs through integrating production of rice, cocoa and cassava with industrial processors. We will bring young people into farming by organising them into cooperatives and link them up as out-growers to industrial off-takers.” The PANDEL candidate bemoaned the poor revenue generating capacity of the state, saying it was the reason Ekiti cannot pay the salary of its workers and pensioners as at when due. Omoyeni said: “A major crisis facing Ekiti State today is very poor revenue profile. My administration will tackle this headlong and my experience as a banker will be leveraged to achieve this within a very short time. We will unlock the dead economic assets of the people by ensuring, within 12 months, that our people can have Certificate of Occupancy (C of O) on their landed properties which they can use to access credit from banks to do their businesses. “The total bank credit in Nigeria in Ekiti is less than 0.3 per cent. This is abysmally low. It is only through economic activities of the people that Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) of the state can be boosted without putting tax burden on our people. My administration will work to increase the monthly state IGR to, at least, N1 billion within 18 months.” 