•Council: we’ve not increased fee Two weeks after the reopening of the Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO), the Ondo State Government has introduced new fees in addition to a N12,000 reparation fee. This came weeks after Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) students protested against fee hike in Akure, the state capital. To the poly students, the new fee regime is insensitive. ENIOLA OLURANKINSE (Mass Communication) reports. It is now official. The Ondo State Government has increased fees for Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Owo (RUGIPO) students, ending weeks of speculation about the issue. Apart from the acceptance fee of N30,000 and N10,000 levy for verification of results and admission letter, fresh National Diploma (ND) and Higher National Diploma (HND)students  are now to pay between N98,500 and N108,500. Before the hike, they paid between N45,000 and N63,000. Despite the government’s denial, the new fee invoice on the school website showed that the fees had been jercked up. The screenshot of the online payment invoice obtained from students, who paid the new fees, showed the increment. The development came weeks after parents and students of the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) protested against the fee hike in the school. During the inauguration of the governing councils for the four tertiaty institutions owned by the state, Governor Rotimi Akeredolum challenged the members to come up with payable tuition fees. The institutions are AAUA, University of Medical Sciences in Ondo City, Ondo State University of Science and Technology, Okitipupa and the RUGIPO. Akeredolu said his administration would increase the fees, because of the prevailing economic realities. The governor shifted the burden of increasing the fees to the council members and assured them of government support. Debunking the increment plan, the RUGIPO council  said consultations were ongoing with stakeholders to arrive at a realistic fee. The council chairman, Mr Banji Alabi, in a statement, said: “We are yet to increase school fees for any academic level or students as at this moment. I guess some people are talking out of ignorance because we don’t have fresh students yet. What we have are mere prospective students and until they pay our acceptance fees, register as students and matriculate, they are not our students.” Alabi said the council was aware of the economic challenges, but added that it was imperative to develop the school to a 21st Century standard. He urged parents and students to cross check facts relating to resumption and academic activities with the school, instead of relying on speculation. An HND 1 student of the Faculty of Applied Sciences, said he paid N108,500, showing the online payment invoice to burttren his claim. The online invoice showed that fresh ND students of the Faculty of Applied Science will pay N98,500 and their HND counterparts, N108,500. At the Faculty of Business Studies, ND 1 students will pay N93,500 and their  HND counterparts, N101,000. For the Faculty of Engineering, fresh ND1 students will pay N98,500,  HND, N108,500. Their colleagues at the Faculty of Social Sciences and Communication Studies will pay N98,500 for ND and N108,500, HND programmes. Students’ Union Government (SUG) has rejected the hike saying it would consult with the management to get the fees reverted. The union president, Temitayo Ayejuyo, confirmed the increment, but promised that everything would be done to bring it down. He said no returning students would pay the  fees. Temitayo said the union and management had reached an agreement to protect ND 1 and HND 1 students for not paying the new fees, as well as the N12,000 reparation fee. The affected students, he  said, would not be disturbed during the second semester examination, which is expected to start on May 14. Efforts to reach the school authorities proved abortive. Our reporter was denied access to speak to the management team at the administrative building. Some members of the management team, including the information officers, refused to pick their calls. The institution introduced the fees two weeks after it announced a N12,000 reparation fee  as a condition for re-opening the school, which was shut after a protest by students over the “no school fees, no examination” policy. Some students described the hike as inhuman and unacceptable. They took to their social media pages to reject the increment. Oluwole Akinsola said the increment was true. He wrote: “I actually generated payment for National Diploma for Business Administration programme. When I logged on to the school website, I was informed that there was increment in school fees. Then it brought N103,000 for non-indigene like me.” Deborah Olofinte, a fresh HND student, said: “Let me continue playing at home, because my parents can’t afford to pay the new fee. Why would the school increase the fee to N108,500? The fee is more than double of what students paid the previous session. This is too much for HND programme. Even people studying for Bachelor degree in some universities are not paying as much as this. “Considering the increment, it is understandable and undeniable that the population of freshers will reduce, because many parents cannot afford to pay such high fees at a period the country is facing economic hardship.”