 Brazil international and former Barcelona forward Ronaldo de Assis Moreira simply called Ronaldinho has concluded arrangements to officially wed two of his heartthrobs in August. The former PSG ace will tie the knots with Priscilla Coelho and Beatriz Souza, having ‘harmoniously’ lived with both since December in his Rio de Janeiro home. Ronaldinho began dating Beatriz in 2016 while continuing his long-term relationship with existing partner Priscilla. The 38-year-old will unofficially marry the two in a ceremony at his Santa Monica mansion, as it is illegal to commit bigamy in Brazil. According to columnist Leo Dias in Brazilian newspaper O Dia, Beatriz and Priscilla are given an allowance of £1,500 (about N800, 000) every month  to spend how they wish. Ronaldinho also gives both of them the same gifts, too and never forgets their birthdays and other special dates. Dias confirmed that music supply for the occasion is already in place as Brazilian singer and Ronaldinho’s neighbour Jorge Vercillo is set to dish out the tunes The two fiancees travelled with the 2005 Ballon d’Or winner to Brazil’s capital of Brasilia in March, when he joined the centre-right Brazilian Republican Party (PRB). The 38 year old known for his generous smiles and thrilling dribbles it will be recalled was in the Brazilian squad that took on Super Eagles at the opening of the Abuja National Stadium on June 11 2003. Ronldinho on that occasion was the toast of many female football fans that had turned out in their numbers to watch the match. Although former Super Eagles Captain Jay Jay Okocha was voted man of the match on the Nigerian side and thrilled fans with his impressive dribbles, it however did not stop Eagles from losing the match 3-0. In what could be a reminder to the popular adage that one man’s meat is another’s poison, Ronaldinho’s sister has however hinted that she will not be attending the wedding insisting ‘it is not normal’ The ceremony, will take place at the player’s  £5m home in Rio Janeiro.     