Voting for a referendum on whether abortions should be legalised or not in Ireland kicked off across the country on Friday. Over 3.2 million registered voters are expected to cast their ballots at more than 6,500 polling stations across the country, which opened at 7 a.m. and would close at 10 p.m. local time. In the 15 hours of voting, voters would be asked to cast Yes or No votes on a question written on their ballots as whether or not they agree to legalise abortions in the country, which have virtually been banned by the present Irish laws. Results of the polling are expected to be announced late today or early on Saturday. A survey released five days prior to the referendum showed that 56 per cent of the people would vote Yes, 27 per cent would vote No, 14 per cent say they don’t know and three per cent would refuse to answer. Irish Prime Minister Leo Varadkar, who is a strong advocate of the Yes campaign for the referendum, said there would be no further referendum if Yes supporters failed in the poll. Special arrangements have been made by government to assist voters in the referendum. More than 50,000 specially designed ballots were place at different polling stations to facilitate voting by blind or visually-impaired voters. Returning officers, accompanied by police, would visit hospitals or healthcare centres to help the voting of those who were unable to cast their ballots at polling stations. Some 2,000 people living on 12 islands off the western cost of Ireland were allowed to cast their votes on Thursday, a day ahead of the rest of the country to make sure that their votes would be sent back to count centres on Friday in time. Under a law added into the Irish Constitution after a 1983 referendum in the country, abortion is illegal unless the life of the mother is in danger or the foetus is proven dead in the womb. The law, widely known as the Eighth Amendment among locals, has been under increasing criticism in recent years. People opposed to it argued that such laws only add pains and burden to pregnant women, as each year an estimated 3,000 pregnant women in Ireland secretly travel to neighbouring countries for abortion.