Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has called on parents, guardians and members of the public to be dedicated to the safety of children and protect them from domestic accidents and all forms of injurious act capable of standing against their development. Ambode spoke yesterday during the Children’s Day celebration at Agege Stadium. Ambode noted that it was imperative for parents, adults, community leaders, teachers and other relevant stakeholders involved in children upbringing to take mentoring seriously and provide good leadership. Ambode, represented by his deputy, Dr Oluranti Adebule, noted that the safety of children should not be considered as the sole responsibility of their parents and teachers. “Whatever they become tomorrow would have either positive or negative impact on our society, hence the need to groom them to become responsible citizens.” While describing the theme for the year 2018 celebration: ‘Creating Safe Spaces for Children: Our Collective responsibility as apt and very instructive’, Ambode noted that it speaks to the need to reexamine the role we play as parents, teachers and guardians in the development and growth of children. “We should task ourselves on good value system and we must inculcate in the children to become dependable future leaders of the country tomorrow.” He noted that the theme was a clarion call for all of us to be dedicated to the safety of our children and ensure their protection against any harm anywhere any time. ‘’We owe it a responsibility to protect them from domestic accidents and every form of injurious act by ensuring that all safety standards and regulations are adhered to.’’ He said his administration as part of the measure to stem the incursion of hoodlums into schools and reduce incidents of kidnapping has provided in schools security infrastructural facilities such as watch towers, security alarm system, floodlights as well as construction and rehabilitation of perimeter fence to prevent strange movement around school premises. ‘’In addition to the provision of security infrastructures in our schools, we have also deployed security operatives to keep our schools safe. ‘’It is our resolve to protect Lagosians from all forms of hazards by creating safe spaces for political, socio- economic activities to thrive. “That the state government has put in place measures such as Child Right Protection Law in line with the goal of the Universal Children’s Day so as to improve child welfare, promote and celebrate children’s rights to enhance unity and promote love among all children. ‘’In addition to other measures being taken to protect children against bullying, exposure to hazardous environment , drug abuse, mental and physical torture, we also promote the campaign  that all children below the age of 12 be strapped to the central back seat, the safest in the vehicle,’’ he said. He assured the children that the future holds a better place for them, encouraging them to believe in themselves and always endeavor to become the best in their chosen career. He promised that his administration would continue to initiate policies and programmes that would promote their growth and development Lagos State Ministry of Education Permanent Secretary Mrs Adekanye Adebunmi said the annual Children’s Day celebration was in line with the universal declaration on the celebration of children and protection of their rights so as to help them realise their potentials in life. Adekanye noted that the Lagos state government for a very long time has been initiating policies and programmers geared towards child development adding that Lagos State was the first to domesticate the Child Rights Law in the country and had embarked on a lot of advocacy programmes that have helped to bring ethical rebirth to school and give them better orientation that would help them to become responsible adults.