…Safety Shooters, Kada Stars win too Lagos Seasiders defeated Plateau Vipers 36-34 in a thrilling encounter at the Prudent Energy Premier Handball League currently taking place at the Abuja National Stadium. The Seasiders lost narrowly to Niger United on Tuesday bounced back will a crucial victory in yesterday’s game against Vipers to make it five win out of six games and remain in contention for the top spot. It was a game full of drama as both sides fought gallantly but it was the Lagos side that got the famous victory to better its position on the log. Also, Safety Shooters defeated Sokoto Rima 27-14, Kada Stars beat COAS 33-18, while Owena Kings lost 25-31 to Civil Defenders. The female teams rested yesterday and will be back in action today. Owena Queens will take on Defender Babes, Seasiders Babes will take on Katsina Queens, Kada Queens battle Abia Valiants, Safety Babes lock horns with Plateau Peacocks, while Grasshoppers battle Edo Dynamos. In the men’s category, Kada Stars will take on Niger United, Kano Pillars vie with Civil Defenders, Sokoto Rima takes on Owena King, Nigeria Prisons tackle Vipers, while Seasiders takes on Safety Shooters. Meanwhile, Grasshoppers’ coach, Ferdinand Emeana has commended Prudent Energy for sponsoring the league. He stated that the league has been revived at a time the players were yearning for action. He also commended all the teams taking part in this competition urging them to do their best and support the Handball Federation’s drive to reposition the sport in the country. “The revival of the league is a welcomed development and I must commend Prudent Energy as well as the federation for the great effort.” Athletes to arrive in Lagos Friday for National Triathlon Championship More sponsors back event Athletes and coaches that will compete at the 5th edition of the National Triathlon championship are expected to arrive in Lagos on Friday. A course familiarization tour and a brief to all athletes and coaches will take place on May 5, while the competition will hold on May 6 with about 120 athletes from all over the country expected to take part. Also, traditional sponsors of triathlon in Nigeria, De United foods (Indomie), DHL, Linkage Assurance and Grand Oak Nigeria Limited are all backing the championship. Outgoing President of the Nigeria Triathlon Union (NTU), Dr Lanre Glover commended the sponsors and urged other corporate organisations to emulate the kind gesture. “I must commend the sponsors for staying by the NTU despite the harsh economic condition. It shows that they are lovers of sports and triathlon in particular. One can only hope that other organisations would take a cue from this kind gesture,” Glover added. Speaking further on the championship, the NTU boss stated that the competition, which will hold on Sunday would commenceat 8am with the medal and prize presentation slated for 3pm on the same day. He noted that there would be two categories of participants – youth (male and female) and the elites. Elite “In this championship we are going to operate the full triathlon, that is, Swim, Bike and Run; and Duathlon where the athletes are expected to Run, Bike and Run. We shall also be having the sprint distance and not full distance,” Glover added. He said that the total price money is N400, 000 for the Elite and the Youth with the NOC President Engr Habu Gumel donating the price money for the youth category, while the price for elite is donated by Linkage Assurance Plc. The winners in both male and female categories will go home with N50, 000, second will get N30, 000, while the third place finisher will get N20, 000 each.