Rhoda Omosunlola Johnston-Smith was a model for life-long achievement by women.  A distinguished educator and prolific writer, she was also known as an advocate for the inclusion of traditional culture in school curricula, and for her great skill in working with people. She left a legacy of about 30 published books. Her early books were college level texts for students of Domestic Science.  Later she wrote books about Nigerian traditions for children and their parents.  Her final books were reflections on her life.  She wrote and worked for most of her adult life, and accomplished all these while maintaining the roles of wife, mother, matriarch, and finally, beloved icon. Rhoda died on October 2, 2017, aged 92 in Lagos. Born in Lagos, the eldest of six children, she graduated from Lagos Baptist Academy, a boys’ school.  She was the only female member of her class, as well as the first female Nigerian student to pass the Senior School Cambridge Certificate Exam.  She received a scholarship to attend Gloucestershire Training College in the United Kingdom (UK), where she earned a Certificate in Domestic Science, an important academic major owing to its emphasis on subjects related to health and safety. In the late 1940s, Rhoda returned to Nigeria to work in Domestic Science, and received short-term assignments in various  regions, where she continued to learn.  She took her work seriously, and in 1957 published her first book for training teachers in Domestic Science.The highly popular, Miss Williams’ Cookery Book (Ikeja:  Longman Nigeria, 1957) was soon followed by two related texts. A married woman with a growing family, in 1958 she accepted the prestigious position as the first Principal of the Government Women’s Training Centre (GWTC) in Abeokuta.  There, she not only managed the new school, but also found the time to study Nigerian traditions and to begin to author books about these traditions. Two examples are, Iyabo of Nigeria (Claremont, CA: Claremont Graduate School, 1973), the first in a series of books about the life of a Yoruba girl, and Ise Awon Iya Ati Baba Nla Wa or “The Work of Our Fathers and Mothers” (Ikeja: Longman Nigeria, 1982). Written in Yoruba about the traditional occupations of Nigerian men and women, the second book won her Publisher, Longman, the NOMA Award for Children’s Literature in 1983. Abeokuta also proved a good place for Rhoda to meet Peace Corps Volunteers.  A number of PCVs had the good fortune to be assigned to teach at GWTC, and those who did, relish their professional experiences and friendship with Rhoda. Ann Hilferty was one of those PCVs. She arrived in Abeokuta in January 1963, assigned to teach English at GWTC. Her assignment had been switched on short notice from Eastern Nigeria to Abeokuta, in Western Nigeria.   Rhoda was quick to assess the needs of her new PCV, and she made administrative and professional arrangements to help Ann acclimatise to the culture and the Yoruba language, and to settle down to a successful work and social  life.  She helped Ann make useful contacts and connections, starting with her own family, colleagues, and notable townspeople. Rhoda also made arrangements for Ann to attend teacher-training workshops sponsored by the British Council Office at University College, Ibadan. Perhaps the most thoughtful thing that Rhoda did was to introduce Ann to a friend of Ann’s own age, Oyeronke Durojaiye, now Mrs. Lawoyin, who taught English at the Baptist Women’s College, right across the street from GWTC. Following the introduction, Ann and Ronke (as Oyeronke was fondly called), were destined to be friends. Together they visited places in Abeokuta, and Ann learned market bargaining skills in the Yoruba language.  The two young ladies had many opportunities to exchange thoughts, ideas and experiences in their different cultures.  At the end of Ann’s PCV service, she enjoyed the honour of taking part in Ronke’s wedding at Awe as a bridesmaid. There were incidents in Ronke’s life, too, in which Rhoda demonstrated humaneness and sincerity as a friend. Rhoda was ever ready to support and comfort in life’s dark days.  Her usual generosity and dependability were at play, for example, when Ronke’s book, written about her alma mater in Abeokuta and published in the United States, was to be introduced to the public in Nigeria. There were challenges about recovering publication costs, and Rhoda’s wisdom was there to guide. Rhoda’s role in the friendship between Ann and Ronke was an example of the visionary leadership from which many who knew her benefited. A three-way friendship was to develop among  Ronke, Ann and Rhoda which lasted across continents for more than 50 years, largely because of the  care and nurture Rhoda gave it. In 1968, after completing 10 years as Principal of the GWTC, Rhoda spent a year in New York as Curriculum Consultant  the New York State Department of Education. On returning to Nigeria, she worked for the Ministry of Education in Lagos State, where she rose to the position of Deputy Chief Inspector of Education. When her husband died suddenly in 1970, leaving her a single parent with three children, she continued to work until 1980, when she retired to spend more time with her family and community.  She also continued her writing, and was married again in 1982 to Sir Charles Oladokun Smith. By 1995, when she turned 80, Rhoda was still involved in writing about educational projects  and about her own life.  Encouraged by her family to share her more personal experiences, she  authored two books that are still widely read: Never a Dull Moment:  Memoirs of a Nigerian Educator,  1950-1966, (Lagos: Fadec, 1995), and Richly Blessed:  Autobiography of Rhoda Omosunlola Johnston- Smith (Lagos: Fadec, 2010). Rhoda had special gifts for friendship and for leadership, and they overlapped with each other. She loved and revered God, and lived an exemplary Christian life.  She loved Nigeria.  She lavished  affection on those she interacted with, whether they were family or friends, colleagues or simply acquaintances. She understood that the whole world is woven into an inseparable net.That realisation underpinned all her relationships. In discussions about people like Rhoda and her generation of achievers, one sometimes hears claims and debates about who was the first to achieve a particular distinction, or who was the most deserving of a particular award. However, Rhoda’s generosity, and the magnitude, quality, and significance of her achievements are not matters for competition or debate.  The value of her efforts can best be expressed by grateful acknowledgment, and encouragement of others who try to do likewise. Rhoda was pre-deceased by her first husband, Akinola Johnston, her elder son, Lanre, and her second husband, Sir Charles Oladokun Smith.  She is survived by two of her children, Ibipo Johnston-Anumonwo and Akintunde Johnston;  her five grandchildren: Obiageli, Timileyin, Kachikwu, Ayoyinka, and Ayatunde;  and the large family of her second husband, Sir Charles Oladokun Smith.  