•Okorocha calls for arrest of fleeing committee chair THE controversy trailing the Imo State All Progressives Congress (APC) Ward Congress deepened yesterday as the party’s chairman, Hilary Eke and the secretary, Obioma Ireagwu and the 27 local government chairmen differed on the outcome of the exercise. The party scribe and the local government chairmen insisted on their earlier position that the congress did not hold in the state, following the disappearance of sensitive materials meant for the conduct of ward congresses on Saturday. But the chairman in what appeared as a dramatic twist yesterday recounted his position that the congress could not hold because of the disappearance of the congress committee chairman, Ini Okorie. This was even as Governor Rochas Okorocha had called for the arrest and prosecution of the fleeing congress committee chairman and members of the committee. The governor, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr.  Sam Onwuemeodo,  expressed regret over the role of “the party’s National Organising Secretary,  Senator Osita Izunaso, who was not able to divorce his local and personal political interests or pursuits from his official responsibilities as the National Organising Secretary of a national party like APC”. The state APC Chairman, had on Saturday during a news conference alongside the governor, Izunaso and Police Commissioner Chris Ezike, told reporters that the congress could not hold because the sensitive materials meant for the conduct of ward congresses had been allegedly hijacked by the leader of the congress committee. Eke said: “I have received the nomination forms and I have distributed them to all those contesting at the ward level. But up till now, we have not seen the chairman of the committee who is with the sensitive materials. So, there is no way the congress can hold. What I am telling you is that the congress did not hold in Imo.” But less than 24 hours later, the chairman in another briefing organised by the Imo APC coalition group recounted his earlier statement and agreed that the ward congresses held across the state. According to him, “congress held in Imo. All those that feel aggrieved should take their grievances to the appeal panel. If congress did not hold in your ward, that does not mean congresses did not hold in the entire state.” But the secretary of the party, who addressed reporters on behalf of the party chairmen at the LGA level accused the state chairman of compromise, adding that the party officials were shocked by his “strange” reversal. Ireagwu said: “Congress did not hold in any part of Imo State because the sensitive materials were missing. We jointly held a press briefing on Saturday and the party’s chairman told the world that the congress could not hold because the sensitive materials and chairman of the congress committee were nowhere to be found .This press briefing was around 6:30pm on Saturday. ”  