A young woman, Oluwatosin Olaogun yesterday said she was hypnotised and swindled by an old man, who pretended to be a priest and two of his accomplices. Olaogun said the incident occurred around 12pm on Wednesday at Akerele, Surulere, Lagos after they asked her for direction. According to the lady, the supposed priest claimed he was one of the Reverend Fathers that came to Lagos to pray for some kids who had accident and were admitted at a hospital in Bode Thomas. Narrating her ordeal, Olaogun said she lost her phones and money to the swindlers, who she said were aged between 53 and 70 years. Olaogun wrote: “I was jazzed and duped at Akerele, Surulere, around 12pm yesterday by three old men. One of them pretended to be a Reverend Father and the other pretended to be passing. The last was the cab man. “The supposed priest was in a cab. They asked direction from me and I told them I don’t know. As I was about leaving, I helped them call another passer-by they were trying to stop. “The man asked the old man in the cab if he was one of the priests that came to pray for kids that had accident and were in a hospital at Bode Thomas and he said yes. “He said he saw a revelation that we should be careful crossing the road and travelling. As we made to leave, the other supposed passer-by said there must be a reason for the priest to say that (at this point, I was already under their control). “So, we crossed over and stopped the cab. Then, we got in and prophesies started concerning us. I was adamant at first but the jazz was strong. Unfortunately, I cannot recall anything they said in the car. “I could not even talk. I was just looking and that’s all I could recall. The priest then asked the other man to get down and he revealed what was going on in the man’s life and asked me to write it down. “I did and we later went to pick the man up. Then, I was asked to drop all I had on me. I did and that was it. Now, I lost my phone and money too. “It was after I got down from the cab that it dawned on me that three men had defrauded me. They used a red cab.”