Unity Bank Plc has rewarded three youths through its UNiFi product, the bank’s new Youth and Digital Banking initiative. The bank said the recipients – referred to as Unifiers – demonstrated innovativeness and distinguished themselves during an online competition. The winners are Tolulope Falope – Builders category, Mobolaji Oriola – Humanitarian category and Albert Kure – Lantern Category. The initiative was conceived as part of the bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) to empower youths who had developed definitive initiatives that had an impact on their immediate communities. Each was celebrated at the recent UNIFI-launch held at the University of Lagos (UNILAG). The candidates received half a million Naira each for displaying their projects online as part of the UniFiers challenge and garnering highest number of votes from fans who endorsed their projects in each of the project category. According to the General Manager, Products & Channels, Bonaventure Okhaimo, “the UniFiers project is aimed at encouraging creativity and motivating Nigerian youths”, adding: “The bank identified three broad categories for the competition, which included ‘the Lanterns; targeting science and technology innovation,  ‘the Humanitarians’, riding on social development and charity,  and the ‘Builders’ – highlighting excellence in Art, design and culture”. As the initiative continue to reflect the core essence of UniFi product offering, the Bank is taking the three winners through a mentorship programme intended to enhance the three winning projects and their promoters for the benefits of the society. UniFi is Unity bank’s new youth-focused proposition. In addition to an affordable Savings account offering, Unifi also offers a lifestyle app which provides customers with a full digital platform, packaged to appeal to undergraduates and young professionals. The Group Head Retail & SME Banking Group, Funwa Akinmade, described UniFi as a “product for the youth generation, which offers a full digital experience that does not require them to ever visit the bank’s branch”. UniFi offers youths an interface with Unity Bank, giving them access not only to standard banking like transfers and payments, but also the ability to make school payments, shop online, book movie tickets, among others. As an industry first, Unifi also allows the account holder to enjoy rewards and loyalty benefits, as well as refer friends and family to the platform.