The Lagos State Government has reiterated its commitment to the management of its biodiversity, insisting that it is an asset that should be preserved for posterity, the Commissioner for the Environment, Babatunde Durosimi-Etti, he said. Speaking at this year’s World’s Biodiversity Day in Lagos, he  recalled that the government’s support for preservation of biodiversity was demonstrated during the fifth Lagos Climate Change Summit in 2013. He said the Durban Commitment, which the government signed, adding that the government has since made the commitment part of its Local Action for Biodiversity (LAB) Programme and Development Plan. This year’s biodiversity day had as its theme: “Celebrating 25 years of action for biodiversity.” Dursimi-Etti, represented by the Special Adviser to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode on the Environment, Babatunde Hunpe, noted that the day was significant as it marked the adoption of the resolutions of the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD) by the United Nations in Nairobi, in 1992. He observed that the transition to green economy through biodiversity conservation, would strengthen the state’s and country’s economy, create jobs, reduce negative environmental impacts and ensure sustainability of the economy. The commissioner said in 2015, the ministry surveyed the five divisions in the state to assess the status of their wetlands which serve as habitats for her rich biodiversity. During the survey, 32 wetlands were recorded and only two wetlands were observed to still be in pristine state. Furthermore, he said the state government, in 2016, protected the two wetlands in their natural state for conservation. The two wetlands are located at Yafin in Badagry and Itoikin-Orugbo in Epe Division. Effort was being put in place to achieve one of the objectives of the state’s Sustainable Development Plan (SDP) of a balanced ecology rich in biodiversity that is protected, conserved and adapted sustainably, he added. “Today, as we join the rest of the world, let us see it as a clarion call to reflect individually on our role in biological resource conservation and rise up to the challenge of protecting the already stressed environment we live in. Our focus is to develop, in the nearest future, a legal framework for sustainable management of Wetlands and Biodiversity in the State and also prevent further unsustainable degradation of biodiversity in the state,” Durosimi-Etti said. He added that the state is blessed with a rich ecosystem and bio-diversity that provide for man’s food chain. He explained that prior to the celebration, Lagos had undertaken an identification and enumeration of trees in the metropolis. Also, the state in 2008 instituted a yearly tree planting day to enrich the biodiversity, with over seven million trees of various species planted across the state till date.