The former Governor of Borno state, Senator Ali Modu Sheriff  on   Friday,  May 4, 2018 met with Gov. Kashim Shettima, his political son at  Borno Government House, Maiduguri amidst thousands of supporters. Sheriff’s meeting with Shettima has finally put to rest speculations of his defection to the All Progressive Congress (APC), a party he once held sway before moving to the PDP. The duo held meeting at the multi-purpose hall of the government house Maiduguri after the former governor was received by Gov Shettima at his official residence within the same vicinity. Our correspondent reports that the entire government house was saturated with Sherriff’s supporters, some of whom including the former governor have not touched the ground of the government house since 2011 after he handed over to Gov. Shettima. Details of the meeting were not readily available as pressmen were excused out of the meeting after the opening prayers. Our  correspondent however  learnt that the meeting of the duo  is to perfect and strengthen all grey areas of interests from the two camps  ahead of the ruling All Progressive Congress, (APC)   proposed stakeholders meeting slated  for Saturday culminating to the National convention of the party in June. Other reliable sources also informed that the meeting was centered on reconciliation, apologies and the lingering interim leadership tussles of the party and governorship candidate and other elective positions come 2019 which has attracted vested interest both from the camp of the incumbent Gov. Shettima and Sen Ali Modu Sheriff. While he was denied a heroic reception at the national secretariat more than a week ago, Sheriff had quietly returned to his ward where he rejoined the APC as advised along with thousands of his supporters from the opposition party, People Democratic Party, (PDP) two days ago at the Gamboru Ngala IDPs Camp Maiduguri from the APC party LGA executives. In his characteristic manner, Sheriff had earlier embarked on a money spraying spree through the streets of Maiduguri as his long convoy drove into the government house as people chats, in admiration “Yirne! Yirne! Yirne! In Kanuri language, meaning, spray! Spray! Spray! 