Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the Central Senatorial District of Cross River State, Mr Cletus Obun,on Monday said the indefinite suspension ward congresses in the state remains in force. The congresses, which were to hold last Saturday in the state, were suspended indefinitely following confusions that arose about the alleged bias of the Congress Committee chairman, Dr Stan Ekezie. The congress materials had been put in custody of the Commissioner of Police. Speaking with reporters in Calabar on Monday, Obun said, “It is a demand from Cross River State that came as a resolution of all stakeholders in the state and was it unanimous that a vote of no confidence be passed on him (Ekezie) and the committee and the on the national leadership of the party and that no congresses should hold in Cross River State until the national convention is held. “Cross River would only lose the appearance of new executive in the wards, in the local governments and state. The constitution provides for that lacuna. We believe that a new leadership at the national level would help the party in the state to reap the 2019 elections. Rather than see this as a negation that would thwart the success of the party, it is indeed a cleaning surgery that is required. We are not going to take Panadol for hernia. It kills the pain but temporarily. We want a permanent solution and that is a surgical operation of Cross River APC and that is to wipe the leadership fro, top to bottom. “I am going to be a beneficiary if I remain in office as a Vice Chairman, but it would do this party no good, if we have to keep a perfidious leadership that is antithetical to the aims and objectives of the party and the intent and purpose for which the party was formed and the prospects and potential that this party holds for 2019. Therefore in summary, this party has resolved in Cross River State that the suspension of the conduct of the congresses in Cross River State remains in force. “In attendance in the meeting that came up with the resolution were the former governor of Cross River State, Clement Ebri, former members of the National Assembly, sitting Senator, sitting executive members of the state executive committee which passed a vote of no confidence him. That is the state congress and that is the highest decision making body at a moment like this. There is no congress of APC Cross River State and the suspension is in force. And anybody who wishes Cross River APC well should not do anything that breaches the peace. “The materials are in the custody of the Commissioner of Police. If the National Organizing Secretary, Osita Izunaso, has released photocopies of the materials or other materials for conduct of fresh congresses to suit his script in the state, let the world bear us witness that the materials sent to the state under Dr Ekezie Stanley are in the custody of the Cross River State Police Command signed by all stakeholders under the suspension of the congresses. This has been well documented. So anything coming as results from Cross River State APC congresses is nothing but a farce and the imagination and desperation of those who don’t wish APC Cross River well,” Obun said. Also speaking, the Vice Chairman of APC, Dr Eneji Chris-Valentine, concurred that the suspension remained in force. “There were no congresses because they were suspended. The conduct of Dr Ekezie showed that he was not going to give us free and fair election. For that reason, we told him that we lost confidence in him and can no longer hold the elections. The vote of no confidence passed on him was also passed on those who sent him, the national chairman and national organizing secretary. “We in the APC are saying we should all go to the field. If we fail let us fail honourably, if we win let us win honourably. Let us know the strength of APC. If we do a correct free and fair election it would have shown that APC is on ground or not on ground. “We would wait until when a new national chairman emerges that is going to give us free and fair congresses, then and only then shall we be ready for the congress. It is better to build your house slowly, steadily and on a sound footing than to build it shabbily and at the end of the day, the house crumbles. It is not a minus. It is an indication that the APC in the state is willing and ready for the right thing to be done,” he said. Cross River Police Commissioner, Hafiz Inuwa, said the materials were still in his custody. “Who released the materials to them to conduct the congresses? Even after 12 mid night, up to the time I am talking to you, the area commander has not told me that he has released the materials to anybody. He cannot release the materialswithout my instruction. “The stakeholders agreed amongst themselves after their disagreement and they said they will not entrust the congress materials to any of them hence they came to the Police and handed over the materials to the area commander in his office. “We prevented bloodbath on Saturday and if not for the quick intervention of the Police, what we would have heard today would have been devastating. We thank God for the police quick intervention.We are not politicians, so we are not into their games, ours is to maintain law and order,” Inuwa said. Resident Electoral Commissioner of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), Dr  Frankland Briyai said, “This morning I saw one of my electoral officers and they have not given me any report. I can only make a statement when I receive all the reports. I am waiting for the report, I wasn’t with them in the local government areas, it is only in the report that I can say, there was congress or not but for now let me wait until the report are submitted, when I receive the report, I will call the press and address them.”