The Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Bayelsa State Command, yesterday complained that 2,147 drivers’ licences were left unclaimed. Sector Commander Mr. Ikechukwu Igwe urged the owners to collect them before expiration. Speaking in Yenagoa at the West Africa Road Safety Organisation (WARSO) Day, Igwe said his command had sent 2,147 text messages to the owners with monthly reminders to pick up their licences. He lamented that despite the command’s efforts, people did not come to collect their licences. Igwe said to reduce the number of unclaimed licences, the command began patrols to check licences. He said: “It is on record that people have not been coming for their drivers’ licences. We have 2,147 unclaimed licences. People keep saying they have paid, but yet to collect their licences. The licences are there. “We have sent text messages to them. We have sent 2,147 text messages to people. We have been sending reminders, but people are not coming to collect their licences. That was why we began regular checking of licences. “We appeal to the people to collect their licences. Once you collect them and you are in doubt, you can check the state of your licences online. People should claim these licences before they expire.” The commander said the new process of collecting licences made it impossible to be issued with fake drivers’ licences. “Anybody who obtains a fake licence wants to obtain a fake one. The process is very clear. If you want a licence, go to the centre for physical capture. If you are not captured by our men at the specified place, you are obtaining a fake licence. “If you give somebody a passport photograph to procure a licence for you, it is a fake licence. Anybody that gives you a licence without passing through this process is giving you a fake licence,” he said. Igwe warned motorists against the use of old number plates, saying it posed danger to their vehicles, especially when stolen. He advised them to embrace the new number plate regime, which allows vehicle data to be captured by the corps and facilitates recovery of stolen vehicles. The commander appealed to motorists to maintain their vehicles in preparation for the rainy season. Addressing motorists at Ekeki Park, Head of Operations Mr. Anume Osuampa said drivers without genuine licences had no business on the road. He said they should ensure maintenance of their vehicles and stressed the importance of good tyres for safety. Osuampa advised them not to use phones while driving, adding that they should use seat belts for protection.