The assurance of President Muhammadu Buhari to sign the “Not Too Young To Run” bill comes as a great beacon light of hope to millions of Nigerian youths who have been seared in the flames of political marginalization. It is a healthy weather and a joyous daybreak for our nascent democracy, and a momentous breakthrough for the vibrant youths of our nation as it seems like in few days our constant clamour for inclusion in the elective and political superstructure of our great nation is about to receive a constitutional approbation. The political stratosphere is about to become more interesting as we will see young, experienced and brilliant minds share campaign soapboxes and political portfolios with the older generations come 2019. The bill, which is part of the process to amend the 1999 Constitution, seeks to reduce the minimum age requirements and entry for elective offices in the country. It will ensure that any individual who is a citizen of Nigeria, and has attained at least the ages of twenty-five and thirty years respectively, will have the statutory right to contest elective positions. Some of the positions up for grabs are as follows: membership of the National Assembly, membership of the House of Assembly, Governor and President. Below is the full details of the “Not Too Young To Run” Bill: provision as follows: A person shall be qualified for election as a member of – (a) the Senate, if he is a citizen of Nigeria and has attained the age of thirty years; and (b) the House of Representatives, if he is a citizen of Nigeria and has attained the age of twenty-five years. follows: A person shall be qualified for election under subsection (1) of this section if – (c) He is member of a political party and is sponsored by that party or he is an independent candidate A person shall be qualified for election as a member of a House of Assembly if – (b) he has attained the age of twenty-five years; (d) he is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that party or he is an independent candidate A person shall be qualified for election to the office of the President if – (b) he has attained the age of thirty; (c) he is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that political party or he is an independent candidate A person shall be qualified for election to the office of the Governor of a State if – (b) he has attained the age of thirty; (c) he is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that political party or he is an independent candidate EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM This Bill seeks to alter the Section 65, 106, 131, 177 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) to reduce the age qualification for the office of the President and Governor and membership of the Senate and House of Representatives and the State House of Assembly. The Bill also seeks to allow independent candidacy in Nigeria’s electoral process. President Buhari is perceived to be a man of integrity who keeps to his words and promises; the days to come will validate such conjectures. Let’s see if he would transform his promises from thin paper to thick action. Great Nigerian Youths….our time has come. We are the leaders of NOW.  Moses Emorinken is a reporter with The Nation Newspaper from the business desk. Twitter & Instagram : @memorinken