The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu on Tuesday urged secondary and tertiary institutions in the country to expose their students to more international competitions. Onu made the call when the management of Nigerian Tulip International College (NTIC) and the winner of the World Mathematics Team Championship, Mr Oluwafemi Adedairo visited him in Abuja. NTIC won the World Mathematics Team Challenge after defeating renowned schools across the globe. Onu emphasised the need to have well trained students in science in order to convert the enormous raw materials in the country. According to him, a mixture of knowledge and development of raw materials will not only create jobs but reduce importation and advertently grow our economy. “We are determined to make sure that Nigeria does not remain where people should rely on importing everything. “We need to move towards a new direction by producing and exporting. “Our economy should be based on knowledge and innovation that is what this victory represents. “We need to give young ones good education and expose them to more of such competitions,’’ Onu said. While commending the school for its quality of education and exposing the kids to international competitions, the Minister tasked the institution to sustain the feat. “The ministry is proud and will like to support the school in any way possible. “I am always happy anytime a Nigerian excels in international competition, it is a thing of joy and more importantly if it is younger ones. “It is more important when it is science or mathematics because he have the biggest economy in Africa and to make Nigeria the great nation, the younger ones must utilise mathematics and science. “No nation has become truly great without emphasising scientific innovations and mathematics. “Young people must prevail themselves in that direction so that we can stop importation and create jobs. “Let them become entrepreneurs by using their skills to convert the raw materials as well as create additional wealth for the country, we are the biggest economy but we want to go beyond that,’’ Onu said. Earlier, the Deputy Managing Director of NTIC, Mr Feuzullah Filbin, said that the feat wouldl serve as a source of inspiration to other students in the country. He said that the school also won 81 other medals in competitions within and outside the country. Adedairo said that winning the competition demonstrated that his efforts during preparations were not in vein. “It was difficult during preparations but now I know that my training was not in vein,’’ he said. The 14 year old Senior Secondary one (SSI) student said that he intends to study Petrochemical Engineering.