Former Lagos State Commissioner for Home Affairs Tunde Balogun was elected chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) at the weekend. Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the challenges that will confront the new leadership. A new chapter has opened in the life of the Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC), following the election of Alhaji Tunde Balogun, as chairman. Much is expected of the new helmsman, who succeeded  Otunba Oladele Ajomale. Ajomale succeeded Prince Abiodun Ogunleye, a former deputy governor, as chairman of the Alliance for Democracy (AD) in 2007. Under Ajomale, the political family won the governorship elections of 2007, 2011 and 2015. Party chieftains described the former chairman as a diplomat, a listening leader and a father figure who managed intra-party conflicts and remained loyal to the party leader, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu. Many challenges will confront the new chairman. He is elected to lead the chapter to victory in next year’s poll. Four years ago, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) made an in-road into the APC stronghold, winning state and federal legislative seats in five constituencies. The onus is on the new leadership to recover the ‘captured’ constituencies by mobilising people to endorse the APC flag bearers at the polls. During the electioneering, Balogun will have to contend with the challenge and crisis of participation. Many party chieftains are warming up as aspirants for legislative polls. The management of conflicts triggered by the stiff competition for power may tax Balogun’s energy to the brim. The crisis resolution mechanism in the party should be strengthened to permit the ventilation of grievances by aggrieved members. The chairman should not close the door of reconciliation to aggrieved chieftains who are firing salvos at the party from outside. However, disciplined should also be maintained to prevent erosion of party values and ethos. Balogun, a former Commissioner for Home Affairs, is perceived as a dynamic chieftain who will serve as a bridge between the old and younger party members. He has no history of political controversy. His deputy is Prince Sunny Ajose, one-time Head of Service and former special adviser. A tested party officer, Chief Funso Ologunde, was retained as Vice Chairman (Lagos West). He is a former Asssistant Publicity Secretary. Former polytechnic teacher and Agriculture Commissioner Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya was elected as Vice Chairman (Lagos East) while the former Acting Secretary, Akeem Bamgbola, succeeds his friend, Fuad Oki, as Vice Chairman (Lagos Central). The new party secretary is Dr. Wale Ahmed, an active and dynamic chieftain who has served as a member of the House of Assembly and Commissioner for Special Duties. His predecessors were Bamgbola, Eshinlokun Sanni, Charles Odugbesi, the late Lateef Raji, and Lanre Ogunyemi, a House of Assembly member who is eyeing the House of Representatives seat in Ojo Constituency. Ahmed’s deputy is Femi Saheed. The Woman leader, Chief Kemi Nelson, bowed out of office. She was succeeded by former House of Representatives member Jumoke Okoya-Thomas. Her assistant is Kehinde Babalola, daughter of the late Senator Richard Babalola, former Organising Secretary of the defunct Action Group (AG), led by the late Obafemoi Awolowo. The senatorial women leaders are Kofoworola Ajayi (West), YeyeFausat Gbadebo (East) and Fadekemi Otitolaye (Central). The state youth leader is Tayo Sanyaolu while Busola Akeredolu is his assistant. Alhaji Abdullahi Enilolobo, the leader of the Mandate Group returned as Organising Secretary, with Muftau Kadiku serving as his assistant. Pro-democracy activist Comrade Joe Igbokwe, leader of the Ndigbo in the APC, returned as publicity secretary like his deputy, Abiodun Salami. Also, The Legal Adviser, Ademola Sadiq and his deputy, Toke Benson, were returned. The election of Israel Akiode as the representative of the physically challenged in the executive committee was applauded by members. Historically, only former commissioners have always emerged as chairman of the dominant progressives parties in Lagos. The pioneer AD chairman, the late Alhaji Ganiyu Dawodu, was commissioner in Johnson and Jakande administrations. His successor, Ogunleye, was Commissioner for Finance in the Oyinlola administration. Ajomale was Commissioner for Special Duties in the Tinubu administration. Balogun served in the Fashola administration. All the officers ran as consensus candidates, following the agreement by party leaders and members to choose the best and affirm their candidature by voice vote. The move reduced the tension foisted by the inordinate struggle for ‘party power’ and its accompanying acrimony. The exercise, which was conducted by a congress committee from the APC national secretariat, led by a former federal legislator, Uche Ekwunife, was witnessed by Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) officials. Delegates who thronged the party secretariat along Acme Road, Ogba, were in one accord. There was no case of unruly behaviour. The congress was witnessed by the number one statutory delegate, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, his deputy, Drt. Idiat Adebule, Secretary to Government Tunji Bello, House of Assembly Speaker Mudashiru Obasa, his deputy, Sanni, former House of Assembly Speaker Yemi Ikuforiji, Third Republic House of Representatives Chief Whip Olawale Oshun, Presidential Senior Special Assistant on Diaspora Abike Dabiri, Senator Gbenga Ashafa, Senator Ganiyu Solomon, Mrs. Kemi Nelson, Alhaji Mutiu Aare, Prof. Tunde Samuel, Dr, Abayomi Finnih, James faleke, Jide Jimoh, Bayo Oshinowo, Toba Oke, Sesan Daini, Valentine Braimoh, and the party’s administrative secretary, Sola Abayomi. As delegates gathered at the state party secretariat for the authentic congress, a group, led by Oki, also stormed the Airport Hotel, Ikeja for a parallel exercise. Oki was selected as factional chairman. Social media reports fingered the National Legal Adviser, Dr. Muiz Banire (SAN), as the brain behind the rebellion. But, the eminent lawyer promptly denied his involvement, saying that he was not physically present at Ikeja. He said he was attending an Islamic lecture at Ilasamaja. Works, Power and Housing Minister Babatunde Fashola (SAN) did not attend any of the congresses. Oki’s false move was reminiscent of the 2000 experience when Dawodu, the god of Lagos politics, organised a parallel congress that made him a factional chairman of the AD, although Ogunleye had been elected as the authentic chairman. Dawodu’s men took over the Yaba secretariat of the party, but his leadership was not recognised by the national leadership. Oki, according to party sources, was allegedly instigated by some anti-imposition curators who have an axe to grind with the controlling leadership. Few years ago, he was briefly suspended from the party, following a rift with Ajomale, only to bounce back as vice chairman. Many chieftains described him as a long standing party man, a good mixer, a political trouble maker and yet, a vital asset whose energy can still be channeled to productive work, if properly guided. A source said he will retrace his steps once his masters back out of their futile efforts. Ekwunife chided Oki and his group, saying that the attempt to polarise the Lagos APC has failed. She said the factional chairman will not be recognised by the national leadership. “We are the ones sent by the national leadership to conduct the congress. If some people gather elsewhere, as it is being alleged, it is illegal, null and void,” said Ekwunife. Ajomale also frowned at the attempt to create an impression of crisis in the chapter, saying that the APC family is intact. “The party leaders, our senators, all our House of Representatives members, House of Assembly members, chairmen and councillors, the who is who are all here. If some people are somewhere else, outside this place, they are joking,” he added. A chieftain, Toba Oke, condemned the ‘rebels,’ who he described as thoughtless protesters. Those meeting at Ikeja are meeting in vain,” he said. A member of the Primary Panel, Alhaji Kabir Ibrahim, congratulated the chapter for a successful congress and wished it a successful outing in next year’s polls. He lauded Ajomale for his capability and Ambode, who he described as a young man painting Lagos red with his impressive performance. Balogun was conscious of the weight of responsibility on his shoulders. After receiving the baton from Ajomale, he and members of his team paid homage to the party stalwart, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, and sought for his advice and backing. The chairman thanked God for making the day a reality. He paid tribute to Tinubu, describing him as the greatest political strategist, who has the ability to raise leaders from his followers. “The Jagaban Borgu has become a brand, an African phenomenon, with diligence, focus; a pragmatic visionary,” he added. Balogun also thanked Ambode, saying that God has blessed him with physical energy, a clear vision and ability to implement his campaign promises with great zeal and competence. He applauded his predecessor for taking the chapter to its “present successful level.” Thanking party members for reposing confidence in him, he said: “I have an irrevocable commitment to take the Lagos APC the highest level.” 