KIT manager, Aniedi Isaiah popularly called commissioner by Akwa United faithful has finally found love. Notable Nigerian footballers had in recent years  dragged their partners to the pitch to demonstrate the symmetry between football and marriage last year, China-based striker, Anthony Ujah became an item on social media  with some beautiful pose with his  then wife-to-be, Elizabeth. Commissioner would demonstrated  he’s indeed  a ‘knight in shining armour’ for  Maryanne Isidore Uchacha  and what better way to show his love than to drag  her to the hallowed turf of the Nest of Champions while  both turned the stadium to a love nest with pre-wedding photoshoot. “Taking  our pre-wedding pictures with Akwa  United  jerseys and on the pitch at the Nest of Champions here in Uyo  is because I love my team and I always want to promote my team,” volunteered Isaiah. The 24-year-old said, “as the kits manager of Akwa United,   I am so used to the team’s colour; Godswill Akpabio International stadium is the best stadium in this country and since I spent most of my time working at the stadium during training and matches I decided to take my pre wedding pictures there and I’m so  proud of my club, Akwa United. Love story is all about fantasy and Jim Sturgess, English actor  put it in proper perspective: ‘ it’s about love at first sight-when you just fall in love instantly and will battle any obstacle to be with that girl.’ Hear Commissioner speaks as he purred on his 23-year-old partner  he took to the  registry at Essien Udim Local Government Area of Akwa Ibom State on Friday :“I met my wife at a sit out with friends and we hit it off ; started a relationship that has metamorphosed into marriage. “Immediately I  saw her, I knew she was the one. My spirit told me that she will be the best for me and I followed my spirit; believe me she is my type of woman. “Physically, Commissioner’s bean-pole stature is in sharp contrast to that of his partner but he’s sure about his choice, adding God is the bedrock of their relationship. “My woman is caring, loving, intelligent and above all, a God fearing woman,” he reiterated. “My wife is from a very good Christian home just like me and we are both from a very humble background. Love is what keep us together and by the grace of God I don’t think anything can come between us.” Meanwhile, the wedding ceremony between Maryanne and her beau will be completed today  at the  World of Faith Covenant Assembly in Uyo.