Thirty-eight structurally defective structures have been earmarked for demolition by the Lagos State Government, Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Rotimi Ogunleye said yesterday. Forty, he said, had been demolished in the past one year in the bid to reduce incidence of building collapse. The buildings, he said, were part of the 149 distressed structures identified in different locations of the state. Ogunleye spoke at the ongoing briefing by ministries as part of activities to mark the third anniversary of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode at the Bagauda Kaltho Press Centre in Alausa, Ikeja. According to him, structures illegally built on setbacks, drainage channels and incompatible uses which resulted in public complaint and disaffection. He said: “It gives me satisfaction to report that during the year under review, the state recorded a significant reduction in building collapse. This was achieved through collaboration with stakeholders as well as intensive post-construction audit of buildings by the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA).” On how the buildings were discovered, the commissioner said the ministry embarked on intensive audit through the Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory, adding that it visited the 57 councils of the state to inspect on-going construction sites and completed buildings suspected to be distressed. “Consequently, 1,842 sites were visited; 1,392 test advice notices were served and information on buildings identified as distressed were forwarded to LASBCA,” Ogunleye said. He said from April 2017 to March 14, a total of 2,023 planning permit applications were received with 1,237 approved and others at various stages of processing. Applicants, he said, could now get their permits within 10 days due to adoption of technology to fast-track the process through the Electronic Planning Permit (e-pp) Platform. To clear the backlog of applications and to encourage regularisation of developments without permit, the government, he said, also granted property owners six months amnesty starting from March 1 to August 31. Ogunleye urged owners to utilise the opportunity.