Lagos State Government has contributed 75 per cent to Health Insurance Scheme provided for its workers, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has said. Ambode, who spoke while enumerating his achievements in the past three years, said the workers in turn contributed only 25 per cent to the Scheme. The governor, represented by the Commissioner for Establishments, Training and Pensions, Dr Akintola Benson, said he approved the request of Joint Negotiating Council (JNC) on the contributory ratio of 25: 75 as against 40:60 earlier proposed by the government. He said: “With this approval, the workers will contribute 25 per cent towards the scheme while 75 per cent will be borne by the state government. “The Ministry of Establishments, Training and Pensions, amongst other duties, is saddled with maintaining industrial peace within the Public Service. The Industrial Relations Department in the Office of Establishments and Training’s main obligation is to support the government and its workforce in creating a safe, conflict-free and productive workplace by providing strategic and expert advice and counsel on industrial relations. “The JNC is a statutory meeting between the government and the Unions in the state Public Service and it holds twice in a year. The meeting provides a forum for interaction between the government officials and all the Industrial Unions operating in the state Public Service to address and decide for implementation, issues pertaining to the welfare of the staff as well as to promote industrial harmony in the service. “There are 17 unions in the state public service, which formed the National Joint Negotiating Council (JNC) are Amalgamated Union of Public Corporations, Civil Service Technical and Recreational Services Employees (AUPCTRE), Agriculture and Allied Employees Union of Nigeria (AAEUN); Non – Academic Staff Union of Education (NASU); Nigeria Civil Service Union (NCSU); Nigeria Union of Teachers (NUT); Medical and Health Workers’ Union of Nigeria (M&HWUN), among others. ‘’Some of the issues successfully resolved included replacement of promotion examination with structural training; health insurance scheme contribution ratio of 25: 75 by the employees and government; provision of 12 utility vehicles to 12 unions in JNC; yearly retreat for the union leaders; first batch of international training for the union leaders; and allocation/conversion of part of the public service plaza under construction as office space for JNC.’’