Kano State Governor, Abdullahi Ganduje, on Monday dismissed claim of marginalization by some members of the nPDP in the All Progressive Congress (APC), saying all of them have benefited tremendously from the present administration. Ganduje, who is also a member of the nPDP caucus that dissolved into the APC, said he was astonished by such claims. He insisted that all of them are being carried along by the present administration. Ganduje, who stated these during a media parley at Government House in Kano, said people like the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, have no reason to complain about anything. He said: “Some few members of the nPDP  (which is not even a group in that nomenclature, because now we are one in the APC) went to the party’s national secretariat and presented a paper that they were marginalized. “The majority of the defunct nPDP (which I am a member) also went to the national secretariat to mention that those that were there earlier in the name of nPDP were not the true representatives of the nPDP. Also, we indicated that we are not part of those who are being marginalized. “I will give you an analysis that will show that they are not being marginalized. First of all, the Senate President is from the defunct nPDP, he is now the Senate President. He controls very important Committees in which he singlehandedly approved chairmen of 30 committees. That is not marginalization. “You have the governor of Kwara State who is also a member of the nPDP. He has a whole government. How can he say he is marginalized? “You have the Speaker of House of Representatives who is a member of the nPDP and a Speaker under the banner of APC. How can he say he is being marginalized? He controls lucrative committees. He appoints the chairmen and membership of the Committees singlehandedly without interference from the executive. How can he say he is being marginalized? “So, if you take this issue one by one, you can see that the issue of marginalization is not there. Therefore, we the majority of the nPDP are disclaiming the allegation and we believe that we are not being marginalized. “The Governor of Adamawa state is nPDP and he is now a governor. I am from nPDP and I am now a governor. We have most of  us from the nPDP who are Senators and House of Representative members. “So, I believe that there must be something underground. You know Mr. President is facing a difficult moment, corruption is fighting back. So, you will soon see why marginalization is coming out now. This is not the issue of marginalization, this is the issue of corruption fighting back. So, you will see what will happen.”