The Federal Government has said plans have reached advanced stage to deliver 100, 000 annual affordable homes as social housing scheme in the country. Minister of State for Power Works and Housing II, Surv Hassan Zarma disclosed this during inspection of Lafia, National Housing Programme (NHP). He said low income earners such as artisans, commercial vehicle operators among others would have access to the proposed affordable houses at sum of N2 million and N5 million for One-bedroom and Three-bedroom flats respectively. He explained that the housing project initiated by Office of the Vice President will be supported by the Federal Ministry of Finance but entirely different from the current NHP being executed in the 34 states across the Federation. According to the Minister, who is the Chairman, Presidential Initiative on Family Home Fund, government is committed to end housing deficits in the country. His words: “The 100, 000 houses is family home fund that is purely social housing programme. The cost will not be as high as this; it will be much more lower. “We are thinking of a One-bedroom that will cost N2 million and a Three-bedroom that will cost maximum amount of N5 million.” The Minister added that, “It will be as simple as possible, as simple as it can be affordable and as simple as it can adapt to our cultural backgrounds. He applauded progress of work at the Lafia NHP stressing that it will be beneficial to the people. Earlier, at his visit to the Nasarawa State Governor, Tanko Al-Makura, the 22.5MVA Capacitor Bank in Keffi will improve power in the state while the Loko road and Loko bridge of N51 billion are expected to boost social economic well-being of the people and state. He noted that the usual movement of people and goods through Jos to the South East will cease and it will be from Nasarawa into Taraba State. He pleaded for more lands for second phase for the NHP, stressing that the state will largely benefit from the scheme. “As chairman of the Family Homes Fund, directly under the Ministry of Finance, we are appealing for more lands for the project which will benefit your people and Nigerians at large,” he stated. Al-Makura, who was represented by his Deputy, Silas Agara, in his remarks, commended the Federal Government for infrastructure projects in the state. He described them as an attestation to President Muhammadu Buhari commitment to delivering on his campaign promises. He said about 13.8 hectares was donated to the Federal Housing Project and restated his commitment to provide additional land for second phase of the project. He noted that over N65 million was paid to communities as compensation for the lands donated to the federal government. Speaking on need to consider local contractors, Governor urged the Minister to kindly review the process. He emphasised the road projects will change face of the state stressing that the power project will boost business activities as well. However, the Governor noted that the Toto – Nasarawa – Abaji road already became “den of kidnappers”, thus need for the federal government to consider the road rehabilitation. While explaining that the bulk of Rice consumed by the state comes from farmers at the River Benue shore, he said it would improve livelihood of the people and traders plying the road. The governor emphasised that the state deserves more in terms of infrastructure development, adding that the Lafia – Keffi 65 kilometres road had attained more than 40 per cent completion. “The road will improve food security in the state and FCT by the time it’s completed. Most of our people in Nasarawa State are farmers and this will help create market for the farm produce and reduce food prices,” he stated. 