Fortuna in Lagos is a story from an film  Un-shot script written in 2006. Fortuna in Lagos is a fictional piece of work , and is of interesting uniqueness because of the down- to-earth truthful fear  exhibited by a mortal towards an immortal. Normally, authors write about love between mortals and immortals irrationally. Is it really easy for a man to fall in love with a Goddess?.    A personality who you know has some strange powers beyond your knowledge comes to love you and you would also love the personality back?  Of course, this only happens in movies. No author has yet written about fear to love an immortal even with the feelings growing from the mortal. Funny though, movies and books have established it in the minds of persons that it is easy to just go ahead and love, date  or marry an immortal but Fortuna in Lagos tells how Chris kills his affections, feelings and love for Fortuna because of his fear of her powers. The first edition of this 167 page e-book boasts of 54,761 words under ISBN 9781387603534 Is sold for 5.50 USD online for now. What is Fortuna in Lagos by Austin Anyai about? Fortuna in Lagos by Austin Anyai  is a story about the truthful fear of confessing love to a higher power in a world of lower and same power . The goddess Fortuna escapes from trouble on planet Venus  and meet with Chris in the city of Lagos who his afraid to confess his love for her. The publications of this book was first done online at amazon on February 19 2018 and lulu.com on march 1 2018. It is about the goddess Fortuna, a resident of planet Venus. She possesses the power to give a chance for an attempt at something worthwhile which  result in the acquisition of Fortunes. Fortuna was loved by Venus de milo, the queen because of her uniqueness, respect and fear for the ruler of planet Venus the mention of Fortuna’s name as a possible choice for the throne angered the heiress Venus, who attacks Fortuna from which she escapes  and find her self on earth in Lagos. Really , Fortuna wasn’t interested in the throne, she respected princess Venus and enjoys her lonely life. Mortal men have stopped meeting her because while many hate working hard to get a fortune,Other want it in a flash, impatient with the open chance she gives for the manifestation of the fortunes there of. RASIED ISSUES :The story show cases Lagos and it attracting tourism beauties . A few of its aquatics splendor, cultural heritage especially the eyo masquerades.  The new transport facilities that has made the city a rising development among its kind. The emergence of new sites on the island part of the city, where water has been pushed  back for the creation of estate and mansions with sea views and overlooking oceans. The ghetto and street of Lagos that have in printed determination on the minds of many raw talent and ideas and propelled there exit from the popular face to face rooms to bungalow and duplex in rising estates of the city. It also clamors for investing in the show biz and entertainment industries of this most populated city in its continent. Appreciating and giving a comprehend to the e-book Fortuna in Lagos by Austin Anyai takes a lot of empathy because one needs to look seriously at the scenario of a love between man and god, a lower power and a higher power, an ordinary and a powerful personality. EFECT OF THE BOOK: In the fiction movie  twilight, Bella falls in love with the vampire Edward, with full knowledge of his  abilities and power. She knew he could kill her with his finger, she also knew he was an immortal  and would never grow old but like all movies she falls in love and even marries him. In Fortuna in Lagos by Austin Anyai the love Chris has  for the goddess Fortuna couldn’t be demonstrated. It was better kept has admiration from afar. Yes Fortuna was pretty, fair to look upon an endearing  but according to Chris, which rational human being would really fall in love and go ahead to have a physical, loving and romantic relationship with a goddess. Even the popular song by SIR VICTOR  UWAIFO—GUITAR BOY, Calling for a song to be done for a mermaid popularly called  mammy water in pidgin whenever a human see her. It sounds like a joke from the music maestro. He advises  the mortal not to run rather, to sing a song of sweet melody, a song  of love. But we all know that this only happen in fiction movies and books.  Many youth have a chance of becoming something big in life especially when they reside in a city like Lagos. The musicians and comedians of this land can attest that about 90% of them have their egg hatched  in Lagos if not laid . The open arms , the foundation and investments coupled with the development and population of the citizen and non—citizens residing have given open doors to many and propel them to becoming stars today. So Chris and others have been able to get the avenue and stepping stone to greatness with what  Lagos has laid for those who do not seek the white collar jobs which of course is packed full with on vacancy always. Chris was a young man trying to get his talent to use and he could sing, he knew he had learnt it from the street after much teaching from  goons and hustlers but lacked the confidence to face a stage crowd of which he failed when he finally atemted. but who would give him and many others  another chance?. The story depicts what the city of Lagos has to offer both the residence and tourists alike. Lagos is a mega city that has a lot to offer everyone no matter the industry one belongs.  The entertainment and hospitality industry has taken the highest share of occupying Lagos. The city boasts of night clubs, large entertainment ground and hotels, including (5 stars). It boasts of call-cabs and taxis, call- bikes, all at the top of your android internet enable phones. Although Chris was a fine young man who passed through the street of his area in Fadeyi and came out clean without any connection with drugs, robbery, cultism, rape, and other social vices, he was also one of those youth that love to show-off with pretty ladies. Artistes like to be identified with very pretty women of which Lagos is full of. Their main motive is to cruise the city, walk on red carpets into shows, sit with the prettiest at entertainment and relaxation sport, appear on top magazines and have these pretty women as their baby mamas . Ann was pretty and Chris had seen that she wanted ready made men. He notice her lust and seductive antics towards Johnny T, the second richest musician in Lagos, but Chris still wanted to have her as his girl. He wanted  hails and respect for being the boyfriend of such a pretty dark-skinned lady like Ann. OMMITED ISSUES: The author omitted certain tourism places that Lagos has been beautified with recently. new mini parks for amusement relaxation and sight-seeing .Zoos, conservations center  and wild-life parks have sprung-up and found a place on the island. The new security outfit of the city called neighborhood  watch and the citizen funded security trust fund have drastically reduce bank robberies and kidnappings that formally challenge the city. I would have loved to read more about Ann and the funny Jesu-seun Ojuelegba. Austin Anyai wrote that Ojuelegba does not mean eyes of the cane-holder. This is controversial because many believe “OJU” is  a Yoruba word for eyes aslo a description of the area Ojuelegba on the internet boastfully translate “OJU” as eyes. I did some research by asking some Lagosians and Yoruba and scholars who regretted their assertion of the meaning of “OJU” There  are other Yoruba words that have “OJU” in them Yoruba words like Oju-Ona  (the road place/path), Oju-Ofurufu (the hair place/path) e.t.c. The book also brings me to the knowledge that Ojuelegba is a household name, bore by Lagosians who are indigenous sons of the soil. The  book also refuses to mention the nation where Lagos is. But according to the author, his focus is on Lagos and the beauty it offers tourist to behold . Also Austin Anyai did not mentioned in book. He also omitted the largest church visited by foreigners in this continent  i.e. The synagogue church of all nations led by TB JOUSHUA. There is no doubt that, the amount of foreign nationals that visits the synagogue are nearly half of the city’s recorded visitors. The E-book Fortuna in Lagos by Austin Anyai brings to fore the issue of the new addiction to the luxury of been in Lagos. It tells of the opportunities that await every skilled talented and innovating youth that are either residence or non residence, it also welcomes both white caller business and solution- providers who wants to join hands with the city’s government . The different hidden desires and open ones of the characters mentioned cannot be over emphasized.  Chris desires Ann but Ann want Johnny T. Manuel wants wealth, but get a sugar mommy. Seun desires pretty curvy women, but get none. Venus De-milo is disappointed that the next ruler of planet Venus is a whore to mortal. Venus the heiress  desires love and sex more than anything else. Artemis desires a lover but want to remain pure forever. We all have costly desires , but because of the thought of the satisfaction to be personally derived, we do not look beyond it . Biggest of all my criticism his ability to brings us new and unpopular mythology of other immortals especially  goddess of the popular roman and Greek empires. Movies and book have always featured Zeus, Poseidon, pazeus , Hercules , Thor e.t.c , but Austin Anyai in the book Fortuna in Lagos reviwed women  immortals that have not received any form of recognition for their existence and powers. Funny though his ideas at connecting their personalities with their origin, love, battles and decision makes the book really interesting to read. RECOMMENDATION:I recommend the book “Fortuna in Lagos” by Austin Anyai  to all citizens of great nations and beyond. To those who have never been to  Lagos since birth, to all those seeking a city for vacation and tourism in a populated, friendly, hospitality,  aquatic city where under-development is fast becoming a thing of the past which is also a reason for the next business to invest, to all lovers of practical things and actions rather than abstract theories- a down to earth book,  and to all who love women and urban contemporary stories. the book is a sure bet for a sweet siesta and a little or more of things that make the city fondly called Lasgiddy. COMMENDATION;I commend the author, Austin Anyai for not waiting and wasting his time and talent in writing for help to publish the hard copy of this book. With this online publication,  on this two big publishing renowned companies, Austin Anyai has put himself on the market for either an author agents or a movie production companies to come calling. Also thumbs-up to him for writing about Lagos yet not connected or connecting to any of the citiy’s personalities or officials for favor recognition and recommendation. Despite his condition as a glaucoma patient, he his not hindered, obstacle or submerged in his unfortunate visual , impaired challenge. He his a first-time author who wants to be criticized for his talent as a book-write. His  innovation in creating this new and Untold-of characters from his fictional ideas picks him out among up and coming writers who started late but heading for a place beyond where writers finish. The ebook could be gotten online at Lulu and Amazon