Vice President, Yemi Osinbajo has said the Federal Government reconises the importance of improved security in boosting Nigeria’s tourism potential. He said this while performing the grand opening of The Dome entertainment centre in Abuja on Friday. Prof. Osinbajo said the government acknowledges the importance of peace and security within the nation so as to encourage tourism as a means of developing the economy. He congratulated the Chairman of The Dome, Mr. Obiora Okonkwo, on the achievement of revamping the facility to a world-class standard. The vice president said entertainment and tourism were clearly new money makers for Nigeria. “This is like Dubai, for example Dubai produces just about as much oil that we produce on a daily basis yet oil is just 20% of Dubai’s entire revenues, most of it is in some form of tourism or entertainment or the other 80%. “I’m quite certain that this is just the beginning for the dome entertainment center and that we should really expect a lot more. Nigerians are doing great things in the entertainment industry, whether is music or film,” he said. Mr. Okonkwo expressed his gratitude towards the invited guests for honoring the invitation and assured that the entertainment centre would contribute to the nation’s gross domestic product (GDP). He said: “I am glad people responded to our invitation,” he said. “I am grateful for the VP who has agreed to come. It shows the strong importance they attach to the creative industry and the strong meaning they give to the term ‘diversification’ of the economy because I believe that this industry can offer a whole lot to the Nigerian GDP of properly supported, if the opportunities here are harnessed. “Abuja holds a whole lot of international conferences and these people usually come with a lot of resources. It’s only when you provide a place for them to spend it that you extract the VAT that will in turn get to the government. We must not allow anything of this nature to pass us by.” The remodeled entertainment center consists of diverse facilities like the renowned Camelot Spa, the Francis Hotel, a bowling alley and arcade, Bodytrust Fitness Center, and Noni’s pizza parlor. The event attracted many national and international personalities from countries including South Africa and India, such as members of the UN, Nigerian artist Flavour, South African singing group Mafikizolo, the top six Big Brother Naija housemates, and Miss Africa 2017.