Nigeria loses N1 billion daily to foreign vessels, ac-cording to official sources. A senior official of the Federal Ministry of Finsnce (FMoF), who craved anonymity, said there were many qualified Nigerians in shipping, but that they had no jobs. Using foreign vessels was not in the best interest of the nation because when the dependent country has a crisis, Nigeria may have challenges lifting its crude, he said. The Nigerian Maritime Administration and Safety Agency (NIMASA) Director-General, Dr Dakuku Peterside, said the management of the agency was determined to end foreign domination of the capital-intensive crude oil-lifting business by making indigenous shipowners participate in the highly-lucrative enterprise. Peterside, who spoke with The Nation at the weekend, said the involvement of indigenous shipowners in the trade would be in national interest. Their participation, he noted, will provide employment for many Nigerians, reduce crime, generate more revenue and ensure security at sea and around the ports. “We are doing everything possible to involve the indigenous shipowners in the crude oil lifting to provide jobs for Nigerians and put an end to foreign domination of the trade. Everybody in the country knows that it would be more profitable for a Nigerian ship to lift our crude and the Federal Ministry of Transportation and NIMASA can be trusted to deliver on that agenda,” Peterside said. He decried the monopoly in the sector, adding that it was affecting Nigerians. He urged International Oil Companies (IOCs) to engage qualified Nigerians in the lifting of hydrocarbons, and promised to assist in building indigenous operators’ capacity to participate more actively in ferrying oil and gas. He assured operators that the apex regulatory agency was ready to enforce its statutory responsibilities, especially in preserving and protecting the marine environment from the adverse impact of oil exploration and other commercial activities, warning that the NIMASA would no longer tolerate a situation where IOCs renege on the payment of levies due to it as enshrined in its enabling instruments. He said the maritime sector was the soul of the economy. “Apart from the fact that most of the oil and gas exploration, which is the major revenue earner of the country is done in the maritime environment, vessels are needed to transport these products from one point to the other making the maritime sector integral to the whole economic process,” he said. He expressed concern that NIMASA as a regulatory agency of government had been grossly misunderstood and assured stakeholders of the commitment of the Muhammadu Buhari administration to not only engender the development of local content in the maritime industry but also push for the review of the Cabotage Act to make it more beneficial to Nigerians. A member of Nigerian Shipowners Association (NISA), Mr Fola Badmus while commending NIMASA for its efforts, said at the last count, indigenous investments in the sector have created over 40,000 jobs across the hydrocarbon value chain. “We will gain about N1  billion  a day, if we use our own indigenous ships to lift crude oil. This is because the country carries more than two million barrels of crude a day at the rate of $2.50 per barrel,” he said, adding that the huge sum would have accrued to the country and created employment for at least 5,000 professionals in the sector. “The advantage is that indigenous ships will get their foods, water, tug boats, chandelling, engineers and rags from Nigerians,” he noted