With the aim of attracting investment and tourism to Nigeria, the Embassy of Nigeria in France, come Saturday May 19, at Le Pavilion Dauphine, Paris, Saint Clair, will host hosts business community and friends of Nigeria to an exhibition of some of Nigeria’s finest art, cuisine, fashion, music, film and traditional games, on the platform of the Nigerian Creative Arts Exchange. Described as a platform for promoting cultural exchange and diplomacy and enhancing social and economic collaboration between Nigeria and the world, The Nigerian Creative Arts Exchange also aims to develop channels for commerce between Nigeria and France. Making the announcement at a press conference held a Wheatbaker Hotel, Ikoyi, Lagos last Friday, the Nigerian Ambassador to France, Dr. Modupe Irele said that the Nigerian Creative Arts Exchange will create a forum where participants can make enquiries, network and build useful links, in a relaxed setting. According to her, the Nigeria Creative Arts Exchange will beam the light on other fresh trading products as it focuses on Nigeria’s rich creativity and presents a diverse display of products in the arts and the wider Nigerian culture, enabling the French business and travelling public to better understand the tremendous opportunities that lie in this jewel of West Africa. “Our art, music, film, fashion and in recent times, our food too, have caught and received international attention and acclaim. They have shown that they are industries that can and in many cases already are successfully operating internationally, at the requisite high standards,” she added. The Nigerian Creative Arts Exchange will feature among its creative industry giants, including acclaimed visual arts curator, Bisi Silva; Ituen Bassey Andrea Iyamah, Lanre Da Silva, Chef Fregz, Kemi Lala Akindoju, Adekunle Gold and a host of others. The exhibition is supported by Nigeria’s Bank of Industry, Emzor Pharmaceutical, UBA, Total, Lagos State Government, CIUC Consulting, Institut Francais, NEPC, CCI France Nigeria, SJ Tours, Aart of Life Foundation, French Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Media Partners include Ebonylife TV, Bella Naija, Pulse NG, Channels TV, Wish Africa and Red TV.