A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Rivers State, Chief Eze Chukwuemeka Eze, has said members do not need to rig to kick Governor Nyesom Wike out of Government House, Port Harcourt, next year. He described as unfortunate and disgraceful, unacceptable and sad that Wike could use N500 million to sponsor a smear campaign against the Commander of Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS), Mr. Akin Fakorede, an assistant commissioner of Police (ACP). Eze noted that the governor is desperate to remove Fakorede, after his failed attempts through the failed #endSARS campaign to blackmail the Rivers commander of F-SARS. He said members would not fold their arms and leave a professional police officer, who is desirous of a better Rivers, to be run down by a misguided governor. The APC chieftain said: “For Wike to budget such a whopping N500 million for a programme to run down an innocent police officer, who is doing his work diligently and satisfactorily for the people of Rivers State, at a period when Wike can neither pay the salaries of the civil servants in the state nor the pensions of our retired civil servants, is really unfortunate. Rivers governor is also unable to create jobs or engage any of the thousands of unemployed Rivers youths. “Wike, after sponsoring series of campaign of calumny against Fakorede, he has gone further to place advertisements on the front and inside pages of major national newspapers to sustain the blackmail against the Rivers commander of F-SARS.” Eze lauded the Inspector-General of Police (IGP),  Ibrahim Idris, for exonerating Fakorede of all allegations levelled against him and for authorising the officer to sue Wike and the Rivers government for the false, malicious and libellous publications against him. He added that the governor is well known for rigging elections and felt that everybody will do the same thing. The APC chieftain urged Wike to apologise to the commander of F-SARS, retract the damaging advertisements and pay the N2 billion damages.