A final year Pharmacy student of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in Ile-Ife, Osun State, Yusuf Abidoye, has died of abdominal pain. His classmate relives how the on-going Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) strike contributed to his death. OLUWASEUN FAROMBI reports. The Faculty of Pharmacy of the Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in Ile-Ife, Osun State, is mourning the death of one of its own, Yusuf Abidoye. Yusuf, a final year student, died four days after he took ill in his hostel. He was rushed to the Health Centre after he complained of abdominal pain, resulting in diarrhoea. He was said to be suffering from Hepatitis B. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the Health Centre could not manage the condition. This led to his being referred to the OAU Teaching Hospital (OAUTH). There was confusion when the news of Yusuf’s death broke. His colleagues were in shock for several hours until the Pharmaceutical Association of Nigeria Students (PANS) and Pharmaceutical Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (PMSSN) leaders addressed the final year class on it. The late Yusuf, they said, died at 9am on Thursday. PANS President Jesujoba Ojelabi said Yusuf’s death came as a rude shock to all final year students because he was very popular and he was good in sport. “He was a brilliant student and talented sportsman. He was also a diligent, strong and dedicated PANS’ member,” Jesujoba said. His close friend, Oluwasanya Akanmu, a 500-Level Pharmacy student, recounted how the deceased battled to stay alive, blaming Yusuf’s death on the ongoing Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) strike. Narrating how it happened, Oluwasanya said: “I was at the faculty on Monday when the late Yusuf called me. I noticed his voice was faint and he sounded tired. It was unlike him. Just before I asked what was wrong, he told me he was admitted in the school clinic. He said he needed me to get some things for him. “I rushed to the clinic and I met him. He told me what he wanted. I had just bought those things at the Students Union Building (SUB) when he called again to inform me he was being transferred in an ambulance to the OAU Teaching Hospital. I waited for the ambulance at the SUB, so that I could join them. I saw him looking weak and his eyeballs were yellow. I suspected jaundice. He complained of diarrhoea and haematuria (presence of blood in the urine).” By the time the ambulance got to the teaching hospital, Oluwasanya said the late Yusuf could not walk. The deceased was helped out of the vehicle and he was carried into the Department of Haematology, where a doctor briefly attended to him. Because of JOHESU’s strike, the deceased was referred to Seventh Day Adventist Hospital. But, he could barely move his body, as he was said to have been dehydrated. It was learnt that the OAUTH haematologist, who attended to the late student, examined his vital signs and asked questions about the drugs administered on him in order to give a clear analysis of his condition before his referral to the Seventh Day Adventist Hospital. Oluwasanya said: “A gastroenterologist came to also examine Yusuf and wrote down his observations too. Both the haematologist and gastroenterologist wrote letters of referral, addressed to any consultant available at Seventh Day Adventist Hospital. All this took more than an hour at the OAUTH and the late Yusuf was writhing in pain. “By the time we got to Seventh Day Adventist Hospital, his condition had deteriorated. There was a crowd of patients in the wards, ostensibly because of the JOHESU strike. When he was admitted, his National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS) card was rejected. So, we had to pay an emergency bill of N2,000 and buy medical consumables that would make them treat him. “On getting to where to make the payment, there was a long queue and it took more than 30 minutes to reach my turn. To my surprise, the consumables were estimated to cost N5,210, which was more than what we expected. We bought the materials. “When medical infusion was being done on him, a doctor asked us to go run 10 medical tests, which cost N15,060. At this time, we needed to wait for his father, who was already coming from Ibadan. At this time, Yusuf was already in tears. There was no doctor to attend to him. I looked around to plead with the doctors on ground. It was that time I was told another test had to be carried out first before a doctor would be able to attend to him. That sounded ridiculous to me because no doctor took time to check the medical profile and letters sent by his doctors in OAUTH.” When the late Yusuf’s father arrived in the hospital, he paid for the test whose result would be ready hours later. Oluwasanya said: “When the result came, we discovered his Premature Ventricular Contraction (PCV) was nine per cent and his white blood cell count was about 48,000+, which was extremely high and indicated an infection. The doctor said he needed three pints of blood. Two pints of blood were bought from a man whom the hospital referred to as a “commercial donor”. The late Yusuf’s father paid N10,000 for the blood and N12,000 to screen the blood samples. At the point of presenting the blood sample for transfusion, CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the doctor who was to administer the blood left and asked a young doctor on internship to do it. Oluwasanya said: “We stayed with Yusuf throughout the night while his dad left for his sister’s place to prepare for the next day. The late Yusuf woke up the following morning and his condition was stable. We talked and cracked a joke. Then, he ate. Thirty minutes later, the abdominal pain returned and he vomited all he ate. “I waited until his father came around 8am before I returned to school. But, our other friend, Gafar, was there till around 10:30am when no doctor had arrived. I was told doctors came in the evening. When they reviewed his case, they moved him to another ward and asked for two pints of blood. He was half asleep and only spoke briefly by the time I left the hospital. I didn’t know it was the last time I would talk to him. I was told he was on oxygen. “Gafar called me the next morning and told me our friend had died. I rushed to Seventh Day Adventist Hospital and I saw his father in tears. While clearance was being done, the hospital still forced the family to pay N69,000 before the body was released. To me, it was like we paid them to kill him.” The Dean of the Faculty of Pharmacy, Prof Erhun Wilson, said the late Yusuf was buried at the university cemetery according to Islamic rites.