The greatest tournament on earth is just a few weeks away and the world of football is abuzz with anticipation and excitement already! Russia 2018 has five representatives from the African Continent, including Egypt and Nigeria. The previous editions of the tournament have brought out the African stars like Roger Milla, and Didier Drogba, who have stolen the show with their splendid skills and energetic performances. And with some of the most sought after names in the lineup, we are sure you would be hooked on to your television screens for a month or so as soon as the first action begins. The Top African Players You Would Want to Watch Out For Let us look at a fewAfrican Stars to watch out for in Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup. Kelechi Iheanacho Having represented the Super Eagles 14 times in the senior level already, this 21 year old striker is deemed to be one of Africa’s brightest young players. His trio with OdionIghalo and Victor Mosses has been a key to Nigeria’s dominance in the qualifiers having lost only once in the campaign. His stellar performance for his nation, 9 goals in 13 appearances, promises a performance worth watching out for in Moscow. KalidouKoulibaly You know this central back from his fantastic season at his club, Napoli. His part in the club winning the crown of Serie A almost after thirty years has been instrumental. Having scored 4 times for apoli this season, this towering defender is also a threat at the other end. His calm yet commanding presence at the back made him a front runner of the African Player of the Year, only losing out to the impeccable Mohamed Salah. No wonder, Koulibaly will be quite a treat to watch when Senegal battles out in June. Sadio Mane Mane is expected to be the star player in Senegal’s line up in Russia. Amendments are in order for the missed penalty at the African Nations Cup last year from the winger,  which would be enough motivation to the Liverpool star to dazzle on the field. Having thoroughly established himself, this 25 year old managed to score 14 times with 8 assists in just 29 appearance for the Reds. With Mane bringing his best form to Russia, Senegal might exceed expectations in Russia. Mohamed Salah For the past 11 months, Mo Salah is playing the best football of his life. The African Player of the Year netted a exhilarating 35 times in 39 appearances for Liverpool and 33 times in 57 appearances for his nation. An in-form Salah will not only let Egypt cruise on his shoulders, but also bring to Russia a spectacle to behold. Africa and football has a long history, and African nations are known for their quality of play. While everyone knows that Africa houses some great football talent, the World Cup might just make us witness some great action. Which of these players are you looking forward to playing the most? Let us know below!