Remember the single ‘Africa’ by Toto? It was an instant hit back in the baby boomer age. But that was for a different reason and everyone suddenly saw the continent of Africa with a different perspective. After a bout of hibernation and recovery from colonisation, the African subcontinent is ready to bounce back. This time, it has the power of digital revolution! For too long now, it has suffered from lack of basic infrastructure, preventing it from being a significant place on the map of this planet. Tourism, agriculture and natural resources were the only things which made it worthy of any attention.  The New Digital Revolution However, things are changing for the better now, it seems. The telecom industry has progressed quite a bit to allow increased internet access at lower prices. People over there have smartphones and other high-tech devices too. They can connect to the internet and utilize social media to be in touch with each other, as well as the outside world. Companies like Facebook have taken initiatives to provide a zero-rate data to people with extremely restricted access to civic infrastructure. This development has made it possible for those people to avail better opportunities. The overall effect has been very positive in the reduction or extreme poverty. An influx of investments by tech companies have also created an immense pool of employment opportunities. They have started initiatives in training and educating the local populace in the nuances of the tech industry. Without this education, the entire process would never take off in the first place. This will increase the standard of living over there without a doubt. It will take time though, but it will be time well invested.  What is the Focus On? IoT, the Cloud and the Big Data remains the primary focus. There are two reasons why big data can prove to be the ultimate customer experience. The first one is that with the availability of so much data, new trends can be analysed. Previously data was not available on all of this, but new factors which consciously or subconsciously affect the consumer may be analysed. Maybe a particular floor colour makes a section of the store more appealing. Maybe the food section gets empty faster if the carts are designed in a particular way. The permutations and combinations that can be derived from such a large amount of data are particularly endless. What influences customers to buy or not buy something will, in particular, become a larger field. It may even grow to be a separate branch of consumer science. This is just one example. There are many such ways in which trends may be analysed and this data be used for the benefit of businesses, and this in turn, will make the consumer experience better and more rewarding.  The Start Up Industry There The start up industry in the African continent is also taking off, thanks to some influx of capital from global investment companies and venture capitalist firms. It is still in its nascent stage, but it shows great promise as local entrepreneurs take charge. There are still many obstacles to overcome though. The infrastructure development is still in its early stages. The local governments remain a major stopping force against worthy initiatives, although some of them have shown a willingness to adopt a more supportive role in the development of the digital and telecommunication sector further. Africa shows much potential as an emerging market and could soon compete with the Asian counterparts in the race for global economic prowess.