Ijaw youths at the weekend vowed to resist plots by some politicians to destabilise Bayelsa State ahead of 2019 general election. They said politicisation of the violence that unsettled Amassoma, a host community to Niger Delta University (NDU) in Southern Ijaw, showed that some persons were promoting the crisis for their advantage. The Central Zone Chairman of Ijaw Youths Council (IYC) Worldwide, Mr. Tari Pori, said it was unfortunate “unscrupulous elements” encouraged the bloodshed in Amassoma to score political points. Speaking in Yenagoa, Pori said: “What happened in Amassoma a few days ago was quite sad, unfortunate and of course without a doubt, avoidable. For us as Ijaw youths, there is no gainsaying that people score political goals while blood is being shed, no sane Ijaw youth will pray for the death of another Ijaw youth. “The IYC is not happy with the way and manner in which some of our leaders are going about it. When there is crisis, the best form of resolving it in this world is dialogue. You cannot resolve crisis with violence and those who are fanning the embers of war and crisis should go and ask those who had tasted one. “I call on all political leaders in Bayelsa State to come together and support government, Amassoma community, NDU, to make sure that the crises are resolved, instead of instigating more crisis to the already tense environment. “So the IYC, under our leadership, is working closely with the government of Bayelsa State, the Amassoma community and the school’s management to resolve the crisis lingering in Niger Delta university and Amassoma community”. Pori said the IYC was founded to defend and protect the rights of Ijaw people, and thanked Governor Seriake Dickson, traditional rulers and stakeholders for their input in resolving the crisis. He lamented that persons instigating the crisis send their children to the best universities abroad and are only interested in playing politics with the blood of youths. “We are pained that this is a matter that could have been resolved through dialogue but a lot of people were fanning the embers of crisis and look at where it has led us to. “The crisis in Amassoma is avoidable but unfortunately a lot of people are still writing on Facebook and other social media, politicians who are interested in the Internet, causing crisis, who derive pleasure when there is crisis in Ijaw land. “We are begging them to join the IYC, join Amassoma community, the governor and the government of Bayelsa State, with a view to resolving the crisis instead of calling for war. ”Our leaders who are interested in using other people’s blood to make money and gain cheap popularity; we are warning them to desist from it because Ijaw youths are not cowards and we will not allow any politician in Bayelsa to deceive Ijaw youths”, he said. Pori sympathised with families of slain youths and appealed to stakeholders to work against a recurrence of such violence. He said: “For the umpteenth time, let us again warn those Ijaw leaders across Ijaw nation, from Ondo, Edo, Delta, Bayelsa, Rivers and Akwa Ibom and Abuja, Lagos, who are only interested in promoting crisis in Bayelsa State, to stop.”