No fewer than 1,000 participants benefitted from medical outreach organised by the Redeemed Christian Church of God (RCCG) Overflowing Mega Zone, Fagba, Lagos. Many worshippers and non-worshippers numbering 120, were also trained and graduated from skill acquisition programme, which included Fashion Design, Desktop Publishing, Bead Making, Makeup and Gele Artistry, Catering, Photography and Film making, Website Design and Music. The Empowerment Programme tagged “Skill Up entrepreneurship Academic Season Two,” according to Pastor-in-Charge Paul Adewunmi, was borne out of the passion to spread the love of Christ and add value to the quality of living of Nigerians. The project, he said, was also geared towards developing the skills of participants for the period of three months (two months of intensive training and one month of industrial training.” “After the successful completion of the first season which graduated about 100 students, the academy decided to launch the second season and the second season graduates were empowered during the last Let’s Go A Fishing Programme where over 20 outstanding students were empowered with tools that would aid their vocational skills. I believe in mixing spirituality with business because the Bible says Faith without work is dead. Even Jesus Christ said ‘a man who is diligent in his work will stand before Kings and not mere men.’ We are rest assured that we are developing the world-renowned entrepreneurs that would take the world by storm,” he said. Adewunmi urged the beneficiaries to make good use of the materials. According to him, the project was managed by Datapower-Africa, a human capacity development organisation. He thanked Pastor Enoch Adeboye, “who has given us the opportunity to reach out and be a blessing to the world.” RCCG National Overseer Pastor Joseph Obayemi hailed the convener of the programme and his team. He described the empowerment gesture at Zonal level, first of its kind in the region, urging them to keep the flag flying. Beneficiaries include Oluwaji Oseni, who went home with photography equipment, Joshua Adeboye – Photo printer, Esther Adesola – Make-up tool and Modupe Eniojukan – Computer Printers, among others.