Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari declared his intention to seek re-election on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC). For me, it didn’t come as a surprise because it is on record that no Nigerian president has jettisoned the idea of running for a second term while in office. We even had a leader who wanted to even run for a third term. But, the liberalisation of the political space has seen a lot youths coming out to declare their intentions to run for the apex office in the next general elections. Sincerely, what can we offer as youths? Are we really ready to change the narrative in the way we desire? As the cliché goes “we are the leaders of tomorrow”, that tomorrow is today because we have waited for too long, and this “tomorrow” still remains elusive. Personally I find it more appropriate to even say that the youths are leaders of today. Since we gained independence in 1960, Nigeria has had the same set of leaders in the helms of affairs. They are in a vicious circle passing power amongst themselves. These same people have been the ones calling the shots. One would expect that in 2019, the people who infiltrated the system would have quietly hung their boots and act as elder statesmen. The youth need to participate in active governance because the future we are hoping for never really exists, as the only thing everyone is really sure of is today. In the modern era, the youngest person that has governed the nation is Dr Goodluck Jonathan, who was 54 at the time of his election in 2011, while the youngest governor is Alhaji Yahaya Bello, the Governor of Kogi State. Meanwhile, in global politics, youth appears to be having a moment. A 39-year-old Emmanuel Macron won election to become the French president. France is not basking in the euphoria of having elected a youthful leader because its people believe the future is now. It is sad to say that youths in this clime still have a long way to go in terms of political leadership. Are the youths in this country not fed up with having the same set of leaders in the political space? Could fear be the hindrance to take up the challenge or lack of wealth and experience? Once thing most young people have failed to realise is that, the experience required for good leadership does not have to be earned from any political system. This means that, to be a good leader and provide good governance, one doesn’t necessarily have to go through becoming a councilor, a chairman, a two time governor, and then a senator. In reality, the people we have had in these positions have not been able to prove to us that there is need for cognate experience in politics. At this point, Nigerians do not only have to trust young people but also give them the necessary support that they need. But truth be said, good leadership is not a function of age alone. If we clamour for a young person to lead, believing the person is going to give us the best of leadership, then we are wrong because we have some young leaders that have failed woefully. It is not about age, it is about antecedents and what the person has to offer. If, as Nigerians, we are not prepared to get the kind of democracy that we have long deserved, then we will be paid for the kind of democracy that they we get. Youths should bear in mind that elections are not won on social media or based on media popularity. The youth should participate in inclusive governance because we want freedom, we want better representation, we want liberation, we want our voices to be heard and I strongly believe it doesn’t come for free; we have to pay for it. We cannot pay for it by having social media popularity; we cannot pay for it by political negligence but can pay for it by participating considerably in political activities. Ahead of 2019 elections, we need to be very careful not to repeat the mistakes we made in the past. We can achieve this by sensitising our peers, mobilising ourselves and identifying trusted youths with antecedents amongst us that can bring about the change that this country desires. Politics is a game of numbers and we have it, so let us use it.