THE Ekiti State governorship flag bearer of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prof. Kolapo Olusola, has assured the people that their welfare would be his first priority, if he wins the July 14 election. Olusola, who is also the incumbent Deputy Governor, said God sent him on a divine mission to Ekiti State to cater for the welfare and interests of the people. He spoke in his office yesterday, while addressing representatives of teachers, local government staff, staff of government parastatals and civil servants resident in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. The meeting was conveyed at the instance of the Osoko Mass Movement, led by, Hon. Wale Ayeni. Speaking on salary arrears being owed Ekiti workers, Olusola said he worked as a lecturer for 24 years and knows the importance of salary payment and therefore does not require any lecture on the topic. The PDP flag bearer assured workers that outstanding salaries will be cleared immediately funds are available. He said: “For over two months, we have been cleared to get the remaining 50 per cent of Paris Club refund that the Federal Government refused to release to states for political reasons you and I know. “It is true we’re owing, but trust me we will pay; ours is not a government that will pay half salaries as it is done in Imo and Osun under the APC. The Paris Club refund belongs to Ekiti State. If they like let them release it before or after our election, it’s your money and you will get it; trust me.” Olusola also called on Ekiti people not to fall for the antics of fraudsters moving around the state, asking for electorates’ Voter Identification Number (VIN) and fingerprint in the name of fake, non-existent empowerment programme. His words: “Some fraudsters are in town, asking for the VIN and fingerprint of voters; they said they are here to empower our people — empowerment they did not do last year. I call on you not to fill any fraudulent form. “Tell them to empower you without collecting your voter’s card. Any promise of empowerment that makes the submission of your voter’s card number a criteria to benefit is an attempt to defraud you; don’t fall for it.” The PDP flag bearer also used the medium to intimate Ekiti people about his plan for industrial and agricultural revolution of Ekiti State. He said: “Fayose gave me direct access to information at Abuja. I am already talking to people on Independent Power Generation for without power, we can’t develop. We will have a massive industrial park in Ekiti that will be powered by this Independent Power Projects. “I will turn Ekiti around in terms of industrialisation. I want to build on existing structures, put in place by Governor Ayodele Fayose to catapult Ekiti into another realm.