If the gains of the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI) are sustained, Nigeria may export fertiliser in the next two years, Fertiliser Producers and Suppliers Association of Nigeria (FEPSAN) Chairman, Mr Thomas Etuh has said. He said already, the country is selling the important agro input to some Nigeria’s neighbours, such as Benin Republic, Chad, Cameroon and Niger Republic, a development, he says, will help restore the country’s position as the food basket of the West African sub-region. The export opportunity from fertiliser, he said, would be made possible by its increased local production of that has ramped up from a mere 500,000 metric tons pre-2015 to close to two million metric tons. Etuh commended President Muhammadu Buhari for initiating the Presidential Fertiliser Initiative (PFI), which he said, has helped farmers access the critical agricultural input at affordable prices thereby reducing their overheads, boosting yield and encouraging more players to invest in agriculture value chain. “Before the conceptualisation and activation of the PFI, we had a situation where there were 32 fertiliser blending plants in Nigeria that were moribund. Out of this number, only five blending plants were functional and even then, they were producing at 10 per cent capacity on the average and that was because of excessive emphases on importation. This also meant, by its very implication, that we were exporting our jobs even when we cannot provide jobs here in Nigeria. Foreign exchange that is scarce is spent building other people’s economies,” he said. He said efforts must be made to  solve employment challenges that have been mounting over the past decades, adding that one of the critical planks of reversing the trend was a sustained investment in agriculture to create losses on both the government and the people. He commended Buhari for his “political will” that has made it possible for the initiative to become a huge success, stressing that the journey towards food security for Nigeria may well have begun on a sound footing with the impact the PFI programme has made on the volume of food production in Nigeria within only two years. “We were lucky that we have a president that has the interest and political will to make a difference and he was ready to make this initiative to work from get-go. And those of us in the fertiliser blending industry had no option but to key in to this willingness. We were made to understand that beyond the profits necessary for our businesses, it was important for us to see the project as critical to nation building. We were made to appreciate the roles we had to play, first as citizens and then as businesses,” he said. On how to measure the results of the scheme, Etuh said the evidence is noticeable in the increasing volume of production of staples, such rice and maize by farmersy, crediting it to the increased demand for fertilizers. “Farmers can testify that it has been a great initiative from Mr President. The revolutions that happened in rice production, the revolutions that happened in maize production are both good examples. It will interest you to note that in 2017, because of the Presidential Fertilizer Initiative, Nigerians consumption stood at 1,570,000 metric tons of fertilizer. This was the first time in the history of this country from independence. Can you imagine what would have been the situation had the country been importing fertilizers? And this happened without the government providing any form of subsidy,” he said.