The All Progressives Congress (APC) said on Sunday that the disruption of the Ekiti governorship primary by political thugs was regrettable and gave assurance that the process will resume as soon as possible. The party also asked all those aggrieved as a result of the Saturday’s ward congresses to approach the appeals committee  set up by the party for that purpose and seek redress. In a statement signed by the National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Bolaji Abdullahi and made available to newsmen in Abuja on Sunday, the party expressed satisfaction with the general conduct of the ward congresses which it described as successful. It said the chairman of the Ekiti Governorship Election Primary committee and governor of Nasarawa state, Tanko Al-Makura has held a meeting with all the aspirants in Ekiti and resolved the issues that led on contention, assuring that the resolution was that the process be resumed immediately. Although he did not give any definite date for the resumption of the process, The Nation’s findings revealed that all political parties have until May 14, 2018 to conduct their party primaries, while they are to submit for. CF001 and CF002 to INEC by May 15, 2018. The statement said: “the situation in Ekiti is regrettable. The issues has been resolved and if is hope that the exercise canon co he where it stopped. The primary Chairman spoken to the national chairman after consulting with the aspirants. The position is that the process should resume as quickly as possible. The issue of indefinite postponement does not arise.” On the conduct of the ward congresses, the statement said “the All Progressives Congress (APC) wishes to congratulate all its members for the generally peaceful conduct of the Party’s ward congresses which took place across the country over the weekend. “The Party especially commends members who served in the congress committees for their dedication and impartiality. We however acknowledge there are some issues arising from the conduct of the elections in some states. “With this in view, the Party had set up various appeal committees which will begin sitting from Monday, May 7, 2018. “We therefore call on all Party members to remain law abiding and where there are issues, they should seek redress through the appeal committees in their respective states.” The congress which held several parts of the country as scheduled on Saturday was either postponed in some places or marred by complain in a few other places, while a chairmanship aspirant was reportedly killed in Delta state.