Actor, filmmaker and politician, Hon Desmond Elliot has arrived in Cannes, France, for this year’s edition of the annual Cannes International Film Festival which opened on Tuesday. Elliot, a lawmaker representing Surulere Constituency in the Lagos State House of Assembly, is among the delegation from Lagos at the global event, otherwise called the word Cup of film festivals. Upon arrival in Cannes, he hinted of his stalled plan to board a train to Cannes from Paris, saying; “If you are thinking of using the train (as I was); besides the fact that it’s a 5 hour journey, trains are on strike ooo,” he admonished other Nigerian filmmakers, Lagos State delegates, journalists and tourists who are yet to arrive for the festival. The closest airport to Cannes is in Nice, from where buses, cabs or trains are usually boarded to Cannes, but as a tourist, Elliot had planned a train ride, to enable him behold the beautiful sights that the European country holds along that axis With the ongoing strike by train workers in Paris, Elliot says: “Fly please from Paris to Nice.” Among the first Nigerians to arrive in Cannes is the Director General of Lagos State Film and Censors Board, Mr. Dele Balogun, who has good news about the Nigerian pavilion. “As far as arrangement here is concerned, we are good. The location is even better than last year’s.” This is the second time in row that Lagos State will provide a pavilion for Nigerian contingents in Cannes. The Lagos State participation at the festival is being led by the Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Steve Ayorinde. As part of the programmes for the festival this year, filmmaker Kunle Afolayan will be on hand with a special documentary on ‘Nollywood in Lagos’ which will be screened to guests before the unveiling of the 2018 edition of Cinema in Lagos magazine at the weekend. Elliot, Afolayan, Lagos State Perm Sec, Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Fola Adeyemi, and the Audio Visual Attache of the French Embassy, Yoann Talhouarne will help unveil the Cinema in Lagos magazine and introduce the documentary. This is expected to be followed by the Lagos Special Day at the pavilion or a venue along the Riviera or by the beach among other activities lined up at the event. In its 71st edition, the Festival opened Tuesday evening at the Grand Théâtre Lumière with an excerpt from Pierrot le fou by Jean-Luc Godard, from which the poster for this year’s edition was taken. The hallmark of this edition is inspiration, and the tone was set by the verve and enthusiasm of Edouard Baer, Master of Ceremonies, accompanied on piano by Gérard Daguerre.