 Former Arsenal Manager Arsene Wenger has hinted he will decide his next move on June 14, incidentally the kick off date of the next World cup in Russia. ‘It’s just too soon to know what I will do next, I haven’t even emptied my desk yet and in a way I am still in a state of shock,’ he told The Guardian. ‘I am going to give myself until June 14, the day the World Cup begins, to decide. ‘The question is do I still want to coach, to be on the bench, or is it time to take up different functions? The one thing I can say for sure is that I will continue to work. ‘But do I want to continue to suffer as much? I want to continue to defend my ideas of football, that’s for sure. Spontaneously, I would say I still want to coach but I can’t really say that yet for sure.’ ‘The one thing I can say for sure is that I will continue to work, but do I want to continue to suffer as much? I want to continue to defend my ideas of football, that’s for sure.’ The Frenchman who reluctantly left the Emirates after 22 years cleared his desk on Monday from the Colney training facility. He  was pictured signing autographs and waving to fans as he left the complex. The 68-year-old arrived early in the morning and spent over four years at the ground, walking the pitches and bidding farewell to members of staff Wenger, joined by coaches Steve Bould and Boro Primorac, needed two cars to empty all of his things from his office and did his best to put on a brave face on what was undoubtedly an emotional day for him. The manager admitted last week that he still hadn’t had a chance to clear out his belongings and that it would be a tough moment when he did. Pressure mounted on Wenger last season having missed out on the top four – and therefore a Champions League place – and another disappointing campaign in which they finished sixth saw him wrap up his time in charge. He was linked with the Paris Saint-Germain job before Thomas Tuchel joined and could eye a Monaco return should Leonardo Jardim depart this summer.