It was a sad one for the global film community, with the passing, few weeks to this year’s Cannes, of renowned historian and director, Pierre Rissient who died at the age of 81. Thus, a tribute to the veteran formed part of the opening day of the 71st Festival de Cannes, on Tuesday, May 8, 2018. For more than fifty years, Pierre was one of the most important members of the Cannes community and of the Festival, putting all of his creative energy into helping it show films from distant countries. This year of 2018 was once again going to be the deceased’s year, as he was due to bring back to the festival the Korean director Lee Chang-dong, who he had greatly helped to become known around the world, as he had done with so many others before.  He was delighted to be welcoming to ‘Un Certain Regard’, the second film of the young Chinese director BI Gan. And he was due to present ‘Cinq et la peau’ (Five and the Skin) to Cannes Classics, which he directed in 1982 and which has found its way back, in a restored version, to French theatres. The screening today, Monday, May 14, which will be attended by Bertrand Tavernier, a French director, screenwriter, actor and producer, will be in memory of Rissient, as the festival’s way of dedicating the 71st edition to him. Meanwhile, the festival opened at the Grand Théâtre Lumière with an excerpt from Pierrot le fou by Jean-Luc Godard, from which the poster for this 71st edition was taken. The hallmark of this year’s edition is inspiration, and the tone was set by the verve and enthusiasm of Edouard Baer, Master of Ceremonies, accompanied on piano by Gérard Daguerre. After the screening of a montage of the films that will be vying for the 2018 Palme d’or, singer Juliette Armanet came on stage to perform Les Moulins de mon cœur, composed by Michel Legrand, and winner of the Oscar for Best Original Song in 1969. In unison, Martin Scorsese and Cate Blanchett announced that the 71st Festival de Cannes was open. The first film in Competition, Todos Lo Saben (Everybody Knows) by Asghar Farhadi, an Iranian film director and screen writer was screened after the opening ceremony with the director and his leading actors, Penélope Cruz, Javier Bardem and Ricardo Darín in attendance. As part of the few changes at Cannes this year; selfies are no longer allowed on the red carpet, just as are there are no press screenings in advance of the premieres, thus critics are unable to influence negative opinions of films until an actual audience has seen it. The #MeToo movement also played its part at Cannes, a subtle protest for more women involvement, with the claim that the festival’s record of supporting women directors has not exactly been strong. Despite the fact that Cate Blanchett is head of the jury, only three films competing for the Palme d’Or were directed by women. 