Eighty-year-old Godday Egbu, who hails from Kpansia community, Yenagoa, Bayelsa State has suffered extreme poverty and deprivation. The signs that all is not well with him are there. His house is dilapidated. He could not train any of his children in school and to feed himself is taxing. At his age, Egbu still goes into the bush to eke out a living. But the old man believes that he ordinarily should not have been poor. He blames the government for all the deprivations he suffers in life. Egbu lamented that his problems began when the government, during the administration of the late former Governor Diepreye Alamiyeisegha forcefully took over a vast parcel of land he inherited from his father. The land formerly referred to as Aziegwe Bush and located at Kpansia area of Isaac Boroh expressway, Yenagoa, became a centre of attraction to the late former governor Alamiyeisegha, who, in his quest to have a Government Reserved Area (GRA), a serene residential area for prominent sons and daughters of the state, reportedly acquired the land for the state government. The area is bustling with mansions and edifices of aesthetic beauty. Former President Goodluck Jonathan has gold-plated mansions in the area. Other influential persons and politicians whose buildings dot the area are Boyelayefa Debekeme, Kpolovie Paul, James Tabais, Gideon Ekeowei, Johnson Alalibo and Tiwe Oruminighe, among others. But the poor Egbu is always pained whenever he sees such choice buildings on the land. Egbu said: “The land belongs to my grandfather. When he died, he transferred the land to my father and after my father’s death I inherited the land. I was cultivating that land. During Alamiyeisegha’s time, the state government took the land from me. “We were hungry and I went there to get some food because it was also my farmland.  I got to the land and I saw many security operatives at the place. They didn’t allow me access to the land because they told me the government had taken over my ancestral land. Few days later when I went back, I discovered they had bulldozed everywhere. “They started allocating the land and building houses there. Nobody paid me a dime as compensation. With that kind of land, I am not supposed to be poor. But poverty is dealing with me. I can’t even get food to eat. I am suffering and I want my land back. “I couldn’t train any of my children in school because there is no money. I can’t even feed them. I want my land back. No compensation was paid to me. I need the land in order to survive”. Egbu said he was greatly pained when he discovered that people who plots of land were allocated to by the government, sold them for huge amount of money. He said recently, one of them sold his land and collected about N22m. He begged Governor Seriake Dickson to look into his matter and address the injustice done to him by his predecessor. “I know that Governor Seriake Dickson is a lawyer and a man who believes in justice. I am begging him to look into my matter and give me justice. My family is suffering yet we have that kind of property”, he said. Corroborating the claims of his elder brother, Barnabas Egbu recalled that the land was taken over by the government in 2004. He said their father, Egbu, suffered heartbreak and died of health complications following the confiscation of the land. Also narrating their ordeals, Raphael, the son of Goddey, said he abandoned his education for lack of money. He said his father desired to send him to school but had no money to actualise his ambition. He said if the government had not taken their land by force, they would have no business with poverty. But recently when Dickson embarked on demolition of illegal structures on a section of the GRA, he gave an indication that the government was fond of paying compensation after acquiring property. “ Once we are convinced that the acquisition did not follow due process and there was no compensation for the acquired property, we will treat them as criminals and we will treat.” But the family urged Dickson to look into the acquisition of its land by his predecessor, insisting that due process he spoke about was not followed. 