This interviewee is important because he wants to be Governor of Osun State. He has expressed his intention to participate in his party’s primary election where a candidate will be picked for the governorship election scheduled for September. He is a senator. He ran for Senate after his elder brother, Senator Isiaka Adeleke, died. In other words, he stepped into his brother’s shoes so that an outsider would not do so. Senator Ademola Adeleke of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) said in an interview: “I have only been in the Senate for about 10 months but it looks like two years already. I sponsored a bill on Youth Empowerment which is going in for second reading now…I have also embarked on various intervention projects on education, skills acquisition, electricity and provision of scholarships to my constituents. The scholarship scheme is worth over N250m and it is for the whole duration of beneficiaries’ course of study. My tenure has been an eventful one so far.” Sounds like a politician. On his governorship ambition, Adeleke said: “Yes, I am contesting for governorship seat of Osun State. I have submitted my letter of intent to the PDP and working hard at getting the nomination ticket of the party. In fact, I just finished a tour of the nine federal constituencies in the state where I met with party leaders and delegates who will be participating in the primaries. I am very hopeful of winning the ticket of the party and with the help of God, going further to win the governorship election.” Again, sounds like a politician. The interviewer asked: “Why do you like dancing at parties and even in churches?” Adeleke answered: “Well, I dance because I am happy and grateful to God. I am not a pretentious person but the dancing aspect is just a minor aspect of me. I am a deep thinker and solution-finder.” It isn’t surprising that Adeleke is trying to sell himself.  It isn’t surprising that the interviewer asked a question about Adeleke’s public dancing. Of course, there are people who are wondering why the senator is always seen dancing in public. It is easy for the dancing senator to describe himself as “a deep thinker and solution-finder.” How many people who have seen him dancing in public with extreme enthusiasm think he could be “a deep thinker and solution-finder”?  The electorate will be less interested in his dancing side, and more interested in the thinking side.  