Nina Chinonso is mostly linked to winner of Big Brother Naija, Miracle Igbokwe to won she was romantically attached throughout the show. During a visit to The Nation last week, the model who disclosed that she missed her first semester in school as a result of the show, said she has no regret about her romance in the house, as the things she did in BBN house are things she does in the outside world. I know it’s been crazy since you guys got out. How have you been handling this new status, this celebrity life? Well, I’m trying to know what it’s all about. It’s not easy but then I’m just handling it the best way I can. I go through posts and I see people talking about you, especially when it comes to the obvious things, Miracle and Collins. How have you been handling the comments? Well, I don’t believe those comments. You don’t? (mumbles ) Are you sure? I don’t. So, you don’t go through the comments? I don’t. You don’t hear people tell you? People do. I just don’t hear. Where does Collins stand at this moment? Actually, I really don’t want to talk about that. What next? What do we expect from you now that you’re out of the house? Okay, first of all, I actually want to open up my wig brand – Nina Wigs.  And I’m opening it on my birthday, that’s 31st of this month. And again, I’m entering the entertainment industry. And I have passion for beauty and fashion. So, those are the basic things I want to do. Do you intend to do them concurrently – both schooling and that together As for schooling, I’m in my final year and I missed the first semester. I’m thinking of; let me start from this, then later I would finish up with my school. So, school is not the priority now? I never said that. It is. But right now, are you putting it on hold? Yeah. There was actually a video of you that I saw. You were acting. Are you an actor? Yes There is this perception that Big Brother house is all about immorality. Like I said when I was in the house, anything I cannot do in the house, I cannot do outside. That’s just not me. Presently, how does it stand between you and Miracle? The priority for me is my goal, to achieve my dreams, especially when I went into the house, I really had this in mind. I wanted to go there so when I come out, I will achieve something. So right now, I really want to achieve what I want to achieve. Towards the end of the show, we saw a closeness between yourself and Cee-C. What was the bond about? We were only five in the house. Cee-C was just the only that wasn’t really associating with every other person. And me, I’m free with her, so I felt like, since she’s not really free with everyone, let me be with her so she won’t be lonely. But outside the house, you guys are still close Yeah, we’re cool.