Security agencies have been urged  to probe Sunday’s explosion at the Enugu home of Ohanaeze Ndigbo leader Chief John Nwodo with a view to bringing the culprits to book. Senator Andy Uba and the Ohanaeze youth wing in separate statements criticized the throwing of explosives at the Nwodo home. Uba, Chairman of Senate committee on Interior described the incident as “dastardly” To him, the peace of the South east should “not be polluted with incidents such as this one.” He sympathised with Chief Nwodo and assured him that “the good people of the Southeast and beyond are with him as he continues to advance the cause of the Igbos. Uba urged the President-General to continue to discharge his duties without fear or favour. He called upon the security agencies to as a matter of urgency investigate the explosion  leaving no stone unturned. The Ohanaeze Ndigbo Enugu Chapter yesterday paid a solidarity visit to Nwodo. Led by its leader Dr Alex Ogbonnia, the 17 local government areas  in Enugu State were represented. Ogbonnia described  Nwodo as the conscience of Igbo nation He said whoever was trying to repress  Nwodo was wasting his time because the ideological foundation of what he advocated and was fighting for was anchored on truth. Nwodo  thanked them for their solidarity visit which he said had emboldened him as it was a sign of acceptability and support. Nwodo observed that the country had entered another stage of its struggle for independence and called for total vigilance as the attack was only symbolic and could happen to any other person. The Ohanaeze youth wing pleaded with security agencies to fish out the people behind the explosion at the  Nwodo home at Ukehe, Nsukka. A member of the youth wing, Chief Chinedu Ugwa,  the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) that the incident as strange, saying that the youth wing was in solidarity with Nwodo. Ugwa, who is the coordinator of the Ohanaeze Youth Wing in the Southsouth, called for vigilance in Igbo land as the security situation worsens in parts of the country, especially in neighbouring Benue State. “We in the youth wing of Ohanaeze are saddened by the development and condemn it. We pray for safety of the President-General of our parent body, Chief John Nnia Nwodo. “This incident is unfortunate and we urge our leader not to lose focus on his task of unifying the Igbos and building bridges of peace amongst Igbos across the world. “Nwodo is a peace advocate and should put the incident behind him and move on. “We frown at it and say no to the act as we await the response of security agencies to unravel the cause of the explosion that went off on Sunday at Nwodo’s house. “This is a distraction that should not be allowed to divert the attention of the Ohanaeze leadership from its vision of re-positioning the Igbos in Nigeria to play greater roles in economic development of the country. “We earnestly ask the security agencies to reinforce security around Nwodo to enable him function in his office while the perpetrators of this dastardly act should be arrested and prosecuted,” he said.