THE Secretary of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Electoral Panel, Alhaji Balarabe Abdullahi, has praised the decision of members of the Akwa Ibom State chapter to resolve their differences ahead of last Saturday’s ward congresses of the party. In a press statement from the APC secretariat in Uyo, the Akwa Ibom State, made available to The Nation, Abdullahi said it was the peace deal that made their job of conducting the party’s ward congresses in the state easier. The lingering dispute had been resolved prior to the exercise. The Managing Director of Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), Mr. Nsima Ekere, said the peace agreement was reached after series of meetings for three days. He said: “As leaders of the party, we have come together to acknowledge that what is paramount is the interest of the party,” he said. “We are committed to building a strong and formidable APC.” Ekere said Akwa Ibom APC leaders were determined to ensure that President Muhammadu Buhari wins the state in next year’s presidential election, as well as other elections in the state in 2019. A former Minister of State for the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja, Senator John Udoedehe, said all parties buried their differences in the interest of peace. He said: “We have collapsed all our interests. We want a viable APC in Akwa Ibom. All our rancour is over.” The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly (Senate) Affairs, Senator Ita Enang, who spearheaded the peace move, said the agreement satisfied all interests in the party. His words: “All interests have been collapsed into one interest. Together, we will be able to win the PDP and claim Akwa Ibom Governor’s Lodge.” The Managing Director of the Oil and Gas Free Zones Authority, Mr. Umana Umana, said with the resolution of the dispute, all leaders of the party were committed to build a very strong party. He said: “We will work as one united family to ensure that the interests of Nigeria, Akwa Ibom State and our party prevail over personal interests. I congratulate all our leaders.” The Akwa Ibom State APC Caucus Chairman, Atuekong Don Etiebet, said he was overwhelmed with joy at the resolution of the dispute. His words: “Today is my happiest day as a veteran politician among all of us. The action you witnessed today is a manifestation of the maturity of the APC leaders in Akwa Ibom State. By this action, you can see that we have shamed the devil.” The Senator representing Akwa Ibom South Senatorial District, Senator Nelson Efiong, hailed APC stakeholders in the state, particularly Ekere, Udoedehe and Umana, for ensuring the resolution of the dispute. Efiong added that he felt justified defecting to the APC last year. He said: “My decision to declare for APC in January 2017 was a good decision and what has happened today has justified that decision.” A former Military Administrator of Ogun and Rivers States, Group Captain Sam Ewang (rtd), also expressed joy at the resolution of the dispute. He said: “Today is my happiest day. It is an indication that Akwa Ibom State is ready for APC.” The APC Southsouth Zonal Women Leader, Mrs. Rachel Akpabio, said she was excited that the peace she had been yearning for in the last three years was finally achieved. Hear her: “My heart is red. This is what I have been yearning for in the last three years. With this decision, the sky is our limit. I want the women to know that peace has returned to Akwa Ibom State APC.”