Nigerians have been called upon to put God first in whatever they do because life is vanity and accountability before their Maker is inevitable. The Bishop of the Diocese of Ekiti, the Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, the Rt. Rev. Christopher Omotunde, gave the admonition on Thursday at the funeral service held in honour of the late Mrs. Comfort Aduke Ogunleye, at the Cathedral Church f Emmanuel, Okesa, Ado-Ekiti. He admonished those seeking power and wealth “not to be desperate in life” but to use their time on earth for the service of God and fellow human beings. The deceased, who died on January 19, was the mother-in-law of the Bishop of the Diocese of Ekiti West, the Rt. Rev. Rufus Adepoju. The funeral was attended by bishops and other guests from across the country. Taking his sermon from Hebrews 9:27, Bishop Omotunde stressed that death is inevitable no matter the status attained by man in life. The bishop explained that a wise man will always prepare for the day he will die by accepting Christ as one’s Lord and saviour, living right and developing a good relationship with God and fellow human beings. He emphasized that man, unlike an animal, would face God’s judgment after death because man has the breath of God in him. Omotunde advised Nigerians to stop the pursuit of vanity because “nobody can take his wealth, power, fame and property out of this world when he dies.” He said: “If you are here and you don’t spare a thought for the day of death, you are a fool. If you have thousands of clothes at home, only one will be used to bury you. “If you swindle to acquire wealth, embezzle money to build mansions, doctor records in office, you are not taking them to heaven; they will all be left behind here. “No matter how beautiful your mansion is, when you die, you will not be buried inside of it. The best your children will give to you is to bury you outside your house. “When you die, all your belongings will be shared without your input. All the positions and offices you are holding tight unto will soon be taken away from you. “In fact, when an office holder dies in Nigeria, people will be struggling to take over his seat even when his mourning has not been concluded.” Omotunde urged the children of the deceased not to depart from the legacies of prayer, dedication and service to God handed to them by their late mum.