In some northern communities, schools are bursting at the seams because of an initiative that puts money in caregivers’ pockets to encourage them to send their wards, especially girls, to school. However, this good deed may go awry, if nothing is done to address infrastructural and manpower deficits. KOFOWOROLA BELO-OSAGIE reports. WITH 8.5 to 10.5 million children out of school, Nigeria has the world’s largest population of out-of-school children. Stakeholders have been working to reduce the figure. With research indicating that poverty is a significant reason parents do not send their children to school, the United Nations International Children’s Fund (UNICEF) initiated the basic education Cash Transfer Programme (CTP), funded by the United Kingdom Aid (UKAID) and the Qatar Foundation to provide cash to caregivers (usually mothers) of school-age children to encourage them to send their wards to school. The CTP was implemented under two initiatives – the Girls’ Education Programme (GEP 1-3) in Sokoto, Niger, Bauchi, Katsina and Kano states, and the Educate A Child (EAC) in Kebbi and Zamfara states. UNICEF ran the GEP Phases 1-3 for two academic sessions (2014/2015; 2015/2016), while the EAC is  running in Kebbi and Zamfara states and will end after two years. Female beneficiaries under GEP, specifically targeted at increasing girl-child enrolment, get N5,000 each term, while boys and girls under the EAC are given N8,000 per term. Giving insight into the projects at a media training in Sokoto, UNICEF Education Specialist Azuka Menkiti said the GEP surpassed its target of providing access for 21,400 children by 2020, thanks to state partnerships with Sokoto and Niger governments to continue the project from where UNICEF stopped. In Niger State, Ms Menkiti said 12,314 girls benefited while in Sokoto, 11,341 were reached. Thus, 23,655 girls were reached by the CTP. She added that this resulted in a net increase in average girls’ enrolment of 29.4 per cent in Niger and 32.4 per cent in Sokoto. On the gains of the CTP, which made the Sokoto State government to continue the project, the Commissioner for Higher Education, Dr Muhammad Kilgori, said the state government provided funds to expand the project to cover the 26 local government areas in Sokoto – 20 more than the ones UNICEF reached. He said: “When I came in, UNICEF was just beginning the DFID programme in 2015/2016. We took part in the programme in six local government areas where it was rolled out. We learnt a lot from the implementation and then we designed our own system and the government made available resources. We want to make sure that it is not only in the six local governments but also all the 26 local government areas get the benefit because we physically see the impact. You go to schools, you see the children. There are more girls in the schools than boys, and you will see the enrolment also rising. So, we feel that the benefit will go across the state,” he said. Under the EAC, the target is to enrol 501,749 children across the chosen states by 2020. So far, Menkiti said 10,983 of 41,491 boys and girls had been paid the first tranche of cash in Kebbi ( 8,354) and Zamfara ( 2,629).  Though in both states, the beneficiaries have also only been paid once, enrolment has already increased. While the GEP 3 and EAC have achieved their first objectives to get more children into school, achieving the second, which is to “improve quality of teaching and learning environments in target states” has been challenging because of increased enrolment. For example, schools in communities where CTP is being implemented are becoming overcrowded and in need of infrastructural expansion and more teachers, which are necessary to achieve the second objective. Ms Menkiti described the problem as an “unintended negative impact”. “The most notable unintended negative impacts of CTP are: inability of extant physical and human infrastructure to cope with the increased enrolment in CTP schools,” she said. Though UNICEF noted the increment in the number of classrooms provided by government in Niger and Sokoto after the CTP started, the rate of infrastructure and manpower provision has been slow. New Rimawa Model Primary School in Rimawa, Goronyo Local Government Area – about 90 kilometres from the Sokoto State capital, is one of the beneficiaries of the CTP project.  Pupil population in the school has swelled from 555 in the 2014/2015 session and 732 in the 2015/2016 academic session to 1,170 in the 2017/2018 session.  Some of the girls whose parents were given the N5,000 lifeline, said it helped them purchase materials they need for school. Maryam Maidam, a 10-year-old Primary Five pupil, is one of the children attracted to school by the CTP.  She said the money was useful in providing materials for school. “My mother used the money to buy uniform, socks and books and the remaining for business. If our uniform spoils, we sew another one,” she said. While enrolment has been good for the school, it lacks almost every other input needed to make the environment conducive for teaching and learning. Head Teacher, Yusuf Abubakar, attested to increased enrolment as a result of the CTP. “I have been in this school for two years. Before the programme of cash transfer, the enrolment was about 595.  Now, it is 1,170,” he said. But with this new figure, he said the school was in dire need of new classrooms, furniture, and teachers. “I need furniture, additional blocks; qualified teachers. I have 10 teachers, plus me, 11.  I need 10 more. They are coming to school because their parents send them to learn. But they don’t usually wear their school uniforms every day because they are sitting on the ground. We now have two arms per class so we need more classrooms,” he said. The story is not just unique to Sokoto. Dije Haruna, a woman from Alawa community under Zumi LGA of Zamfara State, sent four children to school because she benefited from the N8,000 CTP programme for each child. She however told The Nation that as a result of the CTP, the only school in her community had become overcrowded and in urgent need of facilities. “This cash transfer has really touched our lives in the sense that before only few children whose parents could afford it could send their children to school. But with the cash transfer, more than 200 children have returned to school. But the problem is that we have only one block of classrooms.  We need more classrooms and more teachers in Alawa community,” she said. Zamfara State Project Implementation Unit (PIU) Coordinator in charge of the EAC CTP, Hajiya Maryam Shantali, said poor government funding had made it difficult to meet up with the demand for infrastructure. “We all have the same peculiarities in terms of infrastructure and teachers. We have a large number to educate, but very little budget and the resources are not enough.  In some schools, they have only one teacher. In my state for eight years, there was no recruitment of teachers,” she said. Mrs Irene Abdu, a senior official of the Federal Ministry of Education, Abuja, called for urgent efforts involving individual parents, communities and private sector organisations to address the  infrastructural and manpower deficits in Model Primary School, Rimawa as well as other places.  She said failure to do so would reverse the gains of the CTP as the schools would not be able to retain the children because of the unconducive environment. “There is need for sensitisation of parents and the communities. The government is trying but communities and religious organisations need to step in,’’ she said. Aljabi Sanni Umar Jabbi, a district head and member of the CTP committee in Sokoto, said the traditional institution headed by the Sultan as well as the communities were supporting the government to expand infrastructure.  He said a lot of sensitisation was going on for members of the community to accept western education for their children, especially girls, because of deficit in the number of women professionals in key areas like education and medicine. He said: “The government of Sokoto State under Aminu Tambuwal has a very good plan to improve infrastructure. I believe you went to a school where they have not reached with equipment and infrastructure.The governor has approved equipping; equipping and renovation of schools are ongoing.  Even the construction of additional schools is ongoing. We have 86 districts in Sokoto State and every district is going to build a school of six classrooms to absorb the population resulting from the CTP. They will be equipped and have teaching aids in line with national and international guidelines.” On expanding facilities, Dr Kilgori said the government had signed a pact with the Nigerian Navy to build affordable schools, which he said would soon begin. “We are partnering the Nigerian Navy to establish cheap locally fabricated schools that will mop off this upsurge in enrolment in all 86 districts of the state. So, the state is really poised and committed to be able to really sustain this programme,’’ he said.