Every citizen of Nigeria has the right to education, especially the western model introduced by the colonial masters. If the citizens are educated, the society derives great benefits because an informed citizenry build a prosperous society. In Nigeria, formal education starts from kindergarten to primary, secondary education and tertiary institution. Kindergarten is the foundation, which is inevitable. At this stage, a child is being prepared for the challenges ahead before admission into primary school where he will spend six years. Afterwards, he will spend another six years for secondary education and also four to six years in tertiary institutions. The importance of education cannot be underestimated. It is mainly to broaden horizon of knowledge, enlighten us and enhance communication between people. It creates a platform on which people of different ideologies can come together to think and exploit opportunities and provides solution to the weaknesses that may be attached to it. Education gives knowledge of the world we are in and the one around us and changes it to something better. An educated person changes society positively and gives life a better meaning. He will think in a distinct way and build an independent mind which useful opinion proceeded. Nonetheless, the importance of education can never be over emphasised but Nigeria pays less attention to them. In some parts of the country, female children are not being educated because of the belief that it is not everyone who went to school who becomes successful. Meanwhile, there are many people who became successful without going to school. Yes, someone who did not go to school can also be successful. It is surprising how some people view education. Their belief is centred on the myth that only the male child has chances of becoming successful. They believe educating a girl child is profitless, because of the wrong perception that women end up in the kitchen. In Nigeria and some other countries, women have shown their exploit, strength and influence in education. The likes of financial experts, Dr Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala and Mrs Kemi Adeosun, have great opportunities in life because of education. We have couple of other women who have achieved great feats with education. We have the like of Hajiya Bola Shagaya, MO Abudu, Cher Wang, Angela Merkel, Mrs Folorunsho Alakija, Ibukun Awosika, Linda Ikeji, Amina Mohammed, and Chimamanda Adichie, among others. Now, we have seen the power of education, especially in the lives of women. If woman are educated and given chances to participate in politics, religion, education, banking, and management, they will do better. Discrimination against girl child should be brought to an end. Education is beyond the mere reading, speaking or writing. It is one of the cogent and important investment every country, society, individual can make and expect bountiful reward. Education has created a mutual relationship between people in achieving a set goal. Education has also been seen as an eye opener; it exposes us to the world and the nature. Education earns you respect and confidence in the society. It gives more understanding of the world. It also turns dreams into fulfilled reality. Illiteracy breeds ignorance, which may be too risky for any society. Illiteracy promotes superstitions that are baseless and often affect our live negatively. Education gives hope of the certainty of future and also creates a recognisable status. The attitude of our government towards education is not encouraging. Teachers are not well-paid and academic sessions have been disrupted by incessant strike. Our education has been brought down by riotous protests. Parents are made to pay their wards’ school fees through their nose, yet infrastructure in most of our schools are nothing to write home about. Students of the Ondo State-owned tertiary institutions, Rufus Giwa Polytechnic, Adekunle Ajasin University, and Ondo State University of Science and Technology are currently facing these challenges. It is only in our country that politicians promise free education during political campaign but forget all they promised as soon as they assume the office. They make thing unbearable for citizens and make them regret of voting for them. Successive governments’ policies on education have led to high rate of drop-outs, which in turn led to high rate of crime, unemployment and hooliganism, among others vices. Some who lost their parents at tender age are struggling to sponsor themselves to become successful, but their efforts are being discouraged by strikes, protests and fee hike. It is through education that we build other areas of our existence. The society needs to focus its energy on creating platform for accessible education. Jobs should be provided for every graduate to reduce crime and preserve the society’s ethos. Government must stop paying lip service to education. Any society that fails to education its denizens is inviting anarchy that would dismember its fabrics.  