The Vice President of Nigeria, Prof.  Yemi Osinbajo has praised the Chairman of Aliko Dangote Foundation over the donation of 150 operational vehicles to the Nigeria Police Force. The Vice President said the vehicles donated would help combat the spate of crime in the country. Osinbajo while expressing  Federal Government’s appreciation to Dangote described him as a rare entrepreneur who has done so much to grow the economy of Nigeria. He said the Government needs people like Aliko to join hands with it to grow the economy and also provide jobs for the Youth. He said: “There have been a lot of talks on private-public partnership, but as we can see Alhaji Dangote is walking the talk. “Government’s role is to provide the enabling environment while the private sector should take advantage of the opportunities that abounds in the country to grow and develop the economy. “The donation of 150 cars to the Nigerian Police Force is laudable and we thank Aliko Dangote Foundation for this rare gesture, that is characteristic of the person of Aliko Dangote. “He has shown over the years to be an entrepreneur with a difference, a man that gives so much to the poor” Describing the donation as the single largest donation of cars by any private individual in the country, Osibanjo urged other Nigerians to join hands with the Federal Government to effectively secure the country as well as develop the economy. Speaking during the formal handover, the Chairman of the Foundation,  Aliko Dangote explained that the donation was imperative considering how essential security was to the economy. He also said the donation was aimed at strengthening the Nigeria Police. He said: “We are gathered here today to mark the formal handover of a total number of 150 GAC saloon cars to the Nigeria Police Force in order to help boost their operational efficiency. “I am told that today marks the single biggest number of operational vehicles ever donated to the law enforcement agency by a private organisation. “Considering the challenges government faces in meeting the entire needs of the populace for necessities like health, education and security, various Public Private Partnerships (PPP) initiatives have been developed.” The Foundation, according to Dangote has been active in the four areas of health, education, economic empowerment and disaster relief, adding that it has  expended upwards to N10 billion annually. While calling on other corporate organizations to rise up to the challenge of helping the security agencies in the country, Dangote stated that his Foundation made a N50 million donation to the Lagos State Security Trust Fund, and built the Police Intelligence Hostel Complex in Kwara State, all of which are part of the collaborations by the Foundation. “Today, we are deepening our intervention in security with the donation of these 150 fully kitted operational vehicles to the Police Force. These vehicles will support the Nigeria Police Force in surveillance, crime prevention and promote law and order.” Dangote promised that his foundation may consider donating another batch of vehicles to the Force depending on how well the ones donated are maintained. Also commenting, the Inspector-General of Police, Ibrahim  Idris promised that the cars will be well utilized for the purpose for which they were donated. He urged Nigerians to go about their business lawfully, noting that the Police Force is well equipped more than ever before to fight crime across the country. He also assured that the Police Force will not disappoint Nigerians in the provision of adequate security across the country.