Eminent Nigerians and a European Union (EU) diplomat have thrown their weights behind the ‘Book over Tray’ advocacy championed by a non-governmental organisation, the Green Heart Impact Foundation (GHIF), which advocates more investments in quality education for children, especially the girl-child. The ‘Book over Tray’ initiative, according to GHIF President, Munira Suleiman Tanimu, is aimed at taking girl hawkers from JSS1 to SS3 in every state off the street and enrolling them in school while also empowering their mothers. Speaking at the GHIF Gala Night held in Abuja, EU Deputy Head of Delegation to Nigeria, Richard Young, former Minister of Women Affairs, Hajia  Zainab Maina, and Chairperson of Better Life Programme for the African Rural Women, Aisha Babangida, made cases for improved funding and collaboration for the girl-child education as a major way of achieving fairer and more egalitarian society. EU Deputy Head of Delegation to Nigeria, Richard Young, said abuse and maltreatment of the girl-child impeded their intellectual advancement in the society and restricted opportunities that they should have. “We are all conscious that we do have a problem with the way young girls and women are abused and maltreated, and that is where we are here. We see this in statistics and numbers but I’m sure that we see it in our friends, colleagues and families,” he said. Young added that with increased funding for girl-child and more collaborative efforts to empower more women, like the GHIF was doing, “We can begin to have a better Nigeria for all.” Hajia Maina, praised GHIF for taking on the burden the girl-hawkers had to bear for their families. She said: “We have culture and tradition that sometimes is very difficult to change. I believe that with young women and men and with constant advocacy we are going to change it. We are changing it with NGOs like GHIF, who are helping parents because most of these girls hawking are doing so because their parents send them out to look for money to feed the family but if they can be empowered the way GHIF is going, I am sure we can change the narrative.” Tanimu said the driving force behind the No-to-child-hawking initiative was borne out of her desire to ensure every girl-child of school age attain their full potential. “Our organisation is training 52 girls on full scholarships covering tuition, monthly allowance, books, school uniform, and mattresses. We have also empowered 52 mothers, so that they can resist the temptation of withdrawing their girls back to street hawking. This project is fully-funded by GHIF,”  Tanimu said. Babangida called on major stakeholders to continue to raise awareness and collaborate with more NGOs to get more girls back to school. A highpoint of the event was the conferment of an honorary award on the Emir of Kano, Alhaji Sanusi Lamido Sanusi for his consistent advocacy for girl-child education.