A former House of Representative member, Honourable Usman Shehu Bawa popularly known as Shehu ABG in collaboration with the Federal ministry of Health and Graceland Healthcare Development Foundation has organized a week long free medical treatment and eye surgery outreach for residents of Kaduna metropolis. The free medical/eye surgery outreach with over 2000 persons benefiting which is ongoing is taking place at the Primary Health Centre Ungwan Shanu and Primary Health Centre Badarawa in Kaduna all in Kaduna north local government area of the state. At the official flag off of the medical outreach at both centres, Honourable ABG who is the present Senior Special Adviser on special duties to the hounorable Speaker, Yakubu Dogora said the medical outreach was equally carried out in 2013,2017 and 2018 and that it is in the spirit of giving back to the society. Honourable Shehu ABG, who represented Kaduna North Federal Constituency from 2011-2015, added that it was sad and disheartening seeing people he once represented as their Federal Law Maker going about soliciting for medical assistance from the wealthy people, who in turn do nothing to help or alleviate their sufferings. He averred that in an ideal society, medical needs of the electorates should be the primary concern of the government at all levels. But unfortunately, in Nigeria, the electorates are abandoned to take care of their medical needs as soon as elections are won and lost, after promises have been made by contestants to take care of the medical need of the electorate. Also speaking, Mr Bernerd John from the federal ministry of Health and Chairman Graceland healthcare development foundation and head of the medical outreach Dr. Thot Joseph Dogo both commended the good effort of Honourable Shehu ABG in providing and meeting medical needs of the people who mostly cannot afford it. Earlier, Sheikh (Dr) Ahmad Abubakar Mahmud Gumi who was a special guest at the flag off of the medical outreach challenged the wealthy individuals in the society to emulate Shehu ABG. According to him, rather than government spending funds on projects that has no direct impact on the citizens, projects such as provision of medical assistance among others would be  a better option. He therefore called on the electorate to ensure that people of questionable characters are not voted in 2019.