Former Senate Deputy Chief Whip Gbenga Aluko has urged the All Progressives Congress (APC) to consider zoning in the selection of its governorship candidate for the July 14 election. He also advised delegates to pick a competent aspirant from Ekiti South Senatorial District as standard bearer. Aluko, an aspirant, urged delegates to go for a popular candidate with mass appeal. He said the party would not rely on federal might if the delegates vote right and chose a sellable candidate. He spoke in Ode-Ekiti, headquarters of Gbonyin Local Government Area, while hosting 2,000 delegates from the 177 wards. Aluko said: “It was not that APC didn’t use federal might in Anambra, but despite that, we didn’t even win a local government out of the 21 in the state. But, in Ondo, we won because Akeredolu has been with the people of Ondo State. Even people were happy when he won. “If you look at the results of Ondo governorship poll, the PDP that came second in the election and the candidate of Alliance for Democracy, Olusola Oke, could not go to court. That is the gain of having a flag bearer that is popular. So, we will lose if will bring a bad candidate. “The police were on ground in Ondo, they didn’t slap anybody anywhere. “Even if you chase away the PDP leaders, are we going to do same to Okada riders, civil servants, teachers and artisans? “That is why it is important for us to vote right on Saturday. We shouldn’t put emotion into it. We must follow reality for us to be able to win.” On zoning, Aluko said: “if you viewed what Ekiti Obas said that it is time for the South to produce the governor, then you will know how deep this has become in Ekiti. The Obas even warned all parties to adopt it as part of conditions for selecting their candidates. “If you look at this critically, you will know the seriousness our critical stakeholders attached to it and APC should not make a mistake of its life by not complying with this silent convention”, he warned.” Aluko said wards, local governments and state executives will be allowed to retain their respective seats, if he becomes the candidate.