Delegates from 80 different countries recently stormed Kwazulu Natal Province of South Africa for the 2018 edition of Africa Travel Indaba. The annual event which was once again held in Durban experienced a significant rise in participation from last year’s event with 23 African countries in attendance this year. According to the organisers, ‘Indaba 2018’ was positioned as a call to action to focus on the success of the continent as a whole, urging its people to go out and tell Africa’s story to the world. To this end, the event was rebranded from simply ‘Indaba’ to ‘Africa’s Travel Indaba’ highlighting a passion for Africa. This was announced by South Africa’s newly reinstated National Minister of Tourism, Derek Hanekom. The minister in his message at the official Welcome Networking Function said; “Tourism growth, and sharing the benefits of tourism, contribute to replacing poverty and despair with prosperity and hope. Africa’s Travel Indaba is the ideal springboard for further growth.” He further spoke about Travel and Tourism being the fastest growing sector in the world. To further strengthen existing partnership and collaboration within the continent, South African Tourism’s West African hub hosted 26 delegates from Nigeria and Ghana at the Africa’s Travel Indaba. Among the West African tourism delegations were President of the Tour Operators Association in Nigeria, Mr Kwesi  Eyison ,The President of the Tour Operators Union in Ghana, Alhaji Rabo Saleh, Federation of Tourism Association of Nigeria ,The President of The Travel Agents of Nigeria , Mr Bankole Bernard, CEOs of travel agencies and a host of others. The West African trade and media delegates who arrived South Africa days earlier were treated to an activity-filled exploration of South Africa. The delegates enjoyed a variety of experiences including, quad biking, power boating on the Kysna lagoon, and picnics at Cape St.Francis. They also explored Tsitsikamma Nature reserve and the very brave went bungee jumping.