The leadership of the Senate on Tuesday met President Muhammadu Buhari behind closed doors over alleged plot by the Inspector -General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, to frame the Senate president, Bukola Saraki, on a murder charge. The Senate Leader, Ahmed Lawan, told State House correspondents at the end of the meeting that they came to confer with the President on how to smoothen the working relationship between the legislature and the executive. But former Nasarawa State Governor, Abdullahi Adamu, told journalists they came  to meet the President because of the alarm raised by the Senate president on the plot to implicate him and Kwara State governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed, by suspected hoodlums. Adamu said: “The Senate President made some comments to the effect that he received a call from his governor that some persons suspected to be cultists who are undergoing investigation in Ilorin would be transferred to Abuja and it is becoming a problem that is why the governor intimated him. “That is why it was decided that we should come as leaders in the Assembly to hear what is going on and if anything can be done about it.” Asked why policemen were not allowed to perform their duties, the lawmaker added: “That cannot stop us from coming to see the President on the matter and to hear from him if you really know what has been happening at the National Assembly. “That cannot stop us from coming to see the President on the matter and to hear from him if you really know what has been happening at the National Assembly. “If there is a harmonious working relationship between the executive and legislature and even the judiciary all these type of things will not come up and even if they do come, not in the way they are coming up now. “A small matter is often overblown and it becomes a problem for everybody. This is the result of some unnecessary utterances because things are not going as expected. So long as suspicion and accusations continue to exist within the minds of some people who ordinarily shouldn’t have them, these things will continue.” Also in the delegation were the – Senate Chief Whip, Olusola Adeyeye, Minority Leader, Godswill Akpabio, Danjuma Goje, Abiodun Olujinmi, and Sam Egwu.