The Plateau State chapter of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria has asked the Plateau State Government as well as the federal government to protect them against armed Irigwe and Berom youths who they said were determined to wipe them out of the state. The state chairman of the Fulani group, Alhaji Nuru Muhammed, made the call in a statement he issued in Jos yesterday. Muhammed alleged that the Irigwe and Berom youths had armed themselves and had been going about the bush to hunt for Fulani people and cows and had killed more than 500 cows belonging to the Fulani. He expressed surprise that the “organised crime” which he said had been going on for two months, was yet to draw the attention of security agencies while the herdsmen in the state remained unprotected and vulnerable. The statement reads: “With great sense of responsibility, we the Miyetti Allah cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria Plateau State Chapter vehemently want to show our total dismay and overwhelming shock over the recent happenings in Miango chiefdom of Bassa Local Government Area and Fan district of B/Ladi Local Government Area and their environs. “The Beroms and Irigwe militias have resorted to rampant attacks, killings of herders and rustling of cows. What baffled us is the repeated killing of these cows. “The Miango chiefdom genocide and the Fan District’s Berom massacre crusade is becoming one too many. “Having gone unpunished for the previous mass killings of hundreds of the sedentary pastoralists last years and early this year has given them the courage to re-plan and execute their nefarious activities. “The Irigwe and Berom tribesmen conspired with some politicians and highly placed personalities in attacking and killing Fulani and their herds of cows and destroying properties. “On Monday 20th May 2018, the Irigwe militia group from Ancha village, holding sophisticated firearms, lunched an attack on cattle and their rearers who escaped by a whisker. “But 63 cows and 9 sheep were fired to death without any reason or provocation. The cows belong to Alhaji Rago Ishaq, Sani Ishaq and Yakubu Ishaq. “They have been rampaging from one area to another, looking for where they will locate cows or kill Fulani. “This nasty experience reoccurs in Kinat and Tukur villages general area of Mangu LGA on 21/5/2018, where Beroms attacked cattle at home in the evening, fired at them, killed over 50 and looted the meat without any provocation. “While looting the meat, they cordoned the area with heavy fire arms. “They were able to fight the Nigerian Army under Operation Save Haven and defeated them and pack the whole killed cows. “That these hoodlums are holding more sophisticated firearms than that of the military. Therefore, they took to their heels. “The approach of silent and systematic killing of Fulani herdsmen in the remote areas of Miango chiefdom in Bassa LGA and Fan district in B/ladi LGA are still alarming despite the efforts of the government and security agencies to maintain the fragile peace in the state. “In Fan District of B/Ladi Local Government, for instance, on the 9th April, 2018, 93 cows belonging to Iliyasu Guda Gidado were rustled from Nding village into Fan district. None of the cows has been recovered. “On 6th may, 2018, 166 cows were rustled from Mangun Halle village of Mangu LGA into Fan District of B/ladi LGA by the Berom militia group. All effort to recover the cows were in vain. “In Miango Chiefdom of Bassa LGA, on 20th April, 2018, 56 cows belonging to Adamu Buba and Dauda Adamu were rustled from Kwachudu village of Miango District into the chiefdom, whose leaders said categorically in a media interview that the cows had crossed into their area. “As a result, one person was arrested and he has confess and mentioned five others who are yet to be arrested.”