Ondo State Governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu has said his administration would deliver access roads and life-changing infrastructures to uplift the state. He spoke at Molege, an agrarian community in Owo Local Government when he visited the community with some members of his cabinet to inspect the 13 Kilometres Molege – Ute farm access road. Akeredolu reiterated the commitment of his administration to opening up rural areas across the state at enhancing the socio-economic wellbeing of the people. He explained that once rural roads were made accessible to farmers, it would in turn boost the economy of their state. According to him “Part of our five cardinal programmes is rural development and in doing that, we have keyed into Rural Access Mobility Programme (RAMP) a World Bank assisted programme. “Most essentially, this exercise is to have farm to market access roads.This community has a lot of farming activities and people here are having difficulty in taking their produce from farms to market because of lack of access roads. Akeredolu pointed out that the roads would give the people smooth access to move their farm produce to the market while the cost of such produce would get cheaper and vehicles last longer. He said “During our election campaign, we did promise to construct this road, we have started and we would ensure that it is completed for your use very soon. “With our counterparts, we will open up about 540 Kilometres of roads. This is just about 13 kilometres from that. The people should expect it. “For me, opening up the rural areas is a promise we made which we will ensure we keep. I have said I want to be remembered as the governor that opened up the rural areas” The governor also promised to build a school for the community which has been without any since the existence of the area. The Special Adviser to the Governor on Community and Rural Development,  Victor Olabimtan noted that the road construction, from Molege to Ute in Owo Local Government, was the fulfilment of the present administration’s commitment to deliver democractic dividends to people of the state. He thanked residents of the community for the support given to those handling the project which had assisted in the progress made so far. The traditional ruler of Molege Community, Ahmed Otaro applauded Governor Akeredolu for fulfilling his promise of  constructing the road. He commended the governor for the giant strides taken so far by his administration across all sectors, pledging the continued support of Molege residents towards the success of his administration.