The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN) has exonerated the Chief Medical Director of Ladoke Akintola University Teaching Hospital (LAUTECH-TH), Prof. Akeem Lasisi, of professional misconduct and medical malpractices. The allegations were levelled against him by the family of the late Senator Isiaka Adeleke. MDCN said: “The panel set up to investigate the circumstances surrounding Senator Isiaka Adeleke’s death has come to a conclusion on the matter. The panel did not establish prima facie case of misconduct in a professional respect against Prof. Akeem Lasisi.” The body of Adeleke, who died on April 23, 2017, was brought to LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Osogbo for autopsy. Following a controversy over the circumstances surrounding his death, a Coroner Inquest was set up by the Osun State government to investigate the causes of his death. The Coroner revealed that the first civilian governor of Osun State died of overdose. But not satisfied with the Coroner’s verdict, the deceased’s family sent a petition to MDCN, accusing Prof. Lasisi of gross professional misconduct and malpractice in the manner he issued the autopsy report. After the autopsy, it was learnt that a member of the deceased’s family, Mrs. Dupe Sanni, wrote a “Certificate of Honour” to the hospital, conveying the family’s satisfaction. The certificate reads: “On behalf of the Adeleke family, I, Mrs. Dupe Sanni, hereby certify that the family is satisfied and hereby confirms our confidence in the pathology examination conducted by the pathologist at LAUTECH Teaching Hospital, Osogbo on Senator Isiaka Adeleke.” But in its letter dated 11th May, 2018, signed by the Secretary of the Investigation Panel, Dr. E. D. Abdu, MDCN said: “Following consideration of petition deposed to on oath by the family of the late Senator Adeleke and the counter-affidavit by the CMD, including autopsy report of the senator, the Council came to the conclusion that no case of misconduct in a professional respect has been established against Prof. Lasisi.” The hospital leadership has stated that all the ways to its services are in compliance with internationally-acceptable practice. A statement by spokesman Ayodele Adeyemo said: “The hospital will not deviate from medical ethos and ethics while it will constantly sustain credibility, which it has acquired over the years. The public are assured of continued patient-friendly services.” 