Nigeria’s premium beer brand and the official beer partner of the Super Eagles, Star Lager Beer, on Tuesday, thrilled fans with an unforgettable football and music spectacle at the Star Fan Park in Uyo, Akwa Ibom State. This was as the Super Eagles of Nigeria battled Spanish Football Club, Atletico Madrid FC in an international friendly game. Thousands of excited Super Eagles fans in Uyo thronged the Godswill Akpabio Stadium to watch the National Team take on the newly-crowned Champions of the UEFA Europa League. Designed to bring excitement, energy and entertainment to Nigerian football match venues, Star Fan Park fuses music and football, offering great live performances and special appearances from Nigeria’s biggest music stars at different venues around the country, including DJ Neptune and DJ Big N who went head to head in a friendly match-up at the Uyo venue. As MC Laugh Up entertained the audience with his witty jokes and football banter, fans participated in exciting Star-themed games and a raffle draw, with the winners awarded instant prizes, including refrigerators, generator sets and flat screen television sets among others. Speaking, the Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Franco Maria Maggi, said: “We take pride in delivering highly engaging and memorable moments to our consumers nationwide, and we are determined to keep upgrading football viewing experiences for Nigerian fans. “We have a few more exciting activities lined up for fans in the coming weeks through our ‘Nigeria United We Shine’ campaign, and we are truly delighted to be part of this national support for the Super Eagles and Nigerian football in general.” The Portfolio Manager, National Premium, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Yinka Bakare, said, “Star Lager Beer is a consumer-focused brand, and a listening brand. We know how passionate Nigerians are about good football and we are proud to be involved with this friendly match, being a major one for all Nigerians as our partners, the NFF and the Super Eagles prepare for Russia.” As official beer of the Nigerian national football team, Star Lager provided the ultimate Star experience with two luxury buses to convey the Super Eagles throughout their stay in the Akwa Ibom state capital. The iconic Nigerian brand and product of Nigerian Breweries Plc, which is a Heineken International Company, has enjoyed decades of success since its launch as the first indigenous Nigerian beer brand in 1949. Reiterating the essence of the multi-million naira partnership with the Nigerian Football Federation and the Super Eagles, Star Lager Beer promises to continue bringing unique and exciting experiences to passionate football fans in Nigeria.       