Nigeria is working to improve its reputation as a secured environment for businesses. In line with this, Governor Akinwumi Ambode and others say transparency and accountability are key to sustaining businesses. They spoke at a one-day Forum of Accountants-General in Nigeria in Lagos, DANIEL ESSIET reports. Attracting and sustaining businesses have always been a key part of President MuhammaduBuhari-led adminstration’s campaign. And since he assumed office in 2015, he has emphasised the need to attract  and sustain businesses to create jobs and boost the economy. He has been vigorously renovating the business climate. Consequently, he inaugurated the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council, (PEBEC) which adopted a 60-day Action Plan aimed at pushing ease of doing business reforms in the country. While the government has been working on overhauling the regulatory environment to make it easier for businesses to survive, older threats such as corruption still plays on the minds of international investors. If the nation is going to attract businesses to the various sectors of the economy, increased campaign to tackle corruption and promote accountability and transparency, experts said is necessary. Financial experts, who met in Lagos under the aegis of Forum of Accountant –Generals of Nigeria, said transparent financial reporting standards are essential for increasing foreign direct investment. Leading them, Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode said a successful fight against  corruption is necessary for attracting investors  and  encouraging new businesses to grow the economy. Ambode, a former Accountant-General, said achieving economic and social development required continued efforts to address corruption. Represented by Commissioner for Finance, Akinyemi Ashade,the Governor  said  to make Lagos business -friendly destination,  he has taken series of steps to improve the ease of doing business. Among them are the “massive steps” in using new digital technologies for governance and making them beneficial to the people. He added that the state is  developing the local business ecosystem to help the economy remain vibrant. According to him, achieving better accountability and transparency in public accounting in Nigeria at all levels of government requires not just the strong political will of the leadership, but robust public financial management system that reflects global best practices. This, according to him, will be implemented by experienced Accountants-Generals. He stressed the need for states across the country to adopt International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), a set of financial reporting standards to enforce transparent reporting so that the world’s markets have faith that the global flow of capital into the country is secure. He said Lagos State has made progress towards improving accountability and transparency and has pioneered the International Public Sector Accounting Standards in public accounting in Nigeria to bring the state’s accounting and reporting systems in line with global best practices. Ambode further advocated the use of technology in scaling up government processes, adding that it is key to ensuring open governance, promoting transparency, curbing corruption, empowering citizens and improving public service efficiency. Accountant-General of the Federation, Alhaji Ahmed Idris appealed to the Accountants-General across the states to join hands with President Buhari-led administration in nipping corruption in the bud. In a keynote address, the AGF identified monumental corruption as one of the factors responsible for citizens loss of faith in governments. Idris said: “As Accountants-General of your respective states, you occupy strategic positions in helping to establish and engender transparency, accountability, good governance and stability in our great nation. Therefore, you must act in public interest at all times, consistent with the requirements of legislation and government policies.” He added: “Accounting professionals help in no small measure in combating the opportunity and the cost of fraud and corruption, thus engendering accountability and transparency, which are sine-qua-non to good governance and essential elements of economic growth.” Idris explained that strong financial management, transparency, accountability and enhanced governance are essentials for sustainable, long term economic growth that benefit the citizenry and therefore, described the retreat, with theme bothering on transparency, accountability and governance in Nigeria, as “a patriotic act and a sign of their commitment towards national building”. According to him, over the years, there had been lack of trust in governments across the world, adding that citizens do not trust government in making sound decisions or doing the right thing at the right time. Consultant and Former Kwara State Accountant-General, Alhaji Tunde Abdulkareem said IFRS standards bring transparency, accountability and efficiency to financial markets around the world. He added that adopting IFRS standards in a comprehensive way often takes five to 10 years depending on the conditions and ability of each country, but that Nigeria has been able to achieve it within two years. Abdulkareem commended accountants-general for moving to implement accruals as part of major reform of its accounting system since 2016. He said foreign investors are still looking at corruption as major challenge when it comes to making investment decision. Adoption of international financial reporting standards, he said, will attract more foreign investment into the country. Earlier, Accountants-General forum Chairman, Akintayo Kolawole, explained that the retreat was meant to provide the forum opportunity to discuss ways of improving the internal reporting and workflow processes of states in order to improve transparency and accountability in public finance management in Nigeria. Kolawole said lack of transparency and accountability in the public sector portends a major risk to the global financial stability and long term economic sustainability. He added: “Citizens entrust government with their tax money and the entire resources of their countries to manage in the interest of the general public both immediate and the future, to secure lives and property, provide essential services and infrastructure. It is this element of trust that I would like to address today.” Principal Partner, Clement-Isah and Partners, Mr Clement Isah said lack of transparency is a hurdle for foreign investment. According to him, capital will flow to companies and organisations that can demonstrate a sound business model, transparency and corporate governance. He added that adopting proactively applying IFRS standards enhance transparency and corporate governance capabilities of states as well as remove barriers to inward investment.