Foreign investors are still worried about the multiple exchange rates operating in Nigeria which remain a big challenge to foreign capital inflows, Global Chief Economist at Renaissance Capital (RenCap) Charles Robertson has said. Robertson spoke at the RenCap ninth Annual Pan-Africa 1:1 Investor Conference in Lagos. He said although the foreign investors have increased their interest in the economy, but the level of capital inflows would have been better were the country to adopt a single exchange rate. Robertson said: “The main challenges for investors are on the front of liquidity: how can Ghana and Nigeria increase liquidity in the near future? Nigeria is looking better on most metrics, having accelerated growth, a stable currency and rising forex reserves, but needs to improve on bank lending which remains weak”. He added: “The cyclical story is again improving for much of Africa as commodities pick up. The credit rating downgrade cycle is basically finished. We think Nigeria will have one of the strongest growth accelerations in Africa in 2018, while the currency is well supported for 2018.” RenCap, an emerging and frontier markets investment bank, said the conference serves as a platform for closed-door one –on-one meetings between top global and local investors from across the globe and over 30 corporate representatives to discuss investment opportunities in Nigeria and other fast-growing economies on the continent. The keynote speakers and panelists Adedoyin Salami, a renowned Nigerian economist and Executive Director, African Business Research, and Mrs Patience Oniha, Director-General, Nigeria Debt Management Office, among other prominent business and opinion leaders. CEO Nigeria, Renaissance Capital, Temi Popoola, said: “This conference provides an opportunity to broaden and expand the narrative around investing in West Africa – a long term, broad objective of fulfilling our mission to providing client solutions and ensuring we remain an innovative and ever-evolving partner to them. We hope to bring more visibility to the region and help facilitate increased capital inflows. We continue to believe Africa will be a $29 trillion economy in 2050, larger than the 2012 combined GDP of the US and the eurozone.”  