WHEN he was appointed chairman, Senate Committee on Public Accounts, vocal Senator Mathew Urhoghide, grabbed the offer with both hands. The Edo South first time senator was lifted from the ‘third class’ Committee on Culture and Tourism to the ‘first class’ Public Accounts Committee following the defection of Senator Andy Ubah from the Peoples Democratic Party to the All Progressives Congress. The head of the Public Accounts committee is usually reserved for the opposition party. When Ubah left the PDP to pursue his governorship ambition in Anambra State, Urhoghide was chosen to replace him. Urhoghide appears to have been on top of his game since his appointment, digging into high profile legislative investigations of money matters. Heads of ministries, departments and agencies are routinely invited to give account of their financial expenditures and sundry issues. The Edo State senator pursues the functions of his committee as if his life depends on it. In his boisterous outlook, Urhoghide may have also stepped on some toes in his line of duty. He churns out lengthy reports of alleged financial irregularities for the consideration and approval of his colleagues in the chamber. The last of such reports was the investigation into alleged unofficial payment of mind-boggling amount as oil subsidy by the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation. The subsidy payment report was criticized by some senators who felt it did not prescribe far reaching penalty for those behind the unapproved payment of oil subsidy. Urhoghide seemed to have been undaunted even with some gaps spotted in his report by his colleagues. Before the dust raised by the behindthe- scene subsidy payment could settle, allegation of unapproved payment of $496 million for the purchase of Tucano aircraft by Mohammadu Buhari was already brewing in the Senate. Senators, mostly of opposition PDP extraction, may have seen the payment for the purchase of the aircraft as an opportunity to get at President Buhari who was said to have authorised the payment without parliamentary approval. The opposition senators were already spoiling for war when on Wednesday, April 25, Senate President Abubakar Bukola Saraki, read President Buhari’s letter requesting the Senate to include the sum of $496,374,470 (equivalent of N151,394,494,335.00) in the year 2018 appropriation bill for the purchase of 12 Tucano aircraft. Urhoghide jumped at the presidential communication with a measured point of order. Even before the letter came, the senator representing Imo East, Samuel Anyanwu, had drawn the attention of the Senate to the payment. Anyanwu asked the red chamber to establish the veracity of the payment for aircraft from the United States without parliamentary affirmation. Urhoghide, on his part, sought to convince his colleagues to resolve that the payment for the fighter aircraft without parliamentary endorsement was an infraction on the constitution. If only he knew that danger in form of attack, humiliation and ridicule, was lurking ahead, perhaps he would have thought twice. Sensing trouble, Saraki aborted the point of order by informing Urhoghide and others who appeared to have made up their minds to descend on the President for alleged breach of the constitution that what he read was an executive communication to the Senate. Beside, Saraki further informed that the communication should first be referred to the appropriate committee before it could be discussed. The matter was only half settled by Saraki’s intervention. On Thursday, April 26, the presidential communication for the inclusion of the aircraft fund was listed in the order paper. Deputy Senate Leader, Bala Ibn Na’Allah, who stood in for the leader, Ahmed Lawan, prayed the Senate to consider the request of Mr. President/C-in-C on the inclusion of USD 496,374,470 (equivalent of N151,394,494,335.00) only in the 2018 appropriation bill for the purchase of Super Tucano Aircraft from the United States. Saraki was about to refer the request to the appropriation committee for further legislative work when Urhoghide raised a point of order. He first referred to his aborted attempt to argue the matter. He began: “This matter was raised yesterday by me to say that this request sought by Mr. President is procedurally wrong. What has been read by the leader this morning was that this matter has been referred to the appropriate committee for the inclusion of this amount of money that has already been spent. “There ought to have been request first to this Senate. We must put it on record that this is a violation of procedure as stated in the 1999 constitution. “The objective of the expenditure is very well established but the procedure is wrong. “There are serious consequences for the violation of our constitution. As a consequence, the only thing we can draw from this is that we call on you, Mr. President, (Saraki) to invoke Section 143 of the Constitution. Because, what it means is that this matter is not to be investigated. It is clear that this offence has been committed by Mr. President (Buhari). “I want this Senate to resolve that what the President did is procedurally wrong and a violation of our constitution. It must be condemned and of course, the consequences of section 143 of our constitution should be invoked. I so move Mr. President.’’ Immediately Urhoghide moved that the senate should invoke Section 143 of the constitution, the chamber went dead. When the chamber came alive once again, there appeared to be a sharp division among the senators, which Saraki laboured to control. Section 143 of the constitution, which Urhoghide prayed the Senate to invoke, has 11 subsections on procedures and processes of removal of the president or vice president from office. Urhoghide did not specifically mention impeachment in his submission. Some say it was fully implied. Section 143 (1) to (11) states: (1) The President or Vice-President may be removed from office in accordance with the provisions of this section; (2) whenever a notice of any allegation in writing signed by not less than one-third of the members of the National Assembly:- (a) is presented to the President of the Senate; (b) stating that the holder of the office of President or Vice- President is guilty of gross misconduct in the performance of the functions of his office, detailed particulars of which shall be specified; the President of the Senate shall within seven days of the receipt of the notice cause a copy thereof to be served on the holder of the office and on each member of the National Assembly, and shall also cause any statement made in reply to the allegation by the holder of the office to be served on each member of the National Assembly. (3) Within 14 days of the presentation of the notice to the President of the Senate (whether or not any statement was made by the holder of the office in reply to the allegation contained in the notice), each House of the National Assembly shall resolve by motion without any debate whether or not the allegation shall be investigated. (4) A motion of the National Assembly that the allegation be investigated shall not be declared as having been passed, unless it is supported by the votes of not less than two-thirds majority of all the members of each House of the National Assembly. (5) Within seven days of the passing of a motion under the foregoing provisions, the Chief Justice of Nigeria shall at the request of the President of the Senate appoint a Panel of seven persons, who in his opinion are of unquestionable integrity, not being members of any public service, legislative house or political party, to investigate the allegation as provide in this section. (6) The holder of an office whose conduct is being investigated under this section shall have the right to defend himself in person and be represented before the panel by legal practitioners of his own choice. (7) A panel appointed under this section shall – (a) have such powers and exercise its functions in accordance with such procedure as may be prescribed by the National Assembly; and (b) within three months of its appointment report its findings to each House of the National Assembly. (8) Where the panel reports to each House of the National Assembly that the allegation has not been proved, no further proceedings shall be taken in respect of the matter. (9) Where the report of the panel is that the allegation against the holder of the office has been proved, then within 14 days of the receipt of the report at the House the National Assembly shall consider the report, and if by a resolution of each House of the National Assembly supported by not less than two-thirds majority of all its members, the report of the panel is adopted, then the holder of the office shall stand removed from office as from the date of the adoption of the report. (10) No proceedings or determination of the Panel or of the National Assembly or any matter relating thereto shall be entertained or questioned in any court. (11) In this section – “gross misconduct” means a grave violation or breach of the provisions of this Constitution or a misconduct of such nature as amounts in the opinion of the National Assembly to gross misconduct.” Although Urhoghide did not mention impeachment, speakers after him did. Saraki, however, saved the day when he prevailed on the chamber to refer the matter to the Committee on Judiciary, Legal Matters and Human Rights to study and advise the Senate on the path to follow. The resolution to seek advice from the judiciary committee may have been a form of tactical withdrawal from a volatile and unpredictable venture. For Urhoghide, the worse was yet to come. Penultimate Friday, a mob confronted him at the Benin Airport for daring to move an impeachment motion against President Buhari. Some observers say Urhoghide might have attracted the attack to himself for his boldness to contemplate the removal of the president. Others countered that the Edo lawmaker was simply carrying out his legislative function of oversight. The mob might have concluded that Urhoghide’s audacity to move such a sensitive motion must not go unpunished. Urhoghide later told his colleagues that the attack was orchestrated by those in high authority to humiliate and demean him for carrying out his constitutional duty of defending and protecting the constitution which he swore to uphold. Besides, he insisted that as chairman of Senate Public Accounts Committee, it is his line of duty to interrogate government expenditure, irrespective of who is involved. Urhoghide said the mob did not stop at hitting him in the presence of the state governor, Godwin Obaseki, but went further to remove his cap. The governor, however, denied any involvement in the attack. Special Adviser to Governor Godwin Obaseki on National Assembly Matters, Hon. Patrick Obahiagbon, added that Senator Urhodighe’s comments and action did not reflect the position of Edo State. Those familiar with Edo politics say Urhoghide should have anticipated danger and trodden carefully.