You may be wondering if a website is really required by your small business. Its answer lies in a single line, if you are a business owner interested in growing you business, your business definitely needs to have a website. Who should be online? Almost every small business can benefit from being online. Right now there are over 93 million internet users in Nigeria as per stats by Nigerian Communications Commissions (NCC). Almost every internet users is now favorable to buying things online such as clothes, shoes, grocery and gifts online. Their search is not only limited to buying goods but they also look on Google for services such as legal advisors, local medical clinics, and consultancy services & jobs. So, whether your business sells products, have an open vacancy or you are a service provider, it is must for your business to have a website. Moreover, your existing clients may be searching for your company/brand on internet and if they don’t find you online then your competitor who is online may convert them into his customers. A website ensures your customers can find you, establishes your brand and credibility, markets your business, and expands your reach to a wider audience. There are 2 ways for you to create a website for your business. You can choose the best depending upon your convenience and budget. 1) Hire a web designer (Minimum cost is N25,000): If you are not into DIY solutions then you can hire a professional web designer/developer to build your website for you. But this can be expensive & you should consider this option if you can afford it. You can look for various web designers in your area on Google and other business portals. 2) Use WordPress (Cost starts from N300/month): You don’t need to have deep pockets or HTML/coding skills to start your business website. With WordPress you will get access to 1000s of free theme/templates for every business type, be it a lawyer or exporter or ecommerce store. WordPress software is free to use but you only need to find a good web hosting provider like DomainKing to register your domain name & host your WordPress for you. The cost of a starter web hosting plan at DomainKing is N300 per month that will be only cost involved. Steps to create your website: Whether you plan to use the service of a web designer or even if you want to build your website on your own, you will have to get 2 basic services that are required by every website on internet. Register your Domain name: A domain name is your business’s address on the internet just like your company’s name such as abcstore[dot]com would be perfect domain name for you if your company is “ABC Store Limited”. Your business website will be accessed on the internet through your domain name, so it is really important to choose a unique, relatable and easy to remember name. It just costs N699 to register domain name in Nigeria from any popular Registrar like DomainKing, Godaddy, Namecheap & many more. The domain name that you will choose is very influential to drive direct traffic and via Google search to your business website. There are 1000s of domain extensions (tlds) available right now. The most widely used domain extension by small businesses on internet is .com, but that also makes it very crowded. Very few good names are left now in .com so you would have to get the right name through auctioning. But there is good news because if you are a local Nigerian business then the best option for you is to get a .ng domain like abcstore[dot]ng. This will not only give your website a Nigerian feel but will also help you rank higher for your keywords on Google search rankings. Choose a web hosting Provider: Your web hosting provider will help you to get online space for your website as well they will register domain for your business. It is easy for SMEs to find a number of providers on internet but it is important to choose the best provider that will offer full suite of web services at a reasonable rate. A good provider should offer you a free domain with your hosting account, Free CMS installation, Free Malware/virus scanner & should allow you unmetered traffic on your website. There are many providers out there but you should choose the top hosting providers in Nigeria such as DomainKing.NG, Godaddy and 1&1. For example, you can choose to host your website with DomainKing.NG which allows you to create your website with WordPress on their SSD powered servers backed by LightSpeed technology for good hosting experience at just N300/month. You need to visit DomainKing as they offer web hosting in Nigeria (it will make your website load faster) and you can choose any plan on their website. You can choose from 3 web hosting plans i.e. Soldier Plan, Minister Plan, and King Plan that have different pricing & resources. Once you have selected your plan, on the next page, you will be entering the domain name that you want to use for your website. You will need to select the first option ‘ I want DomainKing.NG to register a new domain for my Hosting Package’ if you have not registered your domain till now. If you see your domain as available, then simply click to continue, you can also select the other domain extension for your domain such as .net or .ng for brand protection.
After that just follow the onscreen instructions and you will reach the final checkout page where you will be able to see the final price. You will need to create an account with DomainKing by which you will be managing your website as well paying and renewing the services. After adding your details, you need to accept the terms & conditions and select a payment method to complete the order. You will be able to pay via your debit/credit card such as Verve Card, VISA and MasterCard along with that Bank deposit/transfer option is also available.
Once your payment is successful and your account is registered, you will receive all the instructions for starting your website on the email that you gave during sign up. If you have followed all these steps, you will now have a domain and web hosting for your website. Now you can either hire a web designer to design a website for you or you can simply install WordPress to start your website.