Borno State Governor Kashim Shettima of Borno State has again  insisted that no part of his state is no longer  under siege by Boko Haram insurgents. According to him, those peddling such news are enemies of the State who are bent on thwarting the progress of the State. The governor however admitted that the insurgents still pose a danger to innocent citizens of the State as the go about attacking soft targets in desperation, adding that the military should be commended for degrading the capacity of the insurgents and restoring peace to the State and the northeast in general. Gov. Shettima who played host to the  the newly appointed Acting General Officer Commanding 7 Division, Nigerian Army, Brigadier General Abdulmalik Bulama Biu at a courtesy visit at the Government House, Maiduguri regretted that Borno opposition leaders and politicians who fled at the heat of the crisis are the purvayors of the clandestine campaign against the state. His words; ” As Chief Security Officer in Borno state, I am grateful to President Mohammed Buhari, the Military, Security agencies, Stakeholders and people of the state for their sustained effort towards the fight against Boko Haram. “In the last four years, our major highways that link us with other parts of the country and the entire state was under siege, but we are proud of our President and the Nigerian Army for bringing sanity and peace to our dear state. ” I am personally saddened by some Borno Oppositions/ Politicians who have relocated to Abuja, Lagos and other places during the peak of the insurgency and be making unnecessary noise regarding the calamities that befell us. “Instead of them to Pray while they relocated, they were busy raising unnecessary critics on us as government, but thank God that all their bad plans against this government end up hitting the rock. “As government, our doors will always remain open for military to fraternize and see how we continue give our maximum support and cooperation to end Boko Haram Madness in our dear state.” Shettima stated. He called on the new GOC   as a  son of the soil with a good  knowledge on the nooks and crannies of the state, troops under his watch will consolidate on the remarkable achievements of his predecessors  to end the lingering crisis. On his part, the new GOC said, he was at the Government House to officially register his presence alongside his lieutenants. General Biu said, “I am here for three issues, first is to thank your Excellency for the support you have been providing in the business of security, present myself to you and the people of the state on my preparedness to rapidly achieve the much desired peace we are all reigning for, and to seek for your sustainable effort in supporting the military. “I came with an open mind, ready to contribute beyond the call of my duty, Under my watch, we will continue to respect the rules of engagement so that the rights of the people will not be truncated by our sacrificial troops, as we collectively team up to end Boko Haram”. Biu said.