Nigeria is courting trouble, if it fails to restructure, an entrepreneur and Chairman, Dome Entertainment Centre, Dr Obiora Okonkwo, has said. Okonkwo spoke at a lecture with the theme: The value of diversity: Restructuring to save Nigeria, held at the Princess Alexandra Auditorium of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN). Okonkwo hinted that failure to restructure might unintentionally put the nation on the path of implosion in the next decades. He said: “If we fail to restructure, Nigeria may have inadvertently toed the path of implosion by the next decades.” According to him, there is no way corruption can be eradicated from the system. He said the system would work better if politicians put public interest above personal gain. As the general elections approach, he said the importance of restructuring must dominate political discussions and people must demand strong commitment of the political actors to restructuring. He said: “I do not think anyone of us expects a nation where there is no corruption; we rather would prefer a nation where the good outweighs the corrupt tendencies. We deserve a nation where the systems are functional; a country where public utilities are not luxuries.” “Our advancement towards the next general elections must take into cognizance the need to restructure our polity and make it work effectively for the people. This is where the people, who desire to live as members of this nation, should begin to demand from their political leaders a strong commitment towards restructuring”. Okonkwo noted that the president of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief John Nnia Nwodo, in his visit to Southeat members of the National Assembly, said the problems facing the country emanated from the 1999 Constitution, which he described as lopsided and not good for a diverse people with diverse religion, culture and ethnicity. Okonkwo argued that the constitution must be revised to incorporate ethnic diversity. He said: “Nigerians must demand and hold those they elect accountable for the progress made or not made towards restructuring the country in a way that delivers the best services to them. My fear is that, if we fail to do this, we shall still operate a system where leadership is for the fittest and mightiest. If we allow that to remain, we would gradually walk back into the Hobbesian state of nature where life is brutish, nasty and short.”