Winners have emerged in the 15th Lagos Qur’anic Competition organised by the Muslim Students’ Society of Nigeria (MSSN) for youths to promote spirituality, morality and Arabic memorisation. This contest is held biennially in honour of MSSN pioneer president, the late Dr Abdul-Lateef Adegbite , who died six years ago. The event was attended by over 250 contestants, including dignitaries, such as Mr Tunde Folawiyo, Chief Financial Officer MTN in Ghana, Alhaji Modupe Kadiri, Executive Director of Zakat and Sadaqat Foundation, Prince Sulayman Olagunju, Managing Director, Hajj Mabrur Ventures, Alhaji Abdulhameed Solate, and Partner KPMG, Mr Ayo Salam. Others were National Amir of The Companion, Musibau Oyefeso, Lagos State Polytechnic (LASPOTECH) Governing Council chairman, Prof Tajudeen Gbadamosi, family members of the late Adegbite, and representatives of Ogun and Osun states’ governors, among others. The grand finale of the contest was held on Sunday at the University of Lagos (UNILAG), where 18 participants emerged as winners in various categories. The contestants were tested on memorisation, pronunciation, voice sonority, composition and dressing. As the winners were being announced, the audience in the Main Auditorium where the event was held erupted in jubilation. The winner of the male category of 15 Juzu contest is Umar Muhammad, while Naeem Muhammad and Bilal Abdur-Rasheed finished as first and second runners-up. The female category of 15 Juzu was won by Fatimah Adebiaro, while Aabidah Tajudeen and Muminah Bello are first and second runners-up. AbdulQadri Atukale won the male category of Five Juzu segment, while Abdullah Abubakar and Fuad AbdulFattah finished as first and second runners-up. Haleemah Awwal won the Five Juzu female category, as Sidiqah Bunyamin and Khadijah Lukman finished as first and second runners-up. Imran Yusuf won the male category of Three Juzu segment, while Abdullah Abdul-Salam and Luqman Abdur-Rahman came as first and second runners-up. The female category was won by Maryam Ibraheem, as Hafsah Bello and Fatiah Zakariyyah came first and second runners-up. Speaking on behalf of the Adegbite family, Bashorun Ladi Adegbite, the honoree’s son, praised MSSN Lagos council for honouring their late patriarch, saying members of the family were proud to be associated with the event. He explained that the theme of the competition, Hope for the hopeless, matched the personality of his late father. Adegbite said: “I am delighted to represent the family of Dr Abdul-Lateef Adegbite, not only because it’s an opportunity to remember him, but a chance to promote his legacies by transmitting the core values for which he had become well known in his lifetime. Our father was a legend of his time who did his best to promote positive values as a Muslim, a youth leader, a teacher, a lawyer, a traditional leader and all facets of his endeavours.” Chief Executive Officer of Basmallah Institute for Teaching Qur’an and Islam in the United Kingdom, Ustadh Haroon Thanni, urged the government to invest in the development of youths. The UK-based scholar said many youths were being distracted, noting that the government had a responsibility to empower them. “Qur’an is not just a hope for the hopeless, it is also for the hopeful. The government must give hope to these youths who have dedicated their time to memorise the Holy Qur’an and promote morality,” Thanni said. Lagos MSSN Amir, Dr. Saheed Ashafa, noted that the excessive use of social media was affecting the spiritual lives of Muslims. He said: “It is clear to everyone that Muslim youths are far away from the Book of Allah. The reason is not farfetched; it is caused by the influence of modern technologies and social media. Muslims have made phones and irrelevant gadgets their companions at the expense of the Glorious Qur’an. ‘’Social media and the likes have made Muslim youths relegate the Qur’an recitation and memorisation to the last thing to remember in their daily routine. The way our predecessors had handled and related with the Qur’an is the same way Muslims of today are relating with our phones and gadgets, thus moving us away from Allah.”