The Wassa camp of Internally Displaced Persons or IDPs in Abuja, once a mecca for politicians, is losing patronage and with it much-needed supplies, but with the visit of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), the camp now has more than a lifeline. VINCENT IKUOMOLA and FARATI ADEFILA report Internally displaced persons (IDPs) are usually not the happiest people on earth. They live with their fate every day, always conscious of the fact that they were chased out of their homes. The Wassa IDP camp in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), which is only a shouting distance away from the upscale Apo Legislative Quarters, used to be the epicentre of activities since the IDPs made it home fleeing from the bombs and reach of the Boko Haram sect. The camp has hosted the high and mighty in the society, many openly identifying with the suffering of the people, even if to score a political goal, especially before and shortly after the 2015 general elections. The race to outdo one another turned the camp into a sort of mecca for all politicians and others in the society. Before now, there was never a week when such high caliber visit to the camp did not receive a mention in both the electronic and print media. However, for a while now, such visits to the camp have gone down drastically, and so the welfare of the IDPs. That was why the visit by the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI) to the camp was like a revival in the midst of a dying people, as the IDPs could not hide their joy. The visit, which is a medical outreach for IDPs in partnership with NISA Premier Hospital, gladdens the heart of most of the IDPs. As part of the medical outreach, there were also health talks on diabetes, nutrition, and immunization, among others. The visit which was led by Honourable Federal Commissioner, Hajiya  Sadiya Umar Farouq also promised that it was not going to be a one-off thing. Farouq stressed that for them at the commission, “it is one in a series of outreaches that we have been doing as part of our intervention and programmes to the IDPs. This is a service to humanity, and I hope that it’s going to be a continuous exercise; it’s not going to be a onetime thing.” Part of the programme, she said, was to also identify those with health challenges and assist them in partnership with the NISA hospital. She revealed that the Commission came along with mosquito nets, and washing items, while pain would also be taken to sensitize them on how to keep their environment very clean and how to avoid malaria and the rest. The Commissioner also assured the people that the health items brought, especially the mosquito nets would not be diverted as it would be properly shared to each of the IDPS by the commission. Also, Dr. Abdulraheem Abdulrasheed, NISA’s Head of Family and Specialty Medicine Department said the humanitarian programme would not be a one off thing, as there are plans to make the outreach far more regular. “As a responsible organisation which we are, we have a foundation and we have a big heart. We know that we have corporate social responsibilities to the community, so the management of Nisa Premier Hospital in his wisdom has decided to put this program together to be able to accommodate so many. Also, individuals; doctors, nurses, pharmacists, admin staff, each equally donated a few items; personal belongings that will be brought into the camp here and given to people today. “We are all here because of the big heart of our Executive Vice Chairman, Dr. Ibrahim Wada. We will go to any camp that the commission calls us to. We’ve actually been doing this before now, but we want it to become more regular. For the IDPs, there can never be any better time for the outreach. This, many argued that it was a meaningful intervention as it addresses the actually need of the people beyond just food and drinks. They noted that for some time now most of them in the camp have been down with malaria and the mobile clinic at the camp has been over-stretched.