The Lagos state governor, Mr. Akinwunnmi Ambode has reassured investors of his administration’s commitment towards providing adequate security infrastructure for investors in the Lekki Free Trade Zone. Ambode said this at the foundation laying ceremony of Longrich $20milion Research Institute Factory at the Lekki-Free Trade zone recently. The governor who was represented by the Commissioner for Commerce and industry and Cooperatives, Mrs. Olayinka Oladunjoye said that the state government is highly elated with the investment of the company and promised to do everything for them to succeed especially in the area of security in and around the Lekki Free Trade Zone. He said “We appreciate you for choosing Nigeria and Lagos in particular as the first country in Africa to set up your factory. We will give you maximum support for everything you need to succeed.” He applauded the long standing relationship that China has with Lagos and the huge investment its has made in the state over the years, just as he promised to support in the area of infrastructure such as good roads and standard railway that will facilitate better trade and commerce. Earlier in his speech, the General Managing Director of Longrich International, Africa, Alex Jia said the company will build over 400, 000 square metres production factory in Lekki Free Zone, which is also the very overseas factory of Longrich, for the production of healthcare products, daily cosmetics products and detergents products which will provide a comprehensive supply chain and production guarantees service and customers clearance support in Nigeria and the whole of Africa. He noted that the first batch of investment from Longrich will be $20million, which will be used to build production factory, office accomodation, warehouse. It will become the only daily cover and service the Africa’s continent market. He added that in the next five years, Longrich has confidence to achieve the full coverage in Nigeria, across Africa and even 65 countries along the One Belt, One Road with marketing and export. Jia opined that the new factory is the first factory of the company on the Africa soil.