•Varsity to run ‘smooth’ session Eight years after the Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba-Akoko (AAUA) in Ondo State introduced Student Work-Study Scheme (SWSS), no fewer than 1,000 students have benefited from the programme, Director of the Scheme, Dr Olubunmi Omoniyi, has said. The scheme took off in July 2010 to give willing students opportunity to work for two hours daily and receive a monthly stipend to support themselves financially while studying in the university. Dr Omoniyi said: “Over 1,000 Students have benefited from the scheme. The turnout of applicants for the scheme every session is amazing. In the current semester, we have shortlisted about 100 students for the scheme. This number may increase depending on the availability of funds. The applicants are very enthusiastic about the scheme.” Dr Omoniyi, who acknowledged the efforts of her predecessors, Dr Iyabo Omoniyi and Dr. Adejompo Fagbohunka, in sustaining the scheme, said she has appealed to some philanthropists and well-to-do individuals to donate funds to the scheme in order to accommodate more students. “We are hoping that we would get positive feedbacks from those we have approached,” she said. Meanwhile, Dean of Student Affairs (DSA), Prof Francis Gbore, has said the school will ensure that the 2017/2018 session is run without hitches. Prof. Gbore gave the assurance while speaking during an interview on AAUA 90.3 FM. He said the university will ensure that the session progresses without any disruption. Prof Gbore said: “The university has mapped out plans towards effective handling of whatever complaints that might arise from the process of screening and other registration related exercise. The school’s Information and Communication Technology (ICT) unit has put in place machinery that would make online registration stress free. We have been on the alert to handle whatever bottlenecks that might be encountered by students. “We have officers, both at the Student Affairs Division and the ICT unit to attend promptly to issues that might arise, either from technical challenges, impatience or ignorance.” The DSA said the institution will not rest on its oars in making sure that it continues to live up to its mandate of promoting academic excellence and best practices. President of the Students’ Union Government (SUG), Olawale Ijanusi, said students will support any effort to make the session run smoothly. “As a student body, we believe that the stakeholders have worked out good strategies and plans that will make the school calendar run smoothly. We welcome students back on campus and wish them success,” the union leader said.