Nine winners from the three categories of Yoruba Fuji, Juju music and Drums have won N9,750,000 as the Ariya Repete 2018 talent hunt show which began few months ago  ended. The winner in the Fuji music genre, Olushola Martins, a Fuji Musician and entrepreneur from Ibadan, Oyo State was presented with a cheque of N2 million prize money even as he was decorated as a Goldberg Ambassador while his counterpart in the Juju music genre, Ayodele Olatunji a.k.a. Femi Bright was also presented with a N2 million cheque and also crowned Goldberg Ambassador. Also, the winner in the Drums category, Oludare African Culture had their leader, Mrs. Oluwabunmi Sadiq Oketunji presented with their first prize money of N1m and equally decorated as Goldberg Ambassador, amidst wild jubilation by the team members. Meanwhile, the second runner-up in the Fuji category, Saheed Akangbe, was presented with a N1 million cheque. Abiodun Oloto, who came third also got N750,000 as consolation prize. The same was done for the contestants in the Juju music category as the second runner-up, Adebisi Olawale a.k.a. Wale Crown and Bukola Hameed a.k.a. Becky Shiloh were presented with cheques of N1m and N750,000 respectively. As for the second runner-up in the Drums category, Eniafede Cultural Group, from Abeokuta, Ogun State, whose leader, Mr. Adekola Adeyemi Ayomaya received their cheque of N750,000 on behalf of the group, while the third runner-up group,  Sakuba Cultural Group, represented by their teenage group leader, Jimoh Omolayo, student of Adegbola memorial College, Akure, Ondo State received their N500,000 cheque on behalf of his team. Before the winners were announced, Martins, in an interview, had expressed confidence about winning the competition, stating that his trust was in God and he hoped to win. He added that if indeed he wins, he will then be able to build a career from there. “Tonight, I put my trust in God and I know He will do it,” he had said. “I am going to win. From here on tonight, I know I am going to become Goldberg’s Ambassador by God’s grace. And when that happens, I will establish my musical career with the prize money of N2 million. I will be eternally grateful to Nigeria Breweries if that happens.” Most of the winners said they will plough the money back into their trade, which is singing and drumming by getting more instruments to better their singing careers. The second runner-up in the Juju category, Wale Crown, from Ijebu Ode, Ogun State noted that what he hopes to do with the money is confidential, but he will not fail to commend Nigeria Breweries for coming up with such a wonderful competition that has come to give so many young up and coming musicians hope for the future. “I am grateful to God for making me a winner that is going home with N1 million today,” he said. “And to Goldberg, I really duff my hat for you. This is because Nigeria Breweries is the only company I have ever seen in all my life that wants to elevate young up and coming musicians. They are so unique. As we know, there are so many talented musicians out there but nobody is really ready to help them. I appreciate Goldberg for organizing this Ariya Repete show.” Ariya Repete is an initiative of Goldberg lager beer which is brewed by Nigerian Breweries Plc. This year’s competition attracted over 600 contestants.