The Minister of Justice and Attorney-General of the Federation (AGF), Abubakar Malami, has assured the Chartered Institute of Forensic and Investigative Auditors in Nigeria (CIFIA) that President Muhammadu Buhari will sign the CIFIA Bill once it is passed by the National Assembly. The CIFIA Bill is currently before the lawmakers. The minister gave the assurance when the association’s  President, Dr Victoria Enape, led a team from the institute  to visit him in Abuja. The AGF was also conferred with fellow of the institute. The AGF, who said he was optimistic that Buhari would assent the CIFIA Bill, said the institute’s activities were in tandem with the anti-corruption fight of the President’s administration. The minister said: “This, indeed, CIFIA is an association that the ministry will be keen and exceptionally interested in partnering with in terms of collaboration, cooperation and working together fundamentally on three plans. “CIFIA is an institute that is rooted in the fight against corruption; it is an institute that can help the Federal Government in tackling the menace of insurgency and it can help in rooting out elements of fraud in bureaucratic processes and administration. “To that extent, we believe that collaboration with CIFIA will eventually pay off by way of engaging the services being provided by Federal Government and reduce corruption in governance. “In relation to the pending bill, it is the desire of the Federal Government, to see to the passage of the bill because of its immense contribution to breaking to associated leakages inherent in our system. “The Federal Government will be readily available to support the bill and see to its assent in the context of national interest.” Malami said that as far as the CIFIA Bill was concerned, the institute and the Federal Government shared things in common. Mrs Enape, had earlier in her remarks, said CIFIA had been desirous of identifying with the AGF because of his sterling performance. “We are the one of the world’s leading provider of anti-fraud organisation offering training and education; we offer opportunity for energetic and practical professionals to learn the basic that go beyond knowledge of accounting, auditing and finance. “CIFIA strives to promote the need for transparency in advanced audit through certification, training, conferences and seminars in forensic auditing field. “We carry out specialised fraud investigation by utilising using specialised forensic audit tools and equipment. Forensic auditors are mainly professionals from accounting background, lawyers, bankers, criminologists, cyber security experts among others. “It is not limited to accountants; that is why we are unique.  Our training cuts across all these areas. It cuts across investigation, auditing and accounting; it integrates accounting, auditing and investigative skills in resolving fraud cases. “It encompasses litigation support, witness testimony, presentation of expert document that shows fraud- that is why this ministry if very important to the institute,” she said. 