Members of the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic Abeokuta Muslim Alumni (MAPAMA) on Sunday said they will partner with their alma mater to strengthening human capital potential of the students to make them employable. Speaking at the Employability Seminar organised by the Muslim Alumni held at Ramota Babalakin Hall, Ojere campus, Abeokuta, MAPAMA President Mr Taofeek Salako said the alumni commenced its employability project with the seminar to address employability and employment problems among the graduates. With over 130 participants, which included students and few members of the alumni, Salako said the seminar was planned to acquaint the students with requisite skills necessary for securing sustainable jobs and expose them to possible inclination for entrepreneurial opportunities. MAPAMA Education Foundation Chairman Abdurrazaq Misbahudeen said the alumni is interested in evolving strategies to curtail the evil effects of unemployment and make the school graduates valuable assets to prospective employers or to be wealth creators. He added that the group expects those awaiting call up letters for youth service to exhibit prudency with their National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) allowance and put to use knowledge gained at the seminar to get good job or start business of their own. A resource person, Mr. Abdul Fattah Okanlawon of Goldfields Professional Services, in his presentation said most students after graduation await government employment, thereby wasting their time and resources on job seeking. He said: “Jobs are everywhere just that majority have a mind-sets and orientation that is faulty. Muslims in particular suffers from lack of preparedness in job seeking. The manner of dressing and comportment most time disqualified many ever before being questioned at job interview. Going forward, more Muslim organisation should embrace investing in this kind of seminar thereby ensuring that better future is created for our younger ones”. Dr. Koyejo Jolaoso of MAPOLY Architectural department stressed the need for students to embrace competence in their field of studies together with consistency that will ensure their comparative advantage in the competitive world. He added that sincerity and honesty as a major ethics in Islam should be their guide to achieve the aspired success.