Plateau State Governor Simon Lalong has said his administration will continue to complete projects abandoned by his predecessors. Lalong added that he is prioritising inherited projects to terminate the culture of abandoned projects as was the practice by past administrations and instil a culture of continuity in governance. “I have also initiated new projects which I won’t leave uncompleted at the end of my tenure,” he said. He said his administration had awarded contracts for 22 roads across the 17 councils, stressing that he will never be selective in siting projects. Lalong, who addressed reporters in Jos as part of activities marking his third year in office, added that his administration spent N22 billion on federal projects and is awaiting a refund. “We would complete all projects abandoned by previous administrations. We have made it a duty to complete all abandoned projects because the projects are for the people, and not for the person that initiated them. We have also initiated new projects and we would complete them before leaving office. “I don’t have plans of leaving any project uncompleted and I pray that my successor would do same. “We will continue to work hard to ensure that the people live in peace; my administration is determined to protect their life. “Recently, the Inspector General of Police (IG), Ibrahim Idris, conducted laid the foundation for the 66 Mobile Police Force (MPF) Squadron in Longvel, Shendam Local Government Area. The IG also inaugurated 51 security patrol vehicles acquired by our government. “The establishment of the squadron has increased and improved the security infrastructure. “The establishment of PMF 66 Squadron in Shendam is one of the strategies to ensure that the police is at all times within reach and to promptly respond to challenges. “The establishment of PMF 66 in Shendam is not by accident, but a deliberate attempt to fight crime.” Lalong also assured civil servants of prompt payment of salaries, saying “with God’s help, workers would not be thrown back to the dark days of staying for months without salary.”