Four companies linked to former First Lady Patience Jonathan have urged the Federal High Court  to dismiss an order for the temporary forfeiture of N7.3billion and $8.4million allegedly belonging to her. They accused the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) of harassment and intimidation using the court process. Justice Mojisola Olateregun, sitting in Lagos, made the order on April 20 based on a fresh application by the EFCC. The money is said to be in the companies’ Skye Bank Plc, Diamond Bank Plc, Stanbic IBTC Bank and First Bank Plc accounts. The companies are: Globus Integrated Services Limited, Finchley Top Homes Limited, AM-PM Global Network Limited, Pagmat Oil and Gas Limited and Magel Resort Limited. In a supporting affidavit, an EFCC investigator Huleji Tukura said the money was allegedly moved from Bayelsa State when Mrs Jonathan was a permanent secretary. But, in a motion on notice filed through their counsel Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), the companies urged the court to strike out or dismiss the forfeiture order on the ground that there was an abuse of court. The companies recalled that on April 19, the EFCC had filed an application seeking to forfeit the money, but that the court struck it out for being an abuse of court process because most of the issues were already pending before Justice Binta Nyako of the court’s Abuja division. They said the fresh ex-parte motion filed by EFCC, which led to the latest interim forfeiture, amounts to forum shopping, as the cases were the same and had the same parties. “The suit filed prior to this suit is still subsisting, as same is adjourned until May 31, 2018. As at the 19th of April, 2018 when the applicant/respondent filed this present suit, the said suit numbered FHC/L/CS/1342/16 was still pending,” the companies said. In a supporting affidavit deposed to by a lawyer in Mike Ozehome’s Chambers, Mr Chimaobi Onuigbo, the companies said they went to the bank to make withdrawals only to be told that there was a freezing order placed on them and that the accounts could not be accessed. “The said order was premised on a replica application that was struck out by this Honourable Court on April 13, 2018 for being an abuse of court process,” the deponent said. Besides, the companies said EFCC did not notify them of the interim order of forfeiture of the money in their accounts. “I am aware that this is another way of the applicant/respondent’s constant use of court process to harass, intimidate and irritate the second to sixth respondents/applicants (the companies). “The applicant/respondent (EFCC) decided to file the instant application so as to overreach the other suits pending over these subject matters. “I know as a fact that the procedure adopted by the applicant/respondent affects the jurisdiction of this court,” Onuigbo added. Among the forfeited sums are N1.085billion and N226.3million found in Finchley’s Ecobank account and N39.4million found in its Diamond Bank account, as well as N55.9million found in Pagmat Oil and Gas’ Diamond Bank account, among others. EFCC said the money is “reasonably suspected to be proceeds of unlawful activity”. Also temporarily forfeited is $429,381.87 found in Ester Oba’s Skye Bank account numbered 211000170, which EFCC said is suspected to be “proceeds of unlawful activity.” Oba is the seventh respondent. EFCC said the companies were not into “any legitimate income-yielding business venture” but were incorporated for the purpose of warehousing proceeds of unlawful activities for the former First Lady. “The depositors into this account are domestic staff of State House, Abuja, who was procured by the Dudafa Waripamo-Owei to deposit the funds sought to be forfeited in a bid to conceal the true origin of the funds,” the commission said.