The Orangun of Ila, Oba Wahab Kayode Oyedotun, has hailed Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola for developing the state. He praised the governor for providing infrastructure. The monarch spoke when Aregbesola visited him in his palace in Ila, as part of his tour of constituencies in the state. He said: “Aregbesola’s contribution to the growth and development of Osun is unrivalled. We thank God for the manner he has steered the ship of this state, especially in the area of schools and others.” The traditional ruler advised All Progressives Congress (APC) to ensure that its candidate for the September 22 poll emerged from a credible primary election. “The selection of the standard-bearer should not be only seen as being credible, but also transparent. “I must state that APC remains the party to beat in the coming gubernatorial election, but it must be careful in the choice of candidate. “As long as they avoid imposition, there won’t be problem for the party in the election because Aregbesola has done well to ensure victory for APC at the polls,” he said. The governor urged members not to allow the aspirants to divide them. He noted that the visit was a wake-up call to members, saying: “As the September 22 date approaches, members must rise to the challenge of making our party win the governorship election.” Aregbesola said residents must ensure that the good work started by him was not left to people who would take the state back to dark ages. He enjoined the monarch to use the visit to pray for the party. “We are here to sensitise our members to beware of the machinations of the opposition party, which had the opportunity to rule the state, but failed woefully. “We are reminding our loyalists that these people ruled Osun before our emergence, but our achievements speak for us. “We are by far different and impactful on the lives of our people. Our performance is incomparable with any government’s. “We appeal to our people to work together and ensure APC remains the party to beat in any election,” the governor said.