The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has described the refusal by President Muhammadu Buhari to address the ongoing strike action by health workers across the country as a clear manifestation of insensitivity to the plight and suffering of Nigerians. Lamenting the anguish of hundreds of Nigerians who are abandoned and dying by the day in public hospitals as a result of the strike, the PDP accused President Buhari of not attaching any importance to issues effecting the average Nigerian. In a statement on Tuesday by the National Publicity Secretary of the PDP, Kola Ologbondiyan, the party said it’s the height of insensitivity for the President to be embarking on frequent medical tourism abroad while poor Nigerians in dire need of medical attention are left to suffer. The statement said, “As if that was not enough, upon his return to Nigeria, instead of summoning an emergency meeting of critical stakeholders to find solution to the problem, Mr. President abandoned the striking health workers and chose to organize and attend a political rally in Jigawa state for a doomed 2019 re-election bid. “Such aloofness by the government is directly responsible for the escalation of killings and bloodletting in Benue, Taraba, Adamawa, Plateau, Kogi, Zamfara, Borno, Yobe, Kaduna states and other parts of the country, where marauders and insurgents are pillaging our citizens as if overlooking the plight of Nigerians has become a state policy. “In the PDP, the health, security and welfare of Nigerians remain pivotal to us and that is why we feel pained that compatriots are dying in their numbers because of the refusal of the Buhari-led APC administration to address the health workers’ strike. “The PDP, therefore, stands with Nigerians at this critical time. We identify with the sick and those who have lost their loved ones under this present circumstance and urge all public-spirited individuals, humanitarian organizations and the international community to come to the aid of our nation, since it has become clear that the Buhari administration has no agenda for the health sector. “Furthermore, while we plead with the health workers to be open to ways to solve the problem, we charge Nigerians to support one another and adhere to all health etiquettes to forestall an outbreak of epidemic and health crisis. “Finally, the world have now seen why Nigerians have reached a consensus not to allow this insensitive and anti-people APC administration to continue beyond 2019”.