The Delta State All Progressives Congress (APC) has conducted parallel congresses which have escalated its crisis. Correspondent POLYCARP OROSEVWOTU examines the implications of the polarisation. Despite the conclusion of congresses by the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Delta State, the fate of the party still hangs in the balance. There is no clear winner in the battle for the soul of the party. Also, there is no clear direction towards next year’s general elections. Two state executive committees have emerged. Prophet Jones Ode Erue, was re-elected for a second term at a congress supervised by Senator Olugbenga Obadara. His deputy, Chief Cyril Ogodo, emerged two days later at another congress organised by Eugene Odoh. Erue has the backing of Ovie Omo-Agege, the senator representing Delta Central at the National Assembly and Chief Great Ogboru, who has consistently contested governorship elections in the state since 2003. He had come second in those elections amidst allegations of massive rigging by the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). Ogodo is being supported by Olorogun Otega Emerhor, the 2015 governorship candidate of the party who came third during the election and Chief Hycinth Enuha, a chieftain of APC.  Ogboru, is seeking the APC ticket, while Emerhor has ruled himself outis not re-contesting. “The environment and projection of us winning this time, does not allow me to contest in 2019.”, Emerhor said. Origin of the party’s crisis: As the 2015 candidate of the party, Emerhor held sway as leader, controlling the party structure, from ward executive to the State Working Committee, as well as enjoying the full support of the Erue-led executive. Despite the resistance by the late Senator Spanner Okpozo and Chief Adolor Okotie-Eboh-led factions of the party, Emerhor’s leadership was never in doubt. That was the case, until the influx of new members, following the victory of President Muhammadu Buhari during the 2015 general elections. The alleged threat to Emerhor’s grip on the party started with the entrance of Chief Great Ogboru, Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and former Speaker of the State House of Assembly, Victor Ochei into the party in 2016. At that time, there was a State High Court ruling dissolving the Erue-led Exco, which political observers saw as a great opportunity to properly integrate the new entrants into the party by setting up a Caretaker Committee to midwife an all inclusive executive for the party. Emerhor and Erue resisted that move and with the backing of the national chairman of the party, Chief John Oyegun, they both prevailed until the judgment was upturned by the Court of Appeal. With the new ruling, all parties accepted the Erue-led Exco as peace returned to the party. But, unity continued to elude the party as various groups emerged within the party with the birth of Mainstream Delta APC (MDA), Light of Delta APC (LDA) and Consolidated Delta APC, which were convened by Emerhor, Ogboru and Enuha until they were all dissolved in February, following the intervention of former Governor Adams Oshiomhole. The cracks in the party have become so deep that they could not be wished away by fiat and as the at the struggle for the control of the party ahead of the 2019 elections rages on, there were significant realignments. Emerhor lost the majority support in State Working Committee. The State Chairman, Prophet Jones Erue, and nine other key members of the 16-man State Working Committee, including the Secretary and Organising Secretary, dumped Emerhor and pitched tent with Ogboru and Omo-Agege. Enuha and some some members of CDA joined Emerhor, while Dr Veronica Ogbuagu, Dr. Alex Ideh and Chief Lucky Jerry Esigie joined the Ogboru camp. The realignment of forces became what was described as tendencies by Emerhor. Divided by congress: The congress to elect new leaders was seen by political observers as an opportunity to unite the party, but that was not to be. The major players thought otherwise. To them, it was an opportunity to show strength and “demonstrate who is stronger or more on ground”. This has now led to the emergence of parallel executives with political foes betraying one another, amid 2015 calculations. They are planning to seize the party structure, ahead of primaries and next year’s general elections. Two incidences caused the emergence of parallel congresses. First was the theft of 100 out of the 270 result sheets and the entire summary of results sheets for the ward congress, which according to Erue, “were stolen or criminally removed from official custody by unknown persons”. The second was the insistence of Alhaji Sani Dododo to report to the State Chairman as directed by the the National Working Committee and work with the Local Organising Committee appointed by the party under the leadership of Erue. This led to a split in the Delta State Ward and Local Government Congress Committee, with Alhaji Usman Kutigi, the Secretary and Mallam Kassim Mahmud, a member choosing to work with Emerhor. And Dododo was removed. The same scenario played out with the State Congress Committee when Senator Obadara was purported to have been removed. Police indicts congress committee secretary Having discovered that 100 result sheets for the ward congress were missing a day before the congress, Dododo and Kutugi reported the matter to the police. On return from the field on Congress day, Dododo discovered that the Secretary, Kutugi, had disappeared with the entire summary of results for wards. After its investigation, the police indicted Kutugi and Mahmud of complicity in compromising the outcome of the congress. The report, which was signed by the state commissioner of police, Muhammed Mustafa, described them as “fugitives from justice,” adding: “A case of conspiracy and stealing of the congress sensitive materials has been established against them and we are searching for the principal suspects in order to bring them all to book”. “So, the police, DSS and Dododo, after consulting with the National decided that since only 100 out of the 270 were stolen, let them make photocopy of the original to make the 270 result sheets. Dododo had to sign the photocopies with the consent of the National. With this they went to the field on congress day. It was when they returned to enter the results into the summary of result sheets that the chairman discovered that the secretary has disappeared with the summary of result sheets.  Subsequent investigation by the police tracked them to Port Harcourt”, Erue further explained, adding that it was at this point that the chairman, DSS and police decided to announce the results.” Results of Ward Congress On Monday May 7, Dododo announced at the party headquarters in Asaba, the state capital, that Ward Congress has been concluded and that the results with him were the valid results. Dododo urged Deltans and party faithful to disregard any other result announced elsewhere as they were null and void. “No other result will be accepted outside what we have here,” he said. Two days later, it was announced that Dododo has been replaced by the National Chairman, Chief John Odigie Oyegun. In a letter to the Delta Police boss, the National Secretary of the party, Mai Malu Buni, informed the police that chairman of the ward and local council congress committee, Dododo, has been removed and replaced by Chief Emmanuel Chindah, alleged to be a close ally to the Minister of Transport, Chibuke Amaechi. Meanwhile, Kutigi also submitted a different set of results, which he cosigned with Mahmud, the two men who have been indicted by the police for trying to manipulate the Ward Congress. Despite the rumour of his purported sack Oyegun did not tell him he has been sacked. As a consequence, he returned to Delta State to conduct the Local Government Congress on the 12th of May and again submitted his report to the national secretariat in Abuja on the 14th.  Emmanuel Chindah also submitted another set of Local Government results to the Appeal Panel in Asaba. The same scenario played out in the State Congress, with Senator Obadara, who was appointed by the NWC, but was also removed by Oyegun, amidst disagreements on who to report to in Delta. The secretary of the committee Olayinka Rickets and Dr. Omirin Adewale, a member, were removed too for allegedly wanting to work with Senator Obadara and were replaced by Eugene Odoh as chairman, John Clark Dabwan, secretary and Chief Jonathan Jibrin as member. Emergence of factional State Exco On May 19, a letter signed by the APC National Secretary, Hon. Mai Mala Buni dated 18th May 2018 was released informing INEC that the conduct of State Congress in Delta State has been rescheduled for Monday, 21st May 2018.  Curiously, unlike a similar letter notifying INEC of the venues of local government congress which had the receipt stamp of INEC, this one had no such acknowledgement receipt. Nevertheless, the Senator Obadara led-committee, which was appointed by the NWC, was in Delta to conduct the State Congress. At the Congress which held at St. Mulumba Secondary School, Okpanam, Asaba,  Erue was re-elected for another four years. Others elected included; Mr Elvis Ayemanor, Deputy Chairman and Mr. Chidi Okonji as state Secretary. The Congress was attended by APC Senator Ovie Omo-Agege, Chief Great Ogboru, Mrs. Marian Ali, Chief Frank Kokori, Lauretta Onochie, the Special Adviser on Social Media to President Muhammad Buhari, Dr. Alex Ideh, Chief Lucky Jerry Esigie and a host of other party chieftains across the three senatorial districts. Shortly after the exercise, Omo-Agege said the Obadara-led committee was empowered to conduct the congress and that there was no counter directive to that effect. “Any other committee outside the Senator Obadara committee is null and void, and their action is of no consequences. I applaud the delegates for making a wise decision in electing the executives and congratulate the new state executive”, he said. Also applauding the conduct of the congress, Special Assistant to the President on Social Media Lauretta Onochie described the exercise as ‘done and dusted’. “We refused to be intimidated by one man whose oxygen is impunity and who sought to change the date, venue and the set rules for a lawful congress. We refused to work with rumours generated by those who want to run the APC by the impunity they have learned over the years”, Onochie said. As Obadara was submitting his report and results at the National Headquarters of APC in Abuja on Monday, another Congress was taking place at the old site of the Federal Technical College, Asaba, amidst tight security. Ogodo emerged as chairman at the congress organised by Odoh. Emerhor said: “We have gone ahead to obey the NWC, which postponed the congress. At the end of this exercise, the appeal committee will review what has been done before the results would be taken to Abuja for certification”. Unity list and cracks in Emerhor camp: Prior to the congress, the Emerhor camp had seven governorship candidates: Prof. Pat Utomi, Dr. Cairo Ojougboh, Victor Ochei, Prof. Leroy Edozien, Chief Osiobe Okotie, Dr. Iyke Odikpo and Dr. O’Diakpor Obire. They agreed to a unity list for the congress that will accommodate the interest of aspirants and leaders of the party. However, with the failure of the list to equitably protect the interest of everyone, three of the aspirants, Utomi, Odikpo and Okotie, sboycotted the congress while Ojougboh walked out of the event midway. Odikpo who was the Secretary General and Chief Strategist of the Emerhor’s defunct Mainstream Delta APC (MDA), had  attended the congress held two days earlier having pitched his tent with the Omo-Agege/Ogboru camp. The Oyegun, Amaechi, Oshiomhole factor: The shadows of these three have hovered over the congresses in Delta, following the failed re-election bid of the embattled national chairman  Oyegun, who was being supported by Emerhor and Ogodo. When APC chairmen of the South-South states endorsed Oshiomhole as chairmanship candidate Ogodo signed the statement dissociating Delta APC from the purported endorsement, which he described as “desperate and despicable”. Not only did Emerhor condemn the endorsement of Oshiomole by the South South APC, he refuted the statement, saying: “At no time was Oshiomhole adopted as the candidate of South-South. Chief John Odigie is a worthy son of the zone who has performed creditably and who deserves a first right of refusal.” Ogboru, Omo-Agege and Erue on the other hand, supported the Oshiomhole candidacy. Indeed, Erue, under pressure from Emerhor, refused to disassociate Delta from the Southsouth endorsement of Oshiomole. Based on these realities, it is not surprising that at any point Emerhor was facing any form of political challenges during the congresses; Oyegun comes to his rescue as reflected in the sacking of Dododo, and Obadara.  The fingerprints of Amaechi, a known benefactor of Emerhor, was everywhere in Delta APC congresses. One of his loyalist, Chindah, was appointed to take over from Dododo. Allegations of bias: Erue said Obadara was sacked by Oyegun because he refused to follow Izunaso’s counter directive that Delta State Congress Committee should work with Emerhor, instead of the State chairman as earlier directed by Izunaso. Under article 13 of the APC Constitution, it is the NWC that is empowered to set up adhoc committees to conduct congresses. Pursuant to this article, the NWC constituted the Obadara panel. Erue said: “Having constituted the panel, the NWC proceeded to inaugurate and empower it with materials to conduct the congress in Delta. And since then, the NWC has not met to recall the Obadara panel. Yet, the National Secretary wrote a letter purported to sack the chairman, the secretary and one member. The National chairman and the secretary do not constitute the NWC which is made up of 21 members. It was only either the chairman or the secretary or both of them acting at the behest of O’tega Emerhor that purported to recall the Obadara panel and they cannot do that”, Erue said.  “NWC created the Obadara panel and it is only the NWC that can recall them. The same applies to the Dododo ward and local government congress committee”, he added. According to Erue, Obadara was not properly removed and anything that was done in Asaba on Monday 21st May by Eugene Odoh was a mere gathering the defunct MDA. “During briefing, the panels to all the states were told to report to the state chairmen who will make available to you the list of delegates, accommodation and transportation. But, in the case of Delta, Senator Obadara was later told by the National Organizing Secretary to take the delegate list from O’tega Emerhor and the Distinguished Senator said I cant do that because that was not the briefing you gave to us. Immediately they knew that the man refused to take the list from them being a process man, they called them back and had to step down Delta congress which is unconstitutional”, he added. Also questioning the authority of the National Organising Secretary to write a letter of appointment to Chindah and Odoh, Erue said: “If at all the letter is truly signed by the national secretary, with all due respect to him, I think he is doing a job for someone else and not for the party because what is playing out in Delta is a game and a backdoor script that is backfiring. He added: “I do not know who appointed Chindah because NWC did not meet to appoint him. When Dododo was appointed, did National secretary sign a letter to that effect? Why did he not write a letter in the first instance, this is the question that must be asked. There is a foul play as someone is being paid the work he is doing.” There is a raging battle for the soul of the APC in Delta State. It could undermine the ability of the party to take over the state in 2019. How this will end remains to be seen. Ultimately, it will depend on the ward congress that gave birth to the two parallel executives. Will the national leadership of the APC accept the results collated at the police command in the presence of the Nigerian Police, the DSS and INEC by Alhaji Dododo, the NWC appointed chairman or the results collated at yet to be disclosed location by the secretary of the committee, Kutigi who has been declared wanted by the police. In the opinion of Dr. Alex Ideh, an APC chieftain, the Dododo organized LGA congress is the legal one that will be upheld by the party because it is built on a legal foundation. “It is a common knowledge that the congresses are pyramidal in nature. The election of the ward delegates followed due process and there was no successful appeal against it. And because we successfully built the foundation of the pyramid and added to that superstructure by electing LGA executive, State delegates and national delegates in all 25 LGAs of Delta State, our congress is legal” he explained. Also, the APC national leadership would have to consider the electoral worth of both camps. Ogboru came second, ahead of Emerhor, in the 2015 governorship poll as he has done consistently since 2003. Ogboru won four local government areas, including Ughelli North, which is  Emerhor’s Local Government Area. Omo-Agege who is from the same local government with Emerhor and he is the incumbent senator representing Delta Central, the stronghold of APC. With the APC national convention shifted to 23rd of June, the battle for the soul of Delta APC rages on. And the road to Unity House Asaba promises to be a rocky ride.