THE All Progressives Congress (APC) in Taraba State did not hold at the weekend. This followed a disagreement between some APC stakeholders and the Appeal Committee over the “delegates list” for the congress. It almost resulted into a big fight, but for the security that was tightened. A document containing the names of delegates was collected from the committee chairman, Gen. Danjuma Danbazzau and tore as not authentic. Gen. Danbazzau, who briefed reporters, said the list the committee was given from the party’s headquarters was discovered to have been doctored and so the committee resolved it would generate a new list from the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) for the election which was to hold at the Jolly Nyame Stadium, Jalingo, the capital. “We were sent here with a list of delegates from the party’s headquarters for the conduct of this exercise. But on reaching here, we discovered the list was doctored. “So, we have to depend on INEC to generate a new authentic list, only for some of the actors to come and display this show of shame, calling us all sorts of names. It is unfortunate,” Danbazau said. He stopped the exercise indefinitely, pending when the issues will be resolved. Some of the governorship aspirants insisted that the delegates list issued by the party’s headquarters was the only list that was valid for the exercise. “INEC is only an observer; it cannot make a more authentic list than the body that is charged with the responsibility of conducting the exercise,” one governorship candidate was heard saying loudly. David Sabo Kente, another governorship aspirant, accused the delegate appeal committee of “conspiracy to rig the process”. He lamented that the stakeholders had asked the committee to display the delegate list ahead of the congress, so that everyone would know their status before the exercise. “But they refused and only for them to come up with a list that they have also agreed is not from the headquarters. The state APC had been in firm grips of the Minister of Women Affairs, Sen.  Aisha Alhassan, who was the party’s candidate in 2015 governorship election. Alhassan, who is also running for the 2019 governorship, was senator on PDP platform before joining APC. 