The two factions of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Oyo State held parallel congresses across the state yesterday. While Governor Biola Ajimobi’s supporters held their congresses at the headquarters of local government councils, the Unity Forum held their  congresses at the secretariats of the party in the council areas. The two factions have been flexing muscles since last week over the conduct of ward congresses. Officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) observed the exercise in different parts of the state. The Secretary of Unity Forum, Dr Wasiu Olatubosun, praised members of the party who trooped out en mass for the congress. He said they defied attempts by the government to intimidate them from coming out for the exercise. Olatunbosun added  “Government officials were all over the place yesterday threatening that policemen and  members of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW) would be used to disperse party members,  if they assemble for the congress today. But, our members who are delegates were so determined that they turned out in their numbers to vote in the exercise. We have to stop impunity in our party.’’ A member of the Unity Forum, Prof Adeolu Akande, said the congress went on peacefully, adding that it  confirmed that the group is the soul of APC in the state. He added: “Our members were peaceful in their conduct and are determined to ensure that the tenets of democracy as enshrined in the constitution of our party are followed”. A party elder, Dr Busari Adebisi, a former Secretary to Government,  had earlier commended members of the Unity Forum for standing against what he called impunity, urging them to brace up for the many tasks ahead of them. He said that is the only way to rescue the party from its present state of comatose. Among those elected as chairmen at the congress held by the Unity Forum are Adetoro Mathew (Saki East), Elder Olu Opawale (Egbeda),Alh S.T. Opadeji(Akinyele),, Adegboyega Aderemi(Ogo Oluwa), Oguntoye Michael Asamu*Ogbomosho South), and Alh Ajibike Rasaq(Oyo West). Others are S.Ayanlola (Ogbomosho North), Ganiyu Mumonu (Oriire), Kazeem Azeez ( Ibarapa Central), Mrs Tinuade Adigun(Ibadan North), Alh Kareem Adebayo(Saki West), Pastor Samuel Popoola Akintokun, Alh Lateef Akinsanya,Amusat Tawaliu OlawaleAlh Raimi Adeniyi, Waheed Akinyele, Owolabi Banusomo (Itesiwaju, Hon. Muniru Elegbede (Kajola) and Layi Omokunmi (Iseyin). 