As the preparations for the 2019 governorship race in Cross River State gather steam, Nicholas Kalu, reports on the many obstacles Governor Ben Ayade may have to overcome to be re-elected THE frenzy over the governorship elections in Cross River State has heightened as groups across the southern, central and northern senatorial districts file out to endorse Governor Ben Ayade, creating the impression that the 2019 Governorship Election may be a walkover for the governor. However, the facts on ground actually suggest it is going to be an uphill task for Ayade. If he wants it, he has to fight for it as it would not just be thrown into his laps, as most of his supporters believe. The battle for Ayade, who is a Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) governor, is on many fronts. It is pertinent to point out that the governor is actually serving the term of the northern senatorial district in an unwritten agreement within their party and a section of the political class in the state. Donald Duke from the south served from 1999 to 2007. Liyel Imoke from the central took over until 2015, when Ayade from the north came on board. But despite sentiments that the north must complete its turn no matter what, it is clear Ayade’s feet must be on the ground else he would be swept off. Many proponents of this zoning system, who feel the governor has not done well and should not be returned, however feel that someone else from the north should take over; while more pervasively among the political class are the ideas that the whole zoning arrangement be jettisoned and a governor elected on merit. Ayade’s battle begins from home, where three of his kinsmen have come forward to topple him in next year’s election. Ayade who hails from Obudu Local Government Area, despite having support there, still has a lot of disaffection towards his administration. It has been a source of worry for the governor’s supporters that such level of opposition could come from his hometown, as it suggests he may not have a grip on things. The three from his local government seeking his job include Mr. Paul Adah, a former House of Representatives member. Adah, also a former Commissioner in the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) is believed to be a strong grassroots politician. Another is Mr. Venatius Ikem, a former local government chairman and commissioner in the state. Ikem was recently attacked in Obudu while declaring his intention to run for governorship position by political thugs and this, many felt, was because he posed a threat to the present administration. The state government had however denied being behind the attack. Ikem however went on to successfully declare and even unveiled his blueprint for the development of the state. The third person from Obudu seeking to be governor next year is a much younger Mr. John Upan Odey. A banker by profession, Odey believes there must be a leadership shift. Also from the northern senatorial district, but from Obanliku Local Government Area is Mr. Tony Ushie. He is a Geoscientist in the oil and gas sector. Having worked as a seismologist and later as an exploration manager of an oil and gas firm in Lagos, Ushie, currently a geophysical consultant, has decided to throw his hat in the ring. He says his objective is to re-engineer the state to enable it function without depending on federal allocation. From the central senatorial district, there are speculations that the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Usani Usani, from Yakurr Local Government Area is also gunning for the job. Also said to be interested is incumbent Senator John Owan-Enoh from Etung Local Government. In the southern senatorial district, pioneer Commissioner of the NDDC, Prof Eyo Etim Nyong, from Odukpani Local Government Area, is also set to run. Sources said he has since begun consultations across the state. Also from the south is the Nigerian Ambassador to the Republic of Uganda, Etubom (Dr.) Nya Asuquo, who has declared his intention to run. According to the 70-year old envoy from Odukpani Local Government Area, he was in the race because the present administration has failed the people. Asuquo said governance was not a function of age but the ability to deliver, adding that age comes with experience. So far all the oppositions mentioned are from the All Progressive Congress (APC). Within the PDP despite the endorsements, there are still indications that there still would be a scramble for the ticket of the party. A group of PDP members from the state had recently carried a protest to the national secretariat of the party in Abuja to protest that there should be a level playing field for anyone interested in the party’s ticket. The National Secretary of the party, Ibrahim Tsauri, was reported to have assured them that there will be no imposition of candidates. The protesters in their numbers, who were led by one Ken Bassey, were in support of Mr. Emmanuel Ibeshi for governor. They carried banners to register their protests and position. Ibeshi, a former governorship aspirant in the state, is a former National Publicity Secretary of the party. It is believed that many more may also find courage to come out to jostle for the ticket as time goes on. Political analysts in the state also believe that beyond the growing number of contenders, Ayade’s style of governance may likely hurt him in next year’s elections. Towards the end of last year, it was reported that he was abandoned by his party the PDP in a court matter.  Mr. Joe Agi, who came second in the PDP primaries, had in a pre-2015 election matter dragged the governor to court, claiming among other things that Ayade paraded different age declarations and by the constitution of the party was not qualified to be the candidate of the party. Some stakeholders believe that though the matter was resolved in the governor’s favour at the Supreme Court, the alleged abandonment by his party at that stage is still a bitter reminder that many of the supposed allies of the governor in the party still suspect his alleged romance with the APC. In fact, at a time it was widely speculated that he was going to dump the PDP for the APC. Also the disaffection is believed to be due to his moves to establish a new political structure in the state in order to flush out the old. Many believe this is the main reason behind the appointment of thousands of appointees across the state. This has not gone down well with the old order, which to a great extent still have considerable influence on the politics of the state. Many of the leaders of the old order had however dumped the PDP for the APC. It appears the governor now realises that despite his young army, going against old political structures would be difficult and so he has tried to make moves to woo the old order (those still in the PDP) again. For instance, his recent romance with former governor, Liyel Imoke, has been explained in this light. Imoke is said to be unhappy with the governor’s style of establishing a new political order. However it is believed that Imoke is at the moment only playing along with the governor and when the chips are down would let him hang to dry. Imoke, always known as cool, calm and calculating, had been always known to keep his moves close to his chest. Surprises have always been part of Imoke’s game plan. Those who know him well, say he does not just wave slights to his person casually. Other factors that pose challenges to the governor include the new political structure in the country and state. This is because this would be the first time in the present democratic dispensation that Cross River State would be going into an election as an opposition state. The government in the state is PDP, while the national government is APC. Before now, the ruling PDP was always in charge of all the political apparatus, hence it was with little effort they managed to bulldoze any kind of opposition rearing its head. This is believed would no longer be the case with the APC in charge at the national level. Also before now, all the political heavyweights in the state were all in the PDP. However, today, almost all of them from across the three senatorial districts of the state are members of the APC. Ayade it appears is left with very few political heavyweights behind him. He however has an army of young supporters in his appointees. There is also a feeling of disillusionment among the general populace in the state about the governor’s “castle in the air style of governance”, always mentioning several grandiose projects that are not matched on ground. The people believe that all the accolades the governor is getting are just from people outside the state who only know him through what is sold in the media and not what is exactly on ground. “This particular knowledge about the governor is only known by people who are on ground in the state or who have good knowledge of how the state operates. And it is those who have no power to make him return or sack him in the next election that have this information,” a resident of Calabar, Samuel Edem said. The governor also seems to have a faceoff with National Assembly members over claims by the state’s NASS caucus of highhandedness and non-inclusiveness. The lawmakers from the state in a letter to the National Chairman of the PDP in October last year had warned that unless something urgently is done to remedy the situation, the party stands a poor chance in the 2019 elections. The lawmakers were bitter that the governor allegedly hijacked the state congresses to the exclusion of elders and stakeholders. It is believed that Senator Owan Enoh, who was a member of the PDP, decamped to the APC because of this. There are indications that the governor might be troubled because of the obstacles that seem to be in his way. For instance after his recent return from one of such many trips abroad, where he says he goes in search of investors, the governor had reportedly in meetings with all his aides warned them not to romance with any opposition or face dire consequences. It was equally learnt that the PDP leadership in the state in similar meetings had also echoed the governor’s directive, saying no one should do anything that would jeopardize Ayade’s second term bid. However, some PDP stakeholders have reacted to this, saying such directive was undemocratic and an attempt to muscle opponents. A group under the Fix Cross River Initiative (FCRI), through its spokesman, Mr. Joseph Oyama, for example, said barring appointees from interacting freely with any gubernatorial aspirant in the party is tantamount to returning to the dark era of impunity. “It is unfortunate that this directive to appointees and party faithful is coming at a time the national leadership is embarking on a massive reconciliation process of aggrieved members and calling on all to come out and stand in for elections,” Oyama said. Reacting, the PDP Publicity Secretary, Mr. Odama Egbung, denied that the governor or the party have threatened party members with sanctions if they support other governorship aspirants. “The party or the governor cannot give such instructions because PDP of today is not PDP of yester years where there was impunity. The party only appealed to stakeholders in a meeting with them not to abandon zoning to reduce tension,” he said. A supporter of the governor, Godwin Akpama, in his contribution, said it was only fair that Ayade continues in the spirit of equity, noting the efforts he has been making to develop the state. At the moment the ball has been set rolling and only time would tell if Ayade would continue as Cross River State governor beyond next year. 