It’s a slum but founder of Footprints of David Art Academy, Seun Awobajo, sees gems in the children inhabiting it. And for over a decade, Awobajo, a versatile artiste, has trained the little ones in several art forms. Recently, he declared open a Cottage Theatre to promote not only the children in arts but to re-position Bariga, Lagos on the arts map, JOE AGBRO JR. writes IT is not easy locating No 130, Community Road, Yaba, Lagos. With no clear numbering, Community Road segues into a slum. Yet on April 28, 2018, the intentional arts featured around the ghetto signified something arty. Decorated for the day with cardboard signs with motivational slogans like ‘there is a ghetto in heaven’ amidst splash of colours on latrine doors, music greeted me. Sets of drums were arranged and children filled a seating space while the University of Lagos and Third Mainland Bridge formed a backdrop. Some artists were capturing the various scenes the landmark presented just as some photographers froze the moments. A trio of musicians assisted by two drummers ensured music filled the esplanade. And a horde of young men and women, hosts for the day, donned black T-shirts with the inscription, ‘My Bariga, My Pride.’ The event was the official opening of a Cottage Theatre by the Footprints of David Art Academy. The modest building sat on reclaimed land from the lagoon. All this signaled the opening of the Footprints of David Art Academy, an educational and arts intervention for less-privileged children living on the coastal shanties of Bariga, Lagos. “This place was a heap of rubbish,” Seun Awobajo, founder of the place, said of the building. Awobajo, a theatre director and African music composer founded a children dance theatre group, Footprints of David Art Academy, Lagos over a decade ago. A prolific writer and practitioner, he has worked with the likes of Professor Wole Soyinka, Peter Badejo, Tunde Kelani, Arnold Udoka, Felix Okolo, Isioma Williams and Segun Adefila amongst others Hence, it was of little surprise that Professor Soyinka graced the opening of the Footprints of David Cottage Theatre. Accompanied by his wife, Kongi as Soyinka is fondly called, was joined by Mrs. Francesca Emmanuel and the chairman of Bariga Local Council Development Authority, Hon. Kolade Alabi, as well as traditional chiefs in Bariga while Chairman, National Association of Nigerian Theatre Arts Practitioners (NANTAP), Lagos Chapter, Mr. Makinde Adeniran, moderated the event. Lauding the initiative, Professor Soyinka described Awobajo’s effort as a “brave, courageous and committed attempt to do something for the community through theatre.” Soyinka reflected on how his play, ‘Beatification of the Area Boys’, reformed Kingston, Jamaica, a dangerous slum, within a period of a one-year experiment. “I wish to emphasise that it’s not what government can do for theatre, its to realise what theatre does for its own existence,” began Soyinka. Describing Kingston, Jamaica as a ‘violent’ community filled with murderers, drug barons, money launderers, extortionists and enforcers who lived in ‘Garrisons’, Soyinka said: “Theatre is reflected in the community and the community itself is reflected in theatre.” He described the fear the residents lived through such that the ‘Garrison’ usually had power over everything including life and death. “The violence was such that when I was working with this group, we lost two children. One walked right into a gunfight between two gangs first thing in the morning. Another one was kidnapped and we lost her. Rehearsals were such that if we were keeping the children later than a certain hour, we had to keep them with us because it was too late for them to get back.” However, speaking of the gains, Soyinka said, “for the first time in the lives of these children, they actually took part in theatre. They didn’t know what it was. They knew reggae or music, they knew Ska but theatre, no. for the first time, they were introduced to the power involved in even replicating their own lives on stage. They were given the chance to being creative, using the material of their existence to project, not only what they was, but what they hoped. They wrote songs of their own. They created dance. And the dons, of course, we had to have permissions from the dons.” At the end, Soyinka said the dons wanted a command performance. “And it was the first time that the people moved out of their garrison to go and watch an event which is not within their own garrison. They gave an order – they said no guns, no violence.  In other words, they declared an amnesty for themselves. And the government, everybody, acknowledged this.” Soyinka said the theatre group, Area Boys Organisation, later founded the Area Youth Foundation and have travelled different parts of the world. “It’s an amazing transformation in that community.” And while Soyinka was seated, three artists – Oniudele Gold, Owezim Josiah and Obilala Nwankwo – sketched him. They presented the works to the Nobel Lauratea after his speech. Also urging the audience to support the Footprints of David, Mrs Francesca Emmanuel, reminisced on how Seun was brought up in Bariga by a couple who were not his parents. “For years, I’ve been coming to the annual festival where the children would perform (for) a whole week covering so many programmes involving all the children in Bariga,” said Mrs Emmanuel, who was also Nigeria’s first permanent secretary. “I felt that I had to support whatever Seun is doing. And the children themselves have really won my heart and I find that I come here, I stay with them, we talk. When they’re rehearsing, I come, I rehearse with them and I’m glad that these children are progressing day by day.” At the recently concluded African Drumming Festival which held in Abeokuta, Ogun State, Footprints of David won in two categories – second in the ‘African Best Upcoming’ category and third in the ‘Best Individual/Private Troupe’ category. Her love for the children she often rehearses with implored her to say people should donate to the maintenance of the Cottage Theatre. “Nothing is too small, nothing is too big,” she said. “Whether its lorry-load of sand that you come and dump here, bricks, paper, exercise book.” Speaking earlier, the chairman of the Bariga Local Council Development Authority, Hon. Kolade Alabi, spoke about regenerating Bariga. “Without me hunting for that talent, Seun came and he is one of the talents that we’re going to make use of,” said the Bariga Local Government Chairman. Part of the chairman’s promise was to fund salaries for teachers who taught at the centre. Earlier, Awobajo disclosed that the school was started on December, 30, 2005 with 14 teachers. However, due to inability to pay the teachers regularly, only three of the teachers remained. The plight of the community is that during the rainy season, water seals the residents and going to the nearest school which is about two kilometres away is only through the use of boats. However, aside producing a coastal slum, Bariga, reputed for hosting over six higher educational institutions ironically is also noted for crime, an impression many Bariga residents do not share. Praising Awobajo’s efforts for developing talents in the area, Alabi instituted him into the committee to remodel Bariga. Speaking, Awobajo said Footprints of David needs funds for  maintenance and to purchase equipment and pay teachers’ salaries. “We’re looking for volunteers as teachers, we’re looking for books, we’re looking for stationery materials, blackboards, markers, textbooks because (in) this environment, the nearest school to this place is about four kilometres away. And when the surge comes, some of them (children) go on a boat.” Awobajo later put Theo Lawson, the architect who designed Freedom Park, Lagos on the hot seat where both of them revealed plans of building a floating stage on the Lagoon with University of Lagos as a backdrop. Aside being a school during the week, Footprints of David doubles as training grounds for the arts on weekends while the Cottage Theatre would host quarterly performances. “We have 48 Theatre companies in Bariga,” he said, addressing the LCDA Chairman, Awobajo. “We need to create employment for them. So, if we have each troupe perform here on a quarterly basis and after performance, they get paid, you have taken away a lot of unemployment in that direction.” Responding Hon. Alabi said the Council will pay teachers at the Academy a monthly salary to which he got cheers from the audience. As the event winded down, the children of Footprints of David entertained guests the best way they know – through drumming, singing and dancing.