The Segun Abraham Support Group (SASG) in conjunction with other card carrying interest groups within the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ondo State on Thursday said the ward congress will hold on Saturday as scheduled. In a statement, the groups reiterated that there will be elections into all offices from the ward, local government, state offices to the national offices during the congresses and convention of the All Progressives Congress (APC), stressing that the party Weald retain its zoning formula. They urged party supporters to disregard the rumours that elective congresses will be jettisoned in place of a mere filling of the vacancies created by death, appointment and defection to other parties in the Ward, Local Government, State and National Executive Committees(NEC). The statement reads “We condemn this evil campaign of calumny and lies as we restate that the aim of the said campaign of disinformation is to  discourage teeming APC supporters from effectively participating in the elective congresses from ward to state levels to disenfranchise many members across the State. “They want to prevent members from voting. This is not in the best interest of our party. This is not in the best interest of democratic practices and due process. This is unknown to our extant APC Constitutions and it will not happen in Ondo State. “We wish to inform all our loyal and party faithful that the nomination forms for the ward congress scheduled to hold on Saturday had arrived Ondo State APC Secretaria, Akure, on Thursday and all Ward Executive candidates who intend to contest for Ward Executive Committee are enjoyed to obtain their nomination forms from the party secretariat, accordingly. “The contention that the upcoming congress is merely to fill vacancies created by death, appointment and defection to other parties in the Ward, Local Government and State Executive Committees is pettifogging, fraudulent, illegal, divisive and runs contrary to the Constitution of the All Progressives Congress 2014 as Amended and the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 as amended”. The groups maintained that no single individual has the right under the APC 2014 as amended to deny, amend, proscribe the APC members’ democratic right to contest the ward congress election by denying same purchase of nomination form. It noted that “Articles 17 and 20 of the APC Constitution 2014 as Amended states that “…all officers of the party elected…into the party organs shall serve in such organs for a period of (4) four years and shall be eligible for re-election”. The APC stakeholders alleged that certain party officials in State are hoarding nomination forms from legitimate party members who desire to seek elective positions during the upcoming congress, stressing that the artificial hoarding is unknown to all democratic principles and due process. It therefore called on the NWC and the NEC to prevail on the relevant Congress committees to make the nomination forms available to prospective members in the State who are interested in offices at the ward, local government, state and national executive committees. Besides, the groups warned against the rumours that certain  groups were planning to truncate the lawful and peaceful conduct of the ward congresses in the 203 wards of the State. “Any effort by any individual to impose candidates on the party by intimidation, coercion or violence will be resisted and reported to lawful authority in accordance with the laid down procedures in our party’s Constitution. ‘Allegation that only the governor will purchase all nomination forms dispatched to the State from the National Secretariat is undemocratic, the INEC should ensure that open party congress takes place as contained in then party constitution”. The statement stressed. The group appreciated the effort being made by security and law enforcement agents to ensure safety of party members during the coming congresses.