A couple of years before my late father passed away, he came very late to the funeral of a prominent son of our village covered with blood stains. I was shocked when I saw him thinking something terrible had happened to him. But from his facial expression, he looked perfectly alright. It turned out he got to an accident scene and had to alight from the vehicle he was in with other passengers to assist the victims and help evacuate the wounded to the hospital. He even stayed with the dead until they were evacuated to the morgue. Incidentally, the wounded and the dead were also on their way to the same funeral. From that time until his death, I looked at my father with a special kind of respect and admiration that words cannot qualify. That he and the other passengers stopped to assist speaks volumes of their characters; others would have moved on, or probably call the concerned authorities to take it from there. But there is always something when we physically help those in need or the vulnerable in our societies. I felt this way penultimate week when I was invited to a birthday party of a beautiful lady who just hit the golden age of 50. Mrs. Olianah Thompson however didn’t look 50 at all. It turned out not to be your normal birthday party after all. Getting to the venue was an issue. Though located just after Guzape Hills in Abuja, you will notice a sharp contrast between affluence and poverty on your way to Kpaduma III, a semi urban community. You cannot fail to notice rows and rows of beautiful mansions with beautiful fences and nice environment with well-maintained flowers as you approach Kpaduma III. But wait for this; almost 95% of these mansions are unoccupied! Most have “to let” signs on their gates. I kept wondering how many Nigerians have the resources now to rent these mainly luxury mansions. I was told the mansions and that neighbourhood sprang up between 2012 and 2015 with amazing speed. Just as I was feasting my eyes looking at the endless mansions, we came to the end of a tarred road and had to make a detour, and that was when it hit me. Almost immediately the mansions disappear and I started seeing elements of poverty in its raw form. Look one way, you see unbridled affluence, look the other way and you see brazen poverty. This in a way describes our country. As we made our way to the birthday venue, I kept wondering why Mrs. Thompson brought her birthday party here. After about four attempts at finding the venue we finally made it. It is the kind of place that no one can fully describe how to get there; you’ll need someone familiar with the locality to physically take you there otherwise you’ll keep missing your way like we did. It turned out to be a “birthday party” with a difference.  It was a medical outreach that Mrs. Olianah Thompson put together to celebrate her birthday and what a celebration it was. One other thing that struck me was that it was something she must have planned for some time. That she also took her time to locate the community and went to them rather than bringing them to her touched my heart. It wouldn’t have been out of place if she had pre-selected members from the community, bring them to a location in the city center and hold her outreach there. But that wasn’t the case. She assembled three medical doctors, four pharmacists’, four laboratory technicians, two nurses, four health recorders, three protocol officers and a host of volunteers. Members of the community came out in droves to be attended to. You must be hard hearted not to feel what the poor and most vulnerable in Nigeria are feeling, yet this is a community that is less than ten kilometers from the seat of power. Mrs. Thompson did not end by only providing drugs and treatment to the sick, she also fed and clothed close to three hundred of them according to my estimate. She also cut her birthday cake and shared it among the people. It was however a herculean task organising the children in an orderly fashion so that the cake can be shared evenly. It was also a tug of war to share the clothes she brought. There were several pathetic cases of medical and other challenges with some inhabitants which I cannot recount here in order to protect their privacy. Suffice it to say that Nigerians are suffering. The case of a sick widow with six children practically broke my heart. After being attended to by the doctors and fed  – alongside some of  her children – she was asked during counselling session how she manages to go through each day with no set skills or anything doing: “we just depend on God to go through each day,” was her response. There were many of them like this widow. This medical outreach vividly brings to fore the collapse of our primary health system in the country. Beyond health, I kept wondering how any of the children of this sick widow will see the four walls of a school. Unless something dramatic happens, they may just go through life and take what it brings along their way. I asked Mrs. Olianah Thompson what motivated her to do what she did. “Before I turned 50, I always look around me and know there are people that I am better off than. That was when I had the idea that I would have to do something different when I turn 50.” That was when the idea of looking for a community that she can impact came to her mind. Armed with this she began her search which led her to the Kpaduma III community. Prior to that, she decided to establish a NGO – Bless A Soul Today (BLAST Foundation) – which she will use as an all-purpose vehicle to impact lives. The first of the impacts that came to her mind was the medical outreach. She said her conviction is that we need each other to live fulfilling lives and that God has deposited so much in some lives that it is the responsibility of such individuals to collectively give back. “No matter how tough or challenging one’s life may be, there’s always someone who would face challenges that are far tougher than yours. Sometimes the smallest acts are the kindest and richest.” She said. Describing herself as a mother, Church worker and housewife, Mrs. Thompson said beyond the medical outreach, she is making plans to establish a sports academy where she will start engaging four year olds after school. She intends to develop their sporting skills in basketball, football and volley ball. This she intends to complement with women empowerment programmes and pass on skills she has learnt over the years to other women. One of her programme that I found exciting is “sponsor a child.” Under the programme, she intend going from house to house soliciting for money as low as N1,000 a week from households. “From the money I gather from each household, I will adopt a child in that households name and sponsor his or her education. Won’t it be exciting if a total stranger walks to you in future and say ‘thank you for sponsoring my education?”’ She enthusiastically asked me. Just as I was about leaving, a middle aged woman with her two children came to say thank you to Mrs. Thompson. It reminded me of the story Jesus told of the ten lepers in the Bible. Out of the ten, one came back to say thank you after being healed – and he was a Samaritan. As I left the venue of the medical outreach and passed the rows of mansions on my way back several questions popped through my mind. If the owners of these mansions have a gracious heart like Mrs. Thompson, one or a group of them could have taken it upon themselves to pave the major road leading to Kpaduma communities. They could also provide a basic primary health facility, sink boreholes or adopt a school(s) within the communities.