The 11th edition of Talents Durban, an integral part of the Durban International Film Festival, holding from 19 – 29 July, 2018 in South Africa, has announced the names of 19 young African filmmakers who will be participating at this year’s event. Three Nigerians – Emamodeviefe Edosio, Oluyomi Tolulope Ososanya, and Sade Adeniran – are among the participants drawn from 13 African countries. Sade Adeniran is a Nigerian novelist whose debut novel, ‘Imagine This’, won the 2008 Commonwealth Writers’ Prize for Best First Book in Africa; Oluyomi Ososanya is a screenwriter, video essayist and producer of the short film, ‘Honey’, while Ema Edosio is a filmmaker, music video director and producer of street film, ‘Kasala’. Others are, Aliki Saragas (South Africa), Amjad Abu Alala (Sudan), Brian Gitahi (Kenya), Comfort Arthur (Ghana), Desiree Kahikopo (Namibia), Glele-aboucha Cornélia (Benin), Howard Mashilo Nthite (South Africa), Jessie Zinn (South Africa), Mandimbijaona Andriamaharo Razafimanantsoa (Madagascar), Matamba Kombila (Gabon), Mlingane Dube (South Africa), Nildo Essa (Mozambique), Oualid Khelifi (Algeria), Sejang Otumile Tumi Sejoe (Botswana), Tafadzwa Tarumbwa (Zimbabwe) and Tokoloho Masemene (South Africa). Organisers say Talents Durban attracted over 250 applications from 30 countries throughout the African continent, adding that participants were carefully selected by an independent, international, womxn-led Talents Durban alumnae selection committee, with four animation directors, six directors and six screenwriters chosen, and a further three film critics chosen for the Talent Press porgramme. The Talent Press, which is a programme to mentor and develop reviewing skills of emerging film critics, is presented in cooperation with FIPRESCI, an association of national organizations of professional film critics and film journalists from around the world, which lobbies for the promotion and development of film culture. This five-day development programme holding from July 20 to 24, 2018 during DIFF is presented in cooperation with Berlinale Talents, an initiative of the Berlin International Film Festival, Germany, and made up of workshops, masterclasses and seminars for African filmmakers, delivered by film industry professionals and academics. Participants are expected to interact with over 600 delegates from the DIFF and Durban FilmMart, the co-production and finance forum that takes place from 20 to 23 July during the festival. The Talents will also participate in several project-oriented, hands-on skills development programmes. These practical development programmes within Talents Durban include Story Junction, masterclasses, and one-on-one mentorships. The participants will be able to further develop their film projects through mentorships and expert-guided Project Labs. Sixteen projects will have the opportunity to join Durban FilmMart for a two-day preparatory workshop, followed by two days of public pitching, round tables, and individual meetings. Story Junction is a platform showcasing projects linked to the festival. Talents will present their project at Story Junction to peers and industry delegates. Delegates will be able to request meetings with participants whose projects they wish to engage with further. Participants will have access to film screenings, industry masterclasses, panel discussions, festival functions and events of the Durban FilmMart. “We are very pleased to have such a diverse range of Talents for our 2018 edition,” says Chipo Zhou, Manager of DIFF. “This is a brilliant programme for the development of film-makers, which the many alumni across the globe can attest to. Here, not only are they able to learn and gather knowledge through the formal programme, but it is a great place to connect with film-makers from other countries, network and share ideas. The value of this for continued and future collaboration is immeasurable.” Talents Durban is one of 7 Talents International Programmes formed by Berlinale Talents in Africa and around the world including Talents Beirut (Lebanon), Talents Buenos Aires (Argentina), Talents Sarajevo (Bosnia-Herzegovina), Talents Tokyo (Japan), Talents Guadalajara (Mexico) and Talent Press Rio (Brazil). Talents Durban is supported by the KwaZulu-Natal Film Commission, Goethe-Institut SA, German Embassy in South Africa, National Film and Video Foundation and Gauteng Film Commission. DIFF is organised by the Centre for Creative Arts at the University of KwaZulu-Natal, with support from eThekwini Municipality, KwaZulu-Natal Film Commission, the National Film and Video Foundation, German Embassy, Goethe-Institut and a range of other valued partners.