A widow, Mrs. Stella Ikwunne, 52, has appealed to the Lagos State Government to save her and her children from fumes emanating from a neighbour’s locomotive generator. Mrs. Ikwunne, who doctors said was battling pneumonia caused by inhalation of smoke, said she has been in and out of the hospital since 2016 that the neighbour, Christian Anyanwu mounted the generator beside her shop. Ikwunne and Anyanwu are both tenants at 3, Rafiu Ipaye Street, Ijesha, where they run beer parlour businesses. A medical report from Itire-Ikate Primary Health Centre (PHC), with reference number IILCDA/PHC/VOLII/043 indicated that the sound of the victim’s chest was dull and there was poor air entrance to her lungs. Signed by Dr. Nkechi Nani, the report said: “The patient presented complaint of bilateral chest pains, catarrh and weakness. Pains are said to be internal in the lungs and causes difficulty in breathing. History notes the inhaling of generator fumes/smokes from a neighbour’s mounted generator. “She had previously been treated several times for the same complaints in a private hospital. Chest sounds are dull and there is poor air entrance to lungs. The diagnoses of pneumonia secondary to smoke inhalation was made and treated was initiated.” Another doctor’s report from Uwemedimo Hospital dated July 11, 2017, confirmed the woman was on May 29, 2016, managed for complaints of chest pain and difficulty in breathing. “This resulted from exposure to smoke generated from a lister at her shop on the same day,” said Dr. Somtochukwu Ejimbe, who signed the report. Sobbing helplessly, Mrs. Ikwunne told our Correspondent that a recent scan conducted on her 16-year-old daughter, Jennifer, showed she was suffering from chest, lung diseases and had been warned to stay away from fumes. Ikwunne, a mother of seven, said she had repeatedly met Anyanwu over the issue and also reported to the police without success, insisting that he was doing it to either kill or frustrate her out of the premises. Ikwunne, who said she had gone to the Office of the Public Defender  (OPD), Lagos State Environmental Protection Agency (LASEPA), Ijesha Police Station as well as reported to the landlady and caretaker of the property, said the man rebuffed all entreaties to relocate the generator. She said: “In the past three years I have been in and out of the hospital. I am always having chest pain and difficulty breathing. It was at the hospital that they told me my problem was caused by generator fume. “Since then, I have told Mr. Anyanwu to remove the generator but he refused. He has enough space on the other side, why can’t he take it there?  Each time he sees customers in my shop, he would turn on the generator and they would leave immediately because of the fume and noise. “When I could not take it anymore, I went to the police and they came and saw it. The Divisional Police Officer (DPO) then told him what he was doing was bad, he claimed it was the generators that he repairs that used to cause the fume. “They tried to resolve the matter and he was asked to connect an exhaust pipe so that the fumes would not be coming to my shop, but still the issue is worst. Now, my daughter fell sick and when they did scan on her, they said there was stain in her heart, caused by generator fume and that she should stay away from smoke. “I took the matter before our caretaker and landlady and he told them he would remove the generator in two weeks. But that was before Easter. He still has not moved it. He is bragging that worst case scenario would be for the landlady to give us quit notice and we would leave the premises. He said he would leave and go to his own house but that I will not have anywhere to do business. “Many people have spoken to him that what he was doing was bad but he doesn’t want to do the right thing. The last person that spoke to him was one of my customers and he told the man that I must write an apology or an undertaking to him. Why should I write an undertaking? Is he not the one to apologise for all the harm he has caused me and my children? “I am begging the governor and those in authority to come and see things for themselves and take action against him. His generator is killing my children and I slowly. “I was advised to go to Crime Victims Foundation (CRIVIFON) because the man wrote a petition alleging that I was threatening his life and I was arrested. But the police looked into the matter and told him what he did was wrong and that he should relocate the generator but he still has not. My life and those of my children are at risk and my business, which is my only source of livelihood is being threatened.” The Executive Director, CRIVIFON, Mrs. Gloria Egbuji told our Correspondent her agency would petition the Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) and the Commissioner of Police on the issue to avoid further health hazards for the victims and prevent a likely breach of peace. Contacted, the landlady of the property, Mrs. Makinde Ipaye confirmed that Anyanwu was asked to relocate hus generator within two weeks. She said: “Yes, the matter was brought before me. I went and Inspected the place and I told Anyanwu to relocate the generator to his other shop. But he later called me that Mrs. Ikwunne reported him to OPD. “I am tired of the matter. I am not happy he did not listen to my advice. I support that higher authorities should come into the matter and resolve it or I will have to give both of them quit notice.” When our Correspondent visited the area, Anyanwu denied the allegations insisting that he had been in the shop for over two decades before Mrs.  Ikwunne came. He said the generator was kept there because that was his shop where he does generator repairs. Anyanwu denied the locomotive generator that was emitting fumes, insisting that he also had to connect an exhaust pipe for peace to reign. He said: “Before she moved into this place, I have been here. This is the shop where I repair generators and engines. I repair big generators here and I have been doing that before he moved in. We were staying here peacefully until about three years ago when we had an issue. “It was from that issue that she started comaining that my generator was disturbing her. Then, it was a smaller one. I changed to this big one because I got more freezers and the smaller one could not carry them. “This woman has carried me everywhere. She has taken me to the police seven times and has reported me to different places. Even when we went to the landlady, I agreed to relocate the generator within two weeks but she went to OPD to report me again. That is why I left the generator there for OPD to finish their investigation.”