All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) chieftains in Kogi State are up in arms against Governor Yahaya Bello, who they accuse of bad governance and intolerance of opposition. Group Political Editor Emmanuel Oladesu and JAMES AZANIA examine the style of the governor that has drawn the ire of Kogites. Yahaya Bello, governor of Kogi State, is the youngest governor in the country. However, he is arguably the most controversial governor. In the last three years, he has been in the news. Bello assumed the reins in a controversial manner. According to observers, he came to reap where he did not sow. The death of the All Progressive Congress (APC) flag beareer, Prince Abubakar Audu, rendered the 2015 governorship poll inconclusive. Instead of allowing his running mate, James Faleke, to complete the process, Bello was asked to replace him on the supplementary ballot. After succeeding former Governor Idris Wada, observers said he turned himself into a thin god. He shunned the option of reconciliation and adorned himself in the garment of a warrior. Bello has not been interested in an all-inclusive government, but a winners takes it  all. Many stakeholders were sidelined. Then, hostility broke out. Other APC chieftains cried foul, saying that the governor had become a lord of manor. Instead of promoting peace in the troubled chapter, Bello only believes that, once he reiterates his loyalty to President Muhammadu Buhari and he has the backing of the national chaimran, Chief John Odigie Oyegun, all is well in Kogi APC. More worrisome is the governor’s style of governance. Inputs from stakeholders in the academia, labour, industry and other sectors have been resisted. Since the governor did not have solid campaign promises, his blue print is suspect. Cries of despondency fill the air in the Northcentral state. Infrastructure battle has collapsed. The heterogenous state is agonising across the sectors. Like many states, the governor is unable to pay salaries of workers promptly. Today, Kogi is one of the most risky states. Insecurity is the order of the day. The number of Nigerians that have been kindnapped along Lokoja-Abuja road is a testimony. Fed up with the derailment, prominent indigenes have cried out. Venting his anger, Faleke said the government lacked a meaningful direction. “Kogi has abundant human resources. The governor has refused to tap them. And he lacks expereince”, he said. Faleke said Bello is killing Kogi State. He said: “The political situation in Kogi State is very dicey for our party, the All Progressives Congress (APC) because of the various happenings; the claim by civil servants about the non-payment of salaries, the counter-claim of the governor that he has paid all. As at today, tertiary institutions are closed, according to their workers, for non-payment of salaries and arrears. “As at today, health institutions are in comatose for lack of salaries to the workers. Unfortunately, Kogi State is a civil service state. There are no industries. So, the moment the salaries of those civil servants are not paid, it means that the economy of the state will be in comatose. So, I can clearly tell you that our party has a problem in the state.” The federal legislator also said the governor has marginalised many APC chieftains. The governor is the governor, but he has refused to be father of all. This governor has appointed as at last count over 200 staff, from commissioners to SSAs and out of 286 staff, only 43 are original APC members. You can just imagine that the rest are PDP. That’s is the crux of the matter. “You engage sole administrators and virtually all your sole administrators, except very few, are original APC members. If our people and party members went to the poll against the PDP members and you now engage those PDP members we opposed at each polling unit, they are now the ones dictating the affairs of the state, you know psychologically, the APC members will not be happy and that’s what exactly is happening.” Lamenting that Bello is against reconciliation, Faleke said: “Since he became governor, he has not called me. I think the governor lacks maturity. He lacks maturity in his handling of the affairs of the state. He was not prepared. It was a gift given to him. Unfortunately, because he didn’t work for the gift, he does not know how to go about it. He can’t do it well.” Elder stateman Gen. David Jemibewon has also decried the governor’s activities, saying that he lacked focus. He said the challenge of governing the state has overwhelmed him, urging the people to show him the way out during the next election. Kogi APC is a disunited chapter. The governor’s style has further polarised the party. At a time many states were cautious about the farm grazing proposals, Bello quickly embraced it, to the consternation of his people who feared that it could be a prelude to disaster. Recently, the recall of Senator Dino Melaye failed. It was alleged that the process was intigated by the governor. The failed recall was interpreted as a vote of no confidence in the governor. The question is will Bello secure a second term in Kogi? Kogi APC is ebbing away. For the state, divides of democracy are scanty. Yet, there is no prospect of liberation in the nearest future. The chapter has been weakened by litigations aggrieved party members. Many APC chieftains bade farewell to the state, over alleged ‘one-man show’ by the governor. Embattled chairman of the party, Alhaji Haddi Ametuo, and a sizeable number of officers have been to be labelled ‘Diaspora APC’, by those that were to supplant them in Kogi, while erstwhile APC chieftains, including former acting governor Clarence Olafemi, were to retreat. The well-worn and yet running encounter with Senator Dino Melaye (Kogi West), one time ‘man Friday’ to the governor, has escalated. As the crisis between the governor and Melaye veered towards the dangerous, observers recall the latter’s role during Bello’s inauguration as governor in January 2016, and shortly after. Besides, battles with the leadership of the House of Assembly and aggrieved members of the party, have also left their strain. There were allegations that the governor appointed people that had no hand in the victory of the party at the governorship poll. Ametuo said that the governor got the mandate through the grace of God, after the demise of Audu, the original candidate of the party, who was already coasting to victory before his sudden death. He said party members who toiled for the victory were left out ‘in the cold’. He alleged that over 80 percent of the appointments were made by the Chief of Staff to the governor, Edward Onoja. He said: “This governor has appointed over 200 aides– from commissioners to SSAs and out of the 286, only 43 are original APC members. You can imagine that the rest are PDP. That is the crux of the matter”. Ametou explained that over 80 percent of those in Bello’s cabinet were a mixture of the PDP and non-party members, adding that the composition was not sustainable for  2019. Analysts of the inner workings at the Lugard House, the seat of government, opine that Bello and his Chief of Staff, are but two sides of the same coin, a view that the governor himself has on many occasions unwittingly validated, with his description of the latter as his “Siamese twin brother”. One of Bello’s earliest political war front in Kogi was at the House of Assembly and the removal of the then Speaker, Momohjimoh Lawal of the PDP, which at the time was in the majority, replacing him with Umar Imam of the APC. The task was achieved with the help of five members; the G-5 lawmakers. As his administration forged on, amidst policies that attracted more critics, especially the controversial workers’ screening and verification exercise, tax reform and beautification and landscaping work in the capital, Lokoja, Bello asserted that he has the singular record of having the “most malicious opposition in the history of the Fourth Republic in Nigeria”. He said even those who dreamt of becoming governor had developed unholy romance with the ‘cup of hatred and bitterness.” It does not matter to them that Kogi State belongs to all of us’, he added. Bello said “their antagonism merely gives” his government more reasons to work harder to prove them wrong. He added: “It does not matter to them that the fire they kindled among our tribes and zones today will burn them if they ever arrive at Lugard House in the future. They do not care that the young people they give arms today or indoctrinate with hate to make Kogi State ungovernable for Governor Yahaya Bello will become the security threats of their own period if they ever become governor. “It does not matter to them that the investor they scare away with their lies today is an employer of labour and a taxpayer they will not have in their own time, assuming God gives them the opportunity to lead the state. It is now a proven fact that they can have no joy in whatever does not paint Kogi State as the ‘Hobbesian’ society of continual fear and danger. “It pains them to hear of our electricity projects. Their heart is broken to hear labour has called off their strikes and our children can go back to schools and our people can get attention in the hospitals. They want to die when they hear that we have concluded the screening exercise and have nearly completed payment of salaries and arrears, because it removes the only talking point they have against us. “Unfortunately, what they have is a lifestyle disease, which no doctor can help them with unless they are willing to change. We will leave them to either purge their own consciences of evil motives, or continue to boil in their own hatred”, he said. The administration has counted the completed Kogi Revenue House, ongoing renovation work at the Government House, environmental work in the capital, roads construction/rehabilitation and sundry other developments as part of its achievement in office. But, as Bello continues to reiterate his commitment to serving Kogi, his critics, including the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), maintain that there is nothing on ground to show for his almost three at the helm of affairs.