The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) candidate for the Ekiti State governorship election, Prof Kolapo Olusola has mocked the All Progressives Congress (APC) for its Ekiti primary election fiasco. Olusola, who was at the Abuja secretariat of the PDP to collect his Certificate of Return, boasted that the party will win the July governorship election and retain control of the state. The PDP candidate said: “There is a big difference between the PDP and other parties. We are a party that has totally eliminated imposition and impunity. “We are a party where integrity, fairness, and transparency hold sway as the order of the day; a party where there is order and leadership is respected. This is a pattern of leadership we have at the national level.” Taking a jibe at the APC, which had its primary disrupted last Saturday, the PDP flag bearer said: “In our party, we don’t kick ballot boxes. In our party, we don’t snatch ballot boxes. In our party, we don’t engage in violence. “In our party, we don’t have any cause to cancel any election. We don’t have any reason to postpone or suspend any election. Even when elections are scheduled for a particular date, some people in other parties will still fix it for another day, because they can’t get their acts together. “ I count my self privileged as the first governorship candidate of our party to be issued a Certificate of Return. Today is historical and it will go down in history. What this means is that we have already won the July 14 election. “I must thank the Governor (Ayo Fayose) for standing on the side of truth and for giving us leadership in Ekiti State. If we have a leader that is fearless, the followers will also have the courage to follow.” Olusola, who is also the deputy governor, assured the leadership of the PDP that the party will win the election, saying other parties in the race were mere noise makers. Stating that the Ekiti people will resist money politics and violence, the candidate stressed that the party will no longer accommodate those he referred to as interlopers. “People want to take us through another round of economic slavery. We are no more ready for that. I am ready and prepared to take up this challenge as the incoming governor of Ekiti State on the platform of the PDP.” Meanwhile, All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship aspirant, Dr Kayode Fayemi has congratulated Ekiti State Deputy Governor Olusola Eleka for his emergence as the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)’s flag bearer for the July 14 election. Prof Olusola on Tuesday emerged winner of the primary held in Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. Dr Fayemi, Minister of Mines and Steel Development and a former governor of the state, described the emergence of Prof Olusola in an orderly and peaceful primary as a welcome development. He, however, said the APC would give the PDP flag bearer a good fight for the Oke Ayoba Government House on July 14, adding that the APC is the preferred  choice of the people. The Minister, according to a statement by his Media Office, said he was confident that whoever emerges as the APC flag bearer in the party’s rescheduled primary on Friday, would be more acceptable to the electorate. Fayemi also denied media reports that he stormed out of a meeting of the South West leaders with aspirants in Abuja.