Nigerians have been told to  clear places where mosquitoes breed. The Youth Empowerment and Development Initiative (YEDl) and Westfield Development Initiative (WDl) gave the charge at a free medical outreach to commemorate this year’s World Malaria day. WDI Executive Director  Omobola Lana said: “WDI is a non-profit organisation that focuses on eradicating malaria in Nigeria. It is working with one person, one family, and one community at a time, so malaria will be eradicated in our country, and this can be achieved by holding medical outreaches for people, and giving sound advice on mosquito elimination.’’ Lana said the initiative was brought  to Alimosho community to raise awareness on disease and work toward a health community. YEDI Executive Director Mr Oje Ivagba said: “We aim at reaching out to more than 1000 communities. We are here with medical services, qualified doctors, pharmacists to support the community. Long-Lasting Insecticidal Nets (LLIN) are also given.” Ivagba advised the people to judiciously use all that they gave them, which include the net, adding that they should be proactive in the eradication of malaria. He added: “We also use football drawn and to train young people on health development, living healthy and making health choices.” YEDI Director of Finance and Human Resource Mr Obiafor Philip said the NGO held the event to provide medical services to the public. She said: “We are here to ensure in our own way we can contribute to making Nigeria a healthier nation, providing services that are within our capacity and capability to Nigerians. I urged people to always dispose their refuse and clear up drainages and that water channels are clear, and by so doing we are taking a step in eradicating malaria in our community and Nigeria as a whole.” Medical Officer of Health for Alimosho Local Government Dr Oni Titilayo said participants and her colleagues and environs were so excited because a lot of people were reached through the programme. ‘’Yearly, the world celebrates World Malaria Day. YEDI and WDI always come to commemorate with us in Alimosho, bearing in mind that we have the largest population in Lagos State, recording a lot of malaria cases during the past years. These NGOs have reached a larger number of people for this initiative by giving them free Nets, drugs, free medical consultation, and health education against malaria,’’ he said. Oni urged the people to use the information they got and ensure they sleep under their nets, attend health centres. A beneficial of the programme, Mr Toyin Shittu, praised the NGOs, adding that the organisers for their gesture. The groups used the power of football with the theme: ‘Kick-Against-Malaria’ football, by oranising a tournament to mobilise and empower young people, and communities towards the need for malaria prevention and quality treatment practices. The event, which was held at Pako field, Omituntun Youth Centre, Akowonjo saw over a 1000 residents of Alimosho community accessing free medical examination, malaria testing, HIV testing, blood pressure and, sugar-level testing, and also general consultations and counselling.