Motorists and other road users yesterday fled to safety after some policemen and naval operatives engaged in fisticuffs. The incident, which occurred at Ijora Underbridge along Wharf Road, Apapa, was said to have been as a result of control of articulated vehicles to ease gridlock in the axis. It was gathered that two policemen identified as Sergeants Tunde and Mogbojuri both deployed as part of the Taskforce controlling articulated vehicles, were beaten by some naval men who drove a van marked GGE499DZ, with the inscription OPMESA 3 on it. According to witnesses, the OPMESA operatives had given instruction to truck and tanker drivers coming from Western Avenue to keep moving towards Apapa, not knowing that there was a directive from the Commander, Nigerian Navy Ship (NNS) BEECROFT for these vehicles to turn under the bridge to avoid blocking the road. As the trucks made to turn under the bridge, it was gathered that these soldiers moved to stop them by attempting to hit their vehicle but whip hit Sergeant Tunde, who was beside one of the tankers directing it to turn. A fight was said to have ensued between the duo, which escalated with the involvement of their colleagues. Sergeant Tunde, a witness said, was beaten to a pulp and his uniform torn in the fight that lasted about 20 minutes. A source said: “The naval men beat up the policemen. They overpowered them and so, the policemen ran to the station to report. They returned to the scene with their Oga (boss) and they all moved to the Naval Base.” Contacted, the spokesman for NNS BEECROFT, Charles Brinemigha said the issue has been addressed. He said: “There was build-up of traffic and there was an instruction for trucks to turn. So, personnel who wasn’t among the team and did not know what the instruction was told the vehicles to keep moving. “When he saw that they were turning, he wanted to hit the vehicle but his whip fell and knocked a policeman. That was how the issue started. It was just a misunderstanding and has been taken care of. The Commander has taken action.”