The Delta state government has scheduled a stakeholders meeting to curb the alarming surge of drug abuse among youths across Nigeria. The meeting which is being organized by the National Orientation Agency, Delta State Directorate, in conjunction with the Foundation for Development and Community Engagement (FDCE), will hold on Thursday May 10, at Seko Hotels, in Warri. The Director, Ivan Okoro, in a statement made available to journalists yesterday, disclosed that it is a mandate of the agency to curb anti-social behaviours such as “street  trading (hawking), urinating along streets, cultism, prostitution, exam malpractices and drug abuse. He explained that these vices have led to several disturbing tragedies around Warri and its environs, as revealed by a technical study conducted by the FDCE. “The agency collaborated with the Foundation for Development and Community Engagement to initiate a social research on the proliferation of the use of hard drugs and related substances in Warri and environs as a pilot which study he said revealed very disturbing details, including a plethora of had drug centers located within and outside residential areas across the area and increasing cases of female victims of drug induced sexual abuses like rape and bestiality. “The reality which was revealed by the said study is such that no responsible government or private actor can afford to be nonchalant about a challenge as massive as this since no meaningful solution can be developed, driven and sustained without a solid public/private partnership like the one that will hopefully emerge from this roundtable. “There is a need to pursue this effort with all vigor and that is why we at this initial stage, invited key but selected stakeholders from both the public and private sectors in the area for this activity which we hope would be escalated as soon as possible to accommodate more stakeholders” Okoro stated. Meanwhile, the FDCE director of research and advocacy, Mrs. Tsaye Mene has accused some law enforcement agents, as well as so civilians of promoting drug abuse, explaining that this has tackling the issue difficult. Lamenting the poor attention given to the use of hard drugs and other related substances, she expressed hope that with the political will on the part of government, this challenging area will be addressed. Over 30 organizations have been invited for the round table discussion including non governmental organizations, multinational companies and religious bodies.