A member of Osun State House of Assembly, Olatunji Olatunde, has said lack of productivity is one the problems bedeviling the nation. The lawmaker spoke at the maiden leadership training organised for undergraduates by the alumni association of Ladoke Akintola University of Technology (LAUTECH), Ogbomoso, Oyo State. Olatunde said it was regrettable that the population of the country does not translate to human capital that would drive development and economic growth. He advised undergraduates to look beyond what he called “outdated ideas of Aluta and militancy”, which, he said, promotes aggressiveness and yields no results. Olatunde pointed out that universities should be grounds for breeding progressive leaders, urging students to acquire skills that would make them useful after school. He said: “Students’unionism should not be about militancy; it must focus on solving immediate problems facing the students. Leadership and power are all about responsibility. Going at a speed in the wrong direction will be inconsequential. There should be a paradigm shift from the old way to empirical governance and leadership.” The lawmaker pointed out possible solutions to enhance productivity and growth of students in LAUTECH, as he implored management to create opportunities for growth and engage students in productive ventures aside from going after certificates. Advising students on how to handle peer pressure and social vices, Dr Bisi Akin-Alabi, Special Adviser to Oyo State Governor on Education, emphasised the need to be self-disciplined and understand what one wants in life. Hon. Afeez Bolaji, Special Assistant to Oyo State Governor on Youth and Sports, spoke on balancing extracurricular activities and academics, and menace of elections. The event was attended by Vice-Chancellor, Prof Sulaiman Gbadegesin, who led other top members of the school. The event with the theme: Active youth participation in good governance: A tool to sustainable development, was organised by the alumni association. It was aimed at re-orientating students on leadership and governance.