It’s all over in Kiev and Loris Karius is devastated in the Liverpool goal, with even more tears from him and Dejan Lovren too.In fairness to the Real Madrid players, they are over to the Liverpool players to try and comfort them before celebrating together.Karim Benzema opened the scoring for Real Madrid after a horrendous clanger from Karius before Sadio Mane leveled things up not long after. Gareth Bale then produced two incredible strikes – the first in particular a brilliant overhead kick – to seal the victory, although Karius should have saved the second.  Liverpool vs Real Madrid Live Updates (Text) 90+3: Ronaldo is not a happy man as play is stopped as he shapes to shoot, with a pitch invader on the field. He is removed as the whistle goes and the last goal is not needed! 90+2: Ronaldo is yet to score this evening and eyes his own strike as Asensio whips a ball into the area, but Van Dijk puts it behind for a corner. 90+1: Alexander-Arnold delivers, but it doesn’t beat the first man as Real Madrid head it away. Three minutes added on here… Meanwhile, Benzema – who has certainly played his part tonight – is replaced by Asensio.  86: Just after the goal, Bale looked to be through for his hat-trick but it takes a superb tackle from Lovren to see the ball behind. Bale is after that magic number three and there is still plenty of time…  GOAL! REAL MADRID 3-1 LIVERPOOL (Bale, 83) Well, combine the first two Real Madrid goals and that’s pretty much what we have for this one. It’s another absolutely sumptuous strike from Bale – you can’t take anything away from him there – as he picks up the ball in the middle of the park and has acres of space to strike. Karius gets hands onto the ball but it slips through his fingers like butter and lands into the back of the net. He should have saved that really, he was 99 per cent of the way there, and it’s another mistake this evening. 82: A yellow card for Mane after he makes a late tackle on Ramos. The Real Madrid captain makes a meal of it, but it’s the Liverpool forward in the book. Meanwhile, Can comes on for Milner for the final few minutes.  81: SAVE! A big save from Karius as Bale fires in a cross from the right with aplomb and Benzema fires towards goal from the left of the box, but the Liverpool stopper makes a leaping save to deny him a second of the evening. 80: Ten minutes to play in Kiev… What will Klopp do to try and force extra time or even a victory? It looks like Real Madrid are heading for a third successive Champions League title as it stands… 78: PIC! Mane hits the post. Will Liverpool get a better chance? 78: Some good possession from Liverpool in the last few minutes, with Milner putting a cross into the area but Varane turns it away well. Milner then tries to drink his way into the area, but Modric nicks the ball from his feet and sees it away. 75: Free kick to Real Madrid as Alexander-Arnold commits the foul. Kroos delivers but Bale is flagged for offside. To be fair, all four attacking players along the line were offside in that scenario. 74: TACKLE! Absolutely superb tackle from Robertson there as he stops an on-running Ronaldo in his tracks with an absolutely brilliant stop. 73: NO PENALTY! Firmino cross the ball into the area from the right, and is shouting for a penalty as the ball hits Casemiro’s elbow but he knew nothing about it as the referee rightly waves away the claims. Firmino then tries to score on the rebound, but Navas collects. BALED OUT? 122 – It took Gareth Bale just 122 seconds to score versus Liverpool after coming on as a substitute. Majestic. #UCLfinal #RMALFC pic.twitter.com/LIcUmIn4L9 — OptaJoe (@OptaJoe) May 26, 2018 72: Good work from Van Dijk to stick a leg out in front of Ronaldo as he looks to cross from the right of the box, but the defending just puts the forward off his stride and the ball runs away from him. 71: OFF THE POST!! At the other end for Liverpool this time as Mane collects the ball at the top of the area before hammering a strike towards goal, but his low drive hits the outside of the post. A good response from Liverpool and this one certainly isn’t over. 69: Ramos seems to have done himself a mischief as he stretches ahead of Mane to get a ball out wide, and appears to have a bit of cramp in the process. Milner delivers another corner but Navas punches away the danger. 68: The stadium has gone quite quiet now, compared to a few minutes ago anyhow! It may be because Liverpool are behind or it may be a pure state of shock after Bale’s stunning strike. Maybe both.  61: SAVE! A brilliant save from Karius and that will do his confidence the world of good. Nacho sends a great cross into the box, with Isco taking a touch before shooting, but Karius guesses the angle well and dives to keep the effort out. Isco is then substitutd, being replaced by Bale. 60: Free kick to Real Madrid as Modric is fouled by Robertson. They don’t make too much from it, though. Meanwhile, Bale is being prepared for Real Madrid. He has been in superb form recently and Zidane is going for this. 58: Uh oh, Mane is down now and looks a bit uncomfortable, but he is soon back on his feet. 50: Free kick to Real Madrid as Marcelo is caught by Firmino. He just gets him on the toe, but you would think Fimrino had bulldozed into his Brazil team-mate with the reaction. 49: OFF THE BAR!!! How has that not gone in?! Marcelo dinks the ball into the area and it’s a terrible attempted clearance from Lallana – who tumbles over – that allows Isco to get onto the ball and hits home on the volley. The technique is poor though as he catches it with his shin, and it smashes against the crossbar. The goal was wide open and despite the technique, he should be netting that. Is it just not Real Madrid’s night?… 47: A decent ball down the channel from Robertson as he picks out the run of Mane, but his flick back does not reach Lallana as Real Madrid eventually win the goal kick. 45+3: A snapshot effort from Benzema as he lets fly from just outside the area, but it flashes past Karius’ post. 45+2: Some good defending from Mane down the left as he muscles Marcelo off the ball before trying to get Liverpool forward. 45: CLOSE! What a superb pass from Benzema, a great diagonal ball that picks out the incoming Nacho at the back post but his shot fires into the side netting. Meanwhile, there are three minutes of added time. 44: NO GOAL!! Benzema has the ball in the net but Ronaldo is flagged offside! Isco whips a great ball into the area, and Ronaldo gets his head onto it but it is straight at Karius who make a superb save. However, Benzema is waiting to net and does – but the offside flag is raised against Ronaldo. It’s the right decision, too. On the touchline, Zidane quietly applauds the goal before realising it is offside, at which point, Klopp goes nuts. It could be a celebration, it could be at the defending. Not entirely sure. 42: A great ball forward from Benzema on the left, picking out Benzema just outside the box, who slightly flicks the ball back for Ronaldo but the latter does not get the right control as Liverpool manage to clear. 39: Good challenge from Van Dijk as he tracks Modric down the right flank, doing well to get in front of a cross from the Real Madrid midfielder. Meanwhile, Carvajal finally makes his way down the tunnel. A bit of a cuddle from Salah perhaps?… 37: A very enticing ball over the top from Milner there as he looks to pick out the forward run of Lallana, but it just runs too long and ends up in the hands of Navas. 36: The stretcher is on for Carvajal but he looks to be OK to walk off although he will not be returning. Another gutting end to the season. 39: Good challenge from Van Dijk as he tracks Modric down the right flank, doing well to get in front of a cross from the Real Madrid midfielder. Meanwhile, Carvajal finally makes his way down the tunnel. A bit of a cuddle from Salah perhaps?… 37: A very enticing ball over the top from Milner there as he looks to pick out the forward run of Lallana, but it just runs too long and ends up in the hands of Navas. Possibly the most emotional Champions League final we’ve ever seen! Nacho is on for Real Madrid. 34: Carvajal is down on the ground now, and he is also in tears. He looks to be distraught after being caught by Robertson.  32: Ramos is being booed every time he gets on the ball now, all coming from Liverpool fans.Marcelo fires a great ball into the area from the left flank as Real Madrid see the better of the ball, but some important defending from Lovren takes Ronaldo’s pass in the box away from Benzema. 30: A lot of Liverpool players are over to the forward to comfort him and he really is emotional. Mane is ushering him off the field with an arm on his shoulder. Salah is off and down the tunnel. A really sad affair for Salah after his superb season and it’s gutting for it to end in tears. Lallana is on in his place. So, how will this affect Liverpool now?… We shall see. 29: Oh no. This really isn’t good for Salah. After the corner is delivered, the Egyptian goes to ground in floods of tears. It looks like he doesn’t feel like he can continue. It’s a very sad scene indeed.  28: Good work from Mane there as he takes Varane and Carvajal right down to the baseline as the ball is poked out by the former Real Madrid defender. Varane is arguing with the referee but it’s the right decision.  27: And breath Liverpool fans, Salah is back on his feet and back on the field.  26: OUCH! This doesn’t look good for Liverpool fans… Salah and Ramos tussle and the Real Madrid captain is pulling the arm of the Liverpool man as they both go to ground, and Salah really looks to be in a bit of bother here. Ramos rolls him over and Salah looks to have really hurt his shoulder. The medical team are on…  25: STAT! It’s been a strong start from the Reds, with Jurgen Klopp’s side already having had seven shots on Navas’ goal compared to Madrid’s one from Ronaldo. 24: SHOTS!! The best so far from Liverpool as Milner gets away down the left before pulling the ball back for Firmino in the middle. The Brazilian turns with the ball before shooting – but it goes straight into the body of Ramos. The loose ball then lands to Alexander-Arnold on the right who hits a great effort, but Navas makes a brilliant low save to deny him the opener.  23: Another good move from Liverpool but they are thwarted by the experience of Ramos as Firmino tries to slide Mane in down the left of the box, but the Real Madrid defender gets there first to see the ball away.  22: Free kick for Real Madrid just inside their own area as Salah fouls Isco. They do not make too much from it though before winning another in a similar spot, but over on the other side as Milner goes into Carvajal. The Real Madrid man makes a bit of a meal of it but gets the advantage. 20: All you can hear are the Liverpool fans inside the Kiev Olympic Stadium at the moment and they have plenty to sing about with the Reds doing well so far. However, Liverpool do win the first corner of the game, and Van Dijk nearly gets his head onto it towards the back post but Navas is just behind him to punch away the danger. 17: A good defensive header from Robertson as Isco whips a cross in from the left-hand side, searching for Ronaldo, but the Liverpool defender heads away with ease. Carvajal dinks a ball over the top of his defender before setting Ronaldo away down the right flank. The forward then cuts into the area before firing an absolute rocket – but it’s on a tight angle and goes flying over the crossbar. Danger signs for Liverpool. 14: SAVE! A decent save from Navas there as Alexander-Arnold whips in a cross from the right-hand side, but the Real Madrid goalkeeper punches it away. This comes to an end when Liverpool win the free kick on the halfway line as Kroos fouls Mane. 11: A speculative effort from Marcelo there as he lets fly from just outside the area after getting away from Milner, but it flashes well wide of the post. 10: It has been a superb start from Liverpool in Kiev, and they really are giving the Real Madrid defence something to think about early on. Can they make the early pressure count?… 8: CLOSE! Another good move forward from Liverpool as Firmino’s header bounces off the shoulder of Ramos before nearly making it to Alexander-Arnold, but Ramos is out to smother the loose ball before the defender can strike. 7: What a superb ball from Firmino! He plays the ball in behind the Real Madrid defence, trying to pick out Mane through the middle and he nearly succeeds, but Varane is tracking the latter well and manages to skew the ball away along with the helping hands of Navas. 6: An interesting free kick routine as Salah runs past the ball to the middle of the area and is fed the ball by Milner. He strikes, but it hammers into the body of Modric before going clear. 5: Free kick to Liverpool around 20 yards from goal over on the right as Marcelo fouls Salah… Can they make this count? Milner and Salah over it. In the five times that Liverpool have won a European Cup final, their opponents have all worn white? A good omen for the men in red? 4: A lovely passage of play from Liverpool as they work the ball across the top of the area, with Salah picking out the run of Alexander-Arnold down the right of the field. The youngster then whips a cross into the area, but Varane does well to see it behind. 3: OFFSIDE! A first test for Karius and he does fairly well, coming off him line to punch a Carvajal cross away from the path of a waiting Isco in the middle. However, the offside flag is raised against the Real Madrid man as Liverpool win the advantage. 2: Well this has started with a bit of fire! Marcelo bundles Salah off the ball as the Liverpool man tries to make his way into the box, before Lovren leaves one on Ronaldo over on the touchline. Just letting him know, he’s there, of course… 1: Here we go ladies and gents, the moment is finally here as Liverpool get us underway in Kiev! AND THE MATCH KICK OFF The climax of a thrilling Champions League campaign is upon us as Real Madrid and Liverpool meet in the final of European football’s biggest game at the NSC Olimpiyskiy Stadium. Liverpool are hoping to claim a British record of six European triumphs following an extraordinary campaign on the continent, where the star trio of Mohamed Salah, Roberto Firmino and Sadio Mane have led a potent front three on the road to Kiev. But standing in their way are record 12-time winners Real Madrid, who led by Cristiano Ronaldo are looking to become the first side since Bayern Munich in the 1970s to win the competition for a third straight season. Contrary to some reports this morning, Gareth Bale will once more have to make do with a place on the substitutes’ bench as he did this time last year against Juventus in the final. Zidane makes two changes from the side which drew 2-2 at Villarreal in their final La Liga game of the season as Karim Benzema replaces the Welshman while Keylor Navas returns in goal in place of Luca Zidane. Team to play Liverpool: Navas, Carvajal, Ramos, Varane, Marcelo, Kroos, Casemiro, Modric, Isco, Ronaldo, Benzema. Subs: Casilla, Nacho, Theo, Lucas Vazquez, Bale, Asensio, Kovacic. KLOPP CHANGES ONE Jurgen Klopp has made one change from the side that beat Brighton 4-0 on the final day of the Premier League season just under two weeks ago. Dominic Solanke drops to the bench with James Milner coming in. LIVERPOOL TEAM NEWS Team to play Real Madrid: Karius, Alexander-Arnold, Lovren, Van Dijk, Robertson, Henderson, Milner, Wijnaldum, Salah, Mane, Firmino. Subs: Mignolet, Clyne, Klavan, Moreno, Lallana, Can, Solanke. OPTA STATS PART I 