The management of Guinness Nigeria Plc has presented its new product, ‘Royal Kingdom Lager Beer’ to the Benin monarch, Oba Ewuare II and the Edo State Governor, Mr. Godwin Obaseki. The product was presented to them in Benin-City, the Edo State capital last week. It said the new product redefines quality, heritage, culture and royalty for the proud people of Edo and Delta states as well as having a refined, crisp and refreshing taste made with pure ingredients for a rich and rewarding experience. Chairman of Guinness, Babatunde Savage, who made the presentation at the palace of the Benin monarch, said the new product was brewed in line with the tradition of the people. Savage said: The ‘Royal Kingdom’ was as a result of years of extensive research, and the need to celebrate the indigenous people in the heartbeat of Nigeria with a beer that stands as a symbol of their pride, heritage, communal life and kingdom. He said the company is the biggest employer of labour in the state as Edo has become part of the firm’s heritage. His words: “We believe that we will continue to look at the culture of the heritage and the royalty that this place is known for in actually crafting the best brew that is best for this area. “We have been bringing new innovation. The beer is a local lager of international standard. It is something that Edo people will be proud of. We believe they will cherish it. We will be able to ensure employment for our people and farmers will be encouraged to cultivate our local ingredients. “We are the biggest employer of labour in Edo State and we are proud of the products that are coming from here.” The Benin monarch said it was good to refine a product with the cultural insignia and symbol of the people. Oba Ewuare II also said the environment has been conducive to businesses to thrive as he has curbed activities of Community Development Associations. He opined that the company would make a fortune from the product with a view to adding value to the economy of the state. “We are, particularly proud of a beer like Royal Kingdom. We respect and honour our roots, history and culture and tradition. We are pleased that Guinness Nigeria is uplifting and promoting Edo culture and traditions. We believe that every day is a step forward and by investing in our land, they play an active role in pursuing our desired future.”