The Rivers State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) states that it has uncovered a plot by Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, other members of his Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and their collaborators to destabilize today’s ward congress of the APC, asking Wike to address his bad governance. It noted that the PDP plotters were colluding with some members of APC to cause confusion, declaring that they would fail. Rivers APC, through its Chairman, Chief Davies Ikanya, yesterday in Port Harcourt, expressed optimism that the ward, local government and state congresses of the party would be peaceful. Wike earlier asked all APC members in Rivers to work towards a peaceful and successful congress, devoid of rancour, while urging them to be law-abiding and maintain the peace in the Niger Delta state. Rivers governor asked all hoteliers in the state not to allow their hotels to be used to foment  trouble, as was the case during the party’s last congress, when Novotel Hotel on Ken Saro-Wiwa (formerly Stadium) Road, Port Harcourt was allegedly negatively used by some persons, leading to the misconception across the country that Rivers state was in crisis. Wike, while speaking on Friday at the Government House, Port Harcourt, during a courtesy visit by retired military and para-military officers of Ogoni extraction, claimed that the illegal use of operatives of the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (F-SARS) and military personnel to cause rancour ahead of today’s ward congress of the APC in the state had vindicated him. He noted that the series of statements released by APC stakeholders on the illegal activities of F-SARS personnel, ahead of today’s congress should draw the attention of all well-meaning lovers of democracy, alleging that if security agencies could be negatively used during a party congress, Nigerians should expect electoral mischief, masterminded by security agencies in 2019. Rivers governor said: “In an ordinary party congress, over a platoon of soldiers and more than 200 F-SARS personnel have been handed over to one man (apparently referring to Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi, a former Rivers governor). The operatives are to protect just one man, while other people are left without protection.” Wike also claimed that conflicts during elections were usually generated by overzealous security agents, detailed to manipulate the process, assuring that his administration would continue to invest in the promotion of security of lives and property across Rivers state. The main opposition party in Rivers, however, said: “Information unearthed by the APC confirms that the group that will destabilise today’s ward congress of our party, collected a huge sum of money from Rivers governor, with the sole purpose of discrediting the congresses through wild allegations against leaders of the party, especially the leader of the party in Rivers State and the Southsouth zone, Rt. Hon. Chibuike Rotimi Amaechi, the Minister of Transportation, and Rivers Chairman of APC, Chief (Dr.) Davies Ibiamu Ikanya, among others. “Details of the plan seem to have been rolled out already, as the group has gone on air to accuse the transportation minister of hijacking materials for the congresses, an accusation that exposes the ignorance of the group and makes absolutely no sense at all. “Whereas, the APC is working hard to fully expose the full dimension of the plot and the evil people that are hell-bent on destabilizing our party’s congresses. We urge party faithful and the general public to ignore the well-known antics of Wike, other PDP members and their collaborators within and outside the APC, who have sold their souls for blood money. We are re-assuring all APC members of strict adherence to the guidelines of the party’s congresses and not to be distracted by anyone or group, under any guise.” Rivers APC also stated that members of the party and the general public must refuse to be deceived by the agents of doom working for Wike, who, according to the main opposition party, were to employ diverse means to destabilize the APC, in fulfillment of the agreement between them and their sponsors. While also speaking, the Rivers Publicity Secretary of APC, Chief Chris Finebone, declared that the party found it disgustingly hypocritical for Wike, who could not ensure good governance in the state, to extend a piece of advice on peaceful conduct of congresses to the APC, while the dust generated by massive violence and mayhem that characterized the recent PDP local government primaries across Rivers was yet to settle. Fine bone said: “We believe that the unsolicited advice by Rivers governor is a script from his dubious and irresponsible politics to divert attention from the massive criticism of the unbridled violence, killings and destruction of property during the PDP primaries by well-meaning Rivers people and Nigerians. “It would have been far more important if Wike had preached peaceful primaries to his party men and women. It would have been quite needful if the Rivers governor walked the talk by not planting the seed of imposition, discord and deceit in his party, which eventually led to the kind of unprecedented violence that marred PDP’s primaries. That surely would have been a more practical means of preaching peaceful congresses. “APC believes that Wike is jittery that at the end of its congresses, peace-loving Rivers people will have the opportunity to compare the activities of PDP and APC. The Rivers governor fears that people of the state will so easily confirm that PDP members are the people responsible for the political violence in Rivers State, against the peaceful disposition of the APC members. It is this fear that has propelled Wike to embark on offering his tainted advice. We say to him, physician, heal thyself.” Rivers publicity secretary of the APC also urged right-thinking Nigerians to ignore Wike’s allegations against soldiers, F-SARS personnel and Amaechi, describing the Rivers governor as a drowning man, who definitely needed help, having been unsure of his re-election and vice-presidential ambition in 2019, in spite of producing the National Chairman of PDP, Prince Uche Secondus, an indigene of Andoni Local Government Area of Rivers state.