The Federal High Court in Lagos Monday ordered the forfeiture of 600,000 litres of diesel (Automotive Gas Oil) and a vessel, which were recovered from 12 convicts, to the Federal Government. Justice Mohammed Idris made the order after he sentenced the convicts to six years imprisonment for dealing in the petroleum product without license. The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) in October 2015 arraigned them on four counts of conspiracy, dealing in diesel without lawful authority and forgery. They are Christopher Okorie, John Mbah, Tammy Bami, Osi Prince, Chukwuji Festus, Kabiru Adeyemo, Ayannubi Moses, Sopuruchukwu Chukwudi, Obinna Ebu, Abdullahi Oyelade, Charles Ubey and Achia Vincent. They were accused of forging a Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) permit.
EFCC charged them along with their vessel, MV PSV DEBY, and two companies – Phonic Marine Services Limited and Banquet Chambers Nigeria Limited. Justice Idris convicted them on all the counts. On the first and second counts, he sentenced each of the convicts to five years imprisonment. On counts three and four, the judge sentenced them to six years’ imprisonment, all of which he said would run concurrently. Prosecuting Counsel Ekene Iheanacho said the convicts committed the offence between December 2014 and September 2015 in Lagos. EFCC said the 12, with intent to defraud, “forged a document, to wit: Permit to Operate as an Oil Industry Service Company; Specialised Category; Permit No. DPR/OGISP/14/848714/N4146, and purported the permit to have been issued by the Department of Petroleum Resources in order to favour Phonic Marine Services.” The offence contravened sections 1(2)(c), 1(17)(b) and 3(6) of the Miscellaneous Offences Act Cap M17 Laws of the Federation of Nigeria, 2004. Six witnesses, including DPR, Navy and EFCC officials testified for the prosecution. Justice Idris held that the prosecution proved its case beyond reasonable doubt. He ordered the vessel, MV PSV DEBY, and the cargo on board be forfeited to the Federal Government.