A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State, Utum Eteng, has thrown his support behind Adams Oshiomole as the next national chairman of the party. Eteng, a lawyer and also the General Coordinator of Companions for Buhari, a support group made up of professionals for the President’s reelection, said Oshimole has the capacity to match propaganda of the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In a statement made available to The Nation in Calabar on Wednesday, he said, “I hereby affirm my support to the good news that our dear President Mohammadu Buhari has thrown his support behind His Excellency Adams Oshimole still from Edo state as Oyegun as the possible replacement for the exalted office of APC National Chairmanship. “Let me boldly and openly commend the President as the leader of the APC for his foresight, wisdom and well-thought out choice of Oshimole to replace Chief Oyegun whose tenure from an unbiased and objective assessment has been uneventful, unprofitable for the peaceful existence and cohesion of the ruling APC nationwide. “I wish to commend the leadership of the South South Zonal APC Ntufam Hilard Eta for having the courage to convene an enlarged Zonal meeting of the APC in Benin City where the candidature of Oshimole was confirmed with some State Chapter in attendance and also adopting Adams as the man of the moment. “Thirdly, the leaderships of Edo and Delta State APC are similarly commended for leading the vanguard for the overwhelming adoption of Oshimole.  The public adoption from all intents and purposes amounts to passing a technical vote of no confidence on Chief Oyegun, the reason why every right thinking APC members nationwide should support this adoption with immediate effect and align with the choice of Oshimole by the President. “The APC, after having gone through four years of inactivity, docility, and inept leadership, needs a man as firm, brash and rugged as Adam Oshimole whose experience as the former National leader of the Labour Congress would matter a lot and count in his determination to reposition the ruling APC. “Oshimole without mincing words has the capacity to match words for words and action for action against the recent noise making and propaganda of the PDP that took advantage of the docility of the Oyegun Led NWC and resorted to vilifying the APC.  The choice of Oshimole is a perfect choice.  His doggedness, ruggedness, brashness and capacity to speak out boldly will in no small measure compliment the calm disposition and nature of the President. “APC members cannot continue to pretend that all is internally well with the party in the many State Chapters, and within the leadership of the National Assembly.  Chief Oyegun did not handle these conflicts well at all.  He may not like to hear this, but this is the whole truth. “At this moment, the APC needed to be promptly redeemed from the stress of hanging as a worn-out skeleton onto the frame of the President and Jagaban Tinubu due to the ineptitude of the Oyegun led National NWC and NEC exposed the party to.   APC members are urged on to identify with the choice of the President if the ultimate is to move the party as a ruling party forward.”