Prince Christopher Nebe is the Managing Director of Phamatex Industries Limited. In this interview with PAUL UKPABIO, he talks about his journey into pharmaceutical business, the challenges of doing business in Nigeria, the challenges posed by fake drugs, among other issues. Excerpts You grew your business through thick and thin. At what point did you have a breakthrough? It was here in Lagos that I finally made it. While I was in Abuja, I was just hustling. I was operating a 010 meal formula . I couldn’t afford breakfast and food at night. I was eating only once a day. Abuja was a bit tough; I was struggling. Nevertheless, I do not regret any of the suffering I passed through. Like I told you, I come from a royal family, but I didn’t benefit from that at all. So, I didn’t have any other choice, but to leave home. Today, that decision that I made has become a blessing because I was able to leave and go and struggle on my own and made it. I now realize that if I had waited to benefit from royalty, I would have been distracted and wouldn’t have found a way for myself. I left my father’s home to stay on my own. When you arrived Lagos, were you doing the same business you were doing at Abuja? When I came to Lagos about 30 years ago, I changed the business that I was doing. I started little importation. But first, when I came I couldn’t start immediately. I started by reaching out to people. It was not easy to just start out like that and be going to Italy. I was lucky to find someone who was importing keys. I had to work under him as a marketer of his product and later on someone introduced me to importing too and I started out with my own business. I can tell you that there is no business that is easy. It is tough but with time I was able to weather it and start growing until I set up a pharmaceutical industry. That is what I do and we have been on this for the past 27 years. Now we are a manufacturing company, well recognized in the health sector with awards from pharmaceutical bodies and other medical professional bodies. I am a fellow of the African Business School in Abuja, and we import raw materials and manufacture the drugs here. That way, we try to bring down the costs of the drugs. How expensive are products manufactured by your organization? Our products’ prices have been subjected to the uncontrollable increase in the cost of forex. Our overhead is very high. But we have ensured that they are affordable in the market. But where does the actual manufacturing take place. We are based in Lagos. Our manufacturing base is limited to Nigeria. Yes, for now, it is Nigeria alone though we are still looking at ways we can open the market more. What are the day-to-day challenges of running your type of business? Government needs to embrace manufacturers because we are employing a lot of people here and that in a way is helping the government to provide employment to take people off the streets. So government needs to encourage manufacturers. Government should regularly have interactions with manufacturers at the national, state and local government levels. We need light, we need good roads, tarred roads so that we can move our goods to places where they are needed. Even those of us that subscribed to gas from gaslink don’t have access to gas. We have goods lying down here not moved to those who need them. How do you handle the issue of quality control? That is the most important part of the business where a manufacture is concerned especially a manufacturer who is dealing in food and drugs. We have one of the best factories, we do thorough quality control, and our laboratory is one of the best. More marks must go to quality control, if we pass through that successfully, that is when we know we have a product for the people. How do you see the issue of fake drugs in the market? There are still fake drugs out there. It is still there and NAFDAC has been saddled with solving that problem. However, we have inadequate laws for prosecuting people doing these fake drugs. We regularly go out in our attempt to catch such bad eggs but even when NAFDAC apprehends them and prosecutes them; it is stalled because there are no enabling laws to send them to jail. The laws are not there. So something must be done about that because it is spoiling the reputation of those of us that are diligent with our work. In what ways do you think that we can have adequate drugs at hospitals and health centres? Government can buy drugs and fill up hospitals and health centres or bring the prices of drugs down through assisting manufacturing companies. The government can give businesses or manufacturers waivers which will bring prices of drugs down. It is our hope that government will encourage manufacturers and dialogue regularly too. What is your schedule like; how do you combine your work with socials? My business is still more primary to me now than any other thing. There is no time for socials that much except when I am not busy at work. At such times, I find time for my family. I stay much at home and I do take my family out sometime. But I do not do holiday much because there is always work to be done. When I want to relax, I play music to meditate and I listen to all sorts of music and I do not put age limit to the artistes whose music I listen to. You didn’t have a nice experience at home in early life… I still go back to my village. I still partake in every development that my village is involved in. However, I am not interested in chieftaincy titles. I do not need another title since I am already a prince. I feel that my natural God-given title is enough. And if I am called to assume a traditional ruler’s role in my hometown, well anything can happen but I have not put my mind there. My tomorrow’s aspirations are in God’s hands, so I don’t know what the future has, but right now, I am married to my business. How did your early life influence your business career? I grew up in the village. Though I am from a royal family, life at home was tough for me. It was not rosy in anyway. So I had to make up my mind and leave home in search of a better life. Thank God that my parents had sent me to school. Somehow, I knew that the education I got was enough to start me out in the world. So I found a way to move to Enugu, the coal city that was fast embracing commercialization at that time. I struggled and with time, I was able to get a small shop where I was managing at Ogbete Market in Enugu. And that was in 1979. Was that the year you started business? Yes, that was the year I started business in Enugu. I was doing little construction for people and contracts here and there. Enugu was a quiet town in those days; there was no much robbery or crime. It was a coal city and most people living there were civil servants who lived there with their families. But gradually, a few markets grew up and Ogbete Market was one of it. That was where I tried to survive. At Enugu, I sooner found out that I could only survive by struggling. I knew I had not found the bed of roses which I believed I could find if I worked harder. What did you do next? News came to Enugu from some of the business people who had moved to Abuja, a new city, that the government was building a better place in Abuja. Those who went there had good stories to tell us about how businesses were thriving. From what we heard of Abuja, it was like just being there meant that one was already a made-man. I recall with nostalgia that I did not want to miss out on such opportunity.  So, I decided to move to Abuja. But when I got there, I realized that it was not as it was said. I was still struggling. The money I was making was never enough to cater for my needs. That was when I knew that Abuja was not going to be my final bus stop. The good thing I had going for me was the fact that I was still relatively young. I encouraged myself to look for greener pastures elsewhere. I knew I had to keep making more effort. There is an adage in my place that any mountain where money can be found, even the lame will struggle and crawl to that place. Abuja was the place to be, but Abuja was not giving me what I needed. So once again, I decided to move to Lagos.