A group, the Ekiti South Solidarity Forum (ESSF), yesterday said that  President Muhammadu Buhari’s decision to assent to the ‘Not Too Young to Rule Bill’ enable the youths to play leadership roles. The group said the move will boost the chance of the All Progressives (APC) governorship candidate,  Dr Kayode Fayemi, at the poll, adding that the youths will respond by voting for the party. Also, APC stakeholders in Ikere-Ekiti have urged the president to appoint a new minister from the Ekiti South Senatorial District to replece Fayemi. They said the minister should be appointed from Ikere, which is the largest town from the district. The stakeholders, in a statement by its Chairman, Niyi Olabode, said ministerial zoning to Ikere will make the people vote for APC. According to them,  the ministerial slot would be a masterstroke, because Ikere is the home town of the governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prof Kolapo Olusola. Addressing reporters in Ode Ekiti, Gbonyin Local Government Area headquarters, ESSF’s Coordinator, Dr. Ayo Omodara, said President Buhari will be making history by removing the ceiling placed on the ambition of youths after signing the bill into law. He said: “We want to congratulate our youth friendly President Buhari for being favourably disposed to this bill. He said it in his broadcast that the bill will soon be signed into law and this will broaden the chances of Nigerian youths to have unfettered access to contest for any elective position without the ceiling burden. “We are not really astounded with this action because President Buhari has never shied away from discharging his responsibilities for our youths. He has been using the N-Power programme to put smiles on their faces by ensuring that several thousands of them get N30,000 monthly stipends. Omodara added: “As of today, about 3,500 Ekiti youths are savouring the dividends of N-Power scheme with the pledge that the number will increase to 12,000 before 2019. “All these corroborated the fact that our youths have no alternative to President Buhari in 2019, if truly they are unwaveringly desirous of implanting a government that can guarantee the safety of their future.” Olabode said: “The six local governments from Ekiti South are united in the struggle for the ministerial slot, but we can’t but put political consideration to whatever we do as a political party.”