It is no news that the country has never been short of policies, only that most of them are stacked away in office shelves gathering dust. That was why a workshop was organised in Abuja to educate civil servants on how to fish out vital documents needed for programme implementation Experts at the gathering urged the nation’s policymakers to acquire necessary skills that will help them recognise and utilise evidence-based data for effective child and health policy. Speaking at the third yearly certificate course organised by the Development Research and Project Centre (dRPC) under PACFaH@Scale in collaboration with the National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), the experts noted that the country has generated enough evidence-based data that could have helped in the development of the country but unfortunately, the data is always on the shelves unimplemented. Acting Director-General, NIPSS Jonathan Juma, who was represented by Dr Ibrahim Choji, Senior Fellow at NIPSS said a lot of research done in the country end up in book shelves and classrooms, and do not filter down to the public and government. He therefor said that the training is aimed at helping to track evidence based data which are meant to be used for optimal policy making. He stressed that a module has been developed to help in translating data to the grass root so as to ensure they don’t end up on the book shelves. Choji also pointed out that there are lots of civil servants who are not aware of research documents which could aide in policy. “It is possible to have data that are not been used or accessed, so the aim is to ensure quality and accessible data,” he said. Dr. Fatal Aremu, a Consultant on Policy and Legislative Advocacy for dRPC-PACFaH and facilitator of the training, said policy makers were regularly bombarded with huge evidence data, but that many evidence based data from research have not been utilised. Emmanuel Abanida, Senior Technical Adviser,  dRPC -PACFaH@Scale  said the training was targeted at  senior government policy makers and stakeholders in child and family health to enable them see how evidence generated in form of data are used to connect to implementation of progamme on the field. We want to have a data hub because without data, you cannot have policy. He blamed lack of accountability for the gap in evidence based data.