Did you know? 1. 20% of breakup in Marriages and Relationships is Due to Poor Performance and Dissatisfaction in love making? 2. 1 in 6 Couples have Difficulties in Conceiving? 3. Approximately 1/3 of Cases of Infertility Causes are Male Related? 4. 1 in Every 20 men Has Low Sperm Count 5. 1 in 100 Men Has No Sperm In Their Ejaculate 6. 2/3 of Infertile Men Have Difficulty Producing High Quality and Enough Sperm 7. 1 in 5 Men Have Problems With Sperm Mobility 8. About 1 in 10 Men World-wide Have Weak Erection 9. 50% of Men With Diabetes Have Weak Erection 10. Men Who Smoke More Than 1 Packet of Cigarette Daily Have 50% Chances of Suffering Weak Erection 11. About 20 Million Men World-wide Have Used Or Are Using Viagra To Treat Weak Erection 12. -66% of The Times That Viagra is Taken, Men Are Able To Have Erection. This Means That In 34%of Times That Viagra is Used, Erection is Not Achieved. 13. 48% of Men Using Viagra Suffer Negative Side Effects 14. Premature and Weak Ejaculation can cause psychological trauma to the victims if not treated early enough. Finally, About 1/3 of Men With Weak Erection/Premature Ejaculation DO NOT SEEK HELP! This Means, THEY SUFFER IN SILENCE Now, that is a really Alarming Statistics. Male Infertility is an Issue that cannot be Swept Under the Carpet. You need to Act as Fast As Possible. (i) Having normal erection (ii) Having High sperm count (iii) Having enough semen to transport sperms to meet and fertilize female eggs. THE ABSENCE OF ONE OF THESE FACTORS MAY LEAD TO MALE INFERTILITY.It is a serious problem that has resulted to low self esteem, anxiety, depression and marital breakups in some cases. Fortunately, You Can Put An End To The Shame Caused By Your Embarrassing Small Iroko, Weak Erection And Chronic Premature Ejaculation – And it’s Easier Than You Ever Thought Possible (a) Are You Finding It Difficult To Impregnate Your Wife? (b) Is Your Bedroom Life A Failure Due To Weak Erection? (c) Are You Having Premature Ejaculation? (d) Are you Having Small Manhood Problem etc.? Then This Information Is For You But before I proceed, here is my question for you? Why do most men begin aging and become less energetic in their late 20’s? The answer isn’t far-fetched. Its simply because they constantly experience decreasing testosterone production which increases their risk of obesity and a legion of health problems. But with Forever Royal Jelly for Men and Abetacare, it addresses the specific nutritional needs of men and counteracts the negative effects of male hormone deficiency. INTRODUCING… Abetacare and Royal Jelly Products. These Are Best Natural Herbal Solution for Weak Erection, Premature Ejaculation and Small P3nis Syndrome. Abetacare and Royal Jelly are the best clinically proven herbal supplement products used to treat weak erection and premature ejaculation hence, enhances and boost sexual performance. Modern science has confirmed that this plant called Abetacare improves libido and sexual prowess, increases the count of spermatozoids, regulates testosterone levels, increases strength and endurance, which makes it a very popular tonic with athletes of many countries.  A BetaCare is a powerful antioxidants that helps your body in a number of ways. It comes with a powerful combination of Vitamin A, Vitamin E, and the wonder mineral called Selenium. Vitamin E has been referred to by many experts as the “SEX VITAMIN” due to its very strong influence on Men’s Sexual Health. Vitamin E increases blood flow and oxygen to your genitalia. It is also a key player in the production of your sex hormones to give you that sex drive boost. It is also an anti-aging antioxidant, which helps with your youthfulness and vitality. Selenium is important for the sexual health in men. It keeps the testes and seminal vesicles healthy and promotes the production of sperm and its motility. Men therefore have a greater need for Selenium. Selenium and Vitamin E work synergistically together, preventing the aging process too quickly and also other age related degenerative disease. These and many more have made A-BetaCare a sought after product for male sexual function plus other several beneficial purposes. This highly natural blend which is also approved by NAFDAC to let you know the authenticity and efficacy of the product which is not only in Nigeria but is present in over 170 countries in the world. Your spermatozoid count as well as your sperm mobility will increase which shows you a proof that A BetaCare is the ideal supplement for overall wellness and male sexual health. You will continue to have your woman smiling always because of your new found sexual energy Plus you will be able to have a much more stronger orgasm and thicker sperm that will make your woman want more of you. This is the reason why even women recommend it to their male friends having seen the effect it has had with their own men. Any woman that has seen their man sexual performance change simply as a result of having to use this ‘A BetaCare’ always recommend it to other women to give to their man and see the wonders of how they will begin to see a new side of the sexual part of their man. By taking this supplement, you won’t desensitize or reduce any sexual pleasure, in fact usually your pleasure during sex and finally reaching climax will be greatly enhanced. You don’t need to suffer premature ejaculation any longer my dear friend. Get control of your sex life, and become a satisfied and satisfying lover now. Your decision now will determine your fate! Are there any side effects? There are no side effects when using our product!! A BetaCare pills are non-hormonal and non-habit forming and can be used as often as you’d like. If you have any serious medical conditions or are currently on other medication, you should check with your doctor first. We strive to supply only the finest, most effective formulas without the use of any dangerous drugs or additives. This product is highest quality ingredients, with you and your family’s safety in mind. Our products have been proven effective when taken as directed. If for any reason you are not completely satisfied with your purchase, please let us know. Your satisfaction is our highest priority. Is it NAFDAC approved ? Yes We are sure your problem will be solved. Guaranteed !!! Then you won’t need any other drugs or synthetic chemical based Viagra to help you. Our herbs are purely natural herbs for Impotence and the best Impotence natural remedies From today you are sure of the following… Yes! I know exactly how you will feel… Especially when you get this A BetaCare together with the second one that i will reveal below, these are what you will experience… Starting from the next 15 days…You’ll be enjoying sex more than you ever have… your woman will keep wanting more sex, and you get to have sex with her at your own will… no more lame excuses from her like “honey, am tired” …Yes! Even if it’s 2am in the midnight you want her, she will have sex with you. Then You will feel amazing!..knowing you have the power to deeply satisfy your wife, girlfriend or casual lovers and give her multiple orgasms Your spouse or lover will be willing to try even more enjoyable and fun sex positions with you as she will begin to show more appreciation, love, care and support for you You’ll get to feel incredible about having your lover ask you for sex, because it makes her feel so amazing, Even as your previous several lifestyle choices might be responsible for your Poor Performance which might have also affected your sperm quality, quantity, and delivery.  SEE THE HEALTH BENEFITS OF ROYAL JELLY Antioxidants are all the rage today and for good reason. When your cells oxidize, YOU oxidize and that leads to greater instances of cancer, heart disease and other degenerative conditions. We’ve all seen a peeled apple turn brown within minutes – well, that is literally what happens to your cells over your lifetime. But scientists have discovered certain foods have massive amounts of antioxidants that slow and even stop this process. Royal Jelly just so happens to be one of these foods. As reported in the Journal of Agricultural Food Chemistry in 2008, Royal Jelly contains very high amounts of several antioxidants. And what the scientists learned was that RJ had higher amounts of these antioxidants when the Royal Jelly was fresher. So when buying RJ, ensure that you are buying fresh, frozen product to maximize the vitality of the product. Because Royal Jelly is being indicated to have immuno-modulatory potential for humans, a group of scientists at the University of the Ryukyus in Japan undertook a study to determine whether RJ could alter the development of systemic autoimmunity in mice. Autoimmunity is a state in which the body’s immune system attacks itself. Disease like Rheumatoid Arthritis and many allergies are autoimmune disorders. These mice were genetically predisposed to get Lupus, a serious auto immune disorder. During the study, the scientists found that the mice getting the RJ supplement saw a significant delay in getting Lupus and once they did get it, lived significantly longer than the mice that didn’t get the supplement. And while humans aren’t mice, this study certainly supports the many testimonials of people who have reported using Royal Jelly to boost or balance their immune systems that I’ve encountered. Our customers and client often tell us how they experience a mild euphoria or feeling of clarity upon taking our high quality, fresh royal jelly. Now a study out of Gifu Pharmaceutical University in Japan has shed some light on why this happens. Scientists fed rats a toxic compound designed to kill brain cells and then gave them Royal Jelly. They found that not only did royal jelly protect the brain, but it also stimulated cognitive function and repair to the brain. When I first read this study, these results made tremendous sense to me. I had always felt that I was more alert and ‘awake’ when taking royal jelly. But I’d usually just shrug it off as perhaps a placebo effect or just a good sleep that night! Now I know that royal jelly was enhancing my brain and it wasn’t just ‘all in my head.’ To be honest, I was not aware that Royal Jelly had liver protective abilities until I read this study. And don’t ever underestimate the importance of keeping your liver healthy – everything you ingest goes through it to be filtered. So your liver is ultra important to your overall health. Believe me – I’ve met many people with toxic or impaired livers and it is a very challenging health situation which can often lead to liver cancer. Simply drinking tap water today will expose your liver to over 200 toxic compounds alone. This makes the protective effects of Royal Jelly even more important. Scientists at University of Erciyes in Turkey fed royal jelly to mice that had been given a liver toxin. They found that the administration of royal jelly as a liver protective agent for only 7 days exhibited a marked protective effect on liver tissue from the liver toxin. A tremendous amount of research is now showing that chronic inflammation is one of the root causes of heart disease and other degenerative diseases such as Alzheimers disease, arthritis and even some cancers. A group of scientists at Hayashibara Biochemical Laboratories in Japan decided to test the anti-inflammatory activity of Royal Jelly. They tested for pro-inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha, IL-6, and IL-1. High levels of these compounds indicate high levels of inflammation. The scientists found that the administration of Royal Jelly suppressed these pro-inflammatory compounds and concluded that RJ has anti-inflammatory actions. So, if you have a history of heart disease or Alzheimer’s disease in your family or better yet, you’ve had your IL-6 levels tested by your doctor and they are elevated, Royal Jelly is likely an excellent supplement for you. Scientists at the Department of Pharmacology, Nihon University in Japan set out to discover whether or not Royal Jelly can augment wound healing. They fed rats various amounts of royal jelly daily and found that it showed anti-inflammatory activity by decreasing exudation and collagen formation. Royal Jelly also shortened the healing period of skin lesions, enough so that the scientists stated that royal jelly is able to augment wound healing. This comes as no surprise to those of us who have used royal jelly for skin health over the years. Royal Jelly contains specific nutrients and vitamins that support skin renewal such as flavonoids, nucleic acid, decanoic acid, enzymes, and hormones. It also contains numerous vitamins and minerals such as vitamins B1, B2, B3, B5, B6, acetyl-choline and zinc, all of which are excellent for the skin. Studies indicate that the acids found in Royal Jelly contribute to its collagen production and promotion. Take three 500 mg capsules daily or one quarter teaspoon of fresh royal jelly powder per day to optimize your skin health. Earlier studies have shown that royal jelly has insulin-like activity. However, there have so far been no clinical trials to support these findings. So, a group of German doctors at the Justus-Liebig University Hospital in Germany had twenty volunteers undergo the standardized oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and afterwards a second OGTT after ingestion of 20 g of royal jelly. The doctors found that after 2 hours, the serum sugar levels of the 20 volunteers were much lower after taking the 20 g of Royal Jelly than when they didn’t take it. So, if you have any type of blood sugar issue, try supplementing with RJ. (if you are on insulin or Metformin, make sure you monitor your levels carefully – RJ will reduce your sugars) A group of Japanese scientists hypothesized that Royal Jelly may have beneficial effects on osteoporosis. After conducting a study on both rats and in a test tube, the doctors found that RJ may prevent osteoporosis by enhancing intestinal calcium absorption, making it an effective preventative aid for osteoporosis. It makes a lot of sense to supplement with Royal Jelly along with your calcium and vitamin D if you are suffering from osteoporosis or have a history of it in your family. According to this study, RJ will enhance your body’s ability to absorb the calcium and in turn deposit it in your bone structure. A group of scientists at Kyushu University in Japan looked at the protective effect of Royal Jelly on breast cancer cells. In the study, the scientists found an anti-environmental estrogen effect of royal jelly. Bisphenol A (BPA) is an environmental estrogen found in many plastics that stimulates the proliferation of human breast cancer MCF-7 cells. The study found that Royal jelly inhibited the growth promoting effect of BPA on breast cancer MCF-7 cells, even though it did not affect the proliferation of cells in the absence of BPA. We are all exposed to dozens of cancer causing environmental estrogens every day now through our drinking water, our cosmetics, plastics and our food. You may be wise to protect yourself from these cancers with a daily dose of fresh royal jelly. A group of researchers in Japan decided to examine the effects of Royal Jelly on blood cholesterol levels in 15 volunteers. They gave half the volunteers 6 grams of Royal Jelly per day for 4 weeks. Those taking the RJ saw their total cholesterol and low-density lipoprotein (LDL) decreased significantly compared with those who didn’t get the RJ. HDL (the good cholesterol) levels didn’t change in either group, nor did triglyceride levels. So, it appears that Royal Jelly lowers bad cholesterol and total cholesterol while not harming good cholesterol levels. If your doctor is telling you to get your cholesterol levels down, perhaps Royal Jelly is a safer, natural option for you.  Here is the 2 in 1 Solution for Premature Ejaculation and Weak Erection      See the benefits of Alovera Gel It is a natural Cleanser and Detoxifier: Forever Living Aloe Vera Gel cleanses the kidney, liver, intestines, the urinary tract and thus detoxifies our body system from toxic substances, due to the oils it contains. On the other hand, because of the presence of proteolytic enzymes, it helps cleaning dead tissues. Aloe Vera Provides Support for Immune Function: High levels of ingredients that the body needs to keep healthy life. Among the substances identified is aloe vera, a long chain sugar (polysaccharide) that is known to have an effect on the cytokine system – the chemical messengers of the immune system. Very often, the water we drink does not live up to recommended standards and represents a source of toxic accumulations in the body. We could also mention the taste and the chemical preservatives, with proven toxic and carcinogenic effects. Food additives are a big threat to our health. It can regenerate cells, Aloe possesses a hormone that may accelerate the growth of new cells, also eliminating the old ones. Due to the presence of calcium in aloe which regulates the amount of liquid in the cells. In addition it contains minerals like Calcium, Phosphorous, Copper, Iron, Magnesium, Manganese, Potassium, Sodium: essential elements for metabolism and cellular operation.   Internationally Certified And NAFDAC Approved Abetacare and Forever Royal Jelly capsule are very safe to use, even on short term basis. You gain erection when you are ready to have sex, no matter how frequent it is. You are naturally and sexually active. Due to there efficacy, NAFDAC put their trust on it and it is approved by them.  HOW SAFE IS Vitolize Men, ROYAL GELLY AND ALOE VERA GEL? WHAT ARE THE INTERNATIONAL AND LOCAL CERTIFICATIONS? Our entire product has the prestigious Kosher Seal (which makes it acceptable to the Jews). The Jews don’t take anything that isn’t natural. In fact, they don’t even take bread with yeast! They believe in no additives.  It has other seals including the Halal and Islamic seals. (These are seals of highest form of Purity. Including our own NAFDAC in Nigeria). HOW LONG SHOULD I USE THE PRODUCTS? You should start seeing result within 14 days (2 weeks). But you have to take them for a month for maximum result. You can get the 2 months pack if you really want to cement the gains. But generally a month pack is enough and its what most people use HOW DO YOU SHIP THIS PRODUCT TO ME? We ship nationwide and you can get the products anywhere you are within 24 hours of ordering. You don’t have to pay before you get the products. You only pay when you receive your products. We collect cash or transfer on delivery. IS THE PACKAGE DISCREET? 100% discreet, nobody not even the delivery agent knows what is inside the package. Be confident no one knows what is in the package. WHAT IS THE DAILY DOSAGE OF THE PRODUCTS? We send the dosage and other instructions to your phone number or email immediately the products are delivered to you.             