Healthy eyes A nutritious diet, filled with the right kind of elements will definitely help prevent many diseases from taking form. It is no secret that food is the ultimate medicine that can keep the heart and other organs going. Corn contains carotenoids – lutein and zeaxanthin. There are multiple studies that show the benefits of these for your eyes. They are often referred to as macular pigments that are present in the retina to prevent any damage that may be caused by free radicals cells. These are essentially antioxidants.  Prevents Diverticular Diseases These diseases are often very painful and lead to a lot of discomfort and suffering. Although studies are still being conducted on this subject, there has been an observation made on about 47,228 men that shows the benefits of consuming popcorn to prevent the symptoms of this disease from developing. Anemia Prevention  This is another one of those illnesses that is spreading more than ever. This is especially true for women. You may start to develop symptoms of anemia when there is profound deficiency of vitamins and minerals such as iron in your body. The body needs iron and folate to form new red blood cells. Corn is a very good source of iron, per 100 grams of serving it provides an impressive 2.7 mg of iron.  Cancer Prevention  It is true that an antioxidant rich diet will help prevent cancer. There are many studies that show that antioxidants fight free radicals cells and prevent oxidative damage to the body. Sweet corn when cooked is observed to have more antioxidants than non-cooked corn. Corn contains carotenoid antioxidants that are proven to protect the eyes and skin from oxidative damage. Popped corn can be a good way to get those antioxidants in. Source of Fiber  Fiber helps the body in several ways by reducing cholesterol and making the digestive system more efficient. Corn provides a healthy and impressive amount of fiber when eaten either on the cob or in the form of popcorn. Corn provides an impressive 7 grams of fiber per 100 grams of serving. Fiber helps prevent constipation and also lower cholesterol levels.  Weight Loss  Often trying to lose weight becomes a burden as we tend to believe that starvation will help us, or not catering to bouts of hunger and craving will diminish those extra inches. However, this is not true; to lose weight eating the right kind of nutrient rich foods is necessary. Corn is the best snack for this, it is a source of energy and will also leave you feeling full for longer due to its fiber content. Popped corn without any salt, cooked with a tablespoon of coconut oil is the way to go. Bio active plant compounds Many people nowadays are opting for a plant based diet. This is due to the immense benefits that plants contain in the form of phytonutrients and bio-active chemical compounds. Corn contains anthocyanins, phytic acid, ferulic acid, zeaxanthin and lutein. These enzymes provide multiple health benefits      . Gluten free People suffering from gluten intolerance often suffer intense reactions to the enzyme, causing different types of health complications. Corn and corn flour is a good option as it is naturally gluten free and a better option than other grains.  Source of energy Corn contains a high amount of carbohydrates. Carbohydrates provide the energy required for the body and mind to function properly. Corn is a complex carbohydrate that takes time to get fully digested. This is beneficial for the body as it keeps you fuller for longer. It can also be a good post workout snack.  Diabetes management It has been observed to help non-insulin dependent diabetes. The organic kind is the best as it retains most of its nutrients and is free of harmful elements such as pesticides. The regular consumption of corn provides energy to people suffering with diabetes without spiking blood sugar levels too much.  Prevents Hypertension It contains phenolic phytochemicals that help regulate blood pressure and prevent hypertension. There is also a good amount of vitamin B that is beneficial for the optimal functionality of your adrenal glands.  Manganese rich It has a good amount of manganese per serving. This mineral has multiple benefits and keeps the blood sugar levels in check. This also helps fuel the body by breaking down complex carbohydrates.