The leadership of Biafra Independent Movement (BIM)/ Movement for the Actualization of Biafra (MASSOB) has called for the unconditional release of members of the group numbering over 100 being detained by the Abia State Police Command in their facilities across the state. BIM/MASSOB leadership claimed that their members were arrested on the orders of the State Commissioner of Police, Anthony Ogbizi whom they accused of doing everything within his power to clamp down on the group. It was learnt that BIM/MASSOB group were holding a peaceful protest to mark the 18thyear anniversary of the re-declaration of Biafra and hoisting of their flag at No.175 Faulks road in Aba the commercial nerve of the state. Spokesman of the group, Frederick Onyenaucheya, leader of BIM/MASSOB Abia South flanked by Chief Obi Anyaogu (leader Abia Central) and Pastor Evans Okoronkwo (Abia North MASSOB/BIM leader) in a press conference claimed that they were holding peaceful rally to mark this year’s anniversary at Umuorieoma on the Osisioma axis of the Enugu-Aba-Port Harcourt Expressway when policemen in over 20 Hilux vans arrived the location. Onyenaucheya who berated the police for the “uncivilized manner” at which they attacked “unarmed and harmless BIM/MASSOB members” alleged that some of their members are at the time of this report receiving medical treatments in various hospitals and clinics in Aba due to the injuries that they sustained as a result of police manhandling while spreading teargas canisters at them. The leader of the group who also claimed that the police were shooting sporadically into the air also feared that some of the group’s members that they were yet to be seen could have sustained gunshot injuries. Onyenaucheya who said that they cannot be cowed by the actions of the police called for the immediate and unconditional release of their members said to be in police custody. The members of the group stated that they would continue to agitate peacefully for the restoration of Biafra regardless of the threats from police and other security agencies in the state. Both the Commissioner of Police CP Anthony Ogbizi and spokesman of the Abia State Command could not be reached for comments, but a senior police officer of the command confirmed the arrest of the agitators. According to the police personnel, who pleaded not to be mentioned in print said that the suspects have been transferred to the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) for further investigation and actions to be taken. The source who went ahead to deny the arrest of 100 BIM/MASOOB members said that only 46members of the group until the time of filing this report were in their custody. The sources told our reporter that the police in Aba recovered Biafra Identity Cards bearing Ralph Uwazuruike’s picture, Biafra Muffler, face caps and military Camouflages and other insignias. The source who maintained that the police acted in the interest of the public denied any manhandling of the pro-Biafra agitators, claiming that there was no way a large number of the group could be on the expressway protesting without obstructing movement of people and vehicles on the road. The source said that the members of the pro-Biafra group would be arraigned in court as soon as investigation into the matter was concluded.