Some commercial motorcyclists went wild yesterday, setting a police van ablaze in Ikorodu, Lagos. They were said to be protesting the death of their colleague following a chase by some policemen. It was gathered that the okada riders stormed the streets of Ibeshe in Ikorodu following the death of their colleague who fell into a ditch and hit his head against a stone. It was gathered that he was being chased by a patrol team from Ipakodo for allegedly refusing to part with N100. But the police said the motorcyclist, who was carrying a passenger with a bag, refused to stop for routine check and ran into the ditch to evade arrest. A source said: “When they saw that he has fallen into the ditch and was bleeding, they fled and abandoned him there. Some of his colleagues rescued him from the ditch. He sustained severe injuries on his head and body. “He was taken to a nearby hospital where he died. This morning, motorcyclists grouped and attacked the policemen at Baale junction in Owode. “The policemen fled and abandoned the patrol vehicle, which the protesters set ablaze.” Rapid Response Squad (RRS) operatives, riot policemen and soldiers have been deployed in Ikorodu the to restore normalcy. Contacted, spokesman for the command, Chike Oti, a Superintendent of Police (SP), said attacks on policemen, properties would no longer be tolerated. Oti said 63 persons were arrested for the arson, adding that the command would henceforth, use all lawful means, including firearms against persons who vandalise police properties. He said Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal had directed that the suspects be charged to court. An application, he added would also be filed demanding that they be surcharged for the purchase of another patrol van. Oti described the incident as unfortunate, adding that the burnt van was stationed at a black spot in Ibeshe. He said: “The incident occurred around 10:45 pm. It was occasioned by an encounter between policemen manning the black spot and an Okada man plying the routes way beyond Lagos State approved time of 10pm on Tuesday. “As he approached the police pin down point, the team observed that he was carrying a passenger with a big bag placed between him and the rider and so they flagged him down. “Instead of obeying the police signal, the Okada man increased his speed to evade scrutiny. Sadly, he ended up in a ditch and passed on. Meanwhile his associate with the suspicious bag vanished into thin air. “On Wednesday morning, Okada riders sympathetic to their late colleague, mobilised and attempted to burn the Ibeshe Police Post. They were resisted. So, they moved and found a softer target which was a police van stationed at a known black spot in Ibeshe and set it ablaze. “In view of this incident, the police authorities in Lagos State wish to warn all those with penchant to burn, destroy or loot public property/armoury, that the command would be compelled to use all lawful means, including the use of firearms, to protect such properties and defend its personnel. “The police in Lagos will no longer stand by and watch hoodlums destroy government properties worth millions for whatever reason. Any group of persons with complaints against the police action must toe the civilised option of registering same with the police authorities for appropriate action.”