Three leaders of the Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS) Students’ Union Government (SUG) have been suspended for by-passing the parliament. The legislative arm of the union, during an emergency sitting suspended the President, Ibrahim Kalgo, Financial Secretary Muazu Bello and Welfare Director, Abdulraman Abubakar for executing projects not approved by the Student Representatives’ Assembly (SRA). Kalgo and Abubakar were suspended for an unapproved elongation of Jattau Bridge, a walkway that extends fromthe  hostel to the academic area. The rehabilitation of the walkway allegedly cost N1,142,600, but construction was not approved by the parliament. The embattled union leaders were also indicted  for excess withdrawal to the tune of N59,880, above the approved amount for reconstruction of a reservoir at the female hostel. The Speaker, Sadiq Abdulrahim, said Bello  was suspended for giving the president and welfare director access to the union account to execute the unapproved projects. The president and financial secretary were suspended for three weeks, while the welfare director’s suspension will last for four weeks. Speaking with CAMPUSLIFE after the sitting, Sadiq justified the suspension, saying: “This is a matter of democracy; when union officers are found wanting in any of their activities, we need to suspend them to enable us carry out thorough investigation.” The speaker said the parliament relied on the Reference 81 item XII of the union’s constitution, which states: “The SRA shall, when necessary, suspend any officer for a period of not more than eight weeks to conduct an enquiry into allegations made against such officer.” In his defence before members of the parliament, Ibrahim allegedly admitted by-passing the SRA in executing the projects, but pleaded with members not to suspend him. Muazu described his suspension as unconstitutional, saying it was only the congress that could suspend them from office. He said: “We may have had our faults for breaching the constitution, but we have pleaded with students publicly when we held the  congress. Students accepted our apologies, but the parliament went ahead to suspend us. This is against the rule.” The financial secretary said students overlooked their faults because the money was spent on projects that bordered on their welfare.