The Copyright Society of Nigeria (COSON), last Thursday at Sheraton Hotel, Ikeja, Lagos, held its Annual General Meeting. The meeting, which saw the COSON Chairman, Tony Okoroji formally presented with an award for exemplary leadership by the Edo State Chapter of the Performing Musicians Association of Nigeria (PMAN), was an opportunity for the members of the board to pass resolutions on some pressing issues. Among the resolutions passed at the AGM were that all resolutions and decisions made at the general meeting of December 19, 2017 and all decisions made by the Management Board thereafter be ratified and are ratified by the 8th Annual General Meeting; That the reinstatement of Chief Tony Okoroji as Chairman of the Management Board by the General Assembly at the meeting of December 19, 2017 be ratified and is ratified by the 8th Annual General Meeting; that the COSON Management headed by the General Manager, Mr. Chinedu Chukwuji, be commended and is commended for forcefully defending the interest of COSON and its members. Also, the members of the society have asked President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately remove Mr. Afam Ezekude, the Director-General of Nigerian Copyright Commission (NCC) from office. The conclusion of the COSON AGM is that the creative industry has totally lost confidence in Mr. Ezekude’s leadership. The COSON members condemned the purported suspension of the operating license of the body. They described Mr. Ezekude’s action while the matter was before a court of competent jurisdiction as recklessness. The COSON members at AGM asked the general public to ignore the so-called suspension which has been described by the senior staff of NCC as the personal foible of Ezekude and not the policy of the Management of the NCC. At the AGM, elections were conducted to fill vacant positions on the Board. Those elected were Sir Shina Peters, Mr. Ras Kimono Onwubayi, Ms. Kenny Saint Brown, Mr. Richard Cole, Ms. Maureen Ejezie Uso, Mr. Uche Emeka Paul, Engr Sharon Esco Wilson and Evangelist Olusegun Omoyayi.