Some years ago, a prominent politician jailed for corruption was released from prison. If he had quietly gone home to reflect with his family, some Nigerians say they would’ve forgiven him. But not this politician; his boisterous nature made him close down the central business district of Lagos when he walked straight from prison to the church to “give thanks” to God. Nigerians were enraged; most wondered how we descended to this level. In all the condemnation that trailed that event, I particularly single out one as my best. Not knowing what means to best reach the mass of Nigerian youths, some concerned mothers tasked themselves, raised money and placed paid advertorial in some newspapers. Through the advert, they told their children, wards and Nigerian youths that what they witnessed – or read about – can never happen in a sane and forward looking society. They charged the youths not to look upon the politician and his ilk as their ideal role model but to hold on to the timeless values their hard working parents instilled in them. If we are honest with ourselves we’d mostly agree that all is not well with our nation and that the values we once held dear sadly belongs in another era. Stories that we have been inundated with almost daily about the massive looting of our treasury in the immediate past is mind boggling! As Nigerians, nothing seems to shock us anymore. Where are values like honesty, integrity, hard work, accountability, good neighbourliness, religious tolerance etc that once defined our society? Why are some citizens more interested in taking pictures of accident victims than helping them? Ten years ago, it would’ve been strange to hear of individuals stealing billions of naira. I am not saying there was no stealing in the past, there certainly was; it is the magnitude that bothers me. How can a sane individual loot funds that he may not be able to spend if he lives five generations over? Whatever also happened to being our brother’s keeper? Today, we’ve grown so numb and we’re no longer shocked when people are slaughtered in a senseless terror campaign by some deranged individuals. We now have internally displaced people in Nigeria. Their misery has no doubt opened another flank for corruption. Yet we carry on as if all is well. What can shock us out of our lethargy? Growing up, it wasn’t unusual seeing Christians and Moslems mingling together celebrating Christmas and Salah, but today bigotry reigns supreme. We perpetuate the worst kinds of ethnic chauvinism and bigotry you could ever think of. Armed herdsmen have been on an unchallenged rampage in some parts of the country leaving sorrow, tears and blood on their trail. Driven by greed and inordinate lust for the “good life,” some of us seek the shortest possible route to riches. We revere criminals and treasury looters as our “role models” bestowing upon them honourary degrees, chieftaincy titles or even “purchase” election forms for them. Nations often have constitutions used to establish the groundwork for their social, legal and ambitious future. It establishes the basic relationships between the citizens and their leaders. It defines rules for good and bad practices, laying down laws against taboos while preaching certain practices as essential. This generally is the means of identifying the nation’s values or value system. It is assumed that a nation’s value system is sacred and could extend beyond that nation’s boundaries. All nations are supposed to be proud of their value systems, just as a person is proud of his or her upbringing and character and would try to impress that behaviour and beliefs on others. Basic values are traditional and historic, reflecting aspects of the experience that each nation went through since its inception. The greatest part however used to be – and in some cases, still are – extracted from the main religious teachings of the nation. In fact a value system is based on averaging the total human experiences and producing a compromised version for all to follow. Religion is often present at the heart of a human value system. Our value system therefore is the sum total of our ideas and beliefs. It includes every opinion we hold about life. Each thing we like or dislike, and the importance each one has to us, merges to form our unique value system. Our value system develops through what we are taught and experience, combined with our reactions to them, forming our preferences and our unique perspective on life. Ultimately, every opinion we have in life is based on something in our value system. The quality of any society is therefore directly linked to the importance of the shared values. Two people may share a common interest in football, but if one thinks the other is a liar and a thief, they likely will not develop a deep friendship. On the other hand, if we have a mutual interest in keeping our neighborhood safe, our views on sports will not interfere with our working together for that common goal. Relationships grow over time as the citizens grow together in their values. When two people meet for the first time, they do not know very much about what the other person values. Each one makes assumptions about the other, some of which are true while others are false. Yet, over time, if they discover that they agree on their most important values, their relationship will deepen and grow stronger. This is also true regarding all family relationships. Parents usually seek to instill their values into their children. As a child grows, he forms his own unique value system from what he learns from his parents. The quality of the relationship the parent and child share is completely dependent on how much they agree on each other’s most significant values. Good neighbourliness is based on common values systems and we experience this truth every day. We want to be with those who share our interests and moral ideas. Likewise, we avoid people who do not share values similar to ours, whether in moral areas of life or simply in manners or interests. In fact, it is difficult to enjoy a relationship with someone who is substantially different from you. Of course, the true values that we hold are the ones by which we actually live. If we claim to value something, yet do the opposite of it, then we actually value something else. If I claim to value truth, yet lie, then there is something more important to me than telling the truth. My lies prove that I hold some other value more deeply than honesty. Our actions are the first indicators to ourselves and others about the values we hold because the values that we live by are connected to what is most important to us. However, we can sometimes have other desires in our hearts that differ from our actions. To be completely at peace within ourselves, there must be conformity between our deepest values and how we actually live. That is, you must be committed to your deepest values and seek to live according to them. Otherwise, you will experience inner conflict because you have not determined which values are most important to you, and every choice you make will not flow from a firmly held belief about that area of life. It is sad to note that some parents have abdicated the responsibility of instilling core positive values in their children and have left that to schools, nannies and the society to do. What such parents fail to realise is that schools don’t train children, parents do. My reference to children here is predicated on the fact that character and values are better instilled from the formative years of a child. What a school or society does is to guide, the onus is still on the parents to provide the moral foundation in which their children’s future would be firmly anchored. As I write, everything continues to go wrong as we forsake the values that ought to matter. The concept of integrity, equity, social justice, benevolence and more has all but disappeared from our lexicon. Am I on a fruitless search; is it too late to yearn for these and other values?