If he were to choose a school to attend again, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State said he would choose the University of Lagos. Returning 34 years after he graduated from its department of Accountancy as the convocation lecturer on Tuesday, Ambode also urged Nigerians to choose to run an inclusive society devoid of ethnicity and religious bigotry for national progress. This was as he called for a reduction of power at the centre to allow states and local governments to fulfil their constitutional roles properly in the lecture titled: “Inclusion: Path to a new Nation” Ambode, the first alumnus of the university to become Lagos State governor, said the policy of inclusion had helped Lagos develop and advocated same for other states. He said: “Here, I offer Lagos State as an example of what is possible for all Nigeria and Nigerians when we practice the governance of inclusion instead of the old, malign ways of exclusion. “What makes you truly Lagosian has little to do with where you were born, the origin of your surname or which Holy Book, if any, you read. “If you do not mind if a person of a different group or religion prospers so long as you too have the fair chance to do the same, then you are Lagosian at heart. “It is in this spirit that we build Lagos anew.  It is in this spirit that we can build a new Nation. “Inclusion is a principle by which we put to constructive use the full industry and skill of the people; rich and poor, old and young, men and women, boys and girls. “It is my unyielding belief that the principle of inclusion which has served Lagos so well can be employed in other states with similar effect.  In effect, our dear nation, Nigeria.” To practice true federalism, Ambode called for reallocation of power between states and the Federal government “by amending the list of exclusive and concurrent powers and duties of these governments to reflect the current realities in the nation.” Earlier in his speech, the Pro-Chancellor and Chairman of Council, Dr Wale Babalakin, appealed to Ambode, as an alumnus, to support the university’s projects, including one to expand its landmass. “We require help to sandfill part of our lands.  We also call on you to pick one of our projects and in association with your friends implement for us.  We are not asking you to bring state funds but with the help of friends in the right places, implement for us,” he said. The programme also featured the investiture of Prof Toyin Ogundipe as the 12th vice-chancellor of the university. Ogundipe, who was appointed last November, said part of his vision to promote UNILAG as a distinguished research-based university, included the establishment of a modular refinery and securement of a mining license to boost the practical training of its students. Dignitaries at the event included Prof Anya O. Anya, who chaired the occasion; Senator Oluremi Tinubu; Oba Rilwan Akiolu of Lagos, Prof Rahamon Bello and Prof Ibidapo Obe, former vice-chancellors of the university; among other vice-chancellors, government functionaries, administrators and others.