•Comedian AY makes a joke of the gift Hip hop music superstar David Adeleke, aka Davido has presented his girlfriend, Chef Chi, with a gift of aN45m Porsche car, bearing the plate number ‘Assurance’. This happened at a bash last weekend in celebration of her 23rd birthday. Davido also said that he and Chef Chi, whose real name is Chioma Avril Rowland are in the romantic relationship forever. This is the first time that the ‘FIA’ crooner will express his feeling to a lady in public, having been in the spotlight for a long time. In a video which Davido uploaded, Chef Chi, as she is fondly called is seen standing in front of the car. Davido wrote: “I give my baby Assurance!!! I love you baby!! We in this 4 life!! @thechefchi !! Happy birthday chiom chiom !! From me to you!! I bought my baby a Porsche!!” The father of two has reportedly fallen in love with the 300Level student of Babcock University, making known his desire to have a son by her to compliment his two daughters from two different baby mamas. Davido declared that Chioma loves his daughters openly and is ready to spend the rest of his life with her. Meanwhile, popular comedian Ayo Makun has made a joke of the gift from Davido. In his reaction to the video, the comedian said on Instagram: “@davidoofficial you don’t have respect. I need to rush and go and block you from appearing on my wife’s timeline… This Porsche Assurance gift to @thechefchi is too much for your age na. How much @miraclebigbrother win after waiting on the lord for 3 months in #bbnaija2018? God punish any man wey one begin type one page of poem give woman for instagram tomorrow morning all in the name of birthday wishes. To his wife, he said: “@midas_interiors, the good lord told me you don’t want designer, you don’t want Ferrari but my love. All these are the things of the world, let’s just continue to serve the living God and avoid #yorubademons like these lazy Nigerian OBO youth. In short make God scatter this world make everybody start afresh.”