The Lagos House, Alausa, Ikeja, played host to series of performances by children last Sunday, in which the Governor of Lagos State, Akinwunmi Ambode was treated to the best of contemporary arts performances by various groups. Tagged “A Special Evening of the Arts”, the event was held to celebrate the 2018 Children’s Day. Governor Ambode eulogized the creative ingenuity of the children who performed at the event saying that “every work of arts has an innate expression that tells the story of the past, the present and the future. As we celebrate the 51st year anniversary of the State, we are also giving gratitude to God for the 3rd anniversary of this administration and more importantly we are celebrating our most cherished asset, the children.” The Governor, who was full of admiration for the spectacular show displayed by the various performing arts groups, said the state will nurture the budding of talents to the enviable height where they will become the pride of the nation. “I am inspired by the deep and descriptive message conveyed in their performance, particularly when they said, Lagos! We are the future and the future is now, which according to their rendition there is hope for Nigeria and only unity will lead us to the future,” he said. The parents of the Footprints of David Group were specially invited and appreciated by the Governor for the support and efforts they invested in the children. According to Governor Ambode, Lagos State excels because of the exceptional talent of its vibrant and creative youths because the state has the largest concentration of talented youths in education, innovation, arts, literature and sport anywhere in the black world and this is why the state chose to celebrate them with one of the gifts we are renowned for in the world, the performing arts. “This is in line with our promise to make tourism, hospitality, entertainment and sport a central pace of our developmental agenda for the youth in our state.” He pledged the commitment of the State government to providing new opportunities for the coming generations and uplifts the culture and heritage of the State through performing arts.