Morpol Engineering Services Limited Executive Director, Engineering, Felix Ayejunikanwa, in this interview with EMEKA UGWUANYI at the yearly sub-Saharan Africa oil and gas conference in Houston, Texas, United States explains how his firm is managing security challenges in its host communities in Niger Delta, among other issues. Could you give an insight into the operations of Morpol? Morpol is an engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) contractor or firm and we are into pipeline construction work, equipment erection and we build process plants. We have been in the market for sometime. Morpol will be 50 years old by June this year. But we went into engineering about 26 years ago. Morpol started as a stockist, doing buying and selling until the owners, based on advice, had a rethink on why buying and selling only, because they were making supplies to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). They heeded the advice and went into engineering, that was when they started bringing in some engineers. It is on record that since we started, we have not been awarded a job and it’s abandoned in the last 26 years. We have made a record in the industry in such a way that NNPC we started with, is promoting us everywhere, telling people about Morpol.The interesting thing to me also is the Shell project, we bidded for the job, Daewoo and Saipem bidded for the job too, among others. When the bids were opened and evaluated, they realised that our offer for the job was less than 50 per cent of the average price quoted by the foreign companies. You know Daewoo and Saipem are international companies, so they felt that we would not be able to do the job, saying we have come there to commit suicide and there is no way we would be able to do the job. But we moved in as a management team and started the planning and preparation, at the end of the day we delivered the job and got commendation from Shell that we delivered the job a year ahead of schedule. Secondly, Shell Vice President, Nigeria/Gabon, gave us meritorious performance award on the job. Thirdly, two of about 16 different host communities where we worked gave us commendation letters that they have not seen a company like this that is transparent, has integrity and is fair, and equally, we always see the communities as part of us. We sat with them and sincerely tell them what we have and that we would not be able to give them what we don’t have.  We told them we are Nigerian companies just like you but, we want to prove to foreign companies that Nigerian companies can do it, give us the cooperation. The government also supported us. Our professionalism, fairness, integrity and sincerity, among others, saw to our success. It was in the news that the Minister of State for Petroleum Resources said the government was able to save about $2billion by awarding contracts to Nigerian companies as against their foreign counterparts. We are part of that story. Imagine saving $2 billion, it’s not a joke. So, we continue to demonstrate our capacity that we can do what these foreign companies can do if not better. Any time EPC contracts are being discussed, we are there. Apart from Shell, we have other companies that we work for. You have proven to have the capacity but how do you cope with the challenges of accessing finance, which is a major problem to Nigerian firms? Everything has to do with planning. We don’t get to the farm before rolling our sleeves. We are proactive. We believe you have to plan well ahead. We are very conservative, in the sense that, we are quiet, moderate and we don’t waste money and don’t go for expensive lifestyle. Our office is moderate and we are not people that connect to buying private jets, among others. So, we have been working over the years and have been saving money. Apart from the money we have saved as a result of our conservative lifestyle, we have been banking with United Bank for Africa (UBA) for about 50 years. They have seen our reliability and integrity, so when we knock on their door, they open it for us in terms of funding. Currently, whatever we need comes from UBA, particularly. UBA has demonstrated the willingness to support us as a Nigerian company that has not defaulted for once, so this is another way of managin’g funds. Just last month, Shell called us for a forum where they brought in a number of Nigerian bankers and said they have a project of about $2 billion to be executed and would want to see how their contractors will not suffer funding difficulty. The idea is for all payments to be made through these participating banks whereby the banks could rely on this to provide funds to the contractors as very attractive interest rates. This is another way to help Nigerian companies that are interested. That is one way of funding. Also you know the type of job we do is based on milestones whereby you are paid by stages you do, so the cash flow is always flexible and we are comfortable with that. What are the challenges your firm and those in the same operational category face in the course of duty? The first is security. To work in Nigeria, and particularly in the Niger Delta, is a tough one security wise. But again, we believe that this approach of involving people (the host community), giving them sense of belonging is helping us, so call those people that could be a threat and sit with them on a roundtable and tell them we have come to work here and can only deliver with your permission. I can tell you we moved into Gbarain-Ubie for the project in May 2014 and and we didn’t lose a life and nobody was kidnapped. It was peaceful for us. So, security was a major issue but again we were able to manage it. Second one is the communities -agitation of the youths, among others, but we had community engagements – from the king or head of the community to the youths, we normally bring everybody to the table with patience, and that involvement also gave an edge over other companies in terms of having good community relations. I told you we got letters of commendation from two communities and they even wrote to the government that this is the company they would want to work in their area. So, that area of challenge, we have been able to manage it. In terms of manpower, we have a data bank of qualified Nigerians, who can do the job, so we don’t have challenge in that area. Of all the jobs Morpol has executed, which one stood out ? There are two projects I want to reference. One, of course, is the Gbarain-Ubie project because for us to get commendation letters and meritorious performance award from the Vice President of Shell, is not a joke, it doesn’t come easy. That is outstanding as far as our record is concerned. Secondly, we did the solid state polymerisation (SSP) project for Indorama Petrochemical Company in Port Harcourt. It is about 45 metres high installation. It is a PET plant, we did the erection of the plant for them completely. The ingenuity we deployed there is amazing. There, another project given to us by the Lagos State government’s Water Corporation, replacement of 48-inch pipeline on Carter Bridge. The pipe carries water from the mainland to the island. That project was initially built by Julius Berger when they were constructing the bridge, so the pipe was laid under the bridge hanged but it fell into the water. A number of companies were called to replace it. They called Julius Berger, but it rejected the offer because it didn’t have the time and eventually we took interest and they gave us the job. What we did with that job was in the news. We didn’t use barge, which sometimes is used to carry your cranes amongst other installation equipment. The technology we deployed in that job is amazing to everybody and the Group Managing Director of Lagos Water Corporation, Holloway, made a comment on that feat, which is a commendation again on what we have done. When will work start on Gbarain-ubie’s phase three project? We expect to sign the contract hopefully in July this year and construction will kick off after Engineering and Procurement phase of the the project. It will be a three-year project. Remember the previous one we did was delivered a year ahead of schedule.