BY the time he was through riding the emotional roller coaster of the past few weeks, the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Odigie-Oyegun, had all but perished the idea of cobbling up a formidable coalition to retain his position as party boss. The deciding factor was President Muhammadu Buhari’s definitive statement indicating support for the younger and more agile former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole. Between January and March, it had seemed like it would take a herculean effort to unhorse the adamant party chairman. He had the support and encouragement of most of the party’s governors, many of whom seethed in revolt against what they termed the obtruding influence of some national leaders of the APC. Party executives at all levels also appeared to vote for continuity, arguing with engaging self-centeredness that stability was paramount in what to them is an election year. The ding-dong battle of wills and wits, much of it based on legal cum electoral sophistry, continued in favour of Mr Odigie-Oyegun until the vacillating president finally put his foot down. Now, with Mr Oshiomhole certain to enjoy coronation at the party’s national convention, probably sometime in June, Mr Odigie-Oyegun’s fate seems sealed, except he can make the heavens fall. But neither he nor any of the voluble governors who had sworn to stand by him through thick and thin has the appetite to take on the president. They had all hoped to sway the president by the massive support shown their nervous chairman, and had even made a show of opposing the president by citing many constitutional and legal provisions in support of their stand. As persuasive as the provisions were, and as copious and convincing as the pro-Odigie-Oyegun forces were, they all came a cropper once the president took a stand. In fact, when the ding-dong was still going on, the party chairman had made cynical allusions to the futility of the media campaign engineered against his person, obviously referring to this newspaper. But the smug was soon wiped off his face when the president, weighing his chances in the coming polls, and perhaps convinced that the legal ground on which the discordant options the party was inclined to embrace was wafer thin, found it enormously attractive to repudiate Mr Odigie-Oyegun and promote Mr Oshiomhole’s candidature. Given the age of the chairman, not to say his ineffectiveness in partisan politics at the local level and his inability to offer the party the inspiring leadership needed to overwhelm the opposition, he will probably retire into the background once this is all over. He fought a bold and courageous tenure elongation fight to retain his office for an extended period — or at least till after the next general elections — but in the end, the cards were heavily stacked against him. If Mr Odigie-Oyegun can somehow manage to efficiently organise the May-June party congresses and convention with the aplomb he claims to possess, the party might experience some lift, some renewal, some energy, even some added cohesion. But nothing is cast in granite. Many safe assumptions can still go wrong if the president does not continue to put his foot down as severely as he has done lately. The chairman’s supporters may have been cajoled into repudiating their previous objectives of either temporary tenure elongation or even four additional years for the party’s executives, but nothing suggests that their bitterness has abated, or that they have become resigned to admitting defeat or supporting the new officials who will be elected at the coming congresses and convention. In fact, they will now probably be more determined to ensure that the tendency represented by Mr Odigi-Oyegun should fill vacant positions and influence the thinking of the party in the foreseeable future. They know by instinct that as powerful as the president may be, there is a limit to how widely and how long he can ride roughshod over their feelings or the party. The party may at last have been coaxed into some form of peaceful resolution of the crisis ravaging their ranks, a kind of unity they are unaccustomed to, a unity they dare not hope is real or even achievable. However, that peace is unlikely to be more than tentative for reasons party leaders know all too well. The APC, despite its grandstanding and ideals, never seemed structured right from its foundations to unite or to operate as a formidable and enduring party. It is an agglomeration of strange bedfellows, competing ideologies, and frantic and quarrelsome leaders. That they won the last general elections was, among other factors, probably because the former ruling party, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), expired under its own weight of contradictions and lethargy. Since the APC could not invest itself with the energy and vision needed to crown its electoral effort with permanence and strength, it led to muted but bitter factionalism within the party, a division that is now vented through the fissures among party leaders, cracks which the president has now spread a thin veneer of normality. If the APC should assume its problems would be resolved by the exit of the disputatious Mr Odigie-Oyegun and the entry of the frenetic Mr Oshiomhole, they cannot be more mistaken. The current chairman is simply a manifestation of the lack of order and clear structure in the party. It is probably true that had he possessed the neutrality and political acumen needed to anchor the party firmly, both operationally and ideologically, he would have built the party into a formidable machine for electoral conquests as well as provided the balance the party’s ideological vacuum has made frustratingly slow in coming. Ordinarily, a president under the Nigerian constitution has tremendous influence in shaping the integrity and direction of the party. But the reluctance of President Buhari to help shape that direction and integrity in the last three years has partly led to the disarray in the party as APC leaders fight to fill the vacuum. Apart from the dissension among party leaders, the young APC needed to make a commanding ideological statement as well as undergird its operations with unambiguous and solid philosophical frameworks. Since the president has remained a proud conservative, and since he has shunned the complexities of envisioning a transcendental philosophical direction for the party, the APC was left without a soul, not to talk of a soul it could call its own. To some extent, the country could tell what the president stands for, as confusing and simplistic and contradictory as these sometimes are, but no one can tell what the party really stands for or is prepared to even die for. Perhaps the 2019 campaigns would help the party forge that identity. It is against these yawning partisan lacunae that Mr Oshiomhole is sold by the president and many party leaders and faithful as the deus ex machina to vivify party organisation and activism, a redeemer to extricate the party from the confusion stultifying its vision and identity. There is some sense in sharing this partisan delusion. Mr Oshiomhole has a vibrant labour union background, once ruled Edo State with a fair degree of success, largely has a mind of his own, and possesses the instinct of an accomplished negotiator and dealmaker. But his unionism is mistaken for an ideology, for the former governor is really nothing more than an enthusiastic proponent of pragmatism, a pragmatism the party apparently hopes to profit from when it should really flourish more by the former governor’s inexistent but distinguishing progressivism. Though he is more likely to run the party much more firmly and perhaps far better than Mr Odigie-Oyegun, there is, however, nothing in Mr Oshiomhole’s background to indicate that he has the depth and vision required to recast the party’s wobbly foundation. The fundamental problem facing the party is not just its lack of a lofty and sturdy foundation, but the inability of the president himself to imbue the party with anything properly resembling a concise and coherent body of ideas, and his refusal to conceive a leitmotif around which the party’s competing factions could coalesce and draw breath. Given his aggressiveness and can-do spirit, Mr Oshiomhole should be able to make a dent on the problems confronting the party. But he is unlikely to fashion the APC into the inspiring and revolutionary organ needed to make it run as a disciplined political organisation, let alone one that can impose discipline and exert influence on its elected officials. Above all, by enabling the president to virtually singlehandedly determine who would be the party’s chairman, the APC may have inadvertently conferred on the president dictatorial powers certain to undermine the party in the long run. The PDP fell on that obsolete sword. If the APC will not discipline itself to find the right balance between its governors, party leaders and the presidency in electing and selecting its officials, especially given the almost total lack of ideological flavour and depth in the party, it is a question of time before they experience the withering rejection that is still causing the PDP so much distress.