Workers yesterday trooped out in large numbers to mark the International Labour Day known in local parlance as May Day. TONY AKOWE (ABUJA), OGOCHUKWU ANIOKE (ABAKALIKI), ERNEST NWOKOLO (ABEOKUTA) and KOLADE ADEYEMI (KANO) report that the demand for a living wage was the singsong nationwide. The demand for a new national minimum wage echoed nationwide yesterday as organised Labour mobilised workers to celebrate the International Labour Day popularly known as May Day. From Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), to the nation’s industrial hub in Lagos; to Abakaliki in the Southeast; the North’s political headquarters in Kano. Ado-Ekiti in the Southwest and Calabar in the Southsouth, it was the same song all through. The workers, under the auspices of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and the Trade Union Congress (TUC) renewed their clamour for a living wage. A 30-member tripartite committee under the chairmanship of former Head of Service of the Federation Ms. Ama Pepple is reviewing the minimum wage. President Muhammadu Buhari has promised to implement the panel’s recommendation, billed for submission in the third quarter of the year. The workers’ umbrella unions are demanding N66,500 as minimum wage.  Fed Govt’s commitment unequivocal, says Ngige  Labour and Employment Minister Chris Ngige restated President Muhammadu Buhari’s unequivocal commitment to the enhancement of workers’ welfare and prosperity for all citizens. Appealing to the workers to support the government, Dr. Ngige assured them of better days ahead. In his goodwill message, the minister recalled the historic role of the workforce over times and urged it to further stand firm with the President in his efforts to return Nigeria to the path of greatness. Ngige said: “The cardinal objective of the present administration is the revival of the economy; enhancement of the security of the nation and zero tolerance for corruption. The Federal Government has so far covered a considerable millage notwithstanding teething challenges. I therefore solicit your continued support towards bringing these national goals to fruition.” He urged the workers to use the occasion of the May Day to reminisce on the positive outcomes of the labour’s struggle for a better working rights and decent work environment. The minister said: “This is an administration that places a lot of premium on the welfare of workers and all citizenry and has done so in very transparent manner. Our openness is to provide enough windows for all Nigerians to appreciate the state of the nation and the efforts of the government. “Our modest achievement in creating equable condition for job security and improved welfare for workers, as evident in the fact that no federal civil or public servant has lost his or her job in the last three years of the administration despite economic downturn, as well as the on-going effort to give effect to a new national minimum wage easily bear out the government’s commitment to the upliftment of the workforce. “This year’s celebration therefore presents an opportunity for a collective reflection on the contributions of the labour movement to national growth on the one hand and the steadfastness of the Buhari administration to the welfare of workers on the other.”  Ambode: Govt/labour harmony good for development  Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode commended the workers’ unions for the uninterrupted and industrial harmony that his administration has enjoyed since he assumed office. Speaking at the workers’ rally at the Agege Stadium, Ambode attributed the industrial harmony and peace to the maturity and responsibility of the labour unions, applaudind them for adopting alternative dispute resolution mechanisms rather than resort to industrial actions. The governor said: “It is on record that we have never, since the inception of this administration, had any dispute with the organised labour and I will be the first to admit that the labour unions in the state have been most responsible and while, at the same time, being dogged in their advocacy for the promotion of the interests of workers in Lagos State, both in the public and private sector groups. “In proof of the maturity and responsibility of the labour unions in our State, the organised labour has consistently met with members of our administration under different fora designed to identify and address possible areas of tension and disagreement before they fester into open conflicts. “This approach has resulted in an unprecedented three-year period of uninterrupted industrial harmony and peace in Lagos State. For this, I most sincerely commend the labour unions in Lagos State.” In their remarks, chairmen of the Lagos chapters of the NLC and TUC, Idowu Adelakun and Francis Ogunremi, commended the governor Ambode for his massive infrastructural drive across the state, security of lives and property, as well as prompt and regular payment of salary among other welfare for workers in the State. Adelakun said: “The governor must be commended for prompt and regular disbursement of salary to workers in Lagos State. The State Government is not indebted to her workers. Today, Lagos is a big construction site, courtesy of our progressive and development-oriented and people’s governor.” Ogunremi said it was gratifying that Ambode has ensured payment of about N10 billion to over 2,500 pensioners, while the present administration had equally performed well in the areas of road construction, security and traffic congestion, among others. The TUC chief said: “Your Excellency, your listening hears to the concerns of workers and the labour centres as representatives of the workers, is quite commendable. During this time last year, the two labour centres requested the governor to replace the secretariat buses for smooth running of the unions in the state. “Today, I make bold to inform that both TUC and LUC including all affiliate unions in public service have been presented operational buses.”  ‘Nigerian workers courageous’  Lagos State Speaker Mudashiru Obasa commended the workers for their diligence and commitment to duty, assuring that their welfare would be enhanced by the government at all levels. Obasa’s assurance was contained in his May Day address according to a statement by his media aide, Mr. Musbau Rasak. In the statement, the speaker was quoted as assuring the workers that the All Progressives Congress (APC) at all levels has concluded plans to initiate and implement programmes and policies that will not only improve their standard of living but also enhance their wellbeing. The statement reads: “The Nigerian workers are marvellous. I, on behalf of my colleagues in the Lagos State House of Assembly, salute your diligence and commitment to your duty and we are also appreciative of the courageous way you perform your duty. Indeed, your courage and diligence are attributes that have made you compete favourable and positively with your counterparts anywhere in the world. “I want to assure you that the APC government at all levels will continue to put in place policies that will enhance your welfare and improve your standard of living.” He, however, urged the workers in particular and Nigerians in general, against relenting in their support for the government. “We need your understanding, cooperation, support and prayers all the time and we will not relent in seeking for all these from you. On behalf of the honourable members of the Lagos State House of Assembly, I wish you all a happy May Day celebration,” he said.  Falana: It’s time to defend welfare laws, democratic rights  Activist-lawyer and Senior Advocate of Nigeria (SAN) Femi Falana urged the labour leadership to defend the welfare laws and democratic rights of the workers. He said the demand for it view of the depreciating quality of life for a new minimum wage by Nigerian workers was long overdue in view of what he caused “gross mismanagement of the Nigerian economy by the ruling class with the connivance of imperialism”. Falana urged the various labour unions to take advantage of this year’s May Day celebration to adopt concrete measures that will compel the federal, state and local governments to implement all extant welfare laws and policies. The senior advocate identified the extant welfare laws and policies as the products of the collective struggle of the labour movement and other progressive forces in the country. He listed the National Minimum Wage Act,  National Health Act,  National Health Insurance Act, National Housing Act, Federal Morgage Act, Pension Reforms Act, Compulsory, Free and Universal Basic Education Act, Nigerian Education Bank Act and People’s Bank Act as some of the welfare laws. According to him, the deliberate policy of successive governments to breach the provisions of the welfare laws was compounding the crisis of youth unemployment and mass poverty. He said: In fact, the criminal diversion of public funds earmarked for social services by unscrupulous public officers has accentuated official corruption which has continued to expose the country to global ridicule. “For instance, the inadequate funds budgeted for the provision of education and health, have been diverted by a few public officers and contractors. While public schools and hospitals are underfunded, public officers are allowed to receive medical treatment in foreign medical centres while workers and other poor people die cheaply in all the ill-equpped  public hospitals in Nigeria. “Similarly, top public officers also educate their children and wards in expensive local and foreign educational institutions while the children and wards of workers are forced to attend abandoned public schools in the country.”  Ebonyi: I’ll pay new wage, Umahi promises  In Abakaliki, the Ebonyi State capital, Governor David Umahi promised better pay rise for civil servants on the government’s payroll. He assured that his administration will pay the proposed new national minimum wage when fully implemented by the federal government. Addressing a crowd of workers in the state at the Pa Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, Abakaliki, Umahi recalled that workers welfare was atop his campaign promises, reassuring on his commitment to the implementation of policies that would improve the workers’ welfare. He disclosed that outstanding pensions and gratuities owed workers since the creation of the state would be paid on or before the May 15. The governor gave a directive to all relevant ministries to work out the new promotion entitlements and ensure that they reflect in the salaries of the newly prompted workers on or before the middle of the month when salaries are usually paid. Umahi said: “May I also assure you that Ebonyi state shall adopt proposed new national minimum wage when approved and that we shall do in keeping with our promise which we made to the workers that we shall treasure their support and repay them for their support. “Our administration has in keeping with the mandate of exterminating poverty out of our land and from the civil servants has secured a loan of N4 billion from the Bank of Industry (BoI) with a single digit interest for our workers to access and engage themselves meaningfully in agricultural programme that will have serious impact in their economic standing. “We have also organised the first-ever agricultural summit for our civil servants to get them acquainted with our new programme of returning back to agriculture as the main stay of our economy in the face of the dwindling oil price. “Our state have had our own share of the challenges arising primarily from the dwindling allocation from the federal government due to the oil downfall but we have kept hope alive and have taken the welfare of our workers as the topmost priority and this includes, payment of their salaries and other entitlements even in the face of the above challenges.” The local chapter Chairman of the Nigerian Labour Congress (NLC), Leonard Nkah, described this year workers’ day as the best and memorable since the creation of the state, adding that the governor has met the needs of the workers.  Ogun:  We’ll pay what is within our ability, says Amosun  The civil servant in Ogun State demanded for a “living” wage, saying that N18, 000 as the minimum monthly could no longer address their basic needs. They urged the Federal Government to expedite action towards approving the proposed N66, 500 new minimum wage proposed by the NLC. But, Governor Ibikunle Amosun, who restated his administration’s genuine concern for the workers’ welfare, said the state will only pay wages and salaries within its financial capability. The state chairman of the NLC, Akeem Ambali, who made the position of the workers known at the celebration of this year edition of the May Day at the MKO Abiola Stadium in Abeokuta, also called on the governor to offset gratuity of retirees before leaving office on May 29, next year. Ambali, whose speech was delivered by Dare Ilekoya appealed to Amosun to recall the dismissed labour leaders in the state, including himself. Ambali said: “It is painful and regrettable to recall that the NLC chairman had not received salaries in the last 19 months of his travail. He said: “We therefore join our leaders across the country to plead for your (governor’s) forgiveness and normalise labour-government relationship.” Also speaking, the local Chairman of the TUC, Olubunmi Fajobi, urged the state government to restore monthly payment of running cost to agencies and public schools in the state. Fajobi said this would ensure proper management of the institutions. He said: “When running cost is restored to agencies and public schools in the state, these institutions will experience proper management and fast development which will in turn result in the development of the state. “In most of the field offices, public servants levy themselves to pay for electricity bills in order to avoid disconnection and buy papers to generate reports to the Headquarters,” Fajobi said. Represented by his deputy Princess Yetunde Onanuga, Amosun reiterated his administration’s commitment to the workers’, saying that workers would be promoted as and when due with benefits. He, however, added that the government would only pay minimum wage the finances of the state could carry. The governor said: “Let me also note that we are back in the season of minimum wage negotiation. Employers can only pay according to their ability – Ability is dependent on Workers’ productivity. “Productivity flows from capacity. It is clearly simple logic that capacity development is the fundamental platform for workers’ reward and general welfare. Any other approach is putting the cart before the horse. “A higher minimum wage without corresponding fiscal capacity of the employer remains an academic exercise. It is my wish that the energy and passion that fuel the agitation for minimum wage could be channelled into productivity matters of capacity development.”  ‘Workers are key drivers of development’  In its message, the All Progressives Congress (APC) extended good wishes and greetings to the workers in celebrating this year’s International Workers Day. A statement by the party’s national spokesman, Bolaji Abdullahi, reads: “Unarguably, the Nigerian worker remain one of the most dedicated, resilient and hardworking in the world. They remain a key driver of the country’s multi-facet development. “Despite challenges particularly on the economy, we celebrate Nigerian workers for staying positive and being a partner in nation-building as well as contributing towards efforts to take the country to its deserved heights. “While we felicitate with the various workers unions in the country on the occasion of the International Workers Day celebration, we call on labour and trade unions in the country to continue ongoing dialogue with the government aimed at improving workers’ salaries and general welfare.”  Anambra: we’re banking on improved resources  Anambra State Governor Willie Obiano assured that his administration would lift the workers’ conditions of service when the resources of the state improve. In an address in Awka, the state capital, Obiano, who was represented by his deputy, Dr. Nkem Okeke, affirmed that his administration places high premium on workers’ welfare. He said that showed in the establishment of a committee on labour matters to review the numerous workers’ demands to guide his government in addressing them. Throwing light on the committee’s terms of reference, the governor said the panel was designed to address the lingering labour issues, including an upward review in salaries and pensions, review of responsibility and hazard allowances for specific categories of workers, increment of retirement age for Nwafor Orizu College of Education staff, distribution of vehicles to directors and commencement of the contributory pensions scheme, among others. Assuring that his administration had developed a comprehensive welfare package for the workers in his domain, Obiano regretted that lack of funds had stalled the implementation of his plans. He promised that as the state’s resources improve, the plan would be implemented. He, however, revealed that promotion for all workers had been updated for 2016, while approval has been obtained for that of 2017. The NLC Chairman in the state, Jerry Nubia, expressed the hope that the governor would avail the opportunity of his second term to improve his members’ welfare to reward their massive support to him during the last governorship election. He identified the implementation of the minimum wage, non-payment of arrears of gratuity owed retired local government employees and primary school teachers since 2015, disparity in salary structure of the state and council workers, training needs of workers and low cost housing, among others, as issues for remedial measures. Nubia’s TUC counterpart, Ifeanyi Okechukwu, urged the government to depoliticise the minimum wage issue, even as he commended the release of the N200 million owed by the state to the Federal Mortgage Bank of Nigeria (FMBN) since 2010 to kick-start the construction of the Isiagu Housing Scheme.  Kano: Ganduje backs workers’ agitation  The Kano State Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje threw his weight behind the ongoing agitation by the NLC for an increment on the N18, 000 minimum wage, describing it as legitimate. Ganduje, who spoke during the May Day celebration at Sani Abacha Stadium, said his administration’s has submitted a memo/position to the Tripartite Committee on National Minimum Wage constituted by the presidency in support of pay rise for the workers’. The governor said: “Mindful of the persistent agitation by the organized labour/NLC for the review of the current national minimum wage of N18, 000, which we, indeed, believe is legitimate, arising from our deep concern for workers’ welfare, and cognizance of the inconvenient truth that the existing workers earnings, especially, those at the lower segment is no longer realistic. “The Kano State government has already submitted a memo/position paper to the Tripartite Committee on the National Minimum wage constituted by the presidency supporting the salary increase of the national minimum wage of workers.” Ganduje implored the various organised labour unions to be guided by the actual financial situation of the states which he said is generally precarious. According to him, “your peculiarities while pursuing your demands should be reasonable, affordable, and implementable consensus that could be reached at the end of the negotiations.” He, therefore, hinted that his administration has settled the outstanding payments of pensioners in the state from 2015 to date with the total sum of N12 billion, adding that, he would continue to encourage workers for the overall development of the state. The NLC Chairman in the state, Kabiru Ado Minjibir, hailed Ganduje for his labour-friendly disposition to workers, adding that, “we have observed with a unique sense of responsibility, the rare commitment you have exhibited in the conduct of the affairs of this state. He said: “Our strategy of adopting the principles of dialogue and constructive engagement with the state government, has also resulted in the steady payment of salary, which is the primary right of the workers in the state. “To guarantee the comfort of the worker after retirement, the Congress has successfully pursued the approval of our N4 billion by His Excellency from the Paris Club Refund that was received by the state government. “Out of which N2.5 billion have been released and paid to the beneficiaries accordingly. We want use this opportunity to strongly call on His Excellency to kindly direct for the release of the balance of N1.5 billion to continue with the payment.” 