Rapid advances in digital technology in Africa have created new opportunities to innovate on content delivery, according to Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of General Entertainment at MultiChoice, Yolisa Phahle. She said “digital disruption” has and will change how people consume media products. “As people who are invested and committed to the future of Africa, it is our collective responsibility to play an active role in making sure our continent benefits from this opportunity,” she said. Phahle spoke on the first day of the fifth edition of the Digital Dialogue, a thought-leadership platform established in 2012 and facilitated by MultiChoice. It is designed to address various issues facing the video entertainment industry on the continent, share industry best-practice and create a better understanding of Digital Migration and its impact on Africa’s digital landscape. Addressing a delegation comprising of several international industry thought-leaders and key media stakeholders from across Africa in Dubai, United Arab Emirates (UAE), Phahle said: “As a company, we are looking forward to investing even more in telling local stories, documenting our history and providing a platform for Africans to share African stories. “But today in the midst of the ongoing digital revolution – we collectively have the opportunity to not only tell stories that educate and inform African audiences, the digital age means we are in a position to take African stories to the world, and create a global market for what we do. “By using the internet and leveraging technology, we have the ability to reach audiences at a global level and the success of companies like Iroko TV, artists like Davido, actresses like Lupita Nyong’o and the movie Black Panther are confirmation that the world is ready to consume African stories, celebrate African culture and embrace African languages. “This will take incredible focus and increasingly, as we look to the future of news and media organisations, the conversation is focused on three words: content, technology and customer which we believe will continue to be essential for any news or media organization that wants to survive and grow in the future.” Phahle is of the view that to survive and grow, operators must find new ways of engaging more effectively with viewers when there are more choices than ever. “Nowadays, no-one can say with absolutely certainty what the future holds for any business in the news or media industry. What we do know, however, is that people today consume more news and entertainment than ever and I believe this trend will continue. “The delivery mechanisms will change, and in many ways digital is just another route to market, but the producers of the most relevant and resonant content will survive,” Phahle said. MultiChoice’s vision, she said, is to be the best African story teller in the world, with a promise to bring customers the best international stories. “Being able to tell the right story, at the right time to the right person is our absolute focus and if we are able to leverage the technology, and become obsessed with pleasing our customers we will nullify the headwinds and use the tail winds to drive exponential growth for our collective future,” the Multichoice CEO said. Phahle added that this year, MultiChoice is planning to start production on a number of epic African stories and use new digital platforms to create a stage for Africa to shine on while continuing to work with the best African talent to tell Africa’s stories. The aim, she said, is “to deliver the incredible economic benefits to Africa’s creative industries”. “Let’s undertake to bring this kind of prosperity to our continent and aim to use digital technology to entertain and inform the world,” Phahle added.