RIVERS State Governor Nyesom Ezenwo Wike yesterday accused labour of failure by refusing to act in the face of killings in some parts of the country. The governor said it was uncharitable for labour to be only concerned about salary increment when their  kith and kin were being killed daily. In an address during the 2018 Workers Day in Port Harcourt, Wike said: “Labour is only after the increment of wages and emoluments without showing concern for the mass killings going on across different states of the federation. “Labour is quiet in the face of deaths. Of what benefit will increment of  salaries be when all your children, friends and relatives are killed in the course of this national insecurity?  It is incumbent on labour to rise up in defence of Nigerians by demanding for immediate cessation of killings.” The governor said labour has a duty to work towards the progress of Nigeria as they  battle for their welfare. He added that labour must rekindle their pre-2015 posture when they participated  in occupy Nigeria during the Jonathan era. The governor urged labour to defend the nation’s democracy,  which, he said, is under threat by the alleged failure of the All Progressives Congress (APC)-Federal Government to respect the rule of law and democratic tenets. He said the state was investing in building a strong economy that would enable workers earn decent wages, empower entrepreneurs to create jobs and provide improved livelihood opportunities for Rivers people. He said: “We have  approved an interest-free revolving loan scheme for civil servants. The annual sum earmarked for this programme is N1, 200,000,000 only, with a monthly disbursement of N100, 000,000.00 only. “We have also approved another interest-free loan for owners of small businesses to access to enhance their businesses, create jobs and grow the economy. An annual sum of N2, 400,000,000.00 only has been set-aside for this purpose with a monthly disbursement of N200, 000,000.00 only.” The governor said his administration was already working to fix some of the subsisting challenges, including the contributory pension scheme, the contributory health insurance scheme and the payment of gratuities to retired civil servants.  