Some residents of Awka, Anambra State said on Tuesday that democracy has taken root in the country. The residents said this in interviews with our reporters as the country marked its 19th democracy anniversary. Among them, Chief Romanus Obi, State lawmaker representing Orumba North constituency said steady progress towards attaining democracy had been maintained in the period. Obi of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) however, said that nothing much had been done in terms of fighting erosion in zones threatened by the menace. “People of Orumba North will experience democracy when the gruesome erosion sites in the area are addressed by the Federal government,” he said. He said that political development was yet to be achieved in the country in general as most politicians still see the game of politics as a “do or die affair”. “We still need to acquire skills that will make us see political governance as a dedicated service to the generality of the people and not just an avenue of wealth amassing,” he said. He urged politicians in his locality to shun politics of character assassination but to work towards the peace and progress of the area. On her part, member representing APGA, Orumba South constituency, Miss Nikky Ugochukwu called on the Federal government to reciprocate the contributions made by well-meaning citizens of the area by upgrading the Federal College of Education Technical, Umunze to a university. The traditional ruler of Isiagu community in Awka South Local Government Area, Igwe Augustine Nwankwo said that the worst form of democracy remained a better option to autocracy and or military rule. Nwankwo said that democracy had allowed Nigerians avenues to express themselves freely and even challenged some policies of government in the court of law. ‘It is the beauty of democracy which is unequalled,” he said. He said that the agitations for the restructuring of the Nigerian federation was made possible by democracy, adding that the onus was on the federal government to heed the voice of the people Nwankwo said that there was need for the government to convene a constitutional review conference that would restructure the country to suit the interest of her diverse ethnic groups. He urged government at all levels to add value to the lives of the people through the provision of infrastructure. Other residents of the state including Chief Chiadi Chalas commended the Nigerians and political leadership for the country’s uninterrupted democracy for 19 years. Mr Christian Beluchukwu an Awka resident also called for a review of the country’s constitution to allow the different components in the country to develop at their own pace for lasting peace in the country. NAN 