…as police disperses supporters with tear-gas and live bullets  There was pandemonium Thursday around the Federal High Court Kano on Court road shortly after the former minister of Education,l Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, Ambassador Aminu Wali and the Director general of Ex-president Good Luck Jonathan Engr. Munsur Ahmad were granted bail during which scores were injured. Confusion started when supporters of Shekarau attempted to forcefully the security to gain entrance into the court premises, suddenly to a counter reaction from the police by shooting live bullets sporadically into the air to scare them. The rampaging security operatives later extended their counter attack by shooting canisters of tear gas into the court premises where lawyers, journalists and court staffs scampered for safety. The security men who did not stop at that further went berserk, beating up everyone on-sight with the butt of their gun as well as flogging anyone who challenges their decision of shooting tear gas into the court premises. In the submission of the counsel to the EFCC JA Ojogbane, before Justice Zainab Abubakar, opposed the bail application of the Defence counsel, insisted that the affidavit submitted for bail application was against section 155 of the evidence act noting that, there was no bail application before the court. Council to the accused, Ologunnorisa SAN who did not opposed the argument of the prosecution counsel to open trial however seek the leaf of the court for bail application. The defence counsel who relied on section 163’of the administrative of criminal justice act in a ten paragraph affidavit insisted that the offence is bailable. After listening to the arguments of both counsels, the presiding judge Justice Zainab Abubakar Kagi stood down the precedings for about 40 minutes before rulings. The Judge the recess granted the accused bail on six conditions and should be remanded at EFCC custody pending when they satisfactorily fulfill the bail conditions. The six conditions include, one hundred million naira each, two suretees one, with landed property within the jurisdiction of the court. The landed property must have a C of O and must be verified by the ministry of land and deposited with the court registrar. The second surety must be a civil servant not below the rank of a director. That the accused should submit their international passport with the registrar and two copies of recent passport sized photographs. The three accused persons, are standing trial for six count charges bordering on money laundering an offence committed contrary to section 18(a) of money laundering prohibition act of 2011 as amended. The accused however, pleaded not guilty to the six charges. The case has been adjourned to June 26