As the nation celebrates yet another democracy day, the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) on X-rayed the current democratic dispensation and concluded that the current democracy has served the interest of the political class and not the average Nigerian. The congress said that a democracy that does not allocate resources in such a manner that ensures equity, justice and sustained national development or  cohesion is beggarly, adding that 18 years of democracy in the country has come with very sparse rewards for the Nigerian people. In a statement signed by President of the Congress, Comrade Ayuba Wabba entitled “18 years of democracy: time to ask questions”, the NLC said it is unfortunately that those elected to serve as democratic leaders have not only turned around to serve themselves, but continue to exploit every given opportunity to turn Nigerians into paupers in their own land. According to the congress, Nigerian workers are frequently turned into cannon fodder by the Nigerian political elite in their high stakes political games and mindless scramble for the commonwealth, adding that despite escalating costs of living, devaluation of the Naira and general hardship in the land, the Nigerian worker is still forced to survive on N18, 000 as minimum wage with not a few states owing backlog of salaries and pensions. The NLC said “While we celebrate democracy’s irreplaceable gift of freedom, liberty and popular representation, the truth remains that this democracy has served the political class and not the average Nigerian. “Unfortunately, those we elected to serve as democratic leaders have not only turned around to serve themselves, but continue to exploit every given opportunity to turn the rest of us into paupers in our own land. “Besides, the frequent unlawful dipping of fingers into the public till, everything including salaries, pensions,  perquisites, ways and means are skewed in their favour to the exclusion of workers. This certainly makes a mockery of the very essence of democracy which is service to the people and for the benefit of the common good. “For us in the labour movement, a democracy that does not allocate resources in such a manner that ensures equity, justice and sustained national development or cohesion is beggarly. “We reason that Nigerian workers are frequently turned into canon fodder by the Nigerian political elite in their  high stakes political games and mindless  scramble for the commonwealth. Despite escalating costs of living, devaluation of the Naira and general hardship in the land, the Nigerian worker is still forced to survive on N18,000 as minimum wage with not a few states owing backlog of salaries and pensions. “While Pensioners in not a few states wallow in misery and unimaginable suffering, the members of the political elite led by state governors as a matter of ‘law’ and policy, take in advance whopping severance packages to which they are not entitled in the first place. “How well has this democracy uplifted the spaces where we live and work? Without prejudice to the effort of this government, our infrastructure is still in tatters. Our roads are impassable and public electricity supply remains epileptic. Our schools and health facilities have become sorry relics of what they used to be in the first decade post-independence. “The spate of killings, general wave of violence and insecurity across the country further traumatise  the  hapless citizenry. In spite of the great effort by the Buhari administration to fight corruption, corruption keeps fighting back more viciously. “While unarguably, our electoral processes are improving by the day, the same cannot be said of elections conducted by State Electoral Commissions. Worse still, we are worried by the political intolerance of governors and their  philistinal behaviour, completely at variance with what obtains at the centre. “In light of the foregoing, this  May 29th should be  like no other as it  should not be devoted to false homage to democracy  but devoted to soul-searching and truth-telling, so that with commitment from all of us, we can get it right. “This day avails us a great  opportunity to demand for accountability from our leaders, especially governors, and also from ourselves as citizens of a great country that has potential to be greater. “It is a day  for us to  shift from our pliant position as citizens to a position of virility, vitality, proactivity or of asking questions, especially, those who have appropriated the machinery of democracy to feather their nests. “This May 29 must be seized by those who have been under-served by the chefs manning our democratic kitchen. This May 29 must be captured by those who have been left behind in our democratic journey. There is no better time to demand for accountability from political office holders than now. “There is also no better time to demand accountability from the popular side – ourselves – than now. What have we done with our votes? What will we do with our votes in 2019 and in elections that would take place before and after then? Our destiny is our hands to shape! “Yet, despite the inability of our democracy  to put on the table our expectations,  it still remains the best form of government. Accordingly, we will continue to support all processes that will enthrone or perfect our democracy. “For us, the  dark memories of military rule are still fresh and we pledge not to stand by as some elements seek to imperil this democracy by  their acts of  greed, insane desperation for power, petty proclivities and  inanities. “Nigerian workers, activists, peasants, women and students did not work so  hard to bring about this democracy – (some even paid the supreme price) – for opportunists masquerading as political leaders to loot it dry and then truncate it. “Nigerian workers must personally appropriate this challenge as we seek to rebuild an enduring political platform that would offer the fullest essence to our age-long struggle for a society where no one is oppressed, cheated, excluded, isolated or left behind. “At the risk of repetition, the  biggest gift this anniversary offers us in our view is, as part of our civic duty, to register and obtain our voters cards, vote and defend our votes. It also gives us a chance to monitor government and hold it to account “As a people, we have the power to elect or change  governments if only we are willing and committed. We are also obligated to support government if it is doing the right thing. On no account should we allow primordial or pristine considerations to preclude us from doing the right thing.”