A business mogul in Ebonyi state, Chief Monday Okeh who was kidnapped has escaped assasination attempt by his abductors. Enraged by the incident, the state Governor, David Umahi has vowed to sign his first death warrant once the arrested kidnappers of Mr Okeh are convicted. Okeh was kidnapped in front of his Monablis Hotel, Mile 50 Abakaliki the state capital and taken to a river where he was shot and thrown into the river. He however survived the incident. A source close to the family said  the assassins used black Highlander Jeep that has no bumber in the front. “It was neighbourhood Security Watch members that saw the jeep the way it was packed and suspected the jeep because it was open and the four doors were opened”. “Three ATM cards, jellof rice and foot wear were found in the jeep. It was the Neighbourhood watch members that called policemen who later came to the scene”. It was also gathered that following his return, the businessman was rushed to the hospital for emergency medical treatment. “Doctors were able to extract bullets from the spinal cord region of his body. He is responding to treatment”, added the source who pleaded not to be named. Police spokesman, ASP Loveth Odah confirmed the kidnap and arrest of suspects. She disclosed that four persons have been arrested in connection to the incident. Odah added that the hoodlums stole N9million belonging to the victim, adding that investigation into the matter was still ongoing. Governor Umahi during a media chat at government House Abakaliki also confirmed the incident. The governor who has previously refused to sign death warrants of convicted criminals in the state promised to do so this time. “There was a kidnap and robbery incident that happened in the state and it was carried out by a set of hoodlums assigned to this state by their gang. They have been doing it and escaping but today, both their ring leader and four others were tracked from far away Onitsha, Anambra state. “The owner of Monablis hotel was kidnapped and robbed and taken to a rivers through Enugu state. He was shot and pushed into the river but miraculously he survived and came back”. “Through our intelligence network, the Neighbourhood Security Watch, police, SSS brought himback to the state and I have already dedicated my red biro. As soon as there (the suspects) are convicted, that will be the first death sentence I will sign”, Umahi said. 