National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members have sensitised residents of Agbara community in Ogun State on how they can prevent, manage and curb malaria and Sexually Transmitted Diseases (STDs), including Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV)  and Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). The Corps members in Anti-HIV/STD Community Development Service (CDS) group, who organised the campaign, hosted members of the community to enlightenment sessions where lectures were given on sex education, food and nutrition, HIV/AIDs. Yemisi Lawal, a nutritionist, who was the guest speaker, took the community residents through the rudiments of HIV/AIDS prevention, emphasising the need to eat nutritious diets to strengthen the immune system in fighting against viruses in the body. She advocated adequate intake of protein-rich supplements, fruits and vegetables, while also encouraging intake of carbohydrates. She said: “Our food diet should contain more of protein, fruits and vegetables. These nutritional food classes help to boost the immune system. We must avoid excess of carbohydrate-rich food, because abundance of sugar in carbohydrate exposes the body to the risk of high blood sugar level. Little quantity of meats should be consumed, while diabetic patients should avoid meat in its entirety.” Speaking on the need to go for regular test, Lawal urged the beneficiaries to have a routine check of their HIV/AIDS status every six months. According to her, the virus could only be detected upon infection after six months. She said there was a need for awareness campaigns, noting that the attention given to HIV/AIDS programmes had reduced. “In time past and television commercials, programme bordered mostly on HIV/AIDS. It was the top chart on radio stations and pages of newspapers. In recent times, there has been a diversion. No advert, no awareness programme of any sort. Even health programmes hardly talk about HIV; they mostly opt for nutritional programmes. Hence, people with this virus are oblivious of their status. Public health education like this is vital to address this issue,” she said. The event also featured free malaria and HIV test, and distribution of protective rubbers to over 50 beneficiaries.