THE  organised labour in Cross River State yesterday endorsed Governor Ben Ayade for a second term in office. The endorsement was made known by the state Chairman of the NLC, John Ushie, in his address to mark the 2018 May Day celebration at the UJ Esuene Stadium in Calabar, the state capital. It came on the heels of the payment of May salaries to the state’s workers on the eve of this year’s workers’ day celebration. Since the inception of the administration, workers have always received their salaries in advance. Ushie told the gathering that the decision of the organised labour to endorse the governor has to do with his impressive performance in office since assuming the reins of leadership in the state. He said: “In view of what you have done so far in Cross River State since your assumption of office on May 29, 2015 in the area of socio-economic, political and manpower development as attested by many, and in view of your workers friendly posture, we the workers of Cross River State have viewed critically the options open to us and our future, and have agreed on this day to massively support your second term in office. “Indeed, as a new minimum wage is being proposed, we know that only you can and have the capacity to pay us our salaries without fail. We therefore urge you to bid for a second term in office come 2019 general election.” The TUC Chairman in the state, Clerks Out, lauded the governor for providing employment opportunities to residents through the construction of the garment factory, the Calabar pharmaceutical factory, Cocoa processing plant in Ikom, the ultramodern rice mill in Ogoja as well as the Rice seedlings center and several other industries. Ayade said he was humbled by his adoption for the 2019 elections by the organised labour. He promised to continue to give priority to the welfare of the citizenry over every other consideration. The governor said: “I want to thank you all as workers of Cross River State for finding it necessary to honour me in a day of this nature. This honour is a commitment. It is a challenge and responsibility on my part to do even more. “Therefore, your choice of my adoption come 2019 is a clear testimonial that that my philosophy, my focus on the stomach, that I must put food on the table, has worked. “The only thing I owe society and God is to ensure that these people, who have been standing under the sun, who have made the choice of reaffirming their commitment to me in 2019 is that at the fullest of time, you will be happy you did.”