Nigerians are divided as to whether the economy is showing any promise three years after the Muhammadu Buhari-led administration took over the reins of power. Speaking with a cross-section of experts they expressed mixed feelings over poor economic indices. While some insisted that there was nothing to cheer about considering the worsening poverty situation in the country, a few others observed that things are not all that gloomy as it is being portrayed. Firing the first salvo, Mr. Henry Boyo, renowned economist and social commentator said, Nigerians have been subjected to poverty over the years despite growing national income from oil and other resources. “I’m shying away from using the popular indices that people talk about like GDP, and all that.  I’m talking now on the impact of the average Nigerian.  you can understand that truly the ordinary man in Nigeria who is constrained to earn the basic salary of N18, 000 or more, has truly been suffering.  So it’ll be unfortunate if we don’t recognise this factor.  I’m not talking of GDP and all.  No. The reality is that the Nigerian citizen has become much poorer,” he stressed. Echoing similar sentiments, Oluwole Elegbede, Director of Finance, ActionAid, said it was scandalous to note that in the last three to seven years the country has been reporting about strong GDP yet people are still living in poverty. Elegbede who spoke to our correspondent at the weekend on the sidelines during the sensitisation programme to engage the media on the outcome of a baseline study on financing for development, said his organisation “Is worried that people are moving into poverty as reverse to moving into wealth, where their lives will be better.” But Otunba Omooba Olumuyiwa Shosanya, founding father of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) has a different view. According to him, “Whoever has the opinion that the Buhari administration has scored zero is not been objective. This government came into the being when the situation was really rotten for the country.” Waxing philosophical, he said: “It’s like someone who bought a house that was built on a swamp. He has two choices: either he continues to improve on that house which is already sinking or he can decide that the proper thing to do is to demolish the house and have a solid foundation because if he tries to manage the house as it is, the house will eventually sink. This is what this government has been doing. And right now, if you’re using the terminology of a builder, the house has left the level of foundation to lintel level. And it’s solid.”