Minister of Youth and Sports, Solomon Dalung, on Thursday vowed to rejuvenate schools sports which, he said, was almost dead in the country. Dalung told newsmen in Lagos that grassroots sports development was the only way to discover best talents that could be groomed to represent Nigeria at international competitions. “There has been a systemic failure in our sports development, the school sports is almost dead in Nigeria. “It is only in the southern part of the country that you still have sporting activities in few schools, but in the northern part, it is almost dead. “Unlike when we were growing up when sports participation was an important part of school curriculum, but now most schools don’t even have playing grounds,” Dalung said. The minister said that states and local governments were also not doing enough toward sports development. According to the sports minister, states and local governments have key role to play in grassroots sports development where athletes are discovered and nurtured “What we have now is that state governments leave sports development to federal government; they have to take sports development more seriously,’’ Dalung said. The minister said that budgeting is another bane confronting sports development in the country. “Budgeting for sports have not been encouraging, Nigerian legislature’s attitude to sports should change. “If not for the intervention of President Muhammadu Buhari, Nigeria would not be attending international sports competitions. “The budget for sports has not improved for the two years of my being the minister,’’ Dalung said. The minister also said that he was not happy with activities of some sports federations. “When I inaugurated the board of the 33 sports federations in Abuja last year, I told them that it would be the last sports federation the ministry would conduct. “I charged them to come up with acceptable constitutions within three months, that will be used to run their various federations, but 80 per cent of them are yet to come up with any. “Some of them don’t even have calendar of activities, they are only interested in international competitions and traveling, because of the estacode they will collect. “Those of them that have not complied with the directive will not enjoy any funding from the ministry. “Some of them even have use and dump attitude toward the athletes; they are not there for the athletes when the athletes are in need, they go for new athletes once the old ones are injured. “That attitude is not acceptable to me and is not good for sports development,’’ Dalung said. He said that the sports ministry would create a unit for Nigerian athletes in the Diaspora. “We have decided to create a unit or a department to be in charge of Nigerian athletes abroad. “I discovered that most Nigerian athletes living outside the shores of Nigeria want to represent the country at major international competitions. “But most of our sports federation are not in touch with them, so a unit or department, when set up, will be in charge of keeping tab on our athletes in the Diaspora,’’ he said. Dalung, however, lauded the country’s performance at the recently concluded Commonwealth Games held in Gold Coast, Australia. “Considering our preparations and facilities available for our athletes, Nigeria did well in the games, placing ninth on the overall medal table and second behind South Africa among African countries that participated. “Though we could have done much better, the performance of our athletes at the games was highly commendable,’’ Dalung said. The minister said that Nigerian coaches and technical officials would be exposed to modern techniques in coaching and officiating. NAN