THE police yesterday described the alleged killing of a lawyer, Sym Otike-Odibe, by his wife Udemeh, also a lawyer,  as premeditated. Commissioner of Police Imohimi Edgal said Mrs Otike-Odibe called her mother immediately after the act and complained that her husband had been sleeping around with other women. Mrs. Otike-Odibe on Thursday allegedly stabbed her husband to death and slashed his manhood at their Diamond Estate, Ogombo, Sangotedo, Lagos residence. The woman, who has been in police custody since then, attempted to kill herself but she was rescued by neighbours and rushed to a nearby hospital. According to police investigation, the woman had bought new kitchen knives and also procured a United Kingdom (UK) visa to enable her flee the country after the incident. Edgal said the weapon  used  has been recovered by detectives from the homicide section, adding that the suspect has confessed to committing the crime. He said: “The suspect has since owned up to the crime. On the day of the unfortunate incident, the suspect, after stabbing her husband several times on the stomach and seeing that his intestines had spilled out, placed a call to her mother. “She called her mother, who was in the village to complain that her husband was sleeping around with other women. This makes the crime a premeditated murder. “She had even procured a UK visa and was supposed to travel out two days after the incident. She bought new kitchen knives, which she used to commit the crime. The weapon has been recovered.” Also, a 26-year-old woman, Gift Mike, has been arrested for allegedly killing her South African lover, Daniel Grant, 50, in a Lagos hotel. The incident occurred on Sunday at Emerald Cove Hotel onVictoria Island. According to Edgal, the South African’s death was made to look like suicide. He said the hotel manager, Ismaila Abu, had reported at Maroko Police Station that a guest was found hanging on the ceiling of his room.  Some policemen, he said, were immediately mobilised to the scene. Preliminary investigation, he said,  showed  that the deceased  checked into the hotel with the woman, adding that they later went out for some drinks before retiring to their room. The police chief said: “The next day, the manager of the hotel reported at Maroko Police Station that the South African was found dead hanging from the ceiling. “The manager said that Gift had called Piyush Pirasata, an Indian who is the deceased’s friend and told him that she woke up in the middle of the night to find her boyfriend dead. “On arrival at the scene, the team of detectives found out that the death of the South African might have been stage-managed. On the spot investigation showed that though the deceased was found to be hanging from the ceiling, his legs were still on the floor, raising suspicions. The belt he was supposed to have committed suicide with was still tied round his neck.”