The leaders of the National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) in Zone D have met the management of Obafemi Awolowo University (OAU) in Ile-Ife, Osun State, over the suspension of students’ union leaders and union activities. The NANS’four-man team, led by zonal coordinator, Comrade Lukman Adekitan, was received by the Vice-Chancellor (VC), Prof Eyitope Ogunbodede, and other  principal officers. Lukman said the meeting focused on reconciling the management and students, with the aim of facilitating the restoration of union activities in the school. He added that NANS pleaded with the school management to recall the students’ leaders suspended last year. According to NANS coordinator, the meeting yielded positive results and a number of agreements were reached with the school management. He said: “As NANS leaders in the Southwest, we have responsibility to facilitate reconciliation between students’ leaders and their schools’ management. The objective of this meeting with the OAU management is to settle the differences on ground and pave the way for the reopening of the school portal. “We urged the management of the school to reinstate students’ leaders that were suspended and restore unionism unconditionally as socio-political tensions on ground diminish to the minimum.” The Dean of Students’ Affairs (DSA), Prof Isiaka Aransi, confirmed the meeting between the management and NANS leaders, but said “no agreement” was made. CAMPUSLIFE spoke with the school Chief Security Officer, Mr Babatunde Oyatokun, who was at the meeting. He confirmed that the school met with NANS leaders, pointing out that the suspended students would only be recalled if they pledge to be of good conduct. Oyatokun said: “About five of them (NANS leaders) came and we all had a meeting in the Vice-Chancellor’s office. Everything we discussed had to do with the issues of reinstatement of students’ union activities. We also discussed how the suspended students could be reinstated. “Management is working on the reinstatement of the students, but if the students would comport themselves when they are reinstated. The VC made it clear to NANS members that before the reinstatement process starts, the affected students must stop all the subversive publications that they are putting on the internet. It is when they stop this that the management will know that they are ready for reinstatement.”