The nation-wide indefinite strike by the members of the Joint Health Staff Union (JOHESU) members is taking its tolls on patients. At the Lagos University Teaching Hospital (LUTH), patients were abandoned. Frustration was written on the faces of patients waiting for doctors to attend to them as no staff member was willing to get their files or accept payment from them at the various paying points. The patients appealed to the government to yield to the demands of the striking workforce, saying when two elephants fight it is the grass that suffers. The patients told The Nation that nurses were the closest workers to them and that since the strike started,  midnight care had stopped. The Nation observed some family members taking care of their relation on admission. According to Mrs Onyechi Ilepa (not real name), her son had an accident and was being cared for by the hospital team, “but now nobody is here to continue with the treatment as health workers are on strike. When doctors come in, they move round the beds, doing nothing, and then say, ‘we are coming’ and that is the end for the day.” Mrs Ilepa continued: “I am in agony because my son is on admission. I had to leave my job to come and stay with him here and nurse him to the best of my motherly instinct. There is nobody at home as you can see that his sister is here with me. She runs errands for me.  I am not a professional nurse; my son needs the service of nurses. We could not even buy drugs because the pharmacy is not dispensing. To even pay is difficult because the receivers are nowhere to be found. I do not want my son to have complications like sepsis or gangrene that could worsen his condition. You can see my pack of gloves, liquid soap and steriliser. I am cleaning his wounds with mentholated spirit. This is agony. The government should yield to their demands. “What is sauce for the goose is also sauce for the gander. Doctors, no doubt, are the head of the medical team, but that does not mean that other professionals should not be treated rightly. The health sector is not meant for doctors only. Doctors perform surgeries, but other professionals also have roles that they play. Like nurses that continue with the care of the patients and pharmacists that dispense drugs. Is it not the nurses that will call on doctors when patients run into crises when on admission? The government should be serious in handling these demands because I remember in 1995, nothing was done. The government should have sympathy on the suffering patients. These striking workers should be considered.” Her son affirmed that if not for his mother, things would have gone wrong with his treatment. He said: “I have been on admission since Thursday, last week due to an accident and I am always in pains. I cannot move without being assisted. It is my mum’s care that is sustaining me since midnight when the strike took off. I appeal to the government to oblige the requests of JOHESU because even cleaners are relevant in a hospital setting.” Another patient, Mr Ajibade Taiwo  (not real name), said it was upsetting for him that the tion of CONMESS and about equality when the salary scales have been laden with full measures of injustice from inception?  The best the adjustment of CONHESS scale guarantees is maintenance of parity which the 2009 memorandum of understanding with Federal Ministry of Health built into the agreement it signed with all parties.  We therefore call on the Federal Government to shun the constriction of logic that the NMA excels in by giving health workers in Nigeria their legitimate dues immediately.   Pharmacists in particular have been short-changed in this regards. As far back as 1997 (21 years ago), pharmacists who trained as consultants at the West African Postgraduate College of Pharmacists (WAPCP) have not been recognised by the Federal Government. Only the Niger State Government has recognised this cadre in Nigeria despite the fact that the National Council on Establishment approved the consultancy cadre in 2010 for pharmacists. The Federal Ministry of Health in 2010 and 2015 endorsed this cadre for pharmacists, but strangely the Office of the Head of Service of the Federation has not issued a circular because another group of employees in the health sector is opposed to the designation of health professionals apart from doctors as consultants.  A dire need to potentiate potentials compel the need to promote the tenets of good healthcare practices. Healthcare remains a global endeavour as well as practice and so we cannot have a Nigerian style of healthcare.  The consultancy cadre is a global reality in all the healthcare professions notably Pharmacy, Nursing, Radiography, Physiotherapy, Medical Laboratory Science, etc.  In Nigeria, the Nigerian Medical Association and its members have continued to attempt to weigh down clamours for consultancy cadre in the various health professions through a vengeance of satanic antagonism.  Recently in its press statement, the Nigerian Medical Association posited “that Nigerian doctors do not need consultants in other health professions” hence such cadres should be done away with at their whims and caprices. Are the other health professional consultants employees of doctors or employees of same government that employed doctors?  The above amounts to a climax of the absurd in all material particulars. The Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (Lagos) appraises the patricidal arrogance of doctors who specialise in insultingly ancient tactics to impose revoltingly illogical ideals thus perennially turning our health system to a cementry of great ideas especially if it will not throw up doctors as the ONLY relevant group of health workers.  Let it be said and the time is now that we must and shall resist existential adversaries to our interest and ultimately that of consumers of health.  In a landmark ruling, the National Industrial Court of Nigeria (NICN) conceded this privilege to health professionals including pharmacists, but eight years after, many of the managements of the Federal Health Institutions have refused to pay these arrears to our members.  The request is based on the expertise of health workers which is peculiar and unique at a time skills and competences continue to wane in the landscape. This protects the health system ultimately.  The lopsided composition of the board of federal health institutions which is yet another creation of the military administration of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida vis decree 10 of 1985. This statute ensures that at least eight (8) out of thirteen (13) board members of Federal Health Institutions belong to only one profession. The 2017/2018 composition in fact remains an embarrassment, as no single nominee of the PSN was picked as member on any of the fifty five (55) Federal Health Institutions to represent other health professionals as provided for in law.  Even the incumbent president of PSN who the Minister of Health, Prof Adewole publicly brandishes as a bridge builder because of his efforts to foster genuine team spirit in healthcare was not found worthy of appointment by the Federal Ministry of Health. No leadership of the Federal Ministry of Health has ever treated the PSN hierarchy with such ignominy extended to our leadership. In 2014, the PSN had to drag the Federal Ministry of Health and its minister to court when it refused to appoint registered pharmacists in tandem with the Teaching Hospital Act and we are contemplating a repeat of such legal interventions.  After a review of the serial vitiation of its agreement with health workers, the PSN (Lagos) wishes to demand for immediate interventions along the reflected lines:    iii.              An  immediate reshuffling of the Federal Executive Council to redress the challenges of appointing members of only one profession as Ministers in charge of Federal Ministry of Health, a situation compounded by the appointment of members of this same lineage in the Federal Ministry  of Labour and Productivity. His Excellency, President Buhari was actually warned about the implication of this unskewed nature of appointments as soon as they were done in 2015.   