A faction of the All Progressives Con-gress (APC), in Kwara State has kicked against the choice of Senator Mohammed Ohiare as the chairman of the party’s state congress committee over allegations of bias.  In a statement issued after an ordinary meeting of the stakeholders of the party at the weekend by the factional chairman,  Olayemi Olabanji in Ilorin, the faction said the state congress committee as currently constituted cannot conduct a free and fair congress in the state. “We were able to pull together former national assembly members, former state executive cabinet members, gubernatorial aspirants and relevant stakeholders of the party to a meeting, where we discussed issues that can return the party to the path of honour and sustain its acceptability by all and sundry in Kwara State. We discussed the appointment of Senator Ohiare as the Chairman of the Congress Committee in Kwara State. “Senator Ohiare is a known political ally of Senator Bukola Saraki. We can conveniently say that Senator Saraki whose ally will supervise the congresses in Kwara State is the leader of a faction of the party. Note also that we had earlier rejected the inclusion of Mr. Kawu Baraje on the convention committee because he belongs to a faction of the party here in Kwara State. We therefore reject Senator Ohiare and other members of his committee and we request for immediate replacement,” the release read. The faction further decried the decision of the national leadership of the party to hand nomination forms to a faction of the party. “We are deeply touched by the display of lack of  respect for democratic tenets by the Balogun Fulani led state executive that prevented majority of party members from obtaining nomination forms to participate in the ward congress. Majority of party members willing to contest for one office or the other were turned back at the secretariat by Chief Bode Adekanye and Mr. Tunji Buhari. “You can’t build something on nothing; this congress can’t stand and we call for its total cancellation in Kwara State. It is only in Kwara that the state executive issued a statement stopping sales of nomination forms by 12.30pm while hundreds of people were still willing to buy. The congresses in Kwara is already enmeshed in fraud and we fear that a procured congress committee is in place under the chairmanship of Senator Ohiare,” he said.