Delta Governor Dr. Ifeanyi Okowa has assured of more people-oriented projects in order to make life more meaningful to its citizens Okowa who attributed the success of his administration to the glory of God, said, “We believe our God that it will get better and better.” Okowa  who spoke at a thanksgiving ceremony in Asaba-the State Capital to mark 2019 Democracy Day said, “In the next few months, we will create a new Delta State that we all will be proud of, we have encouraged youths participation in sports through the Principal and Headmaster’s football championships, the Ministry of Basic and Secondary Education will organise athletics competitions, and in August this year, 54 African countries will converge in Asaba for the 21st African Senior Athletics Championships, the Asaba Airport has been opened for business and the airport without sounding immodest, has the best runway in Nigeria,” he stated, disclosing that a lot of projects would be commissioned across the state in the next few days”. He said ,“As we give thanks to God for what He is doing for us in Delta State,  I wish to appreciate every one of you, every Deltan, you have played different roles for things to get better, when you have Jesus as your Lord, nothing can go wrong.” Continuing, “We promised our people that we will create jobs, we have created a lot of it, we have continued to build on the foundations laid by former Governors James Ibori and Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan, and we will continue to execute projects that will impact on our people, our state is peaceful and we need the cooperation of everybody to sustain the peace, investors are coming and more investors will still come.” President, Pentecostal Fellowship of Nigeria, Rev. Dr. Felix Omobude urged those in authority to use their positions for the benefits of the masses. He said the people deserve good leaders, and urged Nigerians to be actively involved in the democratic process to choose the right leaders. The event was graced by Governor’s wife, Edith, his Deputy, Kingsley Otuaro and his wife, ex- Governors, James Ibori, and Dr. Emmanuel Uduaghan. Gospel musicians who performed at the event include Chioma Jesus, Sammie Okpozo, David G., Samsong, Oyelade Elijah, Prospa Ochimana.