Osun State Commissioner for Information and Strategy Adelani Baderinwa has reflected on  the succession struggle, saying Governor Rauf Aregbesola should be succeeded by a competent, dynamic and hardworking person. He said the state deserved a better successor to sustain the tempo of performance recorded by the governor. No fewer than 27 aspirants are eyeing the position on the platform of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). Baderinwa said: “The state is  is prosperous, developed and transformed under Governor Rauf Aregbesola,” adding that the governor “is the most successful, popular and acceptable in the history of the state.” He described a statement credited to former President Goodluck Jonathan’s aide on the governor as fallacious, uninformed and extremely sentimental. The commissioner, who spoke in Osogbo, the state capital, while receiving the executive members of a social media group, the ‘Progressive E-Group,’said governance in Osun has been taken beyond pedestrian level, maintaining that  the state would need a purposeful, focus and development-driven person to succeed Aregbesola. He said: “There is need for us to have a person with purpose, focus, development-personified person to take over from Aregbesola, who has clearly raised the bar of governance beyond the pedestrian level. “We need a person with vision, intelligence, administrative skill to succeed the governor. In fact, we need a person that is better than Aregbesola to succeed him. “Aregbesola has been most successful in meeting the needs of the people in terms of what is the essence of governments which ultimately is the wellbeing of the people.” Baderinwa said Aregbesola’s efforts have been acknowledged by rationale people from across the world, judging by encomions  poured on the administration in recent times. He said: “Only a supervisor of an administration that milked Nigeria dried and bastardised the economy can afford to say the kind of balderdash published recently concerning the administration of Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. “It takes a former president who governed Nigerian in prosperity with nothing to show for it to assume that all public office holders are like him, and it is a sad commentary on the manner of personalities governing Nigeria. “With the many credible organizations using scientific basis to acknowledge many programs and projects carried out by the Aregbesola government as either the best or second best in the country, one wonders the state of mind and rationality of some people to have described Aregbesola government as a failure.” The commissioner however, said none of the APC governorship aspirants would discontinue the developmental projects and social protection programmes of the Aregbesola administration. 