THE Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has suspended the Air Operators Certificate (AOC) of First Nation Airways indefinitely, its spokesman Sam Adurogboye said yesterday. According to the NCAA , the suspension was conveyed to the airline via a letter with reference dated May 11, signed by the NCAA Director General. The letter titled:”  Notice of suspension of air operators certificate” ,  was delivered to the airline on Friday and First Nation Airways has acknowledged receipt. The suspension, the NCAA said,  was sequel to the flagrant and continuous violation of the terms and conditions of issuance of its AOC by the airline, thereby carrying out unauthorised and illegal operations. The letter stated that when the AOC of First Nation Airways expired, the airline did not have at least two airworthy aircraft capable of servicing its approved schedule as required by Part 9.1.1.6(b)(2) (ii) of Nigerian Civil Aviation Regulation (Nig.CARS) 2015. Consequently, the airline’s Air Operators Certificate (AOC) was, upon renewal, restricted to non-scheduled operation (charter) only. However, First Nation Airways embarked on scheduled operations with continuous advertisement of its services and sold tickets at its check-in counters in Lagos and Abuja airports. The authority had earlier notified the airline that it was investigating these violations. Subsequently, by a letter dated August 31, 2017, the airline was directed to stop the illegal operations forthwith, warning that failure to desist would lead to a suspension of its operating authorisation. On further investigation, it was discovered that the airline had disregarded warnings and continued with the unauthorised and illegal operations in violation of its AOC terms and conditions of issuance. This is contrary to the provisions of Part 9.1.1.4(d) of the Nig.CARS 2015, which provides that “Each AOC holder shall at all times, continue in compliance with the AOC terms and conditions of issuance, and maintenance requirements in order to hold that certificate.” The authority, therefore, noted that, pursuant to Section 35(2),(3) (a) (ii) and (4) of the Civil Aviation Act, 2006, First Nation Airways was no longer fit to operate air transport business under the authority of the AOC. Accordingly, the authority said the airline’s AOC has been suspended indefinitely, with effect from May 11, 2018, when it received the notice. The operators of the airline are expected to return the AOC to the authority’s Director of Operations and Training within seven days of receiving the letter. 