Banks with eye on the future are taking steps to provide services that meet the business needs of women entrepreneurs. Access Bank Plc has organised ‘Power Breakfast With W’ where its Chief Executive Officer, Herbert Wigwe, met with leading women entrepreneurs for a feedback on the lender’s services. He promised to ensure that women-led businesses not only get credit, but also learn how to build sustainable businesses that can be passed to the next generation, reports COLLINS NWEZE. That women control a large portion of global wealth is no longer news. From oil and gas, banking and fashion to agriculture and education, women have proven their mettle in the business world. Women-led businesses constitute a large part of banks’ balance sheets and stream of income. Access Bank Plc last week met with many leading women entrepreneurs, seeking a feedback on its services and how the bank could serve them better. The meeting titled: Power Breakfast Meeting with W, which was held at the bank’s headquarters in Lagos, was attended by women entrepreneurs. Access Bank Group Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Herbert Wigwe said the lender would continue to support women-led businesses in funding, training, and provision of tailor-made banking services. The bank chief also disclosed that lending to women presented little or no risks to his bank as they have over the years paid back their loans. Wigwe said the lender has not recorded any bad loan from the several loans it granted to women-owned businesses, adding that the bank started the ‘W’ Initiative to empower women and women-owned businesses to succeed. He said: “When women are involved, things get better. The ‘W’ Initiative is to empower and inspire women. We do not even have one per cent bad loans for supporting women. We are committed to ensuring that women succeed in their businesses”. He said the meeting was to enable the lender listen to the women and identify their business needs to meet them. The bank CEO also discussed financial literacy for women, training and workshops for start-ups, business succession plan and business sustainability. He said: “Allow your children to pursue their passion. There is no guaranty that your children will be interested in your line of business. All you need is to train them to succeed in their areas of passion.” Ruff n Tumble CEO, Nike Ogunlesi, told the guests that they were with the right bank. She said Access Bank has always supported her business. She spoke on how the bank, through Wigwe, helped her acquire her dream building, adding that the bank has been consistent with its support for women-led businesses. Also, Access Bank Group Head, Retail Banking, Opeyemi Wemi-Jones, said the bank’s ‘W’ Initiative has been a huge success and will continue to guide women to success in their fields of endeavours. Continuing, she said: “We are the bank for women. We are going to create tomorrow together. We are into offshore investment services, private banking offerings. Our Evergreen Account waves all charges in the personal account of women from 60 years old and above. But if the account holder borrows, she will also pay charges on the loan.” She said the ‘W’ Initiative has helped many women build businesses and planned their business succession scheme to enable them hand over their businesses to the next generation. She said: “We are also introducing more women to private banking. Our card services can also allow you attach your card to your children studying abroad. Our Family Fortune Promo has also helped many families own their homes and cars among other winnings”. Wemi-Jones said the ‘W’ Initiative was part of the bank’s efforts to offer women exclusive access to a wide range of lifestyle-oriented value added benefits and privileges. According to her, part of the privileges for women and their families under the initiative includes access to a comprehensive range of loan product and credit facilities; access to ‘W’ community with helpful advice on family and finance matters, home and family articles and details of special offers; access to a wide range of great discount, special offers and freebies on health, beauty and fitness.  Capacity building for women Access Bank’s W Academy, in partnership with the Enterprise Development Centre (EDC) of the Lagos Business School (LBS) has also organised a professional business capacity-building workshop for 500 female entrepreneurs in Port-Harcourt, Abuja and Lagos. The events were held across the three states in the last four months and served as the third, fourth and fifth editions of the second season of the bank’s Womenpreneur Business Workshop training. Wemi-Jones said, “Since 2006, the bank has maintained its commitment to drive women’s economic empowerment in the nation. The Womenpreneur Business Workshop is intended to educate and enlighten  women on the fundamentals in business which will eventually help them attain their full potential.” The Womenpreneur Business Workshop, a flagship training of the W Academy under Access Bank’s W Initiative, is designed to address the lack of access to entrepreneurial skills, finance, networking, and management skills; which are the key barriers to women’s economic inclusion. Its objective is to provide a discounted and practical capacity building programme that exposes female business owners to the nation’s economic reality as well as help them simplify processes and hone the requisite skills needed to grow their businesses. So far, over 2,300 business women in Lagos, Port Harcourt, Ibadan, Abuja, Kaduna and Enugu have benefited from the workshop with testimonials around increasing their business network, improving their business model and are thriving through the economic constraints with ease. This first-of-its-kind workshop is highly discounted and targeted at small and medium scale women entrepreneurs. Wemi-Jones disclosed that plans had been concluded to hold the next editions of the workshop in Kano and Ibadan in July and August.  Family banking Access Bank is also helping its customers to build financially-secured and savings-driven families through its ongoing Family Fortune promo, which has empowered over 5,000 families and created wealth for the people. The scheme gives savers the opportunity to earn higher interest on their savings and also get rewarded for their loyalty to the bank. The exercise aligns with the Central Bank of Nigeria’s (CBN’s) financial inclusion mandate and determination to take banking to the grassroots. Last year, Celestine Ikwuka Obinabor, was announced winner of a four-bedroom terrace house in Lekki, Lagos in the Family Fortune promo organised by the bank. Obinabor was one of the 12 families that won different prizes at the first mega draw of the promo held last year in Lagos. Another winner, a woman who planned to spend her Christmas in Sokoto state, won the family vacation in Dubai prize. Another winner, a man that has used his car for seven years and was on his way to the mechanic workshop, won the brand new Kia prize among other exciting prizes. Speaking at the mega draw, Access Bank’s Executive Director, Business Banking, Mrs. Titi Osuntoki, said the lender gives priority to its customers. She said the bank felt very proud and fulfilled when the joy and excitement of the winning customers were shared. “We feel very proud and fulfilled. We normally keep our customers at the centre of whatever we do. As you can see today, we are delighted to have put smiles on the faces of customers. We gave out life-changing gifts to 12 families. We have a family that lives in Okota, in Lagos, and they will be moving to Lekki, Lagos before Christmas for winning a four bedroom duplex,” she said. Continuing, Osuntoki said customers have the opportunity to keep their money with the bank, and get superior returns because the lender pays them interest that is higher than what they could have gotten on a normal savings account. “On a normal savings account, the customers would have gotten interest of four per cent. We are paying them 100 basis points above the savings rate. Aside from the superior returns they are getting from the savings, customers are eligible to participate in mega selection, where they can win fantastic prizes,” she said. Access Bank’s Executive Director, Personal Banking, Victor Etuokwu, said the system under which the promo was conducted remains transparent, making it easy for customers to win. He said there are benefits in saving with the bank. “You can imagine what has happened to the people that won. It is an indication that good can be done by a bank. It elevates our faith level in the country. Family that saves together stays together. All is not bad in Nigeria. There are Nigerians that do the right thing, and Access Bank is one of them,” Etuokwu said. On the promo, Wemi-Jones said the promo which comes under the lender’s family savings scheme, was designed to reward the collective savings habit of families with grand prizes and competitive interest rates while they enjoy the confidentiality of their banking transactions as individuals. She said the bank wants to encourage people to cultivate savings culture and reward those that do so. According to her, the draw was the first monthly random selection in the family savings promo adding that savings is not a respecter of an individual’s earnings ability, but a habit to be cultivated. Wemi-Jones said the chances of a family winning is very high. adding that all the winners met the promo criteria which include achieving a minimum balance at the qualifying level of N150,000. The fund is required as a cumulative balance across Family Members account. However, each account must maintain a minimum balance of N20,000 to qualify for the Family Fortune Promo.    Financial inclusion The scheme is the bank’s contribution to the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN’s) financial inclusion project, meant to bridge the huge gap between the banked and unbanked. The CBN’s National Financial Inclusion Strategy (NFIS) was created to cut the percentage of adults excluded from financial services from 46.3 per cent in 2010 to 20 per cent by 2020 with specific targets for payments and promotion of savings culture. Access Bank is taking major step to ensure that more Nigerians embrace financial services as it believes that  having at least 80 per cent of  adult Nigerians have access to affordable financial services as well as the right environment within which to flourish economically will boost the country’s  development profile. The bank also believes in providing incentives that makes banking more attractive to family and their friends. 