Has the status of Lagos State improved as a commercial and social hub in sub-Saharan Africa? Yes, say officials of the Ministry of Physical Planning and Urban Development. MUYIWA LUCAS x-rays the ministry’s role in the last one year. The last time he came to  Lagos State was three years ago. Thus, for Yinka Shodeinde, a Nigerian based in  Europe, coming to Lagos for a brief holiday presented him with the opportunity of reuniting with his friends and family members. But Shodeinde’s much-sought- after fun was hampered by his inability to navigate the streets of Lagos smoothly due to the gridlock on the roads; the magnitude, which he claimed,  he never experienced before travelling. The gridlock is a consequence of the unprecedented construction ongoing across the length and breadth of Lagos simultaneously, a situation that has now given the state a new name – ‘construction site.’ “Notwithstanding that the gridlock deprived me of easy movement, I really do not mind the because I see that it is for the development of the state. I am sure that once these works are completed, Lagos will be a city to behold, competing favourably with other major cities in the world,” he said. This submission aptly captured  the  Commissioner for Physical Planning and Urban Development, Rotimi Ogunleye’s    scorecard during a briefing last Monday in Alausa, Lagos. “Our ministry, the MPP&UD has contributed immensely in the last one year to the overall vision of the state towards achieving a safe, liveable, sustainable, business and tourism-friendly environment, through our mandate of provision of infrastructure to engender the socio-economic growth and well-being of the state,” Ogunleye explained to the large audience gathered inside the Bagauda Kalto Press Centre. According to him, the ongoing “revolution” in the state could be attributed to the massive transformation and reformative policies and programmes of the administration of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, which he noted to be geared towards changing the face of the state. His claims may not be far from the truth. A look around Lagos shows that there are substantial and significant projects taking place simultaneously across the state and more lined up with the intention of progressively transforming the state into a “Smart City.”  Sustainable development According to Ogunleye, in the last one year, the Ministry has adopted the preparation of the Master and Model City Plans. So far, he revealed, eight Master and Model City Plans have been prepared. These are: Lekki Comprehensive Master Plan; Badagry Master Plan; Ikoyi-Victoria Island Model City Plan; Ikeja Model City Plan; Alimosho Model City Plan; Mainland Central Model City Plan; Apapa Model City Plan and Agege-Ifako Model City Plan. Four additional Master and Model City Plans, he added, were prepared and would be ready for public use by the second quarter of this year. They are the Epe Master Plan, Ikorodu Master Plan, Oshodi-Isolo Model City Plan and the Revised Ikeja Model City Plan. It is also worthy to mention that on completion of the procurement process, the proposed Kosofe Model City Plan would be awarded in the second quarter of the year.  Land Use activities According to the commissioner, to engender greater efficiency, the Physical Planning and Building Control Regulations 2005 have been reviewed and lie before the  House of Assembly for necessary action. The review, he said, is necessary for the furtherance of the government’s vision of a sustainable, business and tourism-friendly environment and to ensure effective enforcement, appropriate control and regulatory operations to stem the rate of illegal conversion of land uses while bringing contraveners to compliance. Besides, he noted, illegal, unsafe, non-conforming developments and the activities of unscrupulous developers continue to pose a lot of challenges to the ministry. He however assured that through continuous monitoring and enforcement as well as utilising the “Whistle Blowing Policy,” the situation would be brought under control. Ogunleye revealed that through the Lagos State Material Testing Laboratory (LSMTL), the ministry embarked on an intensive audit of structures in both on-going construction sites and completed buildings suspected to be distressed. Consequently, 1,842 sites were visited, 1,392 Test Advice Notices served and information on buildings identified as distressed were forwarded to the Lagos State Building Control Agency (LASBCA) for necessary action. He said 149 distressed buildings were identified at different locations, of which 40 of such have been removed while the next phase of 38 of the structurally defective structures have been earmarked for removal. This initiative, including others, has led to a significant reduction in building collapse.  Ease of doing business Perhaps the most significant feat recorded by the ministry remains the titling process on properties within the state. Although it remains contestable, Ogunleye takes pride in the e-pp platform, saying it has eased assessibility, decreased third party interference and reduced the process of obtaining a planning permit to 28 working days after the application has been pre-screened and cleared. This process, he maintained, has influenced a better ranking for the country on the ease of doing business index. “It is my pleasure to report that the reforms bore fruits with Nigeria’s improved ranking in the Ease of Doing Business Global Index, particularly in Dealing with Construction Permits promoted through our online automation and increased transparency,” he said. Furthermore, in the year, of a total of 2,023 planning permit applications received, Lagos State Physical Planning Permit Authority (LASPPPA) granted 1,237. Others are being processing.  Amnesty programme To clear the backlog of applications and to encourage regularisation of developments without permits, the ministry, revealed the commissioner, has provided a window of opportunity with a six-month amnesty period from March 1 to August 31, for owners and developers of  structures to regularise their developments documents. In this instance, penal fees, which should be paid on Building Assessment charges, would be waived. He therefore called on developers and owners to take advantage of the opportunity to obtain permits and Certificate of Fitness on their developments. Besides, developers/owners who desire to commence construction while perfecting their land documents with Lands Bureau can apply for a provisional approval with their family land receipts duly stamped upon payment of stamp duty. When the Title Document is finally perfected, the developers/owners would apply for Final Planning Permit.  Infrastructure renewal, upgrade In its quest for infrastructure renewal and upgrade, Ogunleye revealed that the ministry recovered and delivered eight Right of Way (RoW) for the construction, reconstruction of roads and new transport routes as well as utility lines to facilitate easy movement of people, goods, and services. In specific terms, the RoW projects delivered includes the re-construction and upgrade of Alapere/Agboyi Ketu network of roads; re-construction/dualisation of lrede Road in Amuwo Odofin LGA; the proposed Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA) Oyingbo Bus Terminal Development; rehabilitation of Alhaji Akinwunmi Street, Mushin; construction of lgbe/Igbogbo/Bola Ahmed Tinubu Way, lkorodu; re-Construction of Agric-Ishawo-Konu-Arepo Road, Ikorodu and Lagos – Ogun State boundary network of 21 Roads in Alimosho Local Government Area. Over seven projects are ongoing notably, the construction of Pen Cinema Flyover Bridge, Agege; reconstruction of Oshodi-Muritala Mohammed International Airport (MMA) Road, Lagos, among others.  Urban relocation To redirect economic activities, which bring about negative impact on the environment to more desirable and viable locations, the state government, through the ministry, embarked on the construction of a sawmill at Timberville, Agbowa/Ikosi Ejinrin, LCDA to  relocate the Okobaba Sawmill in Ebute-Metta, at no cost to the sawmillers. Ogunleye said the Phase I of the project is now ready for operational take-off save the provision of additional transformers and the completion of the link road. Similarly, the Katangowa ICT Park Project which is a public private partnership (PPP), arrangement is due to commence with the upgrading of roads to the site. When completed, he said the Katangowa project would be the biggest ICT Park in West Africa and will offer over 4,000 shops, exhibition halls, hotel, industrial park, warehouses, KeeKlamps (small shopping shades), a helipad, malls, banking halls, parking lots, conference centre, food courts, security and power, delivered in a carefully laid out plan.  Conclusion The commissioner re-emphasised that the state government has continued to embark on sustained efforts toward effective and efficient planning, knowing full well that planning is the pathway to improved standard of living, economic vibrancy, social stability, tourist and investor – friendly environment. To this end, he assured that the MPP&UD will continue to “Plan for All with All” – developers, owners, occupiers and professionals in the built environment to show that the lives of Lagosians matter. Are these feats enough to say the state is marching progressively towards becoming a smart city? Lagosians are waiting, patiently too.   