A pan Biafran group, the Movement of Biafrans in Nigeria (MOBIN) has given knocks on the Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) for its uncompromising stand on issues regarding the actualization of Biafra. The group expressed shock at the continual, incessant threats against reason and commonsense by the Nnamdi Kanu-led faction of Indigenous People of Biafra. In a statement by its director general, Nwada Eberechukwu Anigbogu, MOBIN wondered what actually is the intention of IPOB for threatening to disrupt the restructuring summit being organized by Ohanaeze Ndigbo at Awka. It states: “We are appalled that the organization, in its unbridled desire for popularity will always choose to attack every action taken to address our agitations, whether right or wrong. The latest is the repeated insults on the leadership of Ohaneze Ndigbo, and this time in the form of threats against the proposed restructuring summit. The Press Release signed by Mr Emma Powerful, threatening fire and brimstone against Ohaneze Ndigbo is very distasteful. You cannot condemn every move made by our elders and insist it’s your opinion or nothing. The Summit for Restructuring is a move in the right direction and should be supported by all freedom fighters and comrades of the Biafran cause. We call on all Biafrans to be aware that Mr Emma Powerful has no better alternative to the Summit, given the current circumstances we find ourselves in. They should also be aware that the Summit is lawful, and any attempt to disrupt it is illegal and would be stopped by security agencies. Emma Powerful, Uche Mefor and all others urging you to come out and confront legal security agents will not join you during the confrontation as they would be safe in their homes, far away from Nigeria while you either get arrested, get injured or get killed. These manipulative directives of the IPOB leadership have brought nothing but violence and death across the South East. They have always urged our sons and daughters to stand against armed security forces. Without arms they have done this and each time, we lose our children. Yet not one of those asking for this violence ever comes out to lead the confrontation. Is it not time we resort to alternate, more friendly methods of agitations other than the ones that bring death, sorrow and tears? How long shall we keep burying our children when we have more pragmatic alternatives? We are asking you to stand down and resort to our political and diplomatic methods toward Biafra by being part of the unfolding political process.
Do not endanger your lives for people who will not raise a finger to assist you when you run into trouble. They never have and never would. Instead of willfully inviting violence against our people, why don’t we sit and hear the alternatives Ohaneze shall bring to the table? The vision of MOBIN is the political and economic emancipation of Biafraland based on the philosophy that politics determines the economy of the nation. We are Biafrans by indigene and Nigerians by citizenship. As such, we have a right to participate in all social, political and economic activities of Nigeria. We therefore urge you to join the political, economic and diplomatic path to Biafra which is not only legal, but also the most credible alternative.”