The Oyo State Government has allayed the fears of the people of the state especially in the Oke-Ogun area on what was misinterpreted to be Earth Quake incident last month, saying that the land shaking was as a result of force exploration leading to Meteorite breakages of Galatica Rock in the earth surface. The government said that samples of the meteorite have been sent to the Department of Geology, University of Ibadan to analyse the body of the rock and its composition determined, noting that the government wants to discover the rock radioactive and hazard associated with the meteorite breakages as investigation result is being expected. The Special Adviser to Governor Ajimobi on Solid Minerals, Hon. Mathew Oyedokun explained that on April 19, a solid piece of debris from an object such as a comet, asteroid or meteoroid that originate from the planetary orbit between Mars and Jupiter survived its way through the atmosphere to reach the surface of the earth and hit villages nearby Ipapo in Itesiwaju LGA, Aba Leke, Anberee Oke, Owode and Tede in Atisbo LGA. Hon. Oyedokun said that meteorite was accompanied by series of reverberating and disturbing noise in the Earth’s subsurface as observed by residents of the affected localities and other parts of the state including Ibadan, Oyo and Ibarapa, stating that he was accompanied on 2-day investigation visit to the localities by the Commissioner for Environment and Water Resources, Chief Isaac Ishola and the Special Adviser to Governor Ajimobi on Community Relations, Alh. Abidemi Siyanbade to ascertain the level of impact and damage to the communities. He urged the residents to be calm, saying that the meteorite impact that occurred in the state didn’t occur in a built-up area, gas station among others, which could have resulted in catastrophic events claiming lives and properties. He said however that ground impacts were made in the localities and a tree was completely burnt down as meteorites are hot bodies moving at high velocity. Hon. Oyedokun said that the government has embarked on further investigation on the meteorite breakages, saying that the government visited the affected areas a day after the incident to determine the level of the exploration force and allay the fear of the residents in the area.