ENGLISH Premier League (EPL) side, Brighton & Hove Albion latest signing, Leon Balogun, may have been born in West Berlin, Germany, but he is through and through a Nigerian. He attributes his strong connection to Nigeria to his father, Cesar Balogun, who shared African details with him while growing up.  Beyond the colour of his skin, which he inherited from his German mother, the early life of the 29-year-old revolved around Nigeria and Africa. “There were a lot of mixed-race kids with a German mum and African dad or the other way round and at home we had some traditional African arts,” the former FC Mainz defender said in his most revealing interview yet published in the latest edition of global football magazine, World Soccer. “My father used to cook Nigerian food. There was some music but that’s about it. But he gave me his African vibes, his mentality and that’s the biggest part of me.” He noted that even though he was not physically linked with his father’s relatives, his father ensured that he was surrounded by Africans in Germany: “We met with a lot of friends, but not everyone was from Nigeria. We had friends from Ghana and Sierra Leone.” By the time the new Brighton signing had established himself as a professional player; he had fully developed his sentiment for Nigeria and Africa. Yet, he had never been to the continent. He did not land in his fatherland until the turn of the century, when he was invited to the Nigerian national team, the  Super Eagles, by late coach Stephen Keshi. It was an eventful homecoming and a turning point in his fledgling career. “When I went to Nigeria for the first time, something stirred inside me. When I first touched down, I was, ”OK, this is Nigeria, I’m here for the first time…finally! I was also proud to be there. People show you a lot of love. It’s always amazing,” he offered. Sadly, his Nigerian relatives were not there to welcome him. “No (relatives came out to see me), because the relationships in my family are not too strong. That’s why I hadn’t been to Nigeria before I went to the national team. It’s like that sometimes. It’s either one big happy family or you have some fights. My father tried to keep me out of that. I have some cousins in London. That’s about it.” He continued: “It was really nice. I love the mentality, everyone is always happy; they have this relaxed approach. Sometimes, when you grow up in Germany and everything is really structured; then sometimes you can get a bit mad because in Nigeria, things can get a bit slow. “People are calmer, more relaxed when they do their things, but still they are very serious about everything. But, at the same time, I enjoy the happy times because no matter how little some people have got, they seem so happy. That always humbles me. And, of course, I like to be around the team because we always have fun. “It’s always nice, at the table for dinner, lunch, breakfast. We always laugh, make jokes. If we are training, we are very serious, very focused. But, yes, it’s just cool vibes all the time.” Balogun speaks further on his England move, his first game for the Eagles and the World Cup in Russia. Excerpts: Between Nigeria and Germany I was dreaming of that and I’m happy it worked out that way. It did happen and I just got a call from Stephen Keshi. He was the coach at that time. I was playing at [Fortuna] Dusseldorf at the same time. It was one night, about 11pm, I heard his voice and said to myself: “It’s about to happen now.” I was prepared a little because there was a journalist, who was a close friend of Keshi, who told me that he likes the way I play and that I’m going to get a call-up. Initial apprehension over cultural differences I was very excited because there were some big names in the squad, but also I wasn’t sure how they were going to react. Most of them wouldn’t know me, but I was going to be with them, sit around with them. It was kind of awkward when we met up for the first time and also we didn’t go first to Nigeria but met up in Atlanta, so that took a little bit away from the excitement. But just to be around all those experienced and big international players for Nigeria was very exciting; somehow intimidating, but I think I coped quite well. The first time everyone was quite distant but the second time it was Tony Ujah, who has joined our team [Mainz] and John Ogu, who plays in Israel. Mixed feelings on debut against Mexico in 2014 I broke my foot. That cost me participation in the last World Cup, in 2014. It was quite tough, but I think I bounced back even better.  Yes (Keshi let me know I would be in future Nigeria plans) definitely. He called every two or three weeks to see how I was and how my recovery was going. They were still hoping for me to join the team [at the World Cup in Brazil] and I had hopes at first too, but I realised it would take me some time to heal. By the time the team went to the preparation camp, I knew I would have to miss out. After Nigeria were eliminated by France, he said at the press conference that he missed me, so that was a boost Making impression with the Nigeria fans on home debut Oh it was good, very, very good. I remember I played right full-back [against Chad in 2015], I got the ball deep in our own half, I did a small cross over, nothing special and the crowd went wild. I think they liked the way I interpreted my position because I always like to attack if I play in the right full-back position. And they were very happy. The coach was happy and satisfied, but ever since I made my debut against Mexico, Nigerians have really supported me. I can’t complain about a lack of support, or a lack of love, or whatever you want to call it. It was an honour (to have won the captain’s armband), amazing, and a great feeling. Everybody considers Nigeria a real football nation and if you consider there are 170 million watching you, leading the national team onto the field, that’ quite a big thing. Dealing with fans’ pressure It gives you a boost but it also gives you pressure because if you lose then the Nigerians are not happy. This could affect you. I don’t think they would harm us in any way, but you also don’t want them to be angry with you or mad at the situation! It always gives you a little extra boost to do your best. So it’s possible, but you also don’t want to get into trouble with the fans. We have 170 million football-loving people but also 170 million coaches. Qualifying for Russia 2018 ahead of Cameroon I wouldn’t say surprised, but the coach [Gernot Rohr], when he first came, told us “nobody is expecting us to survive and to come out of this group as a World Cup contestant.” But he told us from the beginning that it was all about team spirit because we have such quality in the side. From the start, he said we were at least on the same level as Algeria  and Cameroon, it’s just that people from outside were saying they are not going to make it, they haven’t qualified for the last two Nations Cup finals and Nigeria isn’t Nigeria anymore. I think we proved them wrong. As I said, our team spirit I think was the key and the coach, he really puts focus on that point, growing together as a strong unit, and that’s what we did. The rest I think is just the individual quality that everyone brings into this pot of the team game after game. Some games felt easy, in fact – once we were on the right track, after scoring one or two goals. But before every game, we were really, really focused. At the same time you could feel there was also huge respect towards Algeria, towards Cameroon and even towards Zambia. To me, Zambia was the toughest opponent of them all. I only played in the second game against them but they were young and ambitious and to me, they were the biggest surprise in this group. Beating African champions Cameroon 4-0 Before that game we were like, ”wow this is going to be tough”. The excitement level was big. We knew we had a big chance and we did not want to go to the game in Yaoundé having lost. At the same time, we knew that we are very strong at our home ground, especially with the crowd behind us and yes, the way it went was unbelievable. Beating Cameroon 4-0 – they had just won the African Nations Cup – was like wow! But if I look back at the game we were so good that day. Gernot Rohr’s impact He’s different, he’s German, and it’s maybe something Africans are not used to; but he is very focused on discipline. He needs structures: his way of thinking, his way of working. I think it gets annoying for some of the players and some of the staff sometimes because they are just not used to it because everything has to be 100 percent on point. If one thing is a bit left, he’s like ‘no, no, I’m not having it’. But it gives us the structure in the games and I think you can clearly see his handwriting. I think he’s done very, very well. He’s very calm, he is experienced, and he also knows how to handle the African mentality Tears of joy after World Cup qualification I cried! It was just overwhelming. I don’t know, it was tears of joy. I think everybody can relate to that feeling. Still, even up to now, I can’t believe that it is going to happen, that I’m going to play in a World Cup. I think we’ve a lot of players who feel the same Russia 2018 World Cup draw I was outside on the pitch. I didn’t see the draw on TV live; I just checked my phone when I came back to the changing room. The physio and players who had stayed inside said to me: “Do you want to know? Do you want to know?” Then my Argentinian team-mate Pablo De Blasis said to me: “Hey Leon! We are playing in the same group again.” I said: “Oh no, come on, every time the same group, this is getting boring!” But seriously I think it’s a nice challenge. It’s similar to the group we had during the qualifiers, one of the most exciting groups I think and very competitive. Argentina are a team that stand for themselves if you look at their players and their individual quality, but they are beatable. I’m very optimistic. Balogun versus Messi Yes! It’s going to be interesting. I’m really looking forward to it. He’s one of my favourite players. I love to watch him play, but when we play them I have to forget about that. His (Messi) shirt a lot of players will ask for. I might have to bribe a few. We will have to find a solution. Maybe I can get a message to Messi that he mustn’t just bring one jersey but bring 11 so everybody is happy afterwards! Crunch task with Croatia and Iceland I think Iceland we’ll have to take very seriously. They had an amazing campaign during the qualifiers and at the European Championships they performed very well. They have been a big surprise. Croatia have great individual quality and on a good day can beat the best teams. It’s one of the toughest groups and we have to prove that we are tougher than Iceland and Croatia, and better also than Argentina. But it’s going to be hard work. We can be a big surprise. I’m not saying we are going to be the one but the chances are there. We have great individual quality as well, especially in the attack, and if we can fix a few things in certain areas of our game then we have a chance to go far. I know that a lot of Nigerians expect us to bring home the World Cup but you have to be realistic because there are a lot of teams with a legitimate claim to raise the trophy at the end of the tournament. We will see. The key will be that we perform as a team, and once that is achieved then the players can bring their individual quality. If the defence does a good job, the rest won’t have to focus too much on defending and can think about the attack. Moving to the English Premier League I always had a dream to play in the Premier League, and Brighton was one of the first teams to show an interest in me. I’ve been following English football as much as I can in Germany, and I saw how they got promoted from the Championship. I liked the way they played last season in the Premier League too and how they were able to maintain their status. It’s really impressive how they work, not just as individuals, but as a team too. I think the Premier League is more competitive. The Bundesliga is probably the most comparable to the Premier League. Every footballer wants to compete and I think that’s the biggest challenge. It’s more physical, which I personally like. It’s a bit quicker as well and the individual quality in each team is on another level in comparison to the Bundesliga. This is my first club outside of Germany, so there will be a lot of new stuff to adapt to. But I am looking forward to this new experience.