In this interview, Professor Ahmed Rufai Alkali, erstwhile National Publicity Secretary of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and now a governorship aspirant on the platform of Social Democratic Party (SDP), tells Emmanuel Udodinma why he joined SDP. He also speaks on his ambition and his relationship with Governor Ibrahim Dankwambo of Gombe State. Excerpts IS there a relationship between the Social Democratic Party (SDP) of the present and that of the military era? Well, as you rightly observed, there was an SDP in the 1990s which was part of the transition that led to elections in 1993. At that time, the SDP was able to make a huge impact in getting many of its members elected into the National Assembly and subsequently, the SDP Presidential candidate, Chief M.K.O. Abiola of blessed memory, won. I believe after that episode, the SDP, like most other political parties, rested. But about four, five years ago, Chief Olu Falae and other leaders of the SDP felt it was time to revive it. That resolve was because of several reasons: one because of its history; two, because of the brand; three, because of the successes it achieved at that very difficult time and the kind of ideological position of the party. The idea is that it should not be lost to history. Therefore, Falae, who is right now the National Chairman of the party, worked very hard through all the legal processes and revived the party. Though it did not have much showing in 2015, but in a number of states, where its candidates stood for elections, they were able to make some impact. For us, long before the Supreme Court judgment on the PDP leadership tussle, there were many people who thought that it would be very difficult for the Supreme Court to pass judgment in favour of the PDP that was chaired by Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi and that in the event that the verdict does not favour the mainstream, people must prepare a fallback position on the way out. Some of our leaders and elders engaged with most of the political parties at the background, conversing with them, discussing with them and negotiating with them, including but not limited to the All Progressive Grand Alliance, Labour Party, Accord Party, Peoples Redemption Party and others. So, the feeling was that, yes, in the event that the Supreme Court gave the judgment to the faction that did not belong to the mainstream, then others will move to the SDP. But as God would have it, the judgment from the Supreme Court became historic and handed over the party back to the people. So, for that reason at that time, it was felt that there was no need to move to another party. But again, some of our leaders were saying let’s again see what would happen during the convention; they wanted to know if the convention will confirm that we have learnt our lessons. I think we have seen what happened at the convention and it has become part of Nigeria’s history.  I believe that from then on, we felt that again, we must revisit our Plan B and really go back to the drawing board and see how we can move forward. That’s why our leaders and elders reopened the conversation; in fact, it was not closed with the leadership of the SDP. Finally, on the 1st of March, 2018, a memorandum of understanding (MOU) was signed between key leaders of our former party and we agreed to merge and form a formidable force and on March 8, there was a presentation of the interim executives of the SDP under the leadership of Chief Falae and other hardworking, dedicated members for the various positions. It appears that since you indicated interest in the Gombe State governorship election you no longer have healthy relationship with your state governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo. Was that part of the reason why you left PDP? Well, let me tell you this, the reality is that I am a system’s man and if I’m part of the system, I operate as a member of the system. I respect the authority and of course, if you noticed over the past years, you hardly find me engaging in unnecessary controversy. It is not because I cannot make noise but I found that making noise does not serve any purpose. So, I can tell you with all sense of responsibility that nobody will ever tell you that I personally, have any problem with my governor. The only way you can know whether somebody has a problem with his governor is one, have I ever been engaged in unnecessary criticism, condemnation in the media? Or have I engaged in organising groups and associations or have I allowed people around me to use any opportunity under my purview to say things that are bad against the government or the governor? Or have I been given any responsibility that I refused to perform or do at any time? Even now as a member of the SDP, if he calls me, as my state governor, I will go because he’s my governor until the time he hands over in 2019. I have no problem with him. But that does not mean people will not create problems between people. But that’s not my own. So, I have no personal problems with him. Indeed, I have shown evidence that I can work under any circumstances to support him. My own concern is the progress of our state. But despite Chief Bode George’s anger and disappointment over the outcome of the PDP National Convention, he chose to remain in the party. Is that too much a sacrifice for you to have made too? May be if you know what I have gone through, what I have seen or what I have heard over the past few years, you will agree that we have never ever shied away from sacrificing for our country; sacrificing for our party and sacrificing for our people. I believe, like I said, after what has happened over the past two or three years, after consulting widely, I took my time to consult those close to me, those not close to me, some of my leaders, elders, friends, associates and I think we have come to a conclusion that we have made our own contribution to PDP. And like I told you, it’s time to move forward. Gombe State is a young state; it is strategically located in the North-East and we have every reason to thank the people of the state because at every stage in my life when something comes up that affects me, you see a lot of support, solidarity and affection. So, I believe that in my own lifetime, I must make my own contribution and pay back the goodwill in whatever way I can. And I believe for now, the route is SDP. Will the SDP be willing to work with the coalition against the PDP and APC? During the inauguration of the interim executives of the SDP, our Chairman, Chief Olu Falae, did state that the party is in consultation with various groups and other political parties to extend its base. But of course, you know these are tactical issues and not issues that can just be discussed and elaborated on anyhow. What is important is that no political party is static. Even if you are big, you want to become bigger. Certainly, if you think you are small, if you know what you are doing, you’re organised, you cannot call yourself small. Even though the SDP is an old name, there is the suggestion that it may not be able to achieve enough mileage by 2019 because the time is short. What’s the objective of the SDP for 2019? I don’t know why you say the time is short. It’s not short. Why I say the time is not short is that it is the spirit, it is in the mind, the commitment, the dedication that will make a difference. And if you want to make a difference, you do it systematically. The approach is that it is going to be an open platform, it is going to be where everybody has a say. 