In continuation of its goal to take healthcare to the grassroots and underserved areas of Lagos State and achieve universal health coverage, the  government has taken its Eko Health Mission initiative to several suburbs of the state. Health Commissioner Jide Idris said the initiative was a comprehensive primary healthcare intervention programme targeted at residents. “Although medical missions are short-term interventions, it is projected that the beneficiaries of this intervention shall include the most vulnerable part of our population at the grassroots, including the elderly, our very young, pregnant women, people living with disabilities and other health conditions related to maternal and child health,” he said. According to Idris, the medical teams are professionals who are committed to ensuring that the government  mandates were fully realised. The services are provided free, he added. He said the medical mission team was at Iba Local Council Development Area headquarters on Tuesday, adding that it would go to Apapa, Iganmu Local Government  headquarters from Wednesday, May 30 to Friday, June 1. The next point of call will be Oriade Local Council Development Area Secretariat from Tuesday, June 12 to Thursday 14. Other local governments and local council development areas to be visited are Lagos-Mainland, Lekki, Ejigbo, Ikoyi, Obalende, Ikosi-Isheri, Ikosi-Ejirin and Agbado-Oke Odo. “I, therefore, urge residents to visit designated medical mission sites at the aforementioned local government and local council development areas to get screened and treated for common ailments at no cost,” he said. “As always, the Lagos State Government is working tirelessly to ensure that all citizens have healthcare coverage, in fact, the present administration’s commitment to sustainable healthcare and universal health coverage is unshaken and this demands that the state adopts an approach that is not only efficient but also effective in addressing the growing health demand of Lagosians,” he said.