The Commissioner of Police in Enugu State, Mr Mohammed Danmallam, on Friday assured traders in the state of adequate protection against hoodlums and pro-Biafra groups. Some pro-Biafra groups had allegedly written letters to the leaderships of various markets in the state, demanding that they shut down their markets on May 30. The group claimed that their directive for `sit-at-home’ demanded from traders on May 30, was for the celebration of `Biafra Heroes Day Anniversary’. The police boss in a meeting with market leaders in Enugu, said that the threat by the proscribed pro-Biafra groups was “unlawful, illegal and unconstitutional’’. He noted that the police was aware of the threat and posters the groups had been pasting within Enugu metropolis, announcing the `illegal activity’. “The command invited you to this meeting knowing the important role you play in providing security in the state. “We are aware of the threat to your businesses and we have decided to give your various markets adequate protection. “I am assuring you as the commissioner that their threat will be met with force, as we have strategised on how your markets will be protected before, during and after May 30. “We are currently working with other sister security agencies on this matter and we have started joint show-of-force patrols, most of you must have seen us on the roads and streets close to your markets. “We are also going to deploy police officers and men directly to the market to nip any activity of hoodlums in the bud. ”Recently, the Nigerian Air Force in Enugu received two planes – a fighter jet and helicopter – meant to hover around and constantly monitor situations in the state,” he said. Danmallam, however, appealed to the market leaders to give confidential information to the police concerning those issuing the threat, so that they would be arrested on time. The commissioner said that the command would convene a similar meeting with students, banks and traditional leaders in the next few days. Responding, Mr Joe Anieze, Chairman of New Heaven Market, appealed to residents of the state to talk sense into their wards, adding that nobody benefits in an atmosphere of chaos. Anieze assured the commissioner that the organised traders would collaborate with the command to check all forms of threat to traders and their businesses. Mr Christian Igwesi, from Kenyatta Market, thanked the police for the meeting and urged the commissioner to make the interaction a frequent one. “We will support the efforts of the police and ensure that the hoodlums or whatever they call their name do not disrupt the means of our livelihood,’’ Igwesi said. NAN