The state congress of the Lagos All Progressives Congress (APC) was held last Saturday at the party secretariat, Ikeja amidst pomp and ceremony. Assistant Editor LEKE SALAUDEEN reports that the new executive committee is taking over the leadership of the party at an auspicious time and that the expectations of members are high. THE Lagos State secretariat of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was a beehive of activities last Saturday, when the chapter held its congress to usher in a new leadership, to manage the affairs of the party in the next four years. As early as 7.30am, delegates had started trooping in for accreditation which commenced by 9 am. The security operatives allowed only bona fide delegates, party leaders, reporters and observers to enter the party secretariat to ensure orderliness and smooth session. The sitting arrangement for the delegates was on local government basis. This enhanced smooth accreditation, as they were accredited on their seat by the congress officials. The aspirants too also had their seats. The congress generated a lot of excitement, because it was an open secret that change was imminent. It had become evident three weeks ago that imminent that a change in leadership was in the offing, when National Leader of the APC, Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, announced at the end of its stakeholders meeting that executive members that have served three or more terms would not be allowed to re-contest. The congress which was conducted by the Electoral Committee headed by Senator Uche Ekwunife was monitored by the officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC), men of the State Security Service and the police. The congress was peaceful and all officers were returned unopposed. The programme started with a welcome address by the out-going chairman, Chief Henry Ajomale, who recognised the presence of Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, his deputy, Dr Idiat Adebule, and other party chieftains at the epoch-making event. He got a loud ovation when he described Ambode as “Governor General of Nigeria and governor of the most impressive state”. Ajomale made it clear that he was not making a valedictory speech. He equally made it clear that he remains a member of the APC family in Lagos and that he would continue to contribute to the progress of the party, even after leaving office. He said: “We are part and parcel of the APC membership; we will continue to serve the party.” He also admonished the incoming executive members: “The mantle of leadership that would be bestowed on you today is a challenge that you will be able to do better than what we are leaving behind. We have done our best. You should improve on our performance. You should remember that Lagos is the light of the APC; Lagos produced the Chairman of APC Chairmen. You must maintain that.” Thereafter, Ekwunife took over to perform the business of the day. In her remarks, she expressed her delight in being appointed to head Lagos State Electoral Committee, by the National Working Committee (NWC). She also commended Ajomale for holding the party together in the state for the past 12 years. She added: “Lagos is politically stable. The party is growing in the state. I commend the chairman for his zeal and commitment in growing the party in Lagos State. Thank you for giving Lagos that kind of leadership.” Apparently, reacting to information making the rounds that a parallel congress was holding somewhere in Ikeja, Ekwunife said: “This is the only legal committee set up by the national headquarters of our great party, the APC, to conduct state congress in Lagos State. Any other congress is illegal and an exercise in futility. As I am talking to you, we have in our midst INEC officials, DSS operatives and the police who are here to monitor the proceedings and also prepare their reports. This is the only congress recognised by the National Working Committee.” Although provisions had been made for delegates to cast their ballots, Ekwunife said since there was one aspirant for each position, there was no need to conduct the exercise. She said the committee had resolved to adopt voice vote in electing the new executive members. The committee chairman said the APC constitution allows election by affirmation. Then she called out the only aspirant for the chairmanship position, Alhaji Tunde Balogun and presented him to the delegates. He was returned unopposed. Similar procedure was applied in returning the other officers. They include: Deputy Chairman, Chief Sunny Ajose; Vice Chairman (Lagos West), Mr Funsho Ologunde; Vice Chairman (Lagos East), Ashipa Kaoli Olusanya; Vice Chairman (Lagos Central), Mr Hakeem Bamgbala; Secretary, Dr Wale Ahmed; Assistant Secretary, Femi Saheed; Treasurer, Mrs Olasunbo Ajose; Assistant Treasurer, Johanna Adebobuyi; Financial Secretary, Oluyinka Osinubi; Publicity Secretary, Mr Joe Igbokwe; Assistant Publicity Secretary, Mr Abiodun Salami; State Organising Secretary, Mr Abdullahi Enilolobo; and Assistant Organising Secretary, Mr. Muftau Kadiku.                                                             Others are: Legal Adviser, Mr Ademola Sadiq; Assistant Legal Adviser, Toke Benson; Welfare Secretary, Alhaja Ramota Bankole; Assistant Welfare Secretary, Alhaji Olorunfunmi; Auditor, Wale Ariyibi; Assistant Auditor, Mr Ismail Azeez; Women Leader, Mrs Jumoke Okoya-Thomas; Assistant Woman Leader, Kehinde Babalola; Youth Leader, Mr Tayo Sanyaolu; Assistant Youth Leader, Ms Busola Akeredolu; and Youth Organising Secretary; Mr Idris Aregbe. The zonal women leaders are Mrs Kofoworola Ajayi (Lagos West); Mrs Fausat Gbadebo (Lagos East) and Mrs Fadekemi Otitolaye (Lagos Central). Those who emerged as zonal youth leaders are: Lukman Jimoh (Lagos West); Alhaji Bashir Adekoya (Lagos East) and Ahmed Olanrewaju (Lagos Central). The ex-officio members are: Abu Akilapa, Princess Obiageli Onu, Alhaji Ibrahim Patako and Mr Bode Oyedele. Mr. Israel Akiode was returned unopposed, to represent the physically-challenged. The Secretary to the Electoral Committee, Alhaji Kabiru Ibrahim, congratulated the new executive members, saying they emerged through due process. He noted that Lagos is always first in party affairs and urged the new executives to maintain the status quo. The new chairman promised to take Lagos APC to the next level. He also expressed his appreciation to Asiwaju Tinubu for his selfless services to the party. What makes a leader to be successful, he added, is the ability to promote leaders among his followers. This, he said, was the secret of Tinubu’s success as a leader. He equally hailed Ajomale for his tireless effort in making Lagos APC what is it today. Party chieftains that attended the event tried to set an agenda for the incoming executives. Ajomale advised the Balogun-led executive to come up with a new role for the youth, so that they would be involved in party management. He said the youths form the bulk of the party membership and that they should be engaged, because they are the future leaders. He added: “They should start learning the rope as youths, so that when they assume the position of leadership, they would have been prepared for it.” The deputy governor, Adebule, charged the new executive to promote unity among the members of the party. She said every member, irrespective of their disposition, should be carried along in party affairs. The unity among the rank and file, she stressed, would strengthen the party further. Perhaps the greatest challenge before the new executive is the parallel congress held by some members which produced a parallel executive headed by Mr Fouad Oki, who was the Vice Chairman of the out-going executive. Oki had earlier called for the cancellation of the ward congress. A chieftain of the APC who spoke on condition of anonymity told our reporter that the matter would be resolved amicably. He said Oki like every member of the party has the right to disagree on any issue. He said the former vice chairman and his group had exercised their right of expression, adding: “I know that the leadership of the party would not gloss over their complaints. Remember our leader Asiwaju Tinubu is gifted in resolving political crisis. I am sure he and other well-wishers of the APC in Lagos State would swing into action and settle the matter in a family way. My advice to the new executive is that they should not treat Oki and his supporters as dissident or rebel group. All hands must be on deck. We should not create the impression that Lagos APC is divided. He also advised members to discountenance the speculation that Oki was playing out the script prepared by some Abuja-based politicians. But, a youth leader, Mr Waheed Bamgbose from Ifako/Ijaye, blamed Oki for allowing himself to be used by few disgruntled members. He said having made his observation known as a disciplined party man that Oki should not have indulged in anti-party activities. He added: “What does he stand to gain from the melodrama staged at the Airport Hotel? He had succeeded in calling attention to himself. To whom will he submit the report of his kangaroo congress? I believe he and his sponsors are trying to create distraction for the new executive.” Balogun and his team should not be bugged down by the antics of the tiny minority, adding: “If they want to come back, they should be allowed. With what transpired here today, I can say unequivocally that Asiwaju is in control in Lagos State.” Senator Oluremi Tinubu said the success of the congress had proved that the APC is a party that believes in the rule of law. She advised the aggrieved members to apply the party’s internal mechanism in seeking redress. The congress was attended by Governor Ambode, Senators Oluremi Tinubu, Gbenga Ashafa, Solomon Adeola, Musiliu Obanikoro, and Ganiyu Solomon. Others dignitaries were the Speaker, Lagos House of Assembly, Hon Mudashiru Obasa; the Southwest APC Women Leader, Mrs Kemi Nelson; the Secretary to Lagos State Government, Mr Tunji Bello; Cardinal James Odunmbaku; Hon. Abike Dabiri; Chief Alabi Macfoy; Members of the House of Representatives and State Assembly, Chairmen and councillors of the 20 local governments and 37 local council development areas. 