A BILL FOR AN ACT TO ALTER THE PROVISION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE FEDERAL REPUBLIC OF NIGERIA, 1999 AND FOR OTHER MATTERS CONNECTED THEREWITH Sponsored by Hon. Tony Nwulu [ ] Commencement
BE IT ENACTED by the National Assembly of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as
follows:
1. The Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (in this Act referred to as
“Principal Act”) is amended as set out in this Bill.
Qualifications for Membership of National Assembly
2. Section 65 (1)(a) and (b) is amended by substituting the provisions with a new
provision as follows:
A person shall be qualified for election as a member of –
(a) the Senate, if he is a citizen of Nigeria and has attained the age of thirty years;
and
(b) the House of Representatives, if he is a citizen of Nigeria and has attained the age
of twenty-five years.
3. Section 65 (2)(b) is amended by substituting the provision with a provision as
follows:
A person shall be qualified for election under subsection (1) of this section if –
(c) He is member of a political party and is sponsored by that party or he is an
independent candidate
Qualifications for Membership of House of Assembly
4. Section 106 (b) and (d) is amended by substituting the provisions with new
provision as follows:
A person shall be qualified for election as a member of a House of Assembly if –
(b) he has attained the age of twenty-five years;
(d) he is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that party or he is an
independent candidate
Qualifications for election as President
5. Section 131 (b) and (c) is amended by substituting the provisions with new
provisions as follows:
A person shall be qualified for election to the office of the President if –
(b) he has attained the age of thirty;
(c) he is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that political party or he
is an independent candidate
Qualifications for election as Governor
6. Section 177 (b) and (c) is amended by substituting the provisions with new
provisions as follows:
A person shall be qualified for election to the office of the Governor of a State if –
(b) he has attained the age of thirty;
(c) he is a member of a political party and is sponsored by that political party or he
is an independent candidate
7. This Bill may be cited as Constitution (Alteration) Bill, 2016
EXPLANATORY MEMORANDUM
This Bill seeks to alter the Section 65, 106, 131, 177 of the 1999 Constitution of the Federal
Republic of Nigeria (as amended) to reduce the age qualification for the office of the
President and Governor and membership of the Senate and House of Representatives and the
State House of Assembly. The Bill also seeks to allow independent candidacy in Nigeria’s
electoral process. 