It was a top society wedding for Germany-based music and film promoter, Isaac Izoya who, on Friday April 27th and Saturday, April 28th, 2018 got married to his heartthrob, Princess Precious Uhunmwangho in the ancient city of Benin, the Edo State capital. The groom, popularly called Cultural Ambassador in Europe, is the creator of the annual Nollywood Film Festival, Germany, ESAN Akugbe People’s Union, and Ehizoya Golden Entertainment Award for which many Nollywood filmmakers and Nigerian creatives in the Diaspora are honoured yearly. It was therefore not surprising the number of people from all walks of life that converged on Benin for the two-day event – a traditional marriage at the bride’s father’s home on Task Force Street, Off Upper St. Savior Road, and a lavish reception at the Rialto Hotel and Resorts. Celebrities at the events include Opa Williams, Lancelot Imasuen, Cossy Orjiakor, Queen Blessing Ebigieson, Louiza Williams and Charles Inojie who was Master of Ceremonies at the events. Notable Nigerians in Diaspora at the event include Mr. and Mrs. Uzzi came from Kassel, Germany; Austine Ediale from Helsinki, Finland; Chief Mike Ituah from Germany; Joe Aihende from Zurich, Switzerland; Hon. Michael Ogbomo Ernest, from Essen, Germany and Boss Mikel from Malaysia among others. Performers at the events include De Turner Stars of Benin, a.k.a Ogbomon 1 and the popular Osazeme Theatre Troupe of Nigeria, directed by Lady Sikira Aruma Olaye. Also, The Voice Nigeria Season 2 contestant, Sophia, an afro pop artiste from Anambra State thrilled the audience at the wedding reception, just as comic artist, Edo Pikin cracked the guests up with his hilarious jokes. Also in attendance was Prof. Yinka Omoregbe, Hon. Commissioner For Justice, Edo State; Mr. Marshal and wife Hon. Omorede Osifo Marshal; Chief Mavis & Chief Mrs. Ogbomo, Chief & Lady Mike Ituah, the Edohe of Opoji; Festus Eremosele, Chairman, G-World Entertainment, Austin Ediale, and Uwa Oviahon Imadiyi, Head at Virgin Productions. The groom who has been at the forefront of promoting Nigeria’s and Africa’s rich culture in Europe is also a movie producer who was said to have met Pecious at a family friend’s party in Frankfurt a couple of years back.