THE African Union (AU) has unveiled the calendar of events for the fifth edition of the biggest awards event on the continent, All Africa Music Awards (AFRIMA). The unveiling on Monday in Accra, Ghana, followed a visit by the AFRIMA delegation to President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo. Akufo-Addo welcomed the visiting delegation led by the Head of Culture, African Union Commission, Mrs. Angela Martins, at the Presidential Office, Jubilee House, Accra. The President described the initiative as a platform that showcases Africa positively to the world through the creativity of the music talents and the distinctive African cultural heritage. He said: “The people of Ghana are proud to host the 2018 AFRIMA World Media Calendar Unveiling event and to receive the delegation of officials of AU and AFRIMA as well the talented artistes and the media. “I’m excited to hear AFRIMA is engaging the rest of the world on an intellectual platform with conferences and the music awards. “We hope you have had a remarkable experience of Ghanaian hospitality. Our hope is that we will host the main awards ceremony. Other officials of the government of Ghana who received the AU-AFRIMA delegation included the Honourable Minister of Tourism, Arts and Culture Catherine Abelema Afeku; Executive Secretary to the President Nana Asante Bediatuo and Principal Personal Assistant to the President Saratu Atta. Others are: Chief Director, Ministry of Tourism, Arts & Culture Dr. Joel Sonne; Director, Tourism Council, Ghana Chief Nana Anim and celebrated Ghanaian music artistes such as veteran Nana Kwame Ampadu, who joined artistes from other African countries for the courtesy visit. The President directed Minister of Tourism Catherine Afeku to see to the completion of the formalities required to enable Ghana ratify the Charter on African Culture Renaissance. Mrs. Angela Martins expressed gratitude to the government and people of Ghana for the commitment and support displayed towards hosting the 2018 AFRIMA Calendar Unveiling. “We cherish the partnership with the government of Ghana since it will enhance the pan-African nature of the AFRIMA initiative. The AU also uses the AFRIMA platform to voice key messages related to the Arts and Culture and other social issues for example the campaign on Ebola in 2014,” she said.