THE fact-finding committee into last Friday’s destruction of the All Progressives Congress (APC) secretariat in Rivers State have submitted its report. Thugs were said to have vandalised the secretariat on Forces Avenue, old Government Reservation Area (GRA), Port Harcourt. Senator Magnus Abe (Rivers Southeast) and his supporters were found culpable by the three-man committee. Committee Chairman Forgiven Amachree, a lawyer, with members: Chief Emeka Beke, Rivers’ Secretary of APC, who served as secretary, and Pastor Mason West, yesterday in Port Harcourt, submitted the report to Rivers APC Chairman Chief Davies Ikanya. Ikanya wept while receiving the report. Abe, yesterday in Port Harcourt, through his spokesperson, Parry Benson, insisted that he never mobilised people to vandalise the secretariat. Amachree said: “The indictment of Senator Abe and his supporters is based on the careful study of events during the occupation of the Rivers State secretariat by party members loyal to the senator and confession made by some of Senator Abe’s supporters in police custody. ‘’It is foolhardy to deny the fact that Senator Abe’s supporters vandalised the secretariat, as an attempt to derail internal democracy and disrupt the ward congresses of the APC, as their actions suggested that they did not want the congresses to hold. “Senator Abe’s statement that he shared the same view with the people that gathered at the Rivers State secretariat of APC, gave strength to the committee’s findings. “The threatening and instigating utterances of the Deputy Chairman of APC in Rivers State, Prince Peter Odike, and the party’s Youth leader, Dima Agiobu, while addressing Senator Abe’s supporters last Friday, prepared the ground for the unfortunate vandalisation of the state secretariat.” Rivers APC chairman, after receiving the report, described as unfortunate, condemnable and unacceptable, the destruction of property at the secretariat by APC members loyal to Abe. Ikanya noted with sadness that some members of APC in Rivers, for no justifiable reason, vandalised the secretariat in such a manner that the State working Committee (SWC) of Rivers had to operate under a canopy at the secretariat. He said the SWC set up the committee to ascertain the damage, suggest ways to prevent a recurrence, and to assist security agencies to know those behind the act. Ikanya said: “If there was no ward congress in Rivers State last Saturday, as Senator Abe and some supporters are claiming, what was Prince Peter Odike (Deputy Chairman of APC in Rivers State) doing at his ward last Saturday to warrant Senator Abe to have stated: ‘I was ashamed when I heard that the Rivers Deputy Chairman of the APC, Prince Peter Odike, who is loyal to me, was embarrassed and chased out of the congress venue in his ward’? “There was ward congress in Rivers State last Saturday. It is ridiculous for any member of APC in Rivers State to state otherwise. With facts available, it becomes mischievous and wicked for any party member to continue to portray APC in badlight. “I cannot understand how and why people, who have sacrificed so much in building the party, would resort to acts capable of derailing and sabotaging the ideals and vision of the party in Rivers State, just because of the struggle for power. “Politics is not a do-or-die venture, but a means through which politicians will submit themselves for service to humanity and not a means to disparage or destroy themselves and their property.” Ikanya warned that APC members who continued to present the party in bad light before the public, would cease to be members of APC in Rivers. He urged members who will participate in the local government congress on Saturday to conduct themselves peacefully to demonstrate to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) that they are always orderly and law-abiding.  Senator: my hands are clean Senator Magnus Abe (Rivers Southeast) yesterday denied destroying the All Progressives Congress (APC) secretariat in Rivers State. He added that Transportation Minister Rotimi Amaechi ought to ensure a level-playing field for all aspirants. Abe, a governorship aspirant on APC’s platform, noted that his disagreement with Amaechi, a former governor, was political. The former Secretary to the State Government in Amaechi’s administration, in a statement by his spokesperson, Parry Benson, stressed that the minister earlier declared that he (Amaechi) would not support his (Abe’s) governorship aspiration. The senator said: “I am amused by some of these allegations and stories. For the records, the disagreement between me and the minister (Amaechi) is political. He is the leader of the party, but he has said publicly, on several occasions, that he can never support me. “That means the country knows that he cannot pretend to be neutral or an unbiased umpire in any matter in which my interest and the interests of those interested in me are concerned. ‘’Yet, as the leader, it is his responsibility to provide a level-playing field for us all.” Abe, an ex-commissioner for Information, insisted that the people that converged on the APC’s state secretariat on Forces Avenue, old Government Reservation Area (GRA), Port Harcourt, last Friday, were not thugs, but members and supporters of the party. He said: “The people he (Amaechi) referred to as thugs and hoodlums were the same people that were his heroes yesterday. They were the people we used to block the Rivers State Judiciary (in Port Harcourt) when his government was threatened. They were the people that slept for many days outside the Rivers State House of Assembly to protect his government. “A lot of them were members of Save Rivers Movement, who risked their lives and gave their all to birth the APC in this state. ‘’He knows a lot of them by name, but today they are thugs and hoodlums, because he is now the oppressor. “We are politicians. Tomorrow, when we need voters, who will these people now branded as thugs be? People paid for forms, they had their tellers and no one was telling them what was going on. They besieged the state secretariat for explanations. “Rather than the leader (Amaechi) to come and address the people, they brought armed policemen to open fire on innocent party men and women. The attack led to the pandemonium at the secretariat.” “The people were there (at Rivers APC secretariat in Port Harcourt last Friday) from morning and there was no violence, until the policemen came and opened fire on APC members who were totally peaceful. Who authorised the shooting and why?”   