Farmers may soon obtain accurate weather data to increase crop yields, courtesy of Trans-African Hydro-Meteorological Observatory (TAHMO), a project working on establishing 20,000 weather stations across Africa to help farmers. Experts said lack of reliable weather information in most parts of Africa was making many households lose in agriculture. TAHMO Country Co-ordinator Prof  Ahmed Balogun said there is a memorandum of understanding (MoU) between  TAHMO and the Nigerian Meteorological Agency (NIMET) to establish stations with specialised equipment to provide reliable weather information. He said the meteorological data provided through TAHMO would be of immense benefits to farmers. With TAHMO, Balogun  said the sector would be availed with more accurate weather information  that will allow smallholder farmers make better resource management decisions. Balogun said the project will fully take off in a year’s time. TAHMO, through an innovation, ATMOS 41, described as an all-in-one weather station, fulfils all weather measuring needs such as air temperature, relative humidity, vapour pressure, barometric pressure, wind speed and direction, solar radiation, precipitation and lightning. Data generated by TAHMO stations will be sent to an internet platform to aid accessibility and analyses to guide farmers. The data will be combined with models and satellite observations to obtain a very complete insight into the distribution of water and energy stocks and fluxes. So far, the project has been able to establish stations in Cameroon, Chad, Democratic Republic of Congo, Ghana, Kenya, Mali, Nigeria, Senegal, South Africa and Uganda to help farmers. The idea behind TAHMO is to build a dense network of hydro-meteorological monitoring stations in sub-Saharan Africa; one in every 30 km. This entails the production of 20,000 of such stations. Meanwhile, an international study by Consultative Group on International Agricultural Research (CGIAR) Programme on climate change, Agriculture and Food Security said prolonged dry spells have become much more common in recent years, leading to crop and livestock losses in Nigeria. The study, co-authored by scientists from the CGIAR Research Program on Climate Change, Agriculture and Food Security (CCAFS) East Africa Regional Programme, examined anomalies in seasonal rainfall and drought characteristics in two agro-climatic zones—Rainforest and Guinea Savanna—in Nigeria. The experts said efforts should be made to develop crop varieties that can cope with the  conditions of climate change in Nigeria.