Given their penchant for choosing native names with quintessential meaning for their children, one would be forgiven to vouch for the cultural identity consciousness of Nigerian parents. This is because most given names across the various tribes of Nigeria tells a story. However, the essence of the identity consciousness pales the moment one realizes that a four -year-old born in the south western part of Nigeria, who has been named Oluwafirewamiri (God has located me with favour), cannot hold a conversation in a mother tongue but English. There is a growing trend in Nigeria where parents shy away from speaking their native languages to children while adopting English as a means of communication. The tendency is fueled by the belief that English, as the world’s foremost language of wider communication and opportunity, signifies upward mobility and class. However, research suggests that putting a cap on the number of languages a child is exposed to is a disservice, as such children are denied the ability to acquire language skills which can be beneficial to both local and global communities. A language expert, Ignatius Usar, told The Nation that the child language acquisition theory clearly explains that children are born with a capacity to learn various languages while growing up, since their minds is a tabula rasa–plain slate. “It is as a child grows that experiences, including languages, are written on that slate. That is why a child has capacity for many languages than adults”, he said. Describing the decision of parents who neglect communicating with their children in the mother tongue as poor judgement, Usar also lamented the fact virtually all indigenous Nigerian languages are threatened since parents are not interested in the generational transfer of language as part of the cultural identity. Agreeing that intermarriages could be a reason why some parents insists on their wards speaking English, he also conceded to the fact the acceptability of indigenous languages for early childhood education has not been helped by the apparent lack of a language policy by the Nigerian government. “Nigeria’s language policy is geared towards English and to make matters worse, we are promoting French and Arabic. When we do that as a matter of policy, we are keeping our languages down and promoting other languages. For instance, we have a Nigerian French language village in Badagry, then we have another one for Arabic somewhere in the North, but we do not have a centre for the study of any Nigerian language,” the linguist lamented. The low acceptance of indigenous language as a medium of instructions for childhood development is a global problem not limited Nigeria. As English continues to gain preeminence as a global language, some countries around the world come up with deliberate language policy to ensure their indigenous languages do not go into extinction. change of status quo. However, that is not the case in Nigeria where English has continued to gain more grounds, to the extent that many parents, both literate and illiterate, invest time and money in ensuring their children learn to speak English, even though scientific evidence suggests that children who first learn to read and write in their native languages learn all subjects faster. Nigeria’s national policy on education, initiated in the 80’s, also recognized this and there was a resolution that early childhood education should be taught in a child’s mother tongue or language of the immediate environment. Till date, the resolution has been a policy in paper that has not seen the light of the day. One of the major hindrance to the policy is that except in remote areas, many teachers do not speak the language of the immediate community since Nigeria has over 400 languages. Another practical consideration is that text books and instructional materials are written in English. Majority of the indigenous languages are not codified; hence they are not available in written documents. Despite these challenges, Usar believes that progress can still be made if there are deliberate attempt to ensure that indigenous languages are preserved.
“Language is a living thing. It is born, it grows, and it dies. If you want to keep a language alive, what we suggest is that you codify by ensuring there is a literature for it that can be transferred from one generation to another. This is the area where Yoruba, Hausa and Igbo, the three major indigenous languages edges out other languages”, Usar submitted. The apathy for indigenous languages amongst Nigerian parents is not only restricted to the preference for English as language of communication. It’s also extended to the point that parents want their children to speak in British and American accent. Ayanfeoluwa Lawal, a diction and elocution coach, has created a niche for herself in the business of teaching people how to speak well. What confounds her, however, is the encounter of parents and school owners who approach her to teach their children the British accent. “We are in a generation of parents who want their children to sound differently. It’s a misplaced priority and I’m so against acquiring a foreign accent when it’s not coming to you naturally because the best you can be is fake. This is the in-thing in schools right now”, she said.
Lawal also offered that the in-thing amongst elite schools in developed cities around the country is that children are taught to speak in British accent, on parents and school owner’s insistence. “The focus should be on the proper enunciation and articulation of words. It is sounding your words accurately. What should be emphasized is social intelligibility, which is the ability to be heard anywhere in the world. Nobody cares about your accent when you are eloquent because nobody expects you to have a British accent when you are not a Briton. “The thing with parents is ignorance and social pressure, so a parent sees a child speaking differently and they also want to transfer that to their children. When I teach children elocution, I start from the science of elocution so that they can understand how sounds work and come together to make words and also how they have to produce the sounds in a particular way.” Ms Lawal, who manages Quints, a foremost communication and social polish organization in Lagos, said she has encountered situations where parents literary caution their children from speaking their mother tongue in public. Lawal, who never spoke English at home while growing up, said even illiterate parents want their children to speak English in the public so that they can feel important. Whither a comprehensive National Language Policy?
Hausa, Igbo and Yoruba have long been regarded as Nigeria’s major languages. However, English remains the sole official language in almost all spheres of national activities. Scholars like Segun Awonusi of the University of Lagos suggested that language policies that favour indigenous identity should be implemented on a sustainable basis. Another linguist, Emmanuel Emenanjo, also declared that Nigeria does not have a language policy but a document that could be called a statement of intention of what a language policy could be. Since his appointment as the chairman of the National Technical Committee on language policy in Nigeria on 10th of April 2018, Adeniyi Harrison, a professor of Linguistics and African languages at the Lagos State University, carried a weight of high expectations. Harrison who is also the president of the Linguistics Association of Nigeria wants the Lagos State Language Policy which mandates all schools to teach Yoruba in Lagos, replicated in other parts of the country. He said the Linguistic Association of Nigeria has been advocating that parents, irrespective of the linguistic environment, should teach their children at a tender age to read and write in their various indigenous languages.
“Except from the fact that some give their languages social status, there are some languages in Europe whose speakers are not as populated as speakers of Hausa, Yoruba, and Igbo, but for their social status in the society, these languages are enforced on us. Indigenous languages are embodiment of the cultural repository of knowledge. When the languages are not spoken, the language die and the identities are lost,” he said. Prof Harrison said when children continue to bear English and biblical names, it does not allow for information on the family background, especially in the African context where people’s names are stories of the family.
“If the person does not bear the name, how do people trace one’s family?”, he asked, adding that same goes for food where there could be a loss of identity and economic opportunities when there is a neglect of local delicacies. “The more languages a person is able to speak, the more the horizon widens. We are advocating for a multi-lingual society where Nigerians learn each other’s language in order to ensure national unity and cohesion”, Harrison submitted.