Uche Okonkwo is a seven-year-old male patient of Department of Paediatric and Child Health, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH). The boy with Hospital Number 276803 needs N5million to stay alive. Uche is in primary one. His father, a driver in a private company, is married to a cook, Mrs Blessing Okonkwo a 45-year-old mother of five. Uche was confirmed to have ‘a hole in the heart’ in 2016, when he was five. A chest radiograph showed cardiomegaly with broncho-pneumonic changes, while an echo-cardiography confirmed tetralogy of fallot. Mrs Okonkwo is appealing to Nigerians to assist her keep her last child alive. “We have been referred to India to ensure Uche gets the surgery done.The money required is N5million. I have coped with the purchase of drugs since the child was diagnosed when he was two years. We are told it is only surgery that can correct that hole in his heart. In 2011, when I delivered him, I noticed that when he breathes, it was unusually fast, so I took him to Child’s Health Hospital, Gbagada, where we were referred to LASUTH and the diagnoses confirmed this condition.” Explaining how Uche has been managed in a referral note provided by the mother, Consultant Paediatric/Paediatric cardiologist, Dr B. A. Animasahun said Uche was brought in with recurrent cough, fast breathing and bluish discolouration of lips since birth. This informed the decision to admit him. Uche was examined at admission and the ill-looking child was in respiratory distress, cyanosed, plethoric with grade 3 digital and toe clubbing. Oxygen saturation in the room was 69-72 percent. Cardiovascular examination revealed tachycardia- a grade 3/6 ejection systolic murmur loudest at the left upper sterna border, and apex beat at the fifth intercostals space mid clavicular line. Diagnosis of bronchopneumonia in the child with a cyanotic congenital heart disease possibly tetralogy of Fallot was made. Chest radiograph showed cardiomegaly with bronchopneumonic changes, while an echocardiography confirmed tetralogy of Fallot. Uche was managed with intranasal oxygen, antibiotics, and propanolol and discharged on oral propanolol. Dr Animasahun recommended a surgery. The mother has contacted Frontier Lifeline Hospital The Nation sighted correspondence between her and Dr K. M. Cherian Heart Foundation, Chennai, India, assuring that the medical case could be done there. Touched to assist? You can credit his account- Uchechukwu Thank God Okonkwo, Access Bank; A/C No:  0774085700. 