•Abattoir an eyesore, says commissioner The Chairman of Miyetti Allah of Nigeria, Lagos State branch, Alhaji Abdullahi Liliga, has urged the Lagos State government to rescind its decision to demolish parts of Oko-Oba in Agege. Liliga, who spoke at the weekend at Oko-Oba abattoir, said the government should not demolish sections of the abattoir because doing so would affect operations at the place. He said: “We have met the Commissioner for Agriculture Mr Toyin Suarau, on this matter. We are appealing to the government not to demolish parts of the abattoir. “If it carries out this action, it will be the fifth time sections of the market will be demolished. We have been operating here since 1997. We appeal to the government to have a rethink. There is no way the government can keep cows, cattle and other domestic animals here without their owners being around. We are law-abiding citizens. We pay taxes and dues regularly. We are peaceful.” The General-Secretary, Alhaji Mekudi Usman, said it was unfortunate that the government wanted to demolish sections of the abattoir barely a year after it carried out a similar action. The government demolished parts of the abattoir on May 14 last year. Now it wants to repeat the action. This is unfair. We beg our hardworking Governor Akinwunmi Ambode to rescind the decision. “The government gave us this place. Why does it want to demolish it? However, if the government insists on demolishing the place, we will move our cows and other domestic animals to Lagos-Ibadan Expressway area, for easy access.” Suarau told The Nation that Oko-Oba abattoir needed to be transformed because it was an eyesore. He said: “Oko-Oba abattoir is an eyesore compared with Ikorodu and Mushin abattoirs. We are not driving members of Miyetti Allah of Nigeria away from Oko-Oba abattoir. The Governor only wants to modernise the place, after which the people will be allowed to return. “In the interim, they can operate at Ikorodu and Mushin abattoirs. We are not driving them out of business. The Ambode government is for everybody, irrespective of ethnic group or religion.” 