Olayide Akanni is the Executive Director of Journalists Against AIDS (JAAIDS) Nigeria, a non-governmental organisation (NGO) on the prevention, care and control of HIV, AIDS and tuberculosis. In this interview, she tells OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA how the Mexico City Policy, also called Global Gag Rule (GGR), introduced by the United States government will affect NGOs. She has worked in many non-governmental organisatons (NGOs) over the years. Ms Olayide Akanni worked, among others, on Journalists Against AIDS (JAAIDS), African Civil Society Coalition on HIV/AIDS in promoting HIV/AIDS and TB treatment literacy, building capacity for media and civil society groups, and monitoring universal access to prevention, treatment and care services. The gains of these efforts, she warned, may be affected by the to Mexico City Policy, also called Global Gag Rule (GGR).  What is Mexico City Policy? The Mexico City Policy is a United States government policy that   requires foreign non-governmental organisations (NGOs) to certify that they will not “perform or actively promote abortion as a method of family planning” with non-U.S. funds as a condition for receiving U.S. global family planning assistance and, as of January 23, 2017, any U.S. global health assistance, including U.S. global HIV (under PEPFAR), maternal and child health, malaria, nutrition, and other programme areas. The policy was first announced by the Reagan administration at the Second International Conference on Population held in Mexico City, Mexico from August 6-14, 1984 (hence its name). Akanni, who has also been involved in monitoring the status of access to treatment issues for HIV/AIDS and TB in Nigeria, having served as country researcher under the International Treatment Preparedness Coalition (ITPC), ‘Missing the Target Report’, and the ‘Civil Society Perspectives on TB research’ supported by the Open Society Institute (OSI), New York, told The Nation that when the news of the Global Gag Rule got to her, she was a bit ruffled. Why? She noted that Nigeria being the single largest recipient of U.S. international development aid, which relies on global health assistance to meet the needs of its large and growing population, the Trump-Pence administration policy, also called ‘Protecting Life in Global Health Assistance,’ risks overburdening the underfunded public health sector and undermining the reproductive and overall health goals in Nigeria. Akanni explained: “Because many NGOs receiving funding from the U.S government or its agencies will be affected. At the moment, the policy does not directly impact on our organisation – JAAIDS – as we are not directly receiving funding from the United States Government. However, it does have impact on some of our partners who are receiving funding from the U.S sources. If we are receiving US Government funding for our Sexual and Reproductive Health (SRH)-related projects, it will mean that there is a limit to what services we can offer. For instance, within the context of our ongoing project, we define SRH services to include discussing family planning, prevention and management of STIs, Maternal and Newborn care, management of gender-based violence and prevention of unsafe abortion and management of post abortion care. “But based on this Gag rule, if we were receiving funding from the US Government, we may not be able to discuss or offer family planning services to our target population. That means that training or discussions about emergency contraception for women with disabilities, adolescent women and young girls or other populations who may have been sexually abused/raped will not be allowed. It also means that distribution of family planning consumables to these groups would not be allowable. A major challenge is that it is sometimes difficult to isolate pregnancy prevention methods which are crucial for the prevention of unintended pregnancies from SRH services.” Akanni continued: ‘’Many indigenous NGOs, who are US donor-dependent, are feeling the impact as immediate effects of this are also visible in that the US Government has already cut back funding to the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), a UN agency that promotes voluntary family planning to prevent unintended pregnancies in over 150 countries across the world. ‘’And as PAI (Population Action International (PAI)) has documented in its preliminary report on Impacts of Trump’s Expanded GGR on Nigeria, there are clearer emerging evidences that GGR will take further toll on the country: ‘’The Global Gag Rule does not apply to multilaterals, such as the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA). However, as foreign NGOs lose access to U.S. funding and U.S.-donated contraceptive supplies due to the policy, they have scaled back services, pushing more clients to public sector facilities and increasing demand for commodities procured by UNFPA. Unfortunately, the agency is already experiencing a significant funding shortfall. U.S. government funding has historically supported UNFPA’s core and humanitarian work. The defunding of UNFPA places a strain on the agency and UNFPA Supplies, and has raised alarms among advocates and providers in Nigeria given the agency’s central role in contraceptive security. Any further reductions in UNFPA’s capacity will cascade down, hitting hardest the organisations working with the most vulnerable populations and severely disrupting health supplies. Additionally, despite that the Global Gag Rule does not impact humanitarian funding, there are questions about how organisations who serve displaced populations will continue their work if they no longer receive U.S. funding. ‘’Even before the imposition of the expanded Global Gag Rule, the Planned Parenthood Federation of Nigeria (PPFN) forewent the profits they previously received from charging for contraceptives in their facilities. They did so to support the  government’s 2012 FP2020 commitment to provide free contraceptives. Those profits were used for last-mile contraceptive transport costs. While PPFN is receiving some Federal Government’s funding to remedy this. The lack of significant profits plus organisational funding losses from the GGR will have a negative impact on their work. This will push more women to seek services and contraceptive supplies in the overburdened public sector-largely supported by UNFPA-which is ill-prepared to receive an increased volume of clients.’’