Over 60 schools are expected to vie for honours at the 4th edition of the Lagos State Secondary Schools Handball Competition tagged ‘Opeifa Cup’, which will take place at the Mobolaji Johnson Sports Complex, Rowe Park, Yaba from May 14 to 18. The organisers – Lagos State Handball Association – stated that there is a reduction in the number of participating teams because of the need to uphold quality and ensure that schools that are well prepared take part in the competition. Sponsor of the event, Comrade Kayode Opeifa, who was represented by Bola Asiru Balogun, said that he is bankrolling the tournament in order to produce talents that would do Lagos State and Nigeria proud. He also stated that the effort is to support government drive to develop sports in the country. Opeifa also expressed hope that the tournament would turn the South west into handball hub in the country. “I must say that my desire is to continue to help develop Nigerian youths through sports and also support government effort to grow sports in the country.” He also noted his desire is to ensure that the product of the tournament forms 50 per cent of the national team in the near future. He also urged the organisers to build on the success of the event, while commending president of the Handball Federation of Nigeria (HFN), Sam Ocheho, Lagos State Sports Commission (LSSC), schools, referees, media and other stakeholders. Director of Sports Development in the LSSC, Moses Kolawole said the product of the event have represented the state in national competitions and done well.  He called on all stakeholders to rally round the organizers to deliver a flawless tournament. He commended the sponsor for contributing to the development of the game in the country and called on others well-meaning individuals and corporate organizations to emulate the kind gesture. Also, Hakeem Olukoga, member of the board of the LSSC, commended the sponsor and urged the teams to exhibit the spirit of sportsmanship throughout the tournament. The defending champions are Archbishop Deacon Adelaja High School (senior boys), Herbert Macaulay Senior High School (senior girls), Herbert Macaulay Boys (Junior Boys) and Herbert Macaulay Girls (Junior Girls). Winners of the edition will get trophies, medals and educational items. 