An ex-CAMPUSLIFE reporter and graduate of Usmanu Danfodiyo University, Sokoto (UDUS), Ibrahim Jatto, has organised El-Critical Writing Contest for student-writers in the institution. The Pen Press, a news medium, which is organising the contest in Jatto’s honour, has called for entries from writers in all departments. Entries will be accepted from students whose writings focus on issues concerning social and academic development in the school. Jatto, who is now the Head of Media and Communications of Kwara Football Academy, said he initiated the contest to discover talents and motivate student-writers to be better. He said: “I feel it is a worthy project to get upcoming writers to write effectively and be trained on becoming professional journalists and resourceful youths to the society. The art of writing, especially on the board of Pen Press, has nurtured me and afforded me a dignified source of livelihood in the media despite having two degrees in sciences.” Being the former Editor-in-Chief of Pen Press, Jatto said he endowed the contest to give back to students through the news platform. He noted that there had been increase in the number of participants since the contest started three years ago. He said the contest had been encouraging students to write and helped the Pen Press to deal with challenge of lack of motivation facing its writers. In addition to awards and books that will be given to winners, there will also be cash prizes and consolation gifts to participants. While encouraging the students to participate in campus journalism, he advised them to take their writings beyond the campus. He urged them to write for national dailies, pointing out that such would help them learn faster. Jamylah Yusuf, winner of the first edition and Editor-in-Chief of Pen Press, told CAMPUSLIFE that the contest gave teeth to her writing potential. She said: “I didn’t foresee I could win the contest, because there were many brilliant writers on campus then. When I was declared the winner of the contest, I was motivated to do more. Afterwards, I have won other prizes and awards, because this writing contest rekindled my spirit.” Sarat Alabidun, who won the 2016 edition, said the contest motivated her. “The El-Critical Contest challenged me. I contested with some of the best writers on campus and I aimed to win. I put in extra effort in my entry. The feat has helped me to accomplish things I thought would not be easy to achieve.”