President Muhammadu Buhari’s ride to power in 2015 was hinged on two assurances—a promise of change and a direct mandate to fight corruption. It therefore did not come as a surprise when Nigeria joined the Open Government Partnership (OGP) in 2016, committing to an alliance for domestic reforms devoted to making government open, accountable, and responsive to citizens. The alliance is a partnership between government ministries, departments and agencies (MDAs), working in collaboration with the civil society on specific commitments. It is focused on the core areas of the National Action Plan developed by stakeholders and is geared towards fiscal transparency-public finance, anticorruption, access to information and citizens engagement.  Passing a verdict on Nigeria’s participation in the international alliance under the Buhari administration, Yusuf Shamsudeen, a senior programme officer with the Centre for Democracy and Development, opined that the inability to officially release an action plan for the National Anticorruption Strategy, a move that is significant to meeting part of the core commitment of the OGP, three years into Buhari’s administration does not argue well for the country’s effort in meeting the commitments of the OGP alliance. While canvasing for journalists to do more stories around OGP in order to mount pressure on government to be proactive, Shamsudeen bemoaned the controversy surrounding the passage of the Proceeds of Crime (POCA) Bill. The POCA bill is aimed at enhancing the process of managing recovered access, by establishing a central agency to manage proceeds recovered from convicted criminals. “…Both the ministry of justice and the EFCC are claiming to have the mandate to manage looted assets. The way out of the rivalry would be the quick passage of the POCA bill which provides for an agency to see to the effective management of recovered assets in order to ensure they are not re-looted,” he told The Nation. Whither the National Action Plan?
As a condition for OGP membership, the Nigerian government, in collaboration with civil society developed a National Action Plan (NAP), which contained concrete commitments with milestones and timelines. Ifeoma Onyebuchi, the OGP contact person at the Public and Private Development Center (PPDC), confirmed that open data, accountability, citizen participation and the use of technology are visible across all the 14 commitments in the NAP. The commitments are embedded in the OGP principles and very pivotal for attaining milestones and impacts key for improved service delivery and social accountability.  According to Onyebuchi, the open contracting commitment under the fiscal transparency theme of the OGP is currently being implemented by the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP), a government agency responsible for building an efficient country procurement system that meets international best practices. The BPP in its aim to leverage on the power of technology through partnership with civil organisations has created the Nigerian Open Contracting Portal (NOCOPO) which is expected to go live during the OGP week which begins on the 7th of May, 2018. The portal is expected to address inadequacies associated with manual contracting by providing citizens with timely access to public finance related data needed for tracking public resources. “…Data related with receipts and expenditure will be proactively published by government agencies, while integrating data standards into record keeping”, Onyebuchi further said on the expectations of NACOPO.
It bears stating that the effectiveness of the portal in fostering citizens participation across governance programmes to promote accountability would be determined in the coming days after the launch. While the government appears to be set on a path of progress in leveraging technology for citizen engagement, the same cannot be said of the commitment to the fiscal transparency agenda of the OGP. Oftentimes, the amount spent on the execution of public projects are often easily accessible. Although the budget office releases implementation report but it is usually not the implementation report of each MDA.
Abayomi Akinbo, a programme officer with BudgIT coordinates the Open Alliance. Assessing Nigeria’s commitment, Akinbo revealed that the Open Budget Survey Index puts Nigeria at a low score of 90 on the 2017 ranking. Nigeria dropped from its initial score of 85 to 90. “This shows that Nigeria needs to do more in improving the openness of its budget details to the people. This goes beyond pushing out the huge figures on the budget, but the capital components of the budget should be known. “The Minister of Finance stated that the FG has released N2.45tn in capital expenditure from the 2017 Budget. However, there are no information on the capital projects funded by this release. Procurement/Open Contracting laws should function optimally, but there is little or no openness around the allocation that went into funding each project,” Akinbo submitted. However, he appears optimistic that an effective implementation of the OGP National Action Plan and the Open Contracting Partnership, would lead to success in Nigeria’s open budget systems.  Accessing information and open data
Information is a key asset in the pursuit of good governance since it increases trust among citizens. It’s left to be seen how the access to information commitment upheld by the NAP would be effective in a nation where issues of public interest are often shrouded in secrecy. In fulfilling the OGP mandate, it appears a challenge identified with compliance is knowledge and capacity on the part of the MDAs who make up government parastatals. Akinbo who further spoke on the progress being made in the area cited the effort of the Access to Information working group. He added that the FOI unit of the ministry of justice is developing a mandatory reporting scheme for all MDAs for uniformity and accountability as well. On proactive disclosure, the PPDC spokesperson, Onyebuchi is of the opinion that the commitment to access of information contained in the NAP will ensure timeliness and compliance of public institutions with the FOI act enacted in 2011. “From our experience in ranking MDAs based on their responsiveness and compliance with the Act annually, we have progressively witnessed improvement in compliance especially in regard to proactive disclosure. Also, MDAs have continued to request for trainings on access to information to help improve their proactive disclosure mechanism”, she said. Although desk officers are being trained on the FOI Act, so they can understand the legality of the information to be provided and the consequences of non-compliance, the reality of the effect of these training differs from the experience of some citizens who have been denied access to information on issues of national interest in some cases. This and many other observations is an indication that Nigeria may be faltering on the Open Government Partnership. Reporting done as part of BudgIT Media Fellowship