  Super Eagles and Chelsea forward Victor Moses says he has forgotten the disappointment of last year in the FA Cup and is determined to help the Blues sing victory song on Saturday. The former Wigan Athletic ace who is one of the players being tipped to shine at the World cup in Russia was handed the marching orders for diving in the encounter that ended 2-1 in favour of Arsenal. Moses however said all that now belongs to the past as another opportunity has presented itself for him to make amends on one hand and for the Blues to claim victory on the other. “It played on my mind a little bit but it’s happened. I can’t rewind it back now,” Nigeria international Moses said, reflecting upon a sapping end to his best campaign as a professional. “It’s just something that happens in football but you’ve got to move on. “It’s definitely the worst feeling I’ve experienced in my career. I want to be on the pitch to help my team-mates and it’s not nice. “But we’re back in another final and I’m looking forward to it.” Chelsea return to Wembley in contrasting shape to a year ago. The defending champions limped to fifth and Conte has fielded questions throughout the campaign over his future – a 3-0 thumping at Newcastle United on the final day of the Premier League season doing little to shake the impression the ex-Italy and Juventus coach’s tenure is drawing to a close. Moses sat that one out at St James’ Park and has urged a diligent focus from his team-mates with silverware at stake. “Every single one of us has got to stay focused, do what the manager asks of us to do on the pitch and try to win,” he said. “It’s always a tough game whenever we play United. They’ve got quality players and so have we. “The most important thing is to stay concentrated and make sure we win it.” Conte and Jose Mourinho’s tempestuous relationship means there will be plenty of focus on the dugouts this weekend, although Moses feels he has nothing to prove to a manager who did not give him the chances to shine granted by his current boss. “To be honest, I just want to play my football,” he added. “It’s nothing to do with Jose. I’m a Chelsea player and winning that final is the most important thing.”      