The Acting Managing Director of Skyways Aviation Handling Company Limited ( SAHCOL), Basil Agboarumi, has canvassed cooperation and merger among airlines and ground handling companies. This, he said, will enable them benefit from economies of scale as well as have an enhanced customer experience in the business where isolation is no longer fashionable. In an interview in Lagos, Agboarumi said rather than engaging in unhealthy competition, ground handling companies should consider ways to assist one another in improving the quality of services to passengers, airlines and others. On airlines, he said merging would reduce cancellations and delay of flights. Agboarumi said such partnership by airlines would increase passengers’ confidence and reduce loses associated with individual carriers running unprofitable operations. He called on the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) to create an enabling regulatory environment to foster such mergers. The  SAHCOL boss said cooperation, mergers and alliances were the operational models adopted by global companies to have the cutting edge. He said: “Where the world is going in aviation is cooperation, you can’t stand alone. As long as you have something to offer in aviation, the time has come whereby stakeholders in the industry must begin to relate with one and other and jointly take decisions that can move the industry forward. “Cooperation is for the best of the industry, we as a company we have identified cooperation as the tonic to build the industry. We will continue to do our best, take the right step and initiative to ensure that what can give us the kind of aviation that we desire in the future is done. there must come to a point whereby we will definitely need ourselves. “In other parts of the world, ground handling companies are pooling resources. It is for us to get to that maturity stage. Even, airlines are cooperating now. When you have airlines in various parts of the world, they complement each other in passenger and cargo operations. We will have better aviation industry once we begin to look at the industry from that perspective.” He expressed optimism that the proposed national carrier would contribute to the growth of the sector. His words: “Now, we are talking of having a national carrier, which we believe will be good for our aviation industry. We have come to a point where we have to realise that there is no Nigeria aviation, but global standards. That is why you see regulators that visit us regularly to determine our level of compliance. It means that we must do things in line with international best practices. “