The Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole, has commended the draft Patients’ Bill of Rights (PBoR), initiated and developed under the leadership of the Consumer Protection Council (CPC). The broad and comprehensive statement of rights of patients, their responsibilities, and obligations of healthcare providers is the largest step yet to protect patients and ensure the highest level of ethical conduct by healthcare professionals as well as enhance the quality and standard of care in the healthcare sector. The Minister’s enthusiasm and support for the initiative which he characterized as impressive, thoughtful and a matter of legacy was apparent and unmistakeable. The Minister made these assertions when CPC’s Director General, Babatunde Irukera led a team of CPC management and the working team on the PBoR to a working meeting with the Minister and leadership of the Ministry of Health on the document. The Minister and members of his team in particular commended the Council for also identifying the responsibility of patients and their families in the entire care value chain and healthcare ecosystem. He noted that he had gone through the document, the Legal Department of the Ministry had vetted it, and now critical senior and relevant directorates of the ministry have contributed to the document. The new Nigerian Medical Association President, Dr. Francis Faduyile, and members of his new executives, who were also on hand, expressed their appreciation for the initiative, and their familiarity with it, as it was part of handing over briefings from the previous and outgone executive team. Irukera, while responding, noted that the PBoR is an example of how the Council can collaborate with professional associations to foster consumer protection, improve internal ethics, and weed out quacks. He remarked that CPC was proud and grateful about the broad consensus and commitment that culminated in the document with all major professional associations in the healthcare sector, including nurses, pharmacists, radiologists, laboratory technologists, among others, working with the CPC in a working group to ensure the final document captures all the salient issues.