Students of Kano State University of Science and Technology ( KUST ) in Wudil, protested the death of a colleague, who drowned and died at Wudil River. The incident occurred late Wednesday evening when three students of the University broke through the fence and went swimming, as one of them got drowned in the course, while the other two were rescued and one later died. Narrating how the incident happened, Mr Yusuf Ibrahim, an eyewitness said: “three students went for swimming and got drowned, two of them managed to survive, while the other one, Farouk Abubakar, drowned. The victim was a Level 300 student of Biology in the faculty of education. Mr Yusuf also said subsequently after rescuing the other two, some students went on rampage vandalizing the school property. The situation later led to chaos, as there was burn fire and property were torched. Speaking on the situation, the University Deputy Head of Information, Protocol and Public Relations Unit, Abdullahi Datti Abdullahi confirmed the demonstration of the students. Shedding more light on the situation, the Vice Chancellor of the University, Shehu Alhaji, said:” the intention is to let you know what the entire community of the University and the Senate has declared Thursday, May 3 and May 4, as non-lecture day in respect of Farouk Abubakar, who drowned and died at River Wudil yesterday. Further to this, semester break begins on Monday, which is May 7 and Friday, May 18, 2018. We expect students to quietly vacate the campus by today (Friday) to proceed on their mid-Semester break. According to the VC, the students shunned pre-warning of the University Security officers against proceeding to the river Wudil. Also, he said the three students encountered swimming challenge, which informed the decision of the University community to promptly mobilize a rescue team, during which two of the students were rescued alive, while the search for the other student is still in progress. ”The late Farouk Abubakar was a level 300 Biology Education student. The parents have since been contacted of the sad incident. The other two students have joined their respective families.