In the past weeks, we have been discussing issues relating to our digestive system. We have taken a look at vomiting, abdominal pain and also diarrhoea. In this week, we will examine constipation which is another common symptom that often takes healthcare user to the healthcare provider. Constipation is a common issue in both adults and children including newborn. Elderly people of both genders are often the targets of constipation. Women by their very nature and biological function may suffer constipation more at the time of pregnancy.   Overall, constipation can be concerning as it could be very distressing to the victims. What is constipation? Constipation is infrequent passage of stools/infrequent bowel movement that is hard and dry. We all have our habits. There are some persons who may pass faeces once a day. There are some passing faeces on every other day and there are others who may just move their bowel twice in a week. If there is significant change in these habits to say, a bowel movement once a week or once in every two weeks despite regular intake of food and water by the sufferer, then the condition of constipation has ensued. As a rule of thumb, constipation should be considered if you have not moved your bowel in a consecutive three days. What causes constipation? The first but by no means the most severe cause, is simply, a change in nutrition and habits of eating. If you used to eat three square meals, but you now eat once a day, it follows that your bowel movement will correspondingly change. If you eat noting, you pass nothing. If you eat frequently and you eat big, it means you may go to move your bowel more frequently in line with your eating and drinking habits. The content of what you eat matter a great deal. If you eat less fibre and vegetables, you move your bowel less as a result. If you eat more of fibre and vegetables, you move your bowel regularly in tandem. Similarly, if you consume a lot of dairy products, you may become constipated. Food may remain in the bowel more in a person who is less active than a very active individual. There are legitimately prescribed medications such as codeine, antidepressants and iron tablets that could result in constipation. Still, antacids for peptic ulcer, calcium and aluminium containing medicines which may give rise to constipation.  Pregnancy is a well-known event that gives pregnant women constipation concerns.  Some medical conditions such as Parkinson’s, underactive thyroid, multiple sclerosis and nerve related diseases of the bowel that may result in constipation. Sadly, cancer of the bowel or surrounding structures and obstructive disease of the bowel are known to cause constipation. As I mentioned earlier, in no other group of individuals is constipation more troublesome than in elderly that are by nature less active, eat less, likely to suffer from cancer, Parkinson’s and use more of constipation causing medications.  Irritable bowel syndrome, depression and anxiety may cause both constipation and diarrhoea. Children and newborn do also suffer from constipation. Newborn fed on artificial foods rather than breast milk, could end up with constipation as are children fed with unbalanced diets. Malnutrition could cause both diarrhoea and constipation in children.  Intestinal obstructions in children are known causes of constipation. How does constipation presents? Abdominal swelling, abdominal pain or discomfort, low appetite, tiredness and irritability may result. What are the solutions? The solutions are in line with the causes. Drink a lot of water with your meals and in-between meals. You need 2-3liters of water or more per day in our environment in Nigeria. Consider balanced diets. More specifically, add fibre, fruits and vegetables to your meals. If you are taking medications that causes you constipation, why not talk to your doctor for a change? I have written on several occasions about the benefits of exercise, I suppose you should consider physical exercise to help relieve you of constipation.  On the other hand, if you suffer from any of the illnesses listed, you may need to talk to your doctor to chart further management options. Acute or sudden onset of constipation with or without vomiting may be a symptom of something more lethal like intestinal obstructions.  You should not delay in seeking help. Constipation with bloody stool or weight loss may be related to cancer.  Talk to a doctor urgently. For medical management, doctors and allied clinicians have various measures that they can take to relieve you of constipations even if your constipation is acute or chronic.