Former Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Deputy Governor and presidential aspirant, Kingsley Moghalu, has promised to deliver “economic” restructuring of Nigeria along the six geopolitical zones, if elected in 2019. Speaking at a town hall meeting, in Awka,  Anambra State, Moghalu said restructuring the country along the geopolitical zones will deliver economy of scale in each zone and prosperity throughout the country. He  was appointed by President Umaru Yar’Adua in 2009 as a Deputy Governor of the CBN, said restructuring on the basis of states, instead of regions, was not economically viable. Moghalu promised he will demonstrate political will and the competence to solve problems that have bedeviled the country for decades, including the fiscal arrangement that serves as disincentive to economic production. Nigeria has a 36-state federal structure, with the Federal Capital Territory, Abuja serving as the seat of the federal government. Major government’s revenues – including oil export proceeds, which account for more than 90 percent of its foreign exchange earnings or 70 percent of its domestic revenues – are shared monthly in Abuja by the three tiers of government: federal, state and local. This system has continued to fuel agitation for the regions or states of the federation to “control” revenue generated in their domain and pay taxes to maintain the federal government in Abuja, in accordance with the principle of “fiscal federalism.” This agitation, most vociferous in the oil-producing regions of the Niger Delta, has gained wider political support and favourable analysis of economic experts who believe that fiscal federalism would help unleash the comparative advantage of each of the regions of the country, thereby boosting productivity and economic growth of the country. Moghalu has lent support for the restructuring of the country to deliver economic viability and as a key policy ingredient for economic transformation. He said he will deliver, through a constitutional process, the restructuring of Nigeria within the first two years of his administration, if elected in 2019.