Fresh students of the College of Education, Nsukka, Enugu State, have been advised against laziness and vices that can derail their academic pursuit in the college. The students were told that their graduation in record time would not be guaranteed without perseverance and hard work. The college’s Acting Provost, Dr Okwudili Nwosu, gave the advice at the 11th matriculation. He urged the students to make judicious use of their time and explore their potential, noting that certificates would only be issued based on character and academic performance. “As you have been formally admitted in the college today, you should be reminded that hard work and excellent performance in academics should be your watchwords. Be conscious of your parents’ sacrifices and contributions to your life pursuits and their expectations from you. “You should make a personal commitment, bearing in mind that your admission does not necessarily guarantee that you must graduate from the college within the stipulated three-year period of your programmes. You must be up and doing to avoid delay,” he said. Nwosu assured the students of a conducive environment, stressing that management remained committed to their welfare and would provide necessary facilities that would enhance teaching and learning. According to the acting provost, cyber café, e-library, well-equipped language laboratory as well as campus-wide internet network will be made available in the college’s campuses at Agu-Echara and Ibagwa-Ani. Nwosu advised the students against joining secret cults and other outlawed organisations, reiterating that the college maintained zero tolerance for examination malpractices, violent protests and indecent dressing, among others. He enjoined parents and guardians to work in partnership with the college to give the students good education. Some of the freshers pledged to be of good character and dedicate energy to their programmes. One of them, Miss Juliet Onyebuchi of the departments of Social Studies and Political Science Education, promised to keep to the rules and regulations of the college. Over 400 students took oath of admission into the various programmes offered by the college.