Cowbell Chocolate, a brand of Promasidor Nigeria Limited, has entered into partnership with Supa Strikas, an iconic football property for young people. Speaking on the deal, the Head of Legal/PR, Promasidor Nigeria, Mr. Andrew Enahoro, said the Cowbell Chocolate collaboration would leverage the publication’s monthly comic series and weekly animated TV shows, which premiered last month, to inspire kids and teenagers positively. He noted that the partnership was to reignite courage among young people and help them develop the ‘can-do’ enthusiasm. According to him, “This partnership leverages the serialized comic strips which is released monthly as well as the comic TV series that started showing on dedicated TV stations across the country recently. “The story of Supa Strikas is that of imagination and doggedness. It is unique but familiar, daring but interesting. Young people are capable of achieving any feat, and we must develop this capacity positively. Somebody must inspire them to think beyond what they see as limitations. This comic series is a positive inspiration.” Enahoro further said: “We at Promasidor Nigeria have always identified with initiatives and ideas that help children and youths to positively harness their potential, hence we are part of this noble initiative. This partnership is about changing the narrative. Our kids deserve a mode edifying upbringing.” The Marketing Manager of Promasidor, Mr. Abiodun Ayodeji, added, “Cowbell Chocolate is fortified with the essential vitamins and iron, giving younger people the energy to ‘Get Up N Go’. As part of our brand promise of raising healthy, energetic and fun-loving young kids, we needed to leverage their passion and pass our message – ‘Get Up N Go’ succinctly. For us, the Supa Strikas partnership ties seamlessly into what we intend to achieve.” The Supa Strikas property debuted in 2001 as a printed comic book series. By 2010, the monthly print run had grown to over 1 million comic books distributed across 19 countries in Africa, Europe, Latin America and South East Asia, making it the largest circulating monthly comic book in the world. To coincide with the 2010 World Cup in South Africa, the first Supa Strikas television series was launched globally. Now in its 6th season, the series airs in over 100 countries and 19 different languages, with a range of top class broadcasters, including Disney and Nickelodeon. Promasidor Nigeria’s corporate social responsibilities, which target children and youth population, cut across sports, education and capacity building. Some notable ones are Cowbellpedia, Promasidor’s Harness Your Dream, Loya Swim Meet andthe Quill Awards.