Vice President, Nigerian Bar Association (NBA) Mr Monday Ubani on Thursday said that for the country to move forward, it has to be restructured. Ubani who said that ” the country is no longer working” also  emphasized, “there is no viable option left except we restructure the country”. He stated this on Thursday at a press conference he addressed on the state of the nation in Ikeja titled: “Restructure the country, Nigeria or Nigeria may die an unnatural death”. He noted that the country has not been able to make progress because of the unitary system introduced into the body politics by the military. He said the starting point will be to revisit the 2014 report of the National Conference to move the country forward. “Whether anyone likes it or not or wants to hear it or not, the truth of the matter is that Nigeria has a fundamental foundational issue which we need to deal with. But unfortunately we have failed, refused and or neglected to deal with it to our great detriment. “Previous and past governments have paid lip service to it even when they found out the truth that the country cannot make much progress with the present structure in place. The present structure is bogus, over bureaucratic, over centralized, oppressive, devoid of Justice and equity. The structure encourages laziness, lack of competitive spirit that was prevalent in our polity in the early sixties due to the apparent adherence to the tenets of operational federalism. “Today what we operate is highly distorted economy, the federal taking everything that belongs to the federating units and gathering the states in Abuja for handouts monthly whereas the proper system would have been the various federating units paying certain percentage of what they have gathered in the federating units for the maintenance of a leaner, more efficient and adequately compensated public service”, he stated. Ubani commended President Muhammadu Buhari and the law makers on the ‘not too young to rule bill’ signed into law yesterday, noting “it is what is in operation in developing countries which take time to develop their leaders”. He lamented that nothing seems to have been done to develop future leaders for the country. He noted: “we have a lot of young people who have the zeal, wisdom, brains to lead instead of recycling the old people whose ideas have become archaic”. He however emphasized: “if we get the issue of leadership right but refused to restructure, we are getting nowhere”. Ubani urged the electorates to demand any aspiring politician to swear to a written affidavit on oath to restructure Nigerian upon winning and assumption of office in 2019. “We have no time, 2019 is around the corner and election of new public officers will soon commence. Let Nigerians demand any aspiring politician to swear to ‘a written affidavit on oath to restructure Nigerian upon winning and assumption of office at Aso Villa.That  should be the minimum requirement. ” Let us stop beating about the bush,  Nigeria is not working and may not work unless we address our defective and unhealthy structure that is clearly defective. There is no viable alternative to a comprehensive restructuring of this polity if Nigeria would be united, peaceful and prosperous. Irrespective of whatever any one at any level thinks, if Nigeria is to actualise its manifest destiny as the leading Black nation, there is no viable alternative to its comprehensive restructuring. ” He declared that the starting point should be with the implementation of some of the recommendations of the  2014 National Conference. On the legal side, Ubani described as “media trial” and  “unhealthy for the country”,  the parade of suspects by the police without having been pronounced guilty by a law court. “It is important we begin to emphasis that the issue of parading suspect is wrong. An accused person alleged to have committed a crime should be taking to court. Nigeria should follow international law practice.”