THE main contending factions in the ward, council and state congresses in Ogun State All Progressives Congress (APC) have resolved to work together in the party’s interest. Some members are loyal to Governor Ibikunle Amosun, and others to former Governor Olusegun Osoba. A meeting yesterday in Abeokuta, the state capital, may be a turning point in the three-year old crisis. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that some Osoba loyalists, who attended the meeting with the governor’s team, include Sen. Adegbenga Kaka, Sen. Gbenga Obadara, Sen. Akin Odunsi, Adekunle Adeyemi,  Abiodun Adudu-Balogun and  Bukola Braimoh. Prominent political leaders, representing the three senatorial districts, are called the ‘Abuja team’, because they served in the 7th National Assembly. Speaking to NAN, Osoba confirmed that the meeting had his blessing. “Peace, progress and unity in Ogun is of paramount importance. The meeting by the leaders of the senatorial districts has only one message. And that message is that the All Progressives Congress in Ogun State is one,” he told NAN on phone. The ex-governor said efforts toward reconciliation had never ceased and that what was playing out was a reflection of such effort. “By July I am going to be 79. I must reiterate that I feel insulted when people insinuate that there is a rivalry between me and the governor. I respect the governor. He is the chief executive. He is the head of Ogun State. “Therefore, I must accord him all necessary respect due to his office, which I once held on two different occasions. There is nothing like a rivalry,” he said. NAN learnt that others at the meeting include the Ogun Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Barrister Taiwo Adeoluwa and several state commissioners. In another separate interview with NAN, Sen. Kaka, a former deputy governor of the state, corroborated Osoba’s endorsement of the peace parley. “We gathered to reconcile the party. Those issues that brought about discord have come and gone for good. As we go into party congresses, we expect less of acrimony and more of collaboration and unity,” he said. Kaka, who represented Ogun East until 2015, is believed to be one of the front-runners for governor on the platform of APC in 2019. He told NAN that Amosun would be one of those to determine who governs Ogun in 2019. Similarly, and according to him, Osoba would also be another deciding factor. “I can say I have the support of both Gov. Amosun and our leader, Chief Osoba. They are both indigenes of the state. Consequently, they both have a say in the race; like every indigene of the state. “Since October 2017, I told both of them my ambitions. But beyond that, I rely mostly on the decision of God. “On geo-political sensibilities, I must confess that I am not concerned about such feelings. The most important thing on my mind is service to the people. Those whose preoccupations lie in drumming up cleavages can continue to worry about such,” he said. 