Latep Dabang was elected chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Plateau State during the recent congress. He spoke with YUSUS IDEGU in Jos, the state capital, on why the exercise was peaceful, his vision for the chapter and how the party can retain power in the Northcentral state. What is your assessment of the congresses in Plateau State APC? The ward congress in Plateau State was largely successful. It started smoothly and ended smoothly without rancor. We only had very minimal challenge in Kanam local government, which was immediately resolved. The second one, which was the local government congress, was 100 per cent successful. The Congress Appeal Committee sent by the National Working Committee (NWC) was just on holiday. We crown it all with the state congress which recorded another huge success. That is the story of Plateau State. We don’t have factions here. We went into the congresses as people of one family nd we round it up remaining one indivisible big APC family. The national congress officials who were saddled with the responsibility of conducting the exercise arrived on good time for the exercise and the materials were made available. The only challenge was that of late arrival of congress materials in some remote wards especially in Plateau South and parts of Plateau Central, there are some wards that it will take you three hours for you to get there. In such areas, the materials arrived a little late. Apart from that the entire exercise was a huge success in the state. The congress was rancorous in some states, but yours was so peaceful, what magic did you performed to achieve that? The magic was simple; after the resolution of the National Executive Council (NEC) of the party that declared that we should go for the congresses, I came back, summon the stakeholders, to inform them of the decision of NEC to go for congresses, and to also inform them of the resolution reached by NEC on the conduct of the congress. The resolutions includes; That the zoning arrangements be retained in all the states of the Federation. That is, anyone vying for any of the positions at the wards, local government, states and at the national level should contest from the zone where the incumbents comes from. Secondly, it was also the resolution of NEC that those who are in office who are required to resign three months to the congress if the wish to re-contest were granted waivers due to time factor. The second aspect of the waiver was that members who decamped from other political parties and join APC who were yet to be given membership registration of the party were also given waiver so that they will not be disenfranchised during the congress. Because the party constitution says you have to be a card carrying member of the party before you contest any election, and since they came, the process of registration of the new members has not been done in many states. For us in Plateau, we would not have been affected because we did the registration of decampees before we went into primaries for the local government election, so we have registered our own decampees in Plateau state but since majority of the state have not done it, NEC did resolve to give them waiver. But, the waiver has a proviso. Your name must be on the registered party members at your ward. Then, the third resolution of NEC was as much as possible. The congress must be devoid of rancor and acrimony. NEC encourage the states to go on consensus so as to minimise the frictions that is always associated with such exercise. So, we educated our stakeholders on all these modalities in our state executive council meeting. Then, zonal stakeholders were mandated to go back to their zones and sensitize their people, the same thing was to be done at the local governments and ward levels. Of course, in carrying out the responsibility, series of meetings were held at all levels preaching the idea of a rancor-free congresses. You know in Plateau, we have our own little security challenges. So, we have to do more work to ensure a peaceful exercise. It will be so foolish of us as a party to do anything that will truncate the good work done by the state governor Simon Lalong to restore peace, we are very sensitive of the fact that the state government is embarking on peace building, and we don’t need to do anything to bring the state another round of conflict, and so we saw that it is easier for us to go by consensus that election. So, if we have performed any magic, this is how we did it. We put into consideration the fragile nature of our security and decided to go by consensus. But we did not stop at that. We made sure we used the radios and television to sensitise everyone in the state about the congress and the modalities. So, all the local government agreed that they were going to do affirmation instead of election. The message was further taken to the wards, we spent weeks and days sensitizing our people on the need to have a rancor-free congress. A lot of efforts were put in place to let the people realize that we need to work like a family and not as enemies. Apart from that, the governor, Simon Lalong, mobilised his political appointees to go back to their local governments and ensure they sensitise their people so as to have a peaceful congress. It was a marching order he gave his appointees. So both government and the party play combined role to make sure our congress come out as the most peaceful in the country. But even at that the security agencies were also proactive on their job, they were on ground in all the wards in good numbers and on time, their presence alone gave people confidence and fear that security is taking the issue very serious. Why did the party opted for consensus instead of election during the congress? The constitution of the party has two methods of election for its offices. It stipulates voting and consensus. The two methods are method of election, which were recommended by the technical committee. If you chose to do by election, there will be voting. If you chose to do consensus, there will also be voting. In consensus, you do voice voting and the raising of hands. So if the party chooses to go by consensus, it has not deviated from that recommendation of the technical committee. The fact still remain that, if a particular local government or ward decided to go by consensus, it does not stop other aspirants for any position to contest. You will still be allowed to buy form and contest. The major problem we are having in an exercise like this is that some members of the party are not conversant with the constitution of the party. They don’t even know the guidelines of the party. So, such people go about with their ignorance causing troubles for the party. If as a party member you disagree on the consensus adopted by the party, you can still go ahead, purchase form and contest. All you need to do is to go to any of the banks approved by the party, pay for the form, come with the evidence of payment to the party office and you will be give the form. Some stakeholders of the party in the state are alleging that you hijacked the forms meant for those who wanted to contest the  chairmanship against you, that you are depriving others from purchasing the form so that you will be the sole candidate. What is your comment on this? This allegation is even coming when the forms for state chairmanship contest has not even reach the state. The forms we have at the state secretariat of the party at the moment are forms for ward congress and local government congress. Who ever that is alleging that I have hijacked a form that has not reached the state party secretariat should be asked to tell how that was possible. The officials that will conduct the state congress has not even be named, talk less of sending nomination forms for that contest. This is to tell you how mischievous some people can be, and that is why reasonable people should not belief all these mischief makers calling themselves party stakeholders. The congress guidelines are very clear, if you must contest the state Chairman of the party, you have to come from Pankshin local government where the slot has been zoned to, if you are not from that zone, please don’t go and spend your money to purchase form, try and first understand what your party is saying. If the party has agreed on zoning, please try and contest from that zone, don’t come and cause confusion for the party. Is it true that the state congress from which you emerged as the sole candidate was challenged by one of the contestants? I appeared before the appeal committee as a loyal party member. I went there with facts to condemn the lies continued in that petition against my election. In the first place, the petitioner, one Johnson Podar, who claimed to be a member of APC in the state, could not justify his membership of the party when both of us appeared before the committee. The petitioner would have misled the committee, if I had not gone there to expose the fraud contained in that very petition. For instance, the first page of the petition indicated that it was written by one Johnson Podar who claimed to be a member of this great party an attempted to contest the position of state chairman of the party. The petitioner alleged that he registered in his ward, he even displayed photocopy of his registration card. He not only claimed he is a registered member, he also alleged he is a delegate to the state congress, that he was elected as state delegate by his ward. But, unfortunately for the petitioner, the congress officials came from Abuja. They came with lists of delegates elected at the wards and the local government congress, and that list is clearly endorsed by secretaries of the wards and local governments officials. The petitioner is from Fier ward in Gindiri, Mangu local government of the state, and he claimed he has the endorsement of his party leaders. This is false because the list of delegates brought from Abuja as endorsed by the delegate committee, if you look at the column of names of delegates from Fier ward, you can’t find his name. The guidelines of the party is very clear that five persons must be elected at the wards for the state congress, one of whom must be a female. In the list of delegates from Fier, there is no name like Johnson Podar. The petitioner displayed his membership card to support his claim that he is a registered member of APC, this card look strange to the one we know in APC, an original APC membership card is customized and has a code, the code of that of Fier ward begins with 0300. And Pankshin local government has a code that is PL/PAN. But strangely enough, that of the petitioner has a code that is completely different from the one we know in APC. His own card does not bear date of registration, but that of original card bear date of registration. If his membership card bears date of registration we would have enter it into the data bank at the National Secretariat to confirm its authenticity, so I advise the appeal committee not to stop at taking verbal evidence, you can take this to Abuja and verify from the data bank of members of the party. This is a clear case of forgery to enable him manipulate the process. The registration we are talking about was conducted in 2015. As at that period the petitioner was in PDP, he remained in PDP until after 2015 election. So, how come he became a registered member of APC. Assuming he joined the party like hundreds of other decampees who joined the ruling party after the 2015 are yet to get their membership card, which is why the party gave them waiver to contest or participate in the party congresses. But on the condition that the name of such decampee must be in the register at the ward level. We received all the decampees through the process of registration, we did not receive them verbally. So even if you don’t have the membership card, you must have been registered as one of the decampees from your ward. So for you to participate in the party congress, you must be a card carrying member, or if you are a decampee, you name must be in the register at your ward. These register are maintained at the ward level because that was where they were registered. The petitioner is also parading an appointment letter as a member of President Buhari Campaign Organisation. But, as far as APC is concerned, membership of campaign organisation cannot be substituted as party membership. Anybody can belong to a campaign organisation, including people who do not have a political party like civil society organisations, NGOs etc can be member of campaign organisation, that does not give you automatic membership of the party. I can recall that, the former factional national chairman of PDP, Ali Modu Sheriff went to the National Secretariat of APC with intention to join the party, he was directed to his ward to go and register. The same petitioner had appeared before the ward and local government congress appeal committee where he was rejected, because leaders from his former party CPC came before the committee to reveal to the committee that Johnson Podar is no longer a member of CPC. That he was the governorship candidate of the CPC in 2011 and that after the election, he wrote to the party officially that he he has resigned his membership of CPC, he then decamped to PDP. Even during the merger of various political parties that formed APC, I was a member of the merger committee, the name of Johnson Podar was never there in that movement, he was never a member of CPC. We maintain a long list of stakeholders local governments by local governments, which are in the hands of our local government party chairmen, Johnson Podar is not on that list and he has never attended any APC meeting until this congress was arranged. Clearly, this petitioner was on a mission to destabilize the party in the state, he might be an agent been used by certain forces to destroy APC. Some critical stakeholders boycotted the congress. Minister for Youths and Sports refused to participate in the congress. Are you not worried with the development? I’m not worried at all. How should I be worried when my Minister is with the president during congress. It could be that Mr. President had assignment for him to carry out in Daura. So, I don’t see anything wrong with that. Did the Minister say he went to Daura just to boycott the congress? He has not told me that. But, the question you should ask the Minister is this: if the president of the country who appointed him will go to his home town Daura for the congress, what stops him as a minister to refused to go to his own village in Langtang south for the same Congress. But like I said earlier, may be, Mr. President had another assignment for him in Daura, else, nothing stop him from coming to his ward for the congress. I expect the journalists to look for him and ask him. Were you cleared by the appeal committee after all? The committee needs to submit their reports and findings to Abuja. May be, after then, they will officially communicate me. But all I know is that, the petitioner could not justify his claims and allegation that he was disenfranchised at the congress, he could not even justify his membership of the party, that means, he has no bases to petition the committee. The committee clearly advised him to follow the due process and join the party formally. The committee also devised me to accept his membership if he come through the proper channels of registration.