A group, Activists United Against Graft and Anti-People Policies (AUGAPOL) has called on members of the union- Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) to obey the court injunction to call off the strike they embarked on. It is on record that JOHESU embarked an indefinite strike since 17th April, this year, which has entered its seventh week. Speaking in Lagos, National Coordinator, AUGAPOL, Comrade Mark Adebayo said in the National Industrial Court of Nigeria, in the Abuja Judicial Division, Holden at Abuja in SUIT NO: NICN/ABJ/138/2018 has prayed JOHESU (Ex-parte Application) praying for the following orders- An Order of Interim Injunction compelling the striking members of the Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) to immediately resume duties at the various health institutions across Nigeria. According to Comrade Adebayo if JOHESU does not obey the Court ruling then there will be anarchy because that amounts to not obeying Rule of Law. Comrade Adebayo reasoned that when the strike is over, and there are resolutions on the issues lives lost during the ongoing strike won’t be able to be regained, as he added, “JOHESU must go a little further to consider the consequences of its decision or pronouncement on the larger society. Who are members of the larger society I am referring to? These are innocent members of the society who are the worst hit of the ongoing strike.” He said the question here is who will suffer more if JOHESU refused to grant this application, who will suffer irreparable loss or losses? “The answer is short and quite simple. It is the innocent members of the public who are being denied access to Health Institutions where the striking health personnel are working. It is not in doubt that at the end of tunnel the issues relating to the strike will be resolved but it is of a general knowledge that those innocent Nigerians who have died and those who may die if not given medical attention will not and cannot be brought back to life again. To me, this is the irreparable loss or losses I have earlier on referred to. In consequences of all the above and having considered the balance of the legal imaginary scale, which I am of the view tilts in favour of granting the application as against refusing same,” said Comrade Adebayo. He described the strike as being ill-timed, as he explained, “this has ultimately affected patients and the ongoing infrastructural development in the health sector. While we also share the belief that every worker is due for his or her wages as negotiated and agreed upon on contractual basis and the utmost conception that the welfare and working condition of Nigerian workers should not be toyed with, it has become imperative to call on the Federal Government of Nigeria to be assertive in dealing rightfully with health sector workers so as to rescue Nigerians from  the undeserving torture we are passing through since the commencement of the industrial action. We even propose a constitutional intervention to strictly regulate industrial disputes and resolutions in a way that would not amount to a loss of human lives. If military and police personnel are constitutionally restricted from going on strike because of the important nature of their jobs, we believe that medical personnel, who play more important roles of saving lives should naturally fall within this circle while robust provisions are made in the constitution for them to negotiate for better conditions of service.” Comrade Adebayo enjoined the Federal government and its representatives, especially the Minister of Health, Prof Isaac Adewole to put in place a reconciliatory process. His words: “Prof Isaac Adewole must act decisively now. The lives of Nigerians searching for good and qualitative healthcare delivery should be a subject of utmost importance especially at a time when there is an outbreak of Cholera in some parts of Nigeria. The number of casualties recorded so far in the wake of the ongoing strike is alarming.  The recent return of Ebola in the DRC is also a bad signal that requires vigilance and surveillance; which would require the full cooperation of all health professionals to keep the disease at bay.” AUGAPOL call on all Nigerians to rise to the occasion and compel JOHESU to see reason and return to work especially in the light government’s concession to some of their demands. “Failure by JOHESU to consider the humanitarian aspects of their agitation and return to work in the next 24 hours must attract comprehensive and decisive actions by the government to stop needless Nigerian deaths by the reckless and inconsiderate narrow interests of a few. No union or group of individuals should be allowed to hold the whole country to ransom,” said Comrade Adebayo.