The lawmaker representing Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State, Mr Iduma Igariwey Enwo, has advised President Muhammadu Buhari to adopt a sociological approach to complement the legal method being used to fight corruption. He spoke at an international conference organised by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Enugu State. INYA AGHA-EGWU reports. Nigeria’s poor rating in the global corruption index report released by the Transparency International (TI) was the theme of discussion at an international conference organised by the Department of Sociology and Anthropology, University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), Enugu State. The keynote speaker, Mr Iduma Enwo Igariwey, who is also a member of the House of Representatives, said the TI report was a setback for the Federal Government’s effort at stamping out corruption in the country. He said the development should be of “serious concern” to the country, having invested resources and promulgated laws to combat the scourge. The report, which showed that the country has not fared better in the global corruption index, the lawmaker said, should be a wake-up call for President Muhammadu Buhari and his team to change tactics and the methodology used to fight corruption. Speaking on the theme: Corruption and governance in Nigeria: The bankruptcy, problematic and limitations of the legislative tool, Igariwey said corruption had remained endemic in spite of several anti-graft legislations introduced and the establishment of regulatory agencies saddled with the responsibility to fight corruption. The lawmaker, who represents Afikpo North/Afikpo South Federal Constituency of Ebonyi State, said reliance on legislation alone as a weapon against corruption was a waste of effort that had not produced any positive results. Igariwey noted that post-colonial administrations in Nigeria had adopted different legal approaches to curb corruption, but to no avail. He highlighted some of the measures introduced to include the enactment of the Criminal and Penal Codes for Public Officers (investigation of assets) Decree No 5 of 1966, Corrupt Practices Decree No 38 of 1975; Code of Conduct Bureau enshrined in the 1979 and 1999 Constitutions; Recovery of Public Property (Special Military Tribunals) Decree of 1983, and the Corrupt Practices and other Related Offences Act of 2000. Other existing anti-graft measures, according the legislator, include the Economic and Financial Crimes Act of 2002, Money Laundering Prevention and Prohibition Act of 2011, repealed and re-enacted in 2016 and the Mutual Legal Assistance in Criminal Matters Bill of 2016. He blamed the prevalence of corruption on colonial experience, which, he said, eroded the value of honesty and hard work. He said: “In spite of these efforts, it is a fundamental truth that corruption has refused to retreat an inch. It has rather become more endemic and entrenched in our national life. The reality of our colonial experience is that, we have been reduced to a people who have lost values in honesty and hard work.” Assessing the performance of President Buhari’s anti-corruption methodology, Igariwey said nothing had changed, adding that the situation had gone from bad to worse. He said: “Under the current administration, it has business as usual as corruption cases are prosecuted more in the media than in the law courts. Nigeria’s institutional fight against corruption has degenerated to the sordid, despicable show of shame as typified by the blame game by the All Progressives Congress (APC) and Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) as observed when the so-called looters’ lists were released.” Proffering ways out, Igariwey suggested a paradigm shift from the current “legalistic approach” to “sociological approach” to tackle the menace. He said there was need for sociological solution, which, he said, entailed development and promotion of a shared national value based on honesty. He maintained that honest means of livelihood should not only be emphasised in legislations, but should be implemented in Nigeria’s education system. According to the lawmaker, honesty must be a national value system. There should be “a condition precedent to the efficacy of extant legislative and legalistic approach in the fight against corruption”. Igariwey noted that the culture of general acceptance of sleaze, permission of dishonest means of livelihood and acquisition of questionable wealth remained the cause of institutional corruption, adding that such had given rise to cronyism, nepotism and prebendalism within the government. The lawmaker submitted that the phenomenon of corruption in the country remained a social problem that could only be tackled by a harmonious and symbiotic interaction between the legal and social systems. He praised the department for creating discussion on issues affecting the development of the country. Head of Sociology and Anthropology Department, Prof Nkoli Ezuma, said the purpose of the conference was to galvanise the “Town and the Gown” to proffer sociological solutions to challenges facing the nation. She said: “Some of the challenges we face in this country are sociological in nature and they require sociological solutions. “The conference seeks to engage the Town and the Gown to cross-fertilise ideas that can help the nation surmount its challenges. The conference is a homecoming event for alumni of our department and we are happy to welcome them from different parts of the world.” She urged the alumni to contribute to the development of the department, pleading with them to help the department in its effort at providing furniture for a building donated in honour of Prof B.I.C. Ijeoma.