Overall winner in the Juju category of the just concluded 2018 Ariya Repete Talent Hunt, Ayodele Olatunji has said that the cash prize presented  to him for emerging winner of the  competition will surely transform his family life for the better, just as he is planning to acquire some musical instrument to boost his art. “This is the opportunity of a lifetime and I give glory to God for this win. It didn’t come by my power. I just want to appreciate God and Goldberg Lager Beer for this great opportunity. With this two million naira, I will buy some of the music instruments needed for my shows and make significant change in the life of my family, N2m and the Goldberg ambassadorship status will change the fortune of my family for good.”  Ayodele said. Recall that the Goldberg’s Ariya Repete talent hunt lasted three months with display of superb music by about 5000 up and coming acts across the South West of Nigeria and Ilorin. The road to the finale was a long one, as each contestant who progressed from the audition stage went through rigorous grooming and mentorship sessions at the Ariya Academy. Eventually, out of about 5000 contestants, only 16 made it to the finale in Ibadan, after they were selected from the 40 that slugged it out in the Lagos semi-finales. It was a blend of fun and serious business as all the finalists treated the audience to rich renditions of their severally rehearsed and composed songs, in the end, Ayodele Olatunji emerged winner in the juju music category. Ayodele, a National Diploma certificate holder from the Federal Polytechnic Ado-Ekiti, has a rather peculiar aura to his sound. His brash delivery on classic melodies stood him out. In addition to the beautiful performances by the contestants, there were also scintillating performances by Juju music greats, including a veteran like King Sunny Ade. Admonishing the winners, Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc., Mr. Franco Maria Maggi said, “Ariya Repete has brought you forth to limelight, I therefore implore you to be good ambassadors of the platform. Mere congratulating you today will not be enough, but I must enjoin you to represent this platform well, being the one that seeks to discover and promote indigenous Yoruba music genres and has made you the newest Fuji and Juju superstars in Nigeria,” he said. He challenged the other contestants to keep alive their dreams, saying that they are all winners and must remain good ambassadors that should represent their state musical passions in a positive light. The event was witnessed by The Oyo State Commissioner of Information, Arts and Culture, Mr. Toye Arulogun, The Special Assistant to the Oyo State Governor on Youth and Sport, Honorable Bolaji Repte,  Top Nollywood Stars including Yemi Solade, Sanyeri, Kamilu, Adedamola Olatunji, Dele Fagboyo the Anchor of Aajiirebi and Odunlade Adekola who anchored the event. Also speaking at the event, Funso Ayeni, Senior Brand Manager, Regional Mainstream Brands, Nigerian Breweries Plc said, “I congratulate the winners for aspiring to become the future stars of Fuji and Juju music as well as traditional drumming and I charge you to be of good conduct in the industry to attain greater heights like the veterans we have today.” The Ariya Repete 2018 started in Abeokuta with a Roundtable discussion involving key stakeholders in the music, art and culture sector. It is a yearly talent competition that aims to discover, develop and promote talents in the indigenous Yoruba music of Fuji and Juju genres, including drumming, as a way of helping to preserve the Yoruba rich musical and cultural heritage.