•’Those who own the party have spoken’ ALL Progressives Congress (APC) National Leader Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu has hailed the congress conducted in Lagos State at the weekend. Congress, he said, was conducted in line with the guiding laws of the party. “The people who own the party have spoken and chosen their leaders. The success of the congress held confirms the tradition of robust democracy and consensus-building that has brought progressive development to our state,” Tinubu said. He hailed Senator Uche Ekwunife, who led the state Congress Organising Committee, and her team for conducting a free, fair and transparent exercise and for demonstrating commitment to the progress and success of the party. Tinubu congratulated the newly-elected state executives and urged them to further promote unity and inclusiveness in APC. He spoke on Saturday when he received the new executives during their visit to his Bourdilion, Ikoyi residence after their victory. The former governor urged them to rededicate themselves to the party and work to take it to the new level, saying winning all political contests became the party’s hallmark in Lagos. He thanked the former executives led by Chief Henry Ajomale for their unparalleled stewardship that saw the party growing stronger, broader and more relevant. The party stalwart lauded them for the steady way they led the party and maintaining discipline and cohesion through the years. “The outgoing executives led by Chief Ajomale did a wonderful job. He led the party with a unity of purpose underpinned by the spirit of inclusiveness and purpose. Under them we never lost any election. We will not lose any election but this depends on how you handle your new responsibilities,” he said. Tinubu said new chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, was no stranger to him and no stranger to responsibility, adding that as commissioner during his administration, he performed well. The APC National Leader expressed confidence in his ability to lead the party and to deliver the good. Balogun was commissioner for Home Affairs and Culture during Tinubu’s tenure as governor. The new chairman thanked the APC national leader and pledged to work hard to take the party to the next level.  