As the Nigeria clashed with the Leopards of Democratic Republic of Congo on Monday, Star Lager beer fetes Super Eagles fans with live football viewing lace with Naija vibe musics in Port Harcourt. The Super Eagles Official Beer Partner treated to the football national team fans to premium entertainment experience in the hours leading up to the match with in-bar excitement experience at its Star Fan Park. Turntable specialist and artiste DJ Neptune, had hundreds of music and football fans singing along to songs off his latest album ‘The Greatness’ as they cheered on the Super Eagles on the night. The fans were given exclusive invites for special viewing of the match at its upscale viewing centres equipped with impressive giant screens and exquisite as expected the fans laced up with ice cold Star Lager beer and delicious canapes as they enjoyed the match. Before the comment of the match at 5pm, the football fans in their hundreds had access to varieties of Star themed games as well as raffle draws and giveaways to end the night. One of the lucky winners,  Victor Sose, expressing his delight, said, “I am super happy to have won this prize on this night celebrating the Super Eagles. It is an honour to be part of this Star Fan Park experience and I hope there will be more to come.”  Highlighting the brand’s commitment to Nigerian football fans and the Super Eagles, Senior Brand Manager, Star Lager Beer, Nigerian Breweries Plc, Abayomi Abidakun  stated that, “Star Lager beer is committed to providing the best football and entertainment offering to the fans, as we continue our united support for the Super Eagles. Our goal since we started the Star Fan Parks is to continually upgrade the execution from city to city, and we can promise fans in Nigerian a much bigger and better experience when the games eventually begin in Russia in June.”  Star Lager, an iconic national premium product, brewed by Nigerian Breweries Plc, a Heineken Company, will also be hosting a series of exclusive events in honour of the Super Eagles before their departure to Russia. This special event, the multi-city Star Fan Parks and all other Super Eagles related activities being organised by the Star Lager brand all come on the heels of its landmark deal with the Nigerian Football Federation (NFF) which was signed earlier in the year. 