“I’m a young lady of 23. I got married to my husband at the age of 20 while still in the university and i don’t have kids yet. As a young girl i grew up with the mindset that all i needed in life was to get married to a rich man and I’m good. However, as i grew older i realized that i wanted more out of life than to be a rich man’s wife. I want to pursue my dreams and career. My marriage on the other hand is just full of one issue or another. I’m not happy 95% of the time. The only advantage in my marriage is that i have comfort. My hubby does not support my ambitions, he feels my only ambition in life should be to help him achieve he’s. He doesn’t let me in on whatever plans or decisions he makes. I’m like a stranger in my home because most times i usually hear things about him from outsiders or when he’s on the phone. He doesn’t even trust me. He is very insecure and it scares me because he’s violent. He used to hit me although I’m not totally convinced that he has changed for good. He always wants to make trouble when things don’t go his way. He’s very controlling and abusive so much so that he made me believe that I’m nothing without him and i became depressed and suicidal at some point. My hubby is very rich yet we haven’t had any sort of wedding whether traditional, legal or religious. The only thing he did was just traditional rites and payment of dowry. And not a single document has my name on it, not even the cars i drive. He cheats and never takes responsibility for his actions. Oh! And he has a son with another woman. We have totally different views on almost everything. Despite being married to a rich man I’m poor. He’d rather provide whatever i need than give me the money. There’s a whole lot to talk about but let me stop here. Here’s the issue, I’ve left this guy three times in d past and he comes back begging with a truckload of promises which he hardly fulfills, and every time i go back to him because i love him and I’m willing to make it work and also because I don’t believe in myself enough to succeed on my own. I’m so confused .”   You can also share your story with us @info@thenationonlineng.net 