There are a plethora of activities at the ongoing Cannes International Film Festival in France, but Nigeria is not lost in the crowd, as Lagos State hoists the nation’s flag at Pavilion 210 in the water front Pantiero.
The first major activities of the Lagos State Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture took place, Friday, with the official unveiling of the second edition of the Cinema in Lagos Magazine, a publication that provides deep insights into the tourism character of Lagos State with cinema business as a peg.
With celebrity politician, Hon. Desmond Elliot and rave filmmaker Kunle Afolayan among the Lagos State delegation at the festival, the attraction to pavilion 210 was exceptional, going by the star power in front of the camera – Both actors; Elliot is Chairman, Lagos House Committee on Tourism, Arts and Culture, while Afolayan is on the Board of the Lagos State Council for Arts and Culture.
The unveiling ceremony of the 80-page magazine was helmed by the Permanent Secretary, Ministry of Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Fola Adeyemi, who conveyed the warm wishes of the State Governor, Mr. Akinwumi Ambode aptly, saying; “The Lagos State Government has encouraged film makers and producers across the world to take advantage of the massive infrastructure and enabling environment provided by the Akinwunmi Ambode administration to shoot their films in the State.”
Describing the State as a film destination with numerous opportunities, Adeyemi called on global investors to take advantage of the liberal policies and programmes of the State towards the creative industry.
Boasting of Lagos as Nigeria’s captivating city, Adeyemi emphasised on the natural beaches and sceneries in the state as some of the locations suitable for world class productions.
Corroborating Adeyemi, Elliot spoke of a government that is not only a lover of the arts but of top hospitality and tourism verve.
“If you have not been to Lagos, you have not tasted Africa,” he said.
This was just as Afolayan reiterated the commitment of the state government to the growth of motion picture industry, urging filmmakers across the world to come to Lagos and do business.
The colourful magazine does more for this destination marketing with two African international actors on its cover – Hollywood actress, Lupita Nyong’o who was in Lagos for the proposed film adaptation of Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie’s ‘Americanah, and British-Nigerian actor, John Boyega’s N9billion film project to be shot in Lagos.
Edited by Olumide Iyanda who, in his Editor’s Note, quoted Ambode as saying that activities within the tourism sector contributed N800billion to the state’s GDP in 2017, Cinema in Lagos, according to Iyanda is largely devoted to promote the city as a desired film and tourism destination in the light of the immense contribution of Nollywood to the Lagos economy.
Lagos State Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr. Steve Ayorinde recalled that, just like the latest edition, the first edition of the magazine was unveiled in Cannes last year, coinciding with the 70th anniversary of the festival and 50th anniversary of Lagos State.
Ayorinde’s thoughts are captured in the magazine, of how Lagos Sate is flying the flag of Nigeria in the biggest festival in the world.
He said: “The Lagos State Government sponsored a pavilion at the International Film Village, giving Nollywood yet another opportunity to showcase itself to the world. But for that singular gesture, Nigeria would have been totally absent from the very important world cinema event at a time when the industry needs all the exposure it can get on the international scene.”
On the unveiling of Cinema in Lagos in Cannes, he said; “There is no doubt in my mind that the brand awareness impact for every motion picture professional operating from the state has continued to mount since the 2017 Cannes film festival and Lagos at 50 celebration.”
Other Nigerians at the unveiling include Mr, Dele Balogun, Executive Secretary, Lagos State Film and Video Censors Board; Deputy Defence Attaché, French Embassy in Nigeria, Yan Kretzer; Executive Director, National Film and Video Censors Board, Alhaji Adedayo Thomas and notable On-Air-Personality, Fade Ogunro among others.