Technical Adviser, Gernot Rohr has advised Super Eagles players to take serious the lessons from the Tuesday wealth investment seminar the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) organized for them. The 64 year old Eagles Technical coach gave the advice explaining that he had no opportunities for wealth investment lessons during his active days as a footballer. The seminar on wealth creation and portfolio management was organised for the players and officials of the Super Eagles in Abuja. He said, “In life, things do change and sometimes, the changes are not what we planned or prepared for. “I pray for all these players to have long, injury –free careers but even then, you can only play for an average of 17 years. “I played for 17 years. I wish I got this kind of guidance and advice when I was still playing.” Captain Mikel Obi who attended the lecture said, “Since I started playing for Nigeria, this is the first time I am witnessing this kind of seminar. I appeal to all my colleagues to take serious the lessons from this programme. “We must plan for the days that our bodies will no longer be able to withstand the kind of rigours they go through now. I have learnt a lot from here that I will personally apply it to my life.” According to NFF President Amaju Pinnick, only wise financial decisions and sensible investment moves could create sustainable wealth that would spare them of any regret in the future. “We put together this seminar knowing that it would be of immense benefit to all members of this team. “Our care for you should not end on the field of play. We are family and must have one another’s back always. “Please take away good lessons from here so that tomorrow, you would not become liability to anyone or the society. “You players have all definitely been making some good money in your various Clubs, and will also be making money during this World Cup. “It is not the money that you have that is the wealth; it is how you invest the monies and manage your portfolio to continue to create wealth for you. “I know a number of sportsmen (in Nigeria and globally) who made more than yourselves during their career and then fell on bad times after retirement.