Panic selling set in at the Nigerian stock market at the weekend as five consecutive losses unnerved investors and threw the equities market into its lowest momentum in recent times. An all-week decline threw the bears all out and exacerbated the muted slowdown that had marked share pricing in recent week. Losses mounted to N1.31 trillion at the weekend in three-month consecutive decline that started in March with the weekend’s panic underlining the growing anxieties this month after two earnings seasons failed to rekindle the rally at the Nigerian equities market. Nigerian equities had lost N557 billion in March, showed restraint with a modest loss of N44 billion in April, but turned worst this month with a net capital loss of N705 billion. Quoted equities lost N416 billion last week, equivalent to an average decline of 2.84 per cent for the five-day trading week, more than half of the 4.72 per cent decline recorded so far this month. Most quoted equities now carry the minus sign, indicating unmatched shares supply and a full-blown buyers’ market. There were nearly four losers for every gainer in the last trading session at the weekend as bargain-hunters took advantage of shares glut to under-price stocks. With macroeconomic fundamentals and crude oil price on the rise, most analysts were hesitant about the underlying trigger for the rush for exit but were unanimous that bandwagon effect had played on latter-day sellers. “There is no reason for anybody to panic. We are used to the political cycles and electioneering, there has been no major policy somersault to warrant the rush. People should not allow bandwagon to drive them out of values,” President, Association of Stockbroking Houses of Nigeria (ASHON), Patrick Ezeagu said. Ezeagu said the decline at the equities market might have been worsened by assets reallocation from equities to fixed-income securities as investors run for the safety of the guaranteed returns to hedge against uncertainties. The Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) last week retained the benchmark interest rate, the Monetary Policy Rate (MPR) at 14 per cent, despite widespread clamour for a rate cut. GTI Capital Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Kehinde Hassan, said the trading momentum at the equities market has left the realm of profit-taking to panic-selling, citing the huge shares supply at the weekend. He, however, noted that the steep decline in recent period has created considerable buy opportunities for investors, urging investors to lock in values from undervalued shares in the consumer goods, industrial goods and banking sectors. The All Share Index (ASI)-the benchmark index for the Nigerian equities market, closed at the weekend at a low of 39,323.62 points as against 41,268.01 points recorded at the beginning of this month. It had opened the week at 40,472.45 points. Aggregate market value of all quoted equities at the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) dropped at the weekend to N14.244 trillion compared with N14.949 trillion recorded as value on board at the beginning of the month. Total market value of quoted equities had opened last week at N14.660 trillion. The sustained decline cut the average year-to-date return for Nigerian equities down to 2.83 per cent from 8.53 per cent at the end of the first quarter or 7.91 per cent at the beginning of this month. On the face value, net capital gain by investors in Nigerian equities, so far this year, has plummeted from N1.34 trillion at the beginning of this month to N635 billion at the weekend. Investors in Nigerian equities had ended the first quarter of this year with a net capital gain of N1.38 trillion, sustaining the upswing that had seen quoted equities with net capital gain of N4.36 trillion in 2017. A strong start in January and February helped the market to moderate a running downtrend in March and sustained the positive quarter-on-quarter performance of the Nigerian equities market. Nigerian equities had in January 2018 hit all-time high market capitalisation of N15.3 trillion while the ASI had risen to 43,041.54 points, its highest index points since October 2008. Nigerian equities closed 2017 with full-year average return of 42.30 per cent, ranking within the top 10 best-performing equities across the world. Aggregate market value of quoted equities closed 2017 with net capital appreciation of N4.36 trillion. Most pundits expected the Nigerian equities to record double-digit returns in 2018. In its ‘Economic and Financial Outlook 2018-2022’ report, FSDH Merchant Bank Group stated that Nigerian equities have potential to generate average return of 27.43 per cent in 2018. Analysts expected the overall macroeconomic performance to continue to improve, strengthening sectoral growths and returns. FBNQuest Capital Limited, the investment banking subsidiary of FBN Holdings Plc, predicted that the Nigerian equities market would sustain a bullish run for the second consecutive year with a double digit return of 25 per cent in 2018. Capital Bancorp noted that several performance boosters could see Nigerian equities ending the year with average return of 25 per cent. Presenting its special outlook report tagged: “Nigeria in 2018: Looking Beyond the surface”, Cordros Capital outlined a positive outlook for the Nigerian economy and the equities market, noting that average return at the equities market could range between a modest return of between 10 and 15 per cent and a bullish performance as high as 40 per cent. 