Adekunle Osibogun, the Convener of the Young Progressive Nigerian Initiatives (YPNI), has led some volunteers on a sensitisation tour of the Ogun East Senatorial District. In this interview with reporters in Lagos, he identifies red-tapism and other bureaucratic bottlenecks as reasons for the refusal of people to collect their permanent voters cards (PVC) in the Southwest geo-political zone. Excerpts: Could  yoy share the experience you gathered during the recent PVC sensitisation campaign tour  in Ogun East Senatorial District? I’ll say the experience was quite humbling in the sense that there is a high level of enthusiasm amongst the populace towards the upcoming 2019 general elections. We however observed that a lot of people are not aware of the important role the Permanent Voters Cards (PVCs) will play during the elections. The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has indicated that PVCs will play a key role in the upcoming election process, and this I believe is already being reflected in the allotments of the new polling units (PUs). I observed that the regions with the higher PVC collection rates were allotted a higher number of PUs. Consequently, the Southwest region got the third least number of new PUs, behind the Northcentral where citizens have been displaced by the herdsmen crisis, the Northeast which has been ravaged by the Boko Haram, and the Northwest which has been notorious for underage registration and voting. Unfortunately, only a few of the populace in Ogun East senatorial district have gotten their temporary voters cards. Some of them have not even registered at all, while there is a large number of people who complained that they have either lost or damaged their voters’ cards. We also observed that some eligible voters who relocated to Ogun State after the 2015 elections are anxious to transfer their registration to the state, but lack information on the process. I’ll say that INEC still has a lot of work to do in Ogun State, particularly in Ogun East, because based on our survey the amount of eligible voters who have not yet obtained their PVCs, which includes those that only have their temporary voter’s card, is very high and if we are looking to have successful general elections in 2019, it’s important that these people are also given not only the opportunity, but also the encouragement to pick up their PVCs. Residents of Ogun State are highly politically active, which is most evident in the vibrancy of the political campaigns and the level of enlightenment amongst the populace. When it comes to political education, majority of the populace know their civic rights and duties and are actively involved in the political process. However, when it comes to the level of PVC collection, especially in Ogun East, my observation was that the level of PVC collection varied from area to area. I observed that while some locations we surveyed had a high rate of PVC collection, others had a very low rate. Also, the densely populated areas reported a lower collection rate than the thinly populated ones. So, for example, locations within the waterside area reported a higher collection rate than the Ijebu-Ode and Odogbolu areas. To address our findings, we have set up teams of volunteers to engage and encourage people to go to their local government offices and registration centres within the district to pick up their PVCs. We are also taking steps to set up a special team that will provide guidance for those who have either lost or damaged their cards or intend to transfer their registration. What is responsible for the low collection in the South and higher collection in the North? I haven’t surveyed the North to know the reason for the high PVC collection there, but I can speak about the low collection rate in the South. I will attribute it primarily to bureaucracy and red-tape. We have citizens who wake up as early as 5am to go and queue at INEC offices, spend the whole day there and may still be unable to pick up their cards. Now, that is discouraging. To encourage people to pick up their PVCs, which is a civic duty, it is important that we make the process a lot easier and more seamless. Without a shadow of doubt, there is a need for more registration machines, especially in Ogun East district, where the registration machines are not sufficient. It is important for INEC to intensify efforts by increasing the number of registration machines in the South; investing more in awareness and sensitisation campaigns amongst the populace for those with lost or damaged their cards or those seeking to transfer their registration; and by reducing the bureaucracy and red-tape prevalent in the PVC collection process. It is noteworthy that the bureaucracy in transferring registration within a state takes approximately 10 months, even if it is within the same district. The customer service can also be better. This is why my foundation is focusing on providing guidance and support to help ease the stress that the average citizens are currently experiencing during the process of registering and collecting their PVCs. From your experience, do you think Nigerians are prepared for 2019 general elections? I’ll say Nigerians are better enlightened going into the 2019 General Elections than any of our previous elections, but their level of preparedness is low, becausemajority of the populace are yet to collect their PVCs. Based on the vibes coming from INEC, the PVCs will be the instrument that will qualify citizens to participate in the voting process for the 2019 General Elections. So, no matter how enlightenedyou are, no matter how passionateyou are, if we haven’t all gotten our PVCs then all our efforts will be in vain because we will all be unable to participate in the voting process, which defeats the purpose of democracy. especially on PVC collection nationwide, but they can do more.INEC can do more especially in the South-WestRegion because the level of PVCs collected in the South-West as a whole compared to the growing population of the South-West isvery low.It’s therefore urgent that INEC now pays special attention to the registration and collection of PVCs in the South-West to ensure the General Elections in the South-West Region are a true reflection of the hopes and aspirations of the people. What Is Your Position On The #NotTooYoungToRun Campaign? I strongly believe there is a need to transit from the old generation of politicians to a younger and more vibrant generation of political leaders, who understand the challenges of Nigerians in the 21st century and who are prepared to proffer lasting solutions,inspire their peers, and work tirelessly towards addressing these challenges. This, I believe is also the objective behind the #NotTooYoungToRun Campaign. Majority of our youths have lost faith in Nigeria because of the growing disconnect between their aspirations and those of our political elites. The discontentment of our youths with the political elite can be better expressed with reference to the surge in the numbers emigrating through our boarders in search of a better life. We have continued to lose our youths who voluntarily make the suicidal journey across the Sahara desert, others opt for the citizenship of foreign countries, while those who elect to stay have resigned to their faith or taken to crime or armed banditry. This is the current reality facing Nigerians. Our political elites have continuously failed to inspire our youths, so if our youths choose to be their own inspiration towards building a better country for future generations, we must support them.For Nigeria to develop, people with fresh ideas, innovation, drive and focus must be given the opportunity to govern, and I make bold to say that Nigeria will only transit from its current predicament if young reputable Nigerians take up the responsibility of governance. Any Political Aspiration For Adekunle Osibogun in 2019 General Elections? I am currently encouraging my peers to actively participate in the 2019 General Elections because it is my desire to see a large contingent of us occupying elective offices in 2019, so we can attempt to rescue our dear country from its current downward spiral.  I therefore intend to lead from the front by contesting in the 2019 General Elections. I know your next questions will be for what office? So let me save you the trouble by telling you that it will be an office I am best suited for based on my qualifications and experience, and where I will be better able to contribute to solving our current challenges and building a better Nigeria. But be rest assured that all will be revealed in due course. What is the driving force behind the Adekunke Osibogun Foundation? The Adekunle Osibogun Foundation is a private foundation that supports and inspires civic engagements and services in local communities, strengthen, promote, and where necessary protect the socio-economic rights of young Nigerians through intervention programmes in areas of education, entrepreneurship, leadership, citizenship awareness, agriculture, and youth empowerment. The origin of the foundation date back to 2009 when I met with other young patriots in Abuja to set up a platform to encourage and promote a sense of patriotism among Nigerians, which eventually birth the Young Progressive Nigerians Initiative (“YPNI”) for the benefit of our peers and local communities. After the establishment of YPNI, I was motivated to financially support my commitments to promoting patriotism amongst Nigerians and enhancing the quality of life of Nigerians through initiatives that promote national development, entrepreneurship and educational opportunities. Hence, the establishment of the Adekunle Osibogun Foundation! Through the years, I have supported and funded numerous intervention programmes of various non-governmental organisations, as they provide free skills acquisition trainings, mentorship and leadership programmes, entrepreneurship development programmes, and access to financial and legal advisory services for small and medium sized enterprises. Photo caption: Volunteers of the Adekunle Osibogun Foundation in a Group Photography with the Gbegande of Ososa, Oba Dr. Adetoye Alatishe during the sensitization on the collection of Permanent Voters Card (PVC),sponsored by the organisation in Ososa, Ogun State recently.   