..Says it is anti – patients, unpatriotic  The Nigeria Medical Association (NMA), Ogun State branch, on Tuesday condemned the national body of the Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) for asking states and local government health workers to join the ongoing strike in solidarity with their colleagues the national level. The Association said JOHESU strike may not serve any good purpose as it would neither add value to patients’ care in the country nor improvement in health facilities. In a statement by the acting Chairman, Abikoye Peters, and made available to reporters, in Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital, Ogun NMA dismissed the strike “ill-guided, anti-doctor, anti-patient and anti-institution.” It noted that strike in the health industry is associated with loss of lives, explaining that strike should be an instrument of bargaining when all other means of getting attention has failed and not means of “wrecking havoc” as threatened by JOHESU. It, however, reiterated that Ogun NMA members are not on strike, assuring that “all hospitals are open to all patients across Ogun State as doctors are available to attend to their clients promptly.” “Strikes should be an instrument of bargaining when all other means of getting attention has failed. When a union is pushed into calling strike, the above qualities should be the guiding principles. A union whose headship is boasting of wrecking havoc with strike has failed to demonstrate empathy and are far beyond the bounds of true patriotism. “Directing states and local government health workers to join the strike calls for concern especially in estimating the real motive behind the exercise. Strike in the health industry is associated with irreparable loss of lives. On its merit, this is enough to call for caution while the strike lasts. “We identify with every family and home who had been negatively impacted by the on going strike. We are not against any cadre of worker agitating for their due pay, but we maintain JOHESU’s strike is adding no value to patients’ care neither is it adding any improvement to the facilities. “We plead that heads of hospitals and their management team should give all the necessary support, assistance and backups to the doctors at their respective duty posts while mitigating the effect of the on-going strike,” Abikoye stated.