Founder, Africa Christian Broadcasting Network (ACBN), Moses Samuel, has urged Nigerians especially the youths to actively participate in next year’s presidential election. Samuel, spoke in Lagos while declaring his intention to run for the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria in next year’s election. Samuel, on the platform of the Labour Party, with the slogan, ‘Believe 2019’, said the journey to the promise land in Nigeria would not be possible without the sincere commitment and active participation of every Nigerian. noted that with his four point’s agenda of human capital development, civil service/institutional reforms, Infrastructure development, and trade/economic reform, he would be able to deliver and make Nigeria great again. “Together we can build our dream Nigeria. I believe that Nigeria has not gone beyond redemption and there is nothing fundamentally wrong with the country. Nigeria has all it takes to be transformed into an enviable nation with a viable and thriving economy. The Presidential Aspirant said that the Labour party is the 1st youth force political party which has come on a rescue mission to redirect the affairs of the country right and well. “Labour party is that political party that carries the dreams and aspiration of a common Nigerian which is yet to be realised. We are a party where sincere desire to work flows in our veins. “The founding fathers of our party envisioned a country where all, irrespective of tribes and religion could live together and exploit the vast opportunities offered by our diversities and the vastness of our land and resources.” Samuel said he believes in cooperation rather than conflicts; empowerment rather than resentment and unity rather than division. “I believe Nigeria is endowed with great potentials for success; therefore, unlocking this potential is a goal which I am fully positioned to tackle. Although the journey so far as a nation has been plagued with distrust, suspicion, social upheaval and religious intolerance, in all, I believe in Nigeria and the dreams of strong and great nation. “2019 election is about redefining the glory of Nigeria and restoring her economic abundance. Nigeria’s best days lies in the decision we make in the 2019 general election. I therefore implore all men, women and youths to rise up from our despondency, refuse to give in to apathy and believe with me, because together we can put this nation back on the path of sustainable growth and prosperity through this forthcoming election,” he said.