Andrew Skipper heads the Africa practice of Hogan Lovells, a global law firm with offices in more than 45 countries. In this role, Skipper’s practice in Industry Sectors, Consumer, and Life Sciences and Healthcare makes him yearn to see Nigeria get it right with the health sector. He tells OYEYEMI GBENGA-MUSTAPHA how. How does Hogan Lovells assist industries navigate the healthcare system for optimum performance? Every player in the global health industry has to deal with an exceedingly complex regulatory landscape. What’s more, the landscape is constantly changing. We know how overwhelming it can be trying to effectively navigate today’s regulatory environment and capitalise on opportunities. We have an in-depth understanding of the relationship between governments and the global healthcare marketplace, so, we provide legal solutions aligned with business strategies. We are uniquely positioned to serve providers and suppliers of healthcare services and products and other players in the sector. We work with them as regulatory lawyers, and also as their strategic advisers, lobbyists, litigators, and dealmakers. From start-ups to multinational enterprises, our clients come from every part of the healthcare sector of the worldwide economy. What makes you so effective? One thing that makes us so effective is that our team includes an exceptionally high number of lawyers who are former senior government legal officials. This means we have insider insights into personalities and decision-making processes at regulatory agencies so that we can better persuade them to take a certain view or course of action. We also collaborate across our firm to provide seamless cross-border regulatory counseling and representation. The broad array of organisations we represent in the health care sector, and our ability to meet all of their regulatory and other legal needs make us your one-stop resource for anticipating and responding to health care legal issues. How do you influence healthcare delivery landscapes? Businesses and their challenges don’t stop for oceans or disappear at national borders. Neither does Hogan Lovells. Our team of 500 life sciences and healthcare lawyers is around the world but operates as if everyone is working from the same office — providing a seamless experience everywhere you do business. And no matter the challenge — from creation to commercialisation of a life-saving therapy, regulatory compliance to an international patent dispute, the formation of a strategic alliance to a complex, global merger — we’ve been there before and we understand how to prepare people for what happens next, helping them to anticipate risks and address future issues before they arise. Hogan Lovells has been doing business in Africa for years. Why do you not have a Nigerian office? We can’t do without Nigeria. This is, because, the standard of professionalism of Nigerian law firms is one of the highest in the world and we partner with the firms to deliver the best possible solutions to our clients. So, we are focused on developing our business in Africa and Nigeria as we explore partnerships and collaborations with local law firms to achieve this. Our office in South Africa provides us with a platform for doing business across Africa and whilst we recognise that the legal market is constantly changing, and are not ruling anything out, our current strategy is to focus on key markets such as Nigeria not through opening new offices, but through building deeper and stronger relationships with local firms. We believe this is the best approach to growth. With your years of experience working in Nigeria, how do you perceive the health sector in this country? The health sector in Nigeria, and across Africa is quite nascent. Hogan Lovells is considered a leading firm in providing legal services to healthcare providers; and our clientele, span major pharmaceutical companies, most medical devices companies and many government organisations, so we are well experienced in the sector. Why is the sector inefficient? The challenges within the sector are reflective of the challenges in the larger society. The massive deficit in terms of manpower and health equipment is one of such challenges, and also the lack of hospital facilities and trained personnel. Hopefully, this will be addressed in the near future. How? First, the infrastructural deficit has to be addressed, as well as a reward system for healthcare workers. As with some countries, the health sector has to be well funded. Public private partnerships are needed here and Nigeria can adopt one of the strategies that have worked well for other countries. How can technology help the growth of the health sector? Technology is relevant to every facet of business and life, particularly in Africa, where there is huge potential for its use. Drone technology is used in East Africa to deliver medicines to regions that have impassable roads, and some IT professionals have developed a software to aid in the administration and staffing of hospitals. So technology is very important to healthcare and Africa presents vast opportunities for the use of technology. How does your firm assist with capital investments in the healthcare system? We play an advisory role and support private sector investment into the health sector. There is increased private equity interest in investing in areas like health care clinics, cancer clinics and pharmacies where profit can be made and services rendered; but to have a solid structure and framework, the public sector needs to be involved. This is where public private partnerships are encouraged with the public sector providing adequate training for healthcare professionals. How can the government ensure that public-private partnerships work and deliver on their set goals? The misconception about private-public-partnerships (PPPs) is that the private sector puts in more money and the public benefit from it, more like a social investment initiative and this has deterred the private sector who tend to be profit and margin oriented in their thinking. So for this partnership to work, there has to be a regulatory framework and clear cut rules as it applies to the collaboration. Also funds can be sourced externally in terms of direct foreign investments, but the right structures have to be put in place to attract investors. Again, a vibrant and structured public private partnership system is the basis for this. Brain drain among healthcare professionals is an incessant trend in Nigeria. How can this be curbed? This boils down to the lack of confidence in the healthcare system. In the last 10 years, six out of 10 African presidents have died in foreign hospitals, this goes a long way to explain the lack of confidence in the system. The brain drain can be directly attributed to good remuneration, financial and social security, and solid infrastructure that the healthcare system abroad offers so if these are in place here, then professionals will either return or, like 60 percent of the African medical professionals under 25, will go abroad to be trained but return to serve in their country. How long has Hogan Lovells been in Nigeria and what are your future projections for the next five to 10 years? We have been working in Africa for 40 years and we have been working in Nigeria in partnership with local law firms. We want to be regarded as the firm that understands, operates, invests in and respects Africa. We intend to continue our work in Nigeria in partnership with independent law firms, building local capacity and knowledge sharing.  We are committed to developing capacity and growing partnerships whether it is with government, Private-Public-Partnerships (PPPs) or local firms. As an international firm we have clients who operate internationally and 80 percent of our top clients have a presence in Africa, therefore we are here not just for our work but to contribute our bit to recreating and retelling the beautiful story that is Africa. 