…Its internal conspiracy – NASS DPO  How did suspended Senator Ovie Omo- Agege gain entrance into the National Assembly, and actually allegedly facilitate the entry of six “thugs” some of who eventually snatched the mace? How come the sergeants – at – Arms and all other security agencies could not stop the thugs who snatched the mace, jumped into an unmarked vehicle parked in front of the White House and zoomed off? Why is it that the National Assembly had no communication gadgets especially Walkie- Talkie to alert security personnel at the different entry points in the National Assembly and thereby prevent them from vanishing with the mace? Why did a Senator sitting at plenary tell a Sergeant – at – arms to “leave the mace” as he made to whisk it to safety when the thugs made to grab it? What is the identity of the owners of the unmarked Prado Jeep and Toyota Hilux jeep seized at the NASS gate as they made to escape on the fateful day? These questions and much more the joint ad hoc committee on the invasion of the senate tried to find answers to Wednesday under the Chairmanship of Senator Ibn Na’ Allah and Hon. Betty Apiafi. Present at the investigative session to unravel the mace- snatching incident of April 18th 2018 were heads of all the security outfits in the National Assembly. But the Divisional Police Officer at the National Assembly, Sulu Gambari insisted that the snatching of the mace was an internal conspiracy. According to him there was no way anyone could have executed the mace- snatching without inside help. This statement aligned with the thoughts of many members of the committee which also included Senator Shehu Sanni, Hons. Mayowa Akinfolarin, Tobi Okechukwu and Haliru Dauda Jika. Gambari said considering the fact that the National Assembly was on high alert prior to the incident because of the threat by the Shiite Islamic sect, there was no way just anyone could have walked through the front door of the National Assembly, into the Senate Chamber, picked the mace and escaped. The DPO was very reluctant to divulge the identities of the people arrested as well as the owners of the vehicles impounded by his men He only said that identity cards were found on the six people arrested in the two vehicles and that on the ownership of the vehicles ” by the time you seen the documents that you are asking for, you will know where the vehicles were coming from.” He revealed  that six of the men in the Prado and Hilux  were arrested and charged transferred to the Police Headquarters and that he never got a feedback on the issue. Senator Shehu Sanni noted that the National Assembly is not safe. “What I want us to admit is the porosity  of this place. People come in here by paying money to the security. Supposing there was a bigger threat like terrorists, it could have been a different thing. If they had come to kill everybody it would have been easy.” “We are encouraged by the fact that the President of the country was embarrassed by the incident and as a Senate, we will not condone what has embarrassed the President,” Ibn Na’Allah said. Both the DPO and the Head of the Sergeants-at-arm Brigadier- General Mohammed Sanni Danwalix (rtd) said the security apparatus in the Complex is faced with some challenges part of which is equipment and training and that the management of NASS is aware of this. Danwalix had earlier caused a stir when he said he had a report from one of his men alleging that a Senator Why told him to “leave the mace” as he made to whisk it to safety when the invaders made to grab it, thereby strengthening the conspiracy theory. Gambari also added that the attitude of lawmakers to security personnel is not helping matters as they were always challenging them on security measure taken to safeguard them. The committee thereafter asked the Police DPO to furnish it with details of the events that day as entered in their Station diary and the documents found in the two impounded vehicles as well as other information relevant to the investigation especially the report where the name of a Senator was mentioned asking a sergeant- at -arms not to take the mace to safety. The hearing is scheduled to continue Tuesday next week. 