Ayoade Afolabi Lawal is a governorship aspirant on the platform of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Osun State. In this interview with Sina Fadare, he speaks on the alleged plot to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari by the National Assembly, the invasion of National Assembly by thugs, security challenges in the country, among other sundry issues. Excerpts INTERNAL wrangling and party indiscipline are rampant in all the political parties; how do you think such can be reduced so that parties can stand upright to play their roles effectively? If you look at the structure of the parties, there is hierarchy that needs to be followed; we have the leadership who takes decisions at the highest level and other categories like that. Basically, I think we have lowered our standard on discipline in the party; some people would engage in anti-party activities and at the end of the day they get away with it and they become untouchable. This gives room for indiscipline whereas when another person does same thing and discipline was enforced you now asked questions. Like in Animal Farm, this begins to create tension within the party. There is need for us to have the right approach to instill discipline in parties and nobody should be spared if need be. We also must not be draconian in our approach to instill discipline in our parties. In a situation where you are too rigid, you have people leaving the party for another; nobody is perfect, there are activities that will not be grievous but some people would take it as a sacrilege which is part of politicking. Where you insist that someone has committed an offense and you decreed that he or she should go on suspension for six months whereas he should have been warned, these are things that can aggravate people to leave the party. The punishment should be commensurate with the offence committed Politics this day is cash and carry. How can we reduce this so that the best is given opportunity to serve? Money politics has actually led us to where we are today. Somebody just joined the party, because he is a money bag, he hijacks the party machinery and all others are relegated to the background. This in most cases has given room for mediocrity.  At this point, the party ideology and programmes are relegated and reduced to stomach infrastructure which at the end of the day will create more poverty for the people. Initially, party members would think they are gaining something but at the end, they have sold their birth rights to the money bag. I personally do not support money politics because it is not something that is positive; it is negative to the entire polity. What we need this time around is politics of ideas and intellectualism where candidates will come to the political arena with brilliant ideas which can be sold to the people. Idea is the only thing that can revolutionalise our polity. But from pragmatic point of view, we can only get to a situation where we start to educate our people against money politics and its consequences. You only collect that money temporarily and at the end of the day you will go back to square one. We can only start to reduce it through conscious education to electorates and to be honest, it cannot be totally eradicated from the society. What is your take on INEC’s recent alarm that there are too many registered political parties, a development that may pose a challenge to the forthcoming 2019 general election? We seem to have large number of political parties that INEC don’t have facility for? I personally feel that it is just a way to say that we have increased our budget. Even on election, when we look at normal voter register, you will see that we have a lot of parties that have no candidate, may be due to short planning. So, INEC should be able to accommodate them. I don’t see it as a big deal. You have registered them, there is nothing anyone can do now; it is going to be a big challenge but it is going to take more paper and probably more budget that is the way I see it. Parties must find a way of educating their members and voters on what to look for on the voting papers, like the way we used to say that they should look out for the broom. The logos of the parties are not the same and it will not pose any serious problem as claimed. What is your view on the recent declaration by President Muhammadu Buhari to contest the 2019 election? First of all, we need to recognise the fact that the President has the right to declare his intention as a citizen of this country and as a sitting President. On my point of view, we can’t really say what the second term would look like if he is opportuned to be elected because what I see is that if he wins the second term, definitely he is going to change some members of the current cabinet and the moment he change the team, we are going to have different players. Perhaps what he needs most at this critical period is that he should comb all the nooks and crannies of the country and source for technocrats and experts in governance who will deliver the goodies which Nigerians are yearning for. But that is going to be the critical factor because the President cannot see everything; he would depend on those that are running the home affairs for him. So, those who he (President) is going to deploy to oversee various ministries are going to be the determining factor for his second term. Do you think the argument that Osun West should produce the next governor in Osun is justifiable? Yes, it is excellently justifiable. It is all in the spirit of fairness, self-belonging and equity. A situation whereby we have three zones in Osun and one of them feels marginalized is not good enough for the state. Have we tried them and we discovered they are not competent? It is unacceptable. In fact, if you do a good surveillance and listen to the mind of the people, a lot of the people from Osun East and Central are saying that it is the turn of the Osun West. So, it is like a kind of unseen sentimental feelings that it is the turn of the people of Osun West. Let us allow them to go for the governorship in the spirit of fairness, togetherness and justice. Let us try them and see what they can contribute to the development of the state. What is your take on the recent invasion of National Assembly by people suspected to be political thugs and what would you say is its implication on the polity? The invasion of the National Assembly by thugs is an indication that there is tension in the National Assembly. It indicates that within themselves there are a number of aggrieved parties and basically it is bad behaviour that is not commensurate with the present democracy. It shows that we have some security issues even within the National Assembly because a situation where somebody walks down into the chamber, pick the mace and walk out of that building is not good enough. It means that if they wanted to hurt anybody there, they can easily enter into the chamber; they dammed the consequences and to forestall this we need to beef up security within the National Assembly so that such things do not occur again. Also Senators need to come together, sort things out among themselves and investigate thoroughly if any of them is actually involved in this and proper disciplinary action must be taken in order to forestall future occurrences.