Oyo State Governor Abiola Ajimobi yesterday swore in elected chairmen into the 33 local government areas and 35 local council development areas (LCDAs). All Progressives Congress (APC) candidates won the polls held in 4,783 polling units in 610 wards. Twelve political parties, including the APC, participated in the election held 11 years after the last exercise under the Rashidi Ladoja administration. The election was held on Saturday and the results announced on Sunday by Oyo State Independent Electoral Commission (OYSIEC). During the ceremony at the the Parliamentary Complex at Agodi Secretariat in Ibadan, the capital, Ajimobi urged party leaders to forgive factional members. The swearing-in and oaths of allegiance were administered on the council chiefs by Chief Judge Muntar Abimbola. Party leaders, led by APC State Chairman Akin Oke, members of the state executive council (Exco), traditional rulers, party elders and chieftains, representatives of local government areas and LCDAs as well as families of the council chiefs attended the event. The governor told the council chiefs their victory was an attestation to the confidence the electorate reposed in the APC administration and that it should not be betrayed. He said: “The successful conduct of the local government election in the state, which was peaceful, orderly and stood all the verifiable tests of election conduct, locally and globally, has demonstrated and consolidated the quality of our administration in the state. “Your victory at the polls should be seen and understood as a call to service, which demands a great deal of dedication, commitment and sacrifice. Your leadership must also reflect the people-oriented policies, programmes, projects, activities as well as developmental strides in tune with the very highly commendable repositioning efforts of our administration. “You must also note that your overwhelming victory at the polls is a testimony to the confidence reposed in this administration by the residents, who have accepted us and continued to show their support for us in appreciation of our restructuring and transformation efforts.” On the boycott of the election by some parties, Ajimobi said: “We are not perturbed because it is a confirmation of their self-assessment, which is indicative of their lack of presence, relevant structures and convincing status with the politics of the state.”