The Lagos State Police Command yesterday rescued two children from a suspected female kidnapper in Yaba. Ya’u Mukaila, 10 and Mariam Jubril, 2, were rescued from the suspect, Mary Vera Henry along Little Road, by Yaba Divisional Police Officer (DPO), Mary Ubangha, a Chief Superintendent (CSP). But the suspect claimed that Jubril looked like her missing 20-year-old daughter, who diviners told her had been reduced to a two-year-old. The suspect denied the kidnap allegation, claiming she was framed up by Shanta Orji and Mama Blessing, who allegedly paid some people N50,000 to plot against her. According to Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal, the victims were kidnapped along Herbert Macaulay Way. He said the DPO noticed the woman was restless and suspicious, adding that she trailed Edgal said: “However, the suspect noticed that she was under surveillance and diverted into St. Dominic’s Catholic Church, Yaba. The DPO followed her up and warned the church security men to keep an eye on the woman. “She told them not to allow her exit the church without the police ascertaining their identities and mission to the church. “The security men obliged and brought the woman and the children before the DPO. During interrogation, the woman gave her name as Mary Vera Henry of 6, Akanni Street, Shomolu. “It was discovered that she was not the biological mother of the children, who are of different parents. “She claimed that she lost her 20-year-old daughter and when she went to some diviners, they told her the daughter had been reduced in size and stature to a two-year-old child. She claimed the two-year-old victim looked like her missing 20-year-old daughter. “The woman was arrested and taken to the station for further interrogation.” Continuing, Edgal said the victims’ parents- Jubril Garba and Mukaila Amidu-came to the station and identified them. Mukaila, the police said, explained that he sent his son on an errand and two-year-old Jubril followed him. Edgal said: “Along the road, the suspect lured the children away from their course to unknown destination. Investigation into the case is ongoing and effort is on to arrest the fleeing brother of the suspect believed to be a co-conspirator of the crime.” The police boss warned parents to stop sending their underage kids to the market unaccompanied, threatening to arrest, prosecute negligent parents, guardians under Sections 247 and 249 of Criminal Laws of Lagos, 2015.