Gov. Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, the Nasarawa State governor on Friday gave assurance of maximum security to stakeholders within the venue of the Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary election, scheduled for Saturday. The governor, who is the chairman of the primary election electoral committee, raised by the national secretariat of the party, promised that the exercise would be free, fair and credible. He gave the assurance while addressing a news conference at Damlek Event Centre, Ado-Ekiti, the proposed venue of the primary. He‎ explained that the accreditation would begin at 8a.m. and those to be accredited would be aspirants, delegates, journalists, observers and other critical stakeholders. News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the briefing was attended by the Commissioner of Police, Mr Bello Ahmed; Director of Department of State Services, (DSS), Mrs Promise Iheanacho; Commandant of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). Apart from the security arrangement, Al-Makura explained that facilities needed for the conveniences of participants had been provided. He added that dedicated tents had been made available for delegates on the basis of the three senatorial districts: Ekiti South, Ekiti North and Ekiti Central. He said, “Any delegate accredited won’t be allowed to go out for any reason. “Any delegate that enters the arena must be identified by his party membership card, and extra statutory identity like international passport, driver’s licence and national ID card. “Such delegates must be identified with the list given to us by the National Secretariat. All accreditation must be completed for delegates from all the senatorial zones before voting starts. “Voting will be done once at a time and it will start with delegates from Ekiti South, then to Ekiti North and Ekiti Central. “After identification, delegates will be given ballot paper and they will submit their delegates tag for punching and the will also submit the ropes of their tags. “Cubicles for voting area are ready for delegates and delegates will go in and cast their votes. One outlet will be dedicated for voters and no voter will be allowed back into the hall once he votes. “At the end of the voting, there will be sorting to be followed by counting.” He also noted that the panel would not allow any aspirant or delegate that wears branded materials to the venue of the primary. He warned that some agents barred for their involvement in the fracas that broke out in the botched primary would be arrested if found in the vicinity of the primary. He sought for the cooperation of all stakeholders to ensure a successful primary, and enable the committee come up with a result that would be acceptable to all. (NAN)