ON May 29, 2015, the good people of Enugu State, friends and well-wishers gathered in large numbers at the popular Michael Okpara, Square, Enugu, to witness the inauguration of a pragmatic leader, Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi, as the third executive governor of Enugu State. In his inaugural address, he promised to work assiduously towards entrenching peace and good governance in the state despite the nation’s daunting economic challenges. He pledged to embark on an aggressive infrastructural development across the state, especially in the rural areas, where the majority of the people reside. This vision was borne out of his humble disposition and passion for the wellbeing of the lowly and less privileged in the society; the long neglected and abandoned in the rural communities, who he describes as the true heroes of democracy. Consequently, Emene, Abakpa Nike, 9th Mile Corner and Nsukka – a university town founded over half a century ago and the second largest town in the state, among other satellite towns, got the endorsement of the stakeholders of the state for the governor to commence immediate development as a matter of priority. A committee on Enugu State Urban Renewal was constituted to ensure the full actualisation of the governor’s well-thought-out programmes in line with the four-point agenda, despite the nation’s economic reality. Three years down the line, Ugwuanyi’s administration, in spite of the state’s lean resources and its financial status as the third from bottom of the Federation allocation chart, was able to grab the bull by the horn in fulfillment of his promises to provide the dividends of democracy and create more urban centres to enhance rural development and boost economic activities in every corner of the state. Apart from regular payment of workers’ salaries, even at the time 27 states could not pay and numerous achievements in other spheres of the economy, Ugwuanyi’s administration embarked on massive development of urban and rural roads across the three senatorial districts of the state, focusing more on rural development. The governor, in keeping with his inaugural address, within three months after his inauguration simultaneously flagged-off construction and reconstruction of over eight massive road projects in 9th Mile Corner, Nsukka, Abakpa Nike and Emene, among others. Also in line with its rural development agenda, his administration simultaneously executed 35 grassroots development projects across the 17 local government areas.. This was in addition to completion of works on projects started by the previous administration, such as the state-of-the art Enugu State Diagnostic Centre, the first of its kind in the Southeast geo-political zone, established to create hospital chains to make Enugu the preferred destination for receiving high quality and affordable healthcare delivery in the country. Another completed project was the new Lion Building, Government House, Abuja Building, parking lots, and fuel dump, among others. It is on record that the present administration in Enugu State has so far spent over N45 billion on road construction and rehabilitation across the state, covering about 300 kilometres. Since Enugu State was declared open and ready for business, more investors have continued to flood the state for investment opportunities as a result of the existing peace and secure business environment as well as the governor’s commitment to robust investment drive. With regular payment of workers’ salaries on 23rd of every month and the recent 13th month salary paid to all civil servants, including the local government staff as Christmas bonus, it is also on record that the administration has, within three years in office, recruited the highest number of primary and secondary school teachers ever in the history of the state to improve the quality of education in the state. His landmark achievements, too numerous to mention, have earned the peoples’ governor chains of endorsements for re-election in 2019 from all spheres of the society, including the religious institution, the entire PDP family in the state, leaders and members of opposition political parties, traders, civil servants, artisans, transporters, proprietors and teachers of private schools, local government workers, and pensioners, among others. Flowing from Ugwuanyi’s financial background and commitment to public expenditure management, the following outstanding ratings and commendations have ensued from the Senate on the judicious utilization of the bailout funds; the BudgIT report, which listed Enugu, Lagos and Rivers as the only three states out of the 36 states of the Federation that have fulfilled obligations to their workers; the recent Economic Confidential magazine verdict that listed Enugu among the seven states that are solvent with impressive over 30 per cent Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) to fund additional economic activities. Others include, the fifth most competitive state in Nigeria, according to the National Competitiveness Council of Nigeria; the third most debt sustainable State in Nigeria; the first state in Nigeria to publish its Audited State /Final Account for consecutive three years; first in the Southeast geo-political zone and ninth in the country based on IGR as against Federal Allocation; one of the twelve states in Nigeria that can survive without federal allocations, among others. It is because of his achievements that the governor has continued to get acclaim. His attainments confirm that with Ugwuanyi, Enugu State is truly in the hands of God!  — Amoke wrote in from Enugu