The threat posed to individuals and organisations by cyber adversaries is real even in a developing economy like Nigeria.  Two months ago, Crowdstrike, a global leader in cyber threat intelligence and security incident response, released intelligence report on how Nigerian cybercriminals have evolved their tactics to sophisticated business email compromise (BEC) scams that result in malware infection, account hijacking and impersonation among other outcomes. Similarly, Palo Alto’s Unit 42 threat intelligence team, which has been studying the Nigerian cybercriminal gangs for at least 4 years, released an intelligence report in April 2018 about how sophisticated and effective these criminals have become. This group of threat actors have been code-named SILVERTERRIER by Palo Alto and a YouTube video describing how capable and formidable these cyber adversaries have become is available here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1kZEGUIAi1o  Given these facts, an army of “good guys” trained to defend enterprise networks need to emerge fast while organisations whose critical business processes are run by information systems – which can be compromised by cybercriminals – must be ready to absorb them. The bad guys continue to grow in number because they find that path rewarding. However, there’s potentially a greater reward for good guys and organisations that focus on thwarting these miscreants.  To this end, Digiss, an company dedicated to thwarting cyber adversaries through carefully developed cyber security capabilities in people, process and technology has developed a solution that produces good guys and make them available to needy organisations.  The Digiss Model Using its Train-Mentor-Place (TMP) model, Digiss: Develops tomorrow’s cyber security practitioners through well-thought-out training programs that have clear learning objectives and a good balance of content and context; Works with students who show a lot of promise and desire to further prepare them for life as cyber security practitioners; Leverages its relationship with employers of cyber security talents to move successful students to the front of the interview queue. Well-trained and highly informed students will be capable of demonstrating the level of competence required by any organisation seeking cyber security talents  This course, Cyber Security for Aspiring Practitioners (CSAP), was developed by seasoned cyber security professionals who hire, train and mentor enterprise defenders regularly. “Our primary goal is not to get the student certified but to provide employers with passionate, motivated and energetic cyber security practitioners who are capable of adding value from their very first day on the job”, said Mobolaji Moyosore, Founder and CEO. “There are so many courses and training programs on the market designed to get students certified within weeks or even days. This is not what we’re about. Rather than teach students to memorize concepts and pass any certification exam, this course teaches students to grasp concepts and retain knowledge through threaded discussions, activity-based learning, and practical hands-on sessions”, he continued.  Digiss has also created a platform for organisations who seek business-focused cyber security analysts. Hiring managers or members of the human resources department of any of these organisations can sign up to participate in the cyber talent hunters’ network (CTHN) program by completing a short intake form available here: https://www.digissllc.com/cyber-talent-hunters-network/  The course can be completed in self-paced (online only) or blended (online + onsite) mode within a 4-week (or up to 12 weeks) period by highly motivated students. There is also an associated exam currently conducted at the company’s Ikoyi office (Mulliner Towers, 39 Alfred Rewane) typically at the end of a 3-day onsite part of the class. Successful students will be awarded the Digiss Certified Cyber Security Associate (DCCSA) certification, which is currently going through accreditation with the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). Students with high passing grades will be presented to organisations that participate in our cyber talent hunters’ program for interview, internship and/or employment while other students will continued to be mentored until they become gainfully employed.  Enrollment for the next onsite part of its blended training program closes on June 14, 2018 but those wanting to follow a self-paced program can enroll anytime and join the class on June 30, 2018 to partake in the exam.  For more information about Digiss LLC and its services, visit www.digissllc.com.