The Lagos Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN) has blamed the Federal Government for the ongoing Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) strike. It said the union’s clamour for better welfare package had been mismanaged by the government. According to the society’s Chairman, Mrs Bolanle Adeniran, at a briefing in Lagos, the root of the strike is the desire for more benefits and privileges. Mrs Adeniran, who spoke on: “Redressing the on-going strike of Health workers in Nigeria”, explained that it was important to   understand the cause of agitation. He said: “Contrary to the superiority mentality created in some quartres, pharmacists and doctors entered the public service on the same grade level up till 1991. In Nigeria, pharmacists started on GL 08 step 2, while doctors entered on GL 08 step 3 because of the one year difference in their training. After the mandatory one year youth service, pharmacists proceeded to GL 09 step 2 and doctor GL 09 step 3. “This was the pattern till the Olikoye-Kuti leadership in the Federal Ministry of Health got the military administration of Gen. Ibrahim Babangida to approve the Medical Salary Scale (MSS), a discriminatory salary wage in favour of medical doctors in public service. ‘’The MSS obviously disrupted the equilibrium of public sector wages as it became the basis for other sectoral players’ request for exclusive wages in the health sector after the MSS was introduced, the Health Salary Scale was introduced for health workers apart from doctors.” Mrs Adeniran added that contrary to the impression created by the Nigeria Medical Association (NMA) in a recent press statement that the basis of the strike is that other health workers sought to earn equal pay with them, the truth is that workers sought an adjustment in their salary scale like it was done with CONMESS scale to ensure parity in the CONHESS and CONMESS scale, which was a fundamental agreement couched in the 2009 Memorandum of Understanding signed with the Federal Ministry of Health by stakeholders in the sector. “It is extremely important we put on record at this junction, that after the tinkering of hitherto existing public sector wage structure in 1991, the salaries of pharmacists and doctors was distorted significantly, such that doctors began to enjoy an extremely significant difference in wages with at least one full grade level difference without any change in the duration of training which remains five years for pharmacists and six years for doctors’’ she said.