Organisers of the Nigeria Pitch Awards has reitreated yet again that  the annual event now in its sixth year  would be a permanent fixture on the Nigerian football calendar despite spate of prizes on the Nigerian football landscape. Speculations have been rife over the future of the novel Nigeria Pitch Awards (NPA) following the launching of The NFF Awards in February but Shina Phillips; CEO Match Consults said there is no cause for alarm over the NPA. “Frankly, we are not disturbed in any way about the launch of the NFF Awards, “Phillips told The Nation on the margins of the unveiling of nominees for the 2017 awards.“Every award has its uniqueness  and the beauty of Nigeria Pitch Awards are its unique assets and foremost is its  transparency. “ We are happy that the NFF for instance have put together its own awards but we are not bothered about glamour because essentially, each particular has its own quality. But I’m glad to say that nobody has faulted our choice of awardees over the years  and that itself speaks volume about Nigeria Pitch Awards.” In its opening remarks at the unveiling of nominees for the 2017 awards to be hosted in Lagos next month, Phillips said he could not be happier over the success of NPA  since it has become a veritable platform for recognising, rewarding and celebrating talented and industrious footballers and other stakeholders in Nigerian football. He further said: “Since the introduction of the awards five years ago, it has continued to grow to become a significant and essential part of our football society. “We thank the Federal Ministry of Sports and Nigeria Football Federation for their immense support and we thank SIAO Partners, Nigeria’s foremost accounting firm for being our independent vote collation body for displaying professionalism in the collation of results and the entire voting process. “We are also buoyed by the responses we have received from sports journalists, Nigerian footballers and administrators.” Notable personalities at the unveiling of nominees  during the week in Lagos included Pastor Ituah Ighodalo of  SIAO Partners;  Ms. Aisa Falode (Chairperson of Nigeria Women Football League); veteran thespian Segun Arinze; award-winning teenage actress, Esther-Whyte Bassey and a host of  other distinguished media personalities. Falode has described the Nigeria Pitch Awards  as a  unique platform in its own right even as she praised the organisers for its tenacity over the years despite lack of corporate support :“We must commend the organisers  for their efforts over the years because this is an awards we have known for its credibility  and perfect execution  and it has continued to wax stronger despite lack of corporate sponsorship. ” Aisha later canvassed for additional categories for women’s football and her request was promptly endorsed by the organisers promising to increase the slots from two to four in subsequent editions. On his part,  Pastor Ighodalo whose firm  SIAO Partners is in charge of the voting process, equally agreed that there should be an award category for the New Media for their huge presence on the internet, even as he heaped praises on Phillips and his team at Matchmakers Consult. “ We(SIAO Partners) got involved with Nigeria Pitch Awards  strictly on professional ground but I must commend Shina  because he has also tried to be professional about it,” explained  Ighodalo. “ One of the things he always says  is that ‘it takes a while before you can build a brand and that it’s after we have built the brand that the sponsors would come on the platform of the brand’ and others may have an agenda but this Nigeria Pitch Awards absolutely have no agenda other than to  reward excellence in a very strict transparent manner.” “ We have been with him since the second year and he told us that he want us to manage the voting process so that he even does not know the winner until it’s announced  and as we speak today  neither him nor I knows the winner amongst the nominees and I think this one of the uniqueness of Nigeria Pitch awards,” noted the renown clergyman.