The Nigerian Tulip International College (NTIC) has won the World Mathematics Team Challenge after defeating renowned schools across the globe. Winner of the World Mathematics Team Championship, Oluwafemi Adedairo, said he was excited. He said: “It was a big surprise. I feel happy and excited about it. I want to thank my teachers and the almighty for this award.” Speaking at the NTIC award-giving ceremony on Thursday, the Deputy Managing Director of NTIC, Mr. Feuzullah Filbin, said yesterday that in addition, the school also won 81 other medals in competitions within and outside the country. Speaking yesterday during the award ceremnoy, Filbin said the school’s accomplishment in the competitions was due to hard work by the students. “The secret behind our success is the hard work of the students and also their dedicated teachers,” he said. Filbin added: “In this academic session, NTIC students participated in various competitions where there made themselves, their families, the NTIC families, Nigeria and the Africa continent at large proud at global scenes by returning with 62 international medals. 11 gold, 22 silver and 29 bronze medals and produced twelve first positions, four second- position and eight third positions at national competition. “Some of the competitions participated in include: The Intellectual Challenge, University of Cambridge UK, GISUTECH-International Robotic and Technology competition UGANDA, GOLDEN Climate International Project Olympiad KENYA, International Math Challenge THAILAND, Malaysian International young inventors, Mendel Biology International Olympiad KYRGYZTAN, Universal Competition for Educational Posters TADJIKISTAN, Universal Project Olympiad USA, World Mathematics Team Championship and Global Math Challenge, conducted online. “At National level, the students participated in competitions such as, Mathematics Without Borders, Nigerian Round, National Mathematics and Science Olympiad, Association of Chartered Certified Accountant, World Scholars Cup, Abuja Round and IQ League, Abuja.”