ONE-time Ogun State Governor and eminent journalist Chief Olusegun Osoba spoke yesterday on the risks of investigative journalism. They are as grave as fighting corruption, he said in Lagos. Osoba spoke at a colloquium marking the 60th birthday of a foremost journalist, Kunle Ajibade, who turned  60 on  May 28. “It is as dangerous as fighting corruption in our country. They are both extremely dangerous,” Osoba said. The former Managing Director of Daily Times was the chairman of the colloquium with the theme: “A brighter future for Nigeria and how to get there”. Osoba said Nigerians should be involved in the electoral process, adding that the open ballot system would serve the country better. He maintained that the country would get better when the people are allowed to make their choice. In his view, there is hope for a better country, but all hands must be on the deck to achieve it. Osun State Governor Rauf Aregbesola; Nobel laureate Wole Soyinka; Vanguard Publisher “Uncle” Sam Amuka Pemu, Mr. Odia “the poet” Ofeimun; Mrs. Bisi Fayemi; Mr. Femi Falana (SAN); former President of Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO) Mrs. Ayo Obe and Ambassador Tokunboh Awolowo-Dosunmu were among the dignitaries at the ceremony. Many media men, civil society organisations, activists, lawyers and prominent Nigerians also attended the event. Ajibade, along with Bayo Onanuga, Babafemi Ojudu, Dapo Olorunyomi, Seye Kehinde and Idowu Obasa formed The News Magazine. Ajibade was arrested on spurious charges and “jailed for life” in 1995, after a kangaroo and contrived judicial process, for a story published by the magazine, during the draconian Sani Abacha military junta. He was released after the death of the dictator. Speakers praised the author of the books titled: ‘Jailed for Life’ and ‘What a Country’, for his doggedness and commitment. “I owe Kunle inestimable debt for dragging him into the dangerous terrain of investigative journalism, which he discharged with deep instigative zeal,” Soyinka said. He queried: “It is not enough to trace various bank accounts of a former Inspector General of Police, but where does all the monies come from? “He was not even operating most of these accounts. “There is a nexus between this expose and how elections are rigged in the country. Who corrupted the IG? Why is it so difficult to pursue the original owners of the loot?” Describing Ajibade as a pioneer of investigative journalism in Nigeria, Soyinka noted that the number of journalists killed in the pursuit of investigative journalism is more than those killed covering war. The Nobel laureate added that “there is a nexus between that level and pattern of corruption and the degradation of the democratic exercise that we have witnessed in this country. I told Nuhu Ribadu, it is not enough to trace these accounts to an individual. Ask yourself how those accounts got there and were constantly replenished. I said to Ribadu, if we solve that riddle, not only would we have punctured the balloon of corruption in this country, but it also would solve for us how elections are rigged. “Journalists should follow up on Ajibade and his colleagues’ expose on Tafa Balogun and his many accounts, and you would have done this country two beneficial deeds. Stem corruption, track it to its original source and solve the issue of democratic failure in this country,” he said. Aregbesola said: “With people like Ajibade, there is still reason to be hopeful. I believe that we can succeed in efforts to make the country better. I want to say that the sub-Saharan Africa look up to Nigeria. And my own vision for Nigeria is a Nigeria that will give leadership to other nations, particularly in Great Lake region of Africa where the wealth of the continent lies. Only Nigeria has the potentials, both materials and human, to leading the struggle to rally and harness the resources in the central part of Africa and mainly the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, and to some extent, Kenya and Tanzania.” “The resources there are so enormous and only Nigeria has the potential both materials and human resources of leading the process of using the resources for the development of black people. Should Nigeria fail, the real danger is that whoever is black in the world is doomed. “It is either we believe that we are not sub human and we put everything to it. We must put our heads together to realise our historic position in the world. Solutions have been propounded from the legal angle and social angle, but I am yet to see the engineering angle. What is important is the need for us to live a better and inspiring life. And I want you to read a briefing by Kunle Omotosho in his column, who had pointed a way out of the danger inherent in not making the right decision. Africa looks up to Nigeria and we must not disappoint in that direction.” Former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Kingsley Moghalu said Nigeria was not on course, noting that stakeholders must help to salvage it. He added that the country was at crossroads because things were not done properly by the leaders. He stressed that those who were supposed to proffer solution to the mounting problems were creating more problems. Rights activist Femi Falana (SAN) said for the country to make progress, there must be peace. He added that the wanton destruction of lives and property in the land was alarming. He said since the government could no longer guarantee the safety of lives, there was need to train the citizens in combat, to be able to defend themselves. He added that the states have abdicated their responsibilities to the Federal Government in the security of the country, stressing that a situation where the President alone decides who becomes the Inspector General of Police (IGP) was at variance with the law. Senator Babafemi Ojudu said Ajibade was “a gentleman who could not hurt a fly”. He noted that when he was sentenced to life imprisonment, no few than 13 journalists were on the run because of military clampdown. “That is why I must commend this gentleman for his role in ensuring the return of the country to the present democracy. At this junction, we all must play our role to ensure that the country stand tall. We must all play our part to address the challenges the country is facing.” The celebrant Ajibade thanked the guests for the encomium showered on him, noting that his wife and friends contributed to his ability to surmount the challenges posed by his incarceration. “I thank Aremo Osoba, who came from Spain this morning because of the event. I will like to say Prof. Soyinka has been inspiring; my colleagues have done well to encourage me and importantly, my wife and in-laws from Ikenne Remo, who gave me one of their best daughters,” he said. Ajibade thanked the dignitaries and others for their turnout at the colloquium.