 * To miss remaining friendly matches * Sure to make squad to Russia Super Eagles and Leicester City midfielder Wilfred Ndidi, has flagged off light training after picking up a hamstring injury at Crystal Palace in April. The Super Eagles midfielder was forced off after 51 minutes of play as the King Power Stadium outfit were outmuscled by Roy Hodson side, giving Coach Gernot Rohr something to worry about ahead of the FIFA World Cup which kicks off June 14 in Russia. But, the 21 year old took to the social media Monday to announce his return to training. ’’A sunny day to recuperate’’, the former Genk star dished out via  his twitter handle @Ndidi25 with accompanying picture of his light training, an indication that he is eager to return to the pitch. Despite his personal conviction about his gradual return to fitness, National team medics continue to maintain close monitoring of the Nigeria international. .Super Eagles Media Officer Toyin Ibitoye in an exclusive chat with sportinglife.ng Monday, said the Medical team want the former Genk midfielder to have enough rest and recover fully for the Mundial where Nigeria will face Croatia, Iceland and Argentina in the Group stage. He confirmed that Ndidi is likely to miss all the remaining friendly matches leading to the world cup he will nonetheless be part of the squad to Russia. ” Ndidi is recovering and the medical team are keeping a close watch on him.  They want him to have enough rest while recuperating so as to be in the best of shape for the world cup. Although he will be missing the remaining friendly matches including the tie against England and Czech Republic, but he is definitely in the world cup plan,” he said Initial report after the injury had indicated that the Nigeria international will be out of action for at least six weeks. World cup bound Super Eagles who have so far played quality friendly matches against Argentina, Poland and Serbia are set to engage Congo Dr in yet another friendly on the May 28 in Port Harcourt.  Other friendly matches just before the Gernot Rohr tutored side hit Russia will be against England at the wembley on June 2nd and Czech Republic on June 6.