•Firm gives police details on absconded worker      •’We assure Nigerians of quality products’ Emzor Pharmaceutical Industries Limited has been reopened by the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC). The firm also stated that it had submitted to the police information about its absconded worker that was featured in the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC) documentary, “Sweet sweet codeine”. The firm’s Group Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO), Dr. Stella Okoli, spoke in Lagos yesterday on the reopening of Emzor Pharmaceuticals Liquid factory. Dr. Okoli expressed pain that one of its products – Emzolyn with Codeine, a therapeutic product, made for the relief of a specific illness, has been turned into a substance of abuse. She added that the menace of drug abuse is a national concern and everybody should be concerned, adding that all hands should be on deck to arrest the situation. She said her company, Emzor, would seek to make relevant and impactful contributions to the multi-agency discussions on the way forward, especially from the limited depiction of rehabilitation efforts represented in the BBC programme. “As a parent and especially a mother, I am deeply saddened by the problem of drug abuse and its damaging effect on our children and youths. We follow good manufacturing practice (GMP) here at Emzor, and NAFDAC officials from the investigation and enforcement directorate, conducted an inspection of our factory and were given full access to all the records they requested.  We are happy to announce that after carrying out all necessary due diligence, NAFDAC has now reopened the factory,” said . Okoli. The Director-General Duties, Human Resources and Finance, Mrs. Uzoma Ezeoke said the company has built trust among its consumers across the country, and continent based on proper internal regulatory, and professional certifications for manufacturing, and human resources. “Every site we operate has GMP certificate issued and every product meets required specifications. The spate of drug abuse is really worrisome. It is a social ill. Many substances are being abused and everybody has a role to play. It is unfortunate that Emzor is in the spectacle among the three companies in the documentary,” said Mrs, Ezeoke. Mrs Ezeoke affirmed that all sanctions issued by NAFDAC have been adhered to and it is gladdening that the Liquid factory has been reopened.    