The African Union Economic, Social and Cultural Council (AU-ECOSOCC) has called on stakeholders to ensure a credible, transparent, free and fair election in Ekiti State on July 14. AU-ECOSOCC, a group representing Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) in 55 countries of Africa, stressed that credible elections are determinant factors for good governance in any society. Speaking with reporters in Ado-Ekiti, Nigerian Representative/Chairperson, Social Affairs and Health, AU-ECOSOCC, Dr. Tunji Asaolu, described the Ekiti poll as a pointer to what to expect in next year’s general elections. He said the success of the exercise will give the country a good reputation that can make it to attract domestic and foreign investors. Asaolu called on the electorate not to sell their conscience to unscrupulous politicians who may want to purchase their votes with money in a desperate bid to win. He also urged political parties to imbibe the practice of internal democracy by conducting credible primaries that will lerad to the emergence of candidates through fair processes. Asaolu said: “Nigeria needs free and fair election for her greatness, survival and economic advancement. Ekiti State gubernatorial election will be a pre-factor that the world can use to measure the 2019 elections in Nigeria. “Therefore, Ekiti State election is no ordinary election at this time but rather an indicative election that will show to the whole wide world how serious Nigeria is with the emerging democratic dispensation. “Nigerian prestige this time is on the line, the civilized world will not accept anything short of free and fair election neither will Ekiti citizens accept election irregularities as business as usual. “What is expected of Nigeria is to organize and implement a free and fair election to the best of her knowledge especially this time in Ekiti State. “But, the key issue is to produce a credible election results that are relatively free and fair, that majority of Ekiti people can accept as a credible result.”