 The Cash Transfer Programme ( CTP ) of the United Nations Children’s Fund ( UNICEF ) has increased enrolment of girls in schools in Niger and Sokoto states by 61.8 per cent. The organisation said the programme has also reached 23, 000 girls in both states. Chief of Education, UNICEF Nigeria, Terry Durnnian, said this at a briefing to launch a report titled: “Impact Evaluation of UNICEF Nigeria Girls’ Education Project Phase 3 ( GEP3 ) Cash Transfer Programme in Niger and Sokoto states” in Abuja on Thursday. A breakdown of the report showed that enrolment by girls in Niger state had increased by 29.4 per cent while that of Sokoto state stood at 32.4 per cent. The CTP is being implemented in Niger, Sokoto, Kebbi and Zamfara states. It provides 665 under-privileged girls the opportunity to enroll and also remain in schools. Mr. Durnnian said: “I am delighted to be here today to talk about one of our education interventions that has successfully managed to remove some of these barriers and given more girls and boys in Sokoto, Niger, Kebbi and Zamfara states an opportunity to go to school and stay in school. “Children living in rural areas have less of a chance of going to school than those living in urban areas. Most of these children are girls; girls who never went to school from the beginning, and girls who have to drop out due to social and cultural reasons. “The programme is specifically designed to address the poverty-related reasons preventing children to enroll and stay in school. It gives families an opportunity to cover direct and opportunity costs related to their children’s-especially girls’ education. These costs include cost of uniforms, textbooks, learning materials and the lost benefit that the family will miss from the child’s contribution to the family income by going to school. “I am delighted to tell you that to date more than 23, 000 girls have benefitted from the programme in Niger and Sokoto states. The girls’ enrolment rate has increased by 29.4% in Niger and 32.4% in Sokoto. Both state governments have continued to rollout the programme and are successfully reaching more children. “In Kebbi and Zamfara states, the programme has started. We have already reached out to close to 11, 000 girls and boys with the first cash transfer payment.” He said UNICEF is committed to ensure that children in Nigeria enjoyed quality education. Durnnian identified poverty as one of the reasons why children stay away from school. “In Nigeria, more than 10 million children are out of school. Most of these children are girls and in the northern part of the country. “There are several reasons why these children are not in school. Often, children from the poorest families are more likely to be out of school than the ones from wealthier households. Children living in rural areas also have less chance of going to school than those growing up in cities. “Some girls are forced to marry. Some boys must work to help their families survive financially. These are just few examples. “When asked, parents and guardians cite poverty-related reasons as the most important, determining factor why their children are not in school. “We at UNICEF are dedicated to ensure all children can enjoy their right to a quality education, from early learning opportunities that lay the groundwork for success in school, all the way through secondary school. “Quality education equips children to succeed in school, perform productive work, take care of themselves and lead fulfilling lives,” he added.