The All Progressives Congress (APC) Abia State has elected Dr. Emmanuel Ndukwe as its chairman. Ndukwe, who was the Acting State Chairman of the party, was elected at the state congress conducted by two of the five-man Congress Committee, led by the Secretary of the committee, Hajia Rabbi Gambari. The Publicity Secretary, Mike Ozoemena, said in a statement in Abuja that the exercise was witnessed by party faithful, including newly elected Chairmen from the 17 local government areas of the state who led their delegates and numerous supporters of the party to witness the occasion. Other leaders present include  High Chief Sir Ikechi Emenike, Chief Nduka Anyanwu , a national officer of the party and the board chairman of ASCON, Barr Fabian Okonkwo southeast zonal organizing secretary, Prince Paul Ikonne former ACN gubernatorial candidate 2011, Chief Nwogu Nwogu the NDDC commissioner for Abia state, Solomon Alozie representing the southeast at the Rural Electrification Commission and many other bigwigs of the party too numerous to mention here. Addressing party members before the commencement of the exercise, Hajya Rabbi Gambari said: “We are here for the rule of law, we will obey the rule of law, our party believes in the rule of law, we were sent by the national leadership of our party to conduct the state congresses. As we entered Umuahia we asked questions and were told that the right venue is in this place. “As you can see some of our members are not here and we don’t know where they are but as the Secretary of this committee, the state congresses must go on and I enjoin all of you to continue to maintain the peace I have seen here today.” Member of the Congress committee, Alhaji Garba Sanni, said, “this is the authentic and confirmed party in Abia State and whatever we do here today , all the officers that will be elected here today will be recognized as the authentic executives of the party in Abia State by the National leadership of our great party because we were sent here to do the right thing and we shall do the right thing. I therefore urge you all to remain committed to the growth and ensure that APC wins Abia State in the elections of 2019.” 