ROSE OKEKE writes on the lives of small-scale entrepreneurs struggling to eke out a living subway shopping centres in the nation’s capital. Abuja residents may be close to the seat of power but some of them do not have the powers to change their standard of living. The conditions in which they work are woeful. With an estimated 2.8 million persons resident in its urban area, Abuja is the fastest growing city in Africa, and one of the fastest growing cities in the world. It is also one of the planned cities in Africa, its architectural designs and schemes rivalling other cities in Nigeria. It is evident that most of the country’s wealth is channeled into developing and improving the standard of living in Abuja. Even tourists from other nations flock to the city on vacation. It is pitiable that amidst such luxury, some citizens in the nation’s capital live and work in conditions of squalor. This socioeconomic divide continues to widen when these workers are not only surrounded by unfavorable environmental challenges, but are also subjected to harassment in the very hands of the public officers who should ensure they are properly catered for. Such is the plight of those who work in the subway business and shopping centres. An inconspicuous feature in the Abuja metropolitan area, such as the Subway Business/ Shopping Centres at Zones 1 and 5, Wuse, the subway business centres are basically underground tunnels home to various shops rented out to small-scale entrepreneurs who are mostly tailors, barbers, hairdressers, and laundrymen. These tenants face environmental challenges and harassment, which they claim to control by themselves in their own capacities. In addition to this, the exorbitant rate at which the shops are rented to these minimalist businessmen and women is outrageous. The cost of renting a shop in these underground tunnels can range from N250, 000 to N400, 000 per annum. Although the shops are generally the same size and in the same location, there is no fixed rate. An occupant of a shop at the subway at Zone 5, Wuse who has been renting his shop for over a decade, expressed his dismay and helplessness towards the extortionate prices of the shops. He stated that the varying prices depend on the shop owners who, he says, work at the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA). He lamented that the net profit earned in a year does not cover the cost of the rent or the utilities. “The profit is not enough, you know,” he said in an interview. “We come to work every day to avoid sitting idly at home. When we entered this new government, some things became harder. There is a big difference. When they said change, we thought it was for something better than this. But now we just hope on God and pray. But I have a strong belief that things will still change,” the occupant who pleaded anonymity added. The issue of inflated rent rates is, unfortunately, not their only problem. Surrounding the subway in Zone 5 are clusters of food, hair, and miscellaneous vendors who, the tenant said, are illegally doing business there. They allegedly bribe the task force, which is supposed to be maintaining peace and orderliness in the Wuse Market area, into allowing them unlawful occupation of the encompassing area. “They don’t pay rent the way we do,” a tenant who pleaded anonymity revealed. “They settle with the taskforce by paying them. Some taskforce members would come and sit with them and collect bribes from them, eat free food, and not chase them away,” the tenant added. According to the tenant, this wouldn’t have been a big problem, if not for the filthy, raucous nature of the illegal vendors who litter the environment and experience zero repercussions from the task force. He said, “The main challenges we are facing here is that the vendors surrounding the subway dirty and litter our environment. Few of us would come out to challenge them and they would fight and insult us. They still do it up to now. “Every area has a taskforce, and they are the ones assigned to Wuse Market. When we come out to tell the vendors to clean up after themselves, they insult us.” The occupants of the Subway Center shops take it upon themselves to tidy up the whole environment by pooling their resources together. “What we are doing now is that twice a month, on the first and last weeks of the month, we do sanitation. You can see that we clean out the gutters during the cleanups. Sometimes we ask them to contribute 200 naira each to call the Mallam that comes to clean it up, but they refuse,” the occupant said. Although the tenants of both Subway Centers have attested to the fact that crime rate in the areas is negligible, they confessed that members of public offices and the task force still do drop by to extort money from the tenants on top of the rent already paid to the shop owners. ”The Abuja Environmental Protection Board (AEPB) and also Abuja Municipal Area Council (AMAC) usually come to squeeze out money from us on top of the rent we are paying,” a tenant from the Subway at Zone 1 disclosed. The tenant added: “They disturb and harass us, claiming that we are illegal. AMAC usually collects 5-10 thousand naira per shop every year.” He proceeded to verbalize his appreciation for their local Association of Business Centers, emphasizing on its importance in regards to the extortion, saying, “We use it to fight.” In response to this, AMAC has stated that the Subway Centers are not under their management. Also, the Public Relations Officer, Abuja Metropolitan Management Council (AMMC), Grace Zamani said, “We have nothing to tell,” urging the reporter to check with the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA). Another tenant from Zone 5 revealed his desire for the government to recognize the tenants as the rightful custodians of the Subway Center. He said, “This authorization would grant them control over the vendors so that they could help clean the environment. They litter the environment constantly with their fruit parts, pure water sachets and takeaway plates.” He also expressed the general longing for new buildings to occupy, as they are denied their preferred clientele and amount of traffic because of the unobtrusive locations of the subways. He said that the tenants, however, have resigned to the unreliability of the government, and hoped instead for the introduction of other amenities. “When our government makes promises to build buildings, they will share the allocated money and not do as formerly promised. Instead, they fix overpriced rent. I’d rather they help us with loans. “If I was given a loan, I’d buy more machines, change my generator for a bigger one, buy more materials, sew more dresses and market it well. Many people look for ready-made clothes. So if I have enough capital, I’d expand on that area” he added.