THE Federal Airports Authority of Nigeria  (FAAN) is to embark on cashless transactions in the nation’s airports in order to foster ease of payment, create payment options and improve the speed and convenience of payment Its General Manager, Corporate Communications Mrs Henrietta Yakubu, told reporters in Lagos, that arrangements had been made for the smooth take off of the exercise. According to her, the cashless transactions will reduce the  burden of carrying cash as transactions would be made in different ways such as  Point of Sales (PoS)  terminals and money transfers. She added that Remita agents have also been positioned strategically at various points across the airports. She said the initiative was designed  under the Presidential Enabling Environment Business Council (PEBEC) to ensure convenience and curb corruption. Identified car parks, cargo section, chartered /unscheduled flights among others will be affected by the the new innovation. She said: “It will help FAAN to eliminate leakages and further increase revenue base of the organisation. No government official  will handle cash during transactions when the exercise takes off. We are soliciting the cooperation of all airport users, concessionaires and the general public to ensure a hitch free exercise.” She said the decision to adopt digital payment was as a result of the success of the Executive Order of the Federal Government in a bid to create enabling business environment in the country especially within the airports as entry points into the country. She said it was to ensure that those doing business at the airports were not harassed but furnished with accurate information on what and where to pay at every point in time.  According to Mrs Yakubu, Visa on arrival which has commenced at the airport was part of the Ease of Doing Business adding that the digital payment was another feat to be achieved. She noted that in the end, it will be a win – win situation for both FAAN and customers adding that the agency has been repositioned to provide more improved services for customers. She disclosed that sensitisation of the general public through jingles was on going.