Rap sensation, Eva Alordiah aka Eva has been creating quite a buzz ever since she stepped into the music industry. The buzz doesn’t look like fading any time soon. The graduate of Bowen University speaks with Adetutu Audu. OU dabbled into Makeup artistry at a very early age. Can you tell us more about it? I was 15 at the time and I just knew I could do it. My first love was eyeliners and it gradually built on from there. I guess thanks to the fact that I could draw being a fine artist at the time drawing on paper; it was an easy transition for me to draw and paint on people’s faces. I found it amusing, exciting, and just to be able to create different looks time and again and be in control of how something or somebody looks. I started from doing my own makeup and having all my friends admires it every time, then I began to do makeup for all my friends and it picked up from there. You also teach at the makeup school. How easy is that for you? I really love to teach Makeup artistry. It is a blessing to have all this knowledge, and even bigger to be able to share. Although I don’t get to teach as many times as I would have loved to. What is the easiest thing for you to do with makeup? Eyebrows! I call myself the eyebrow specialist. There isn’t any brow i can’t fix. It is very interesting to do and also the easiest to teach at the school. What thrills you the most about makeup? That would definitely be special effects. It is more challenging than the regular beauty and fashion looks, especially if you are working whole body pieces. I have loved horror movies since I was a child. I mean, I don’t even think I enjoy a movie if it isn’t horror or action where there’s a lot of blood and special effects going on. I think that’s where my interest in SFX stems from. special effects makeup is like my getaway drug. Zombies, dead skin, bruises, scars, animated characters, missing limbs, skeletal frames, the works. I just sit there and create realistic life forms and it fuels my creative senses, makes me happy. If there was one Makeup secret you could share, what would that be? Brushes. If there was any tip I could give; invest in professional brushes. That is the first step to creating effortless looks every time. Apart from yourself, what other celebrities have you worked with? I have had the pleasure of working with Chidinma, Toolz, Toke Makinwa and Yvonne Vixen. All of them beautiful in their own right but I really love Toke Makinwa’s face. She is like a perfect canvas for any makeup artist. Vixen has cheekbones to die for. I could contour her face all day. You are a rapper entertainer, make-up artist, fashion designer and entrepreneur. How were you able to combine these talents of yours? I haven’t been able to combine things as best as I could, I really just have enough time to focus on something at a time. But I love being all these different things and they all find a home in my career as a music artiste. I supervise the business end of my music, I do my makeup for my shoots and videos, and I design as well as style my outfits with some of the most talented designers across Nigeria. So I guess you could say I am being of service to Eva right now. When I get breaks from music, I exert my creative energy to makeup and fashion on their own. Which is more fulfilling for you? I find fulfilment in just being creative. So whether it is music, movies, makeup, writing or fashion, as long as I am creating something, I am fine. Music and Makeup both serve their purpose for me. It’s all work and play when they happen. What I do is focus on what it is I am doing one at a time. So if I am at the Makeup school teaching for instance, I couldn’t be bothered with what’s going on with my music in the studio and so on. You’ve had a successful music career, but I’m sure you have a story behind it. How has the journey been? It would be nice to know your measurement of success. It has been very challenging but I face it and try to get by without complaining. I love music, I love what I do as an entertainer and I loved much rather to this than do anything else. Female artistes usually have challenges to compete with their male counterparts. What would you say are your challenge(s) I have never tried to compete with anyone. I am just here trying to be the best version of  myself every day. Instead of seeing competition I see people I can learn from. Why did you choose rap music? It was love at first listen for me really. I have always been a writer and lover of music all my life. My brothers brought hip-hop to the house and I got hooked on that. Rap challenges my writing process and I guess I like a challenge. I love how so true Rap can cut across globally and it is fun to be part of that, maybe even create over here with people who love it enough to keep doing it. Where do you draw your inspiration? Life. What would you say is your strongest point? My voice. It is a blessing to be able to use that as an instrument to communicate on a global scale. It is even more humbling to have people affirm that they connected to my songs in this way or that. At the end of the day I think that is what truly counts. What inspired your promotional single, ‘light out’? Love. I wanted to be expressive and explore or say things every girl wants to say. The girls really love that song especially and it is beautiful to have that. Oh absolute blessing .When great people like that agree to work with you, it is a sign. On my album “1960” I have gone a whole different path and I needed every one of this people to align with the vision we had for the album and they all did. It is so amazing. It is not every day you wake up and decide you want to work with Femi Kuti or Darey or Olamide and have that delivered to you. It was a dream comes true. I am grateful. You were once nominated in the highly coveted “Next Rated” category. What does this mean to you? Every nomination or award win is very sweet and humbling. It is in a way your industry is saying they see the hard work you put in and they appreciate your efforts. I was just recently nominated in the “Best Rap Single” category for my single “DEAF” at the Headies2014, and I won the “Best Female Hiphop” at BEN TV Awards 2014. Every single time that happens to me I am overwhelmed with excitement. It is a pat on the back for me. I am very blessed. You have a Christian background. One would have thought you are going to toe the gospel path? Music doesn’t work like that. At least not for me. I am Christian all my life and I live by faith and love. But music for me is more an expression than a declaration of religious beliefs. I go with what breathes through my heart and I want to speak for as many people as are related to the topics my music revolves around, regardless of borders or beliefs. Despite the huge investment on your education, how did your parents take your decision to go into music? My parents are the best. They are very supportive, very understanding. And with what little or more they have they push you whatever way you want to go. If the kids are happy, they are happy. Growing up, who influence you-the good, bad and the ugly? My Mom, Sade Adu, Michael Jackson and Eminem. How would you describe your growing up? For me, it was fun. I used to go to the farm with my mother. I had a lot of experienced with Nupe and Fulani men as we lived in the North at one time. Bida Niger state. I remember cultivating beans, millet and maize when I was about 6. It was a beautiful way to live; I remember enjoying it and always looking forward to going to the farms. In schools I was in the forefront of entertainment. I was always on stage. I was in cultural, debating societies, Dance and Drama groups. Share your fondest childhood memories On a particular Sallah day we scurried around the Emir’s palace excitedly. There were camels and horses on the roads, with fine riders gallantly clad in long rolls of expensive fabric with varying degrees of vibrancy. The air carried with it high pitched notes of celebration, and all I and my brothers and friends wanted was the clinging of shiny new one naira coins in our pockets. The Emir gave to us generously, with a broad smile on his face; in our minds we were rich. You have a very strong personal style which has come to be accepted as the “Eva” brand. How would you describe your style? My style is full of funk and flare. I guess I could say that. I am very edgy, very spontaneous and I like to stay younger and younger with it. I don’t like it difficult. I like it extra creative and well put together. For the most part I am at my best when a lot of people do not agree with my choices. That’s how I know I satisfied myself. You can be quite daring with your fashion too. What is the hottest fashion item for you now? Hottest fashion item for me right now are boots. I can’t do without them Asides make up, fashion, music, and writing, what other dream is yet to be fulfilled? I am my biggest critic sometimes. I sincerely wish I was good with photography and videography. I love cameras. I have been in front of the cameras for the better part of my life and I am very intrigued by what happens behind the camera. I think I am going to take the plunge with it.