Former Green Eagles and coach of Nigeria’s Olympic team, Bitrus Bewarang has revealed his childhood ambition to become a pilot.  Football, according, to him was an accident. “When I was growing up, my ambition was to become a successful pilot,” began  Bewarang in an interview with our correspondent.“I wasn’t good in mathematics and physics but liked geography. I had to relax and dumped my pilot ambition. Football was an accident to me. My captain in school encouraged me to play football.” Bewarang, who has been in the football circuit for almost five decades, is a folk hero in Plateau state, where he led the darling local team , Plateau United  at one time or the other as coach, team manager and general manager. “From school, I proceeded to play in regional and national competitions and I was promoted to the senior national team; the Green Eagles in 1977,” the amiable former Super Eagles’ assistant coach further explained. He continued: “ My contemporaries were Christian Chukwu, Segun Odegbami and Adokiye Amesimeka but my adventure in soccer ended when I sustained a career-threatening injury in the Jos derby on  December  17th 1977. “Following the creation of states, the Sports Council recruited me and I was made the coach of Plateau State. I was sent on a coaching course in Germany, where I did a nine-month coaching course and I later returned for a coaching course at the National Institute for Sports (NIS) in Nigeria where I was a pioneer student,” noted Bewarang as he speaks about his humble beginning and related matters in an interview with TUNDE SHAMSUDEEN. Excerpts…  Brightest moment as a coach There were  many moments  to cherish and remember. Among them was  winning the 1999 Challenge Cup final with Plateau United. Before that time, teams from Plateau state had lost 12 times in the final. We were accorded good reception. God saw my efforts and I was made the coach of the national  U-23 team. The team qualified for the 2000 Olympic Games in Australia. Another good moment for me was when I was made the General Manager of Plateau United after the team spent seven years in the second tier division. Furthermore, the person I recommended as the General Manager of Plateau United went on to make history to help the Peace Boys win the Nigeria Professional Football League (NPFL) for the first time in the history of the club in 2017. Super Eagles at  Russia 2018  FIFA World Cup There is no phobia at all. Our boys tend to perform whenever they are pitched against top teams in the Group of Death. At USA 1994 and France 1998, the Super Eagles qualified with a game to spare. There are no pushovers  in the World Cup. Don’t forget that the Super Eagles recently defeated Argentina 4-2 in a friendly match and that has sent fear to the spine of other teams in the Mundial. I believe that this current set of players have what it takes to surpass the second round at  Russia 2018. Legacy as NFF’s Technical Director Honesty, sincerity and professionalism are needed in life. In future, posterity will judge us. My plan is to ensure that Nigeria win laurels during my tenure as the technical director of the NFF. Children’s ties with football Education is the best legacy one can give his children. My children have been engaged in one way or the other in sports. One of them is a Chemical Engineer and played for Plateau United and Remo Stars in the past. I always pray for them to perform well in their chosen careers. Message to football fans They should stay close to God. When you do things with the fear of God, all will fall into place. Doing  domestic chores at home I must be sincere with you; my late wife took it upon herself to manage the home and tried her best to train the children. I didn’t really have the chance for domestic chores. I was given 10 hours to train as the state coach alongside James Peters. The result of my wife’s efforts is that my three children are graduates. I give special kudos to my dad, who was a Reverend father. I come from a royal family; a large and loving Christian home.  .