WITH a little over a year to the gubernatorial elections, several aspirants have emerged in various parties in Imo State and many more are expected to emerge in the next few months. So far, those who have emerged can be described as a motley crowd – the good, the bad and the ugly: The serious and the unserious; the capable and the incapable. All of them want to govern us. It is within their rights to aspire and no one can begrudge them that. However, there is one man in the race who has excited me very much. He is Mr. Frank Nneji, the brilliant and hardworking Managing Director of Rapido Group of Companies which includes ABC Transport, a company which changed the face of transportation in this country; Fibi Foods, Rapido Audiovisuals company, a foremost marketer of audio visual products; Transit Support Nigeria Limited  which assembles light and heavy trucks and buses and markets equipment and accessories which support the transportation industry. There are also other subsidiaries in the group, including hotels. He is a man whose career trajectory I have followed since about 1994 when he changed the story of interstate public transportation in Nigeria. Before the coming of ABC Transport, travellers were treated like cattle by the various bus companies. There was nothing like customer service or respect for the passengers. But he changed all that. His entry into politics and the governorship race has also excited many other people I have spoken to or come across. We all want him to come and change the culture of governance in Imo State as he changed that of the transport industry in Nigeria. However, there are those who insist that despite his credibility and other good qualities that he brings to the table, they have a problem with him. According to them, he is stingy. He does not throw money around like other candidates. Whenever I hear this view, my regard or esteem for whoever expressed it drops immediately. It is apparent that the person who voiced that opinion does not know much. If he did, he would be able to differentiate between the words stingy and prudent. They don’t mean the same thing. I always try to educate such people about the difference between the two words and why they should not follow a candidate just because he is throwing money around. Some of them listen and change their views while some of the more conceited ones walk away to continue to wallow in their ignorance. I begin my lecture by pointing out to them that if Mr. Nneji were stingy, he would not bring out his money to contest elections in today’s Nigeria. Most of the people who say he is stingy cannot plunge their own resources into an uncertain venture such as politics at any level, even if they had all the money in the world. I educate them that Nneji is prudent. Not stingy. That he is a very good and careful manager of resources, which is why he has attained the heights he has got to in his business today. It takes a lot of discipline to grow a business as anyone who has done so will tell you. I mean a real well set up business, not one that operates out of a briefcase with a few or no staff at all. One must conserve one’s resources to have money to grow one’s capital and meet one’s obligations. Even his enemies will agree that Nneji has done that very well in this regard. At this point in Imo State’s development or situation,  with the government so heavily indebted to banks, contractors, workers , pensioners and people who have obtained  court judgements against it for various reasons, there is no doubt that the state needs a disciplined and prudent manager of resources to dig it out of the deep mess it is in. Imo State cannot afford to continue to be run the way it has been run in recent times. It just cannot be business as usual. If he is elected into office, the people of Imo State can be sure Nneji will not fritter away their meagre funds by flying chartered private jets to Abuja and other places at least for six million Naira per round trip as is the case presently. Nneji will not embark on expensive jamborees such as birthday celebrations for himself and members of his family at government expense. Nneji will not embark on flights of fancy with public funds, such as moulding statues at undisclosed amounts, building “five star” hotels in the bush or 27 “Specialist” hospitals. In short, Nneji will not spend government money recklessly because he does not spend his own in that manner. Nneji will not pay outrageous sums to private television stations in Lagos to air live coverage of inconsequential private and government ceremonies which add no value at all to the lives of the average Imolites​. Nneji will not move around with a convoy of twenty or more cars fueled and maintained at government expense. Nneji will not shut down government any time he feels like it by ordering every major government functionary to come and see him off or receive him at the airport. Nneji will not waste government money by embarking on projects on which feasibility studies, designs, estimates and Bills of Quantity have not been done or prepared. Nneji will not go to China to import uniforms, shoes  and school furniture at huge cost to the government when they can be made here. Nneji would not make advance payment of government money to contractors without bank guarantee so the contractor will not abscond with the money paid to him. Nneji has proved that he is a corporate governance disciple who will follow due process in all that he does. Due process saves money for government in the long run. Nneji, as a prudent man, will run Imo State like a business which has a balance sheet to show profit and loss. This will ensure that whatever money is available to the state goes a long way. As a man who appreciates the value of money and what can be achieved if money is properly managed for the benefit of the public, Nneji will plug all the sources of leakages and ensure that money due the government goes into government coffers -something that is not happening now. I could go on to give Imo people more reasons  why the man some of them call “stingy” is the best bet for them, but let me stop so far. Before I conclude, I have some questions to ask. Have the people of Imo State asked themselves where the aspirants who are throwing money around as if there is no tomorrow, got the money from? Have they stopped to consider how those people are going to recoup the money they are throwing around when they get into office? Of course the answer is obvious. They are not Father Christmas. All the money they are sharing is a means to an end. They have to recoup it if they get into office by looting the government coffers. I think Imo could do with some “stinginess”, though I prefer to call it prudence. We have seen where a culture of frivolity, “settlement” and unbridled extravagance has landed us. – Okoro contributed this from Owerri 