Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria (AMCON) Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer Mr Ahmed Kuru has attributed the failure of many domestic carriers to weak corporate governance principles. According to Kuru, until corporate governance is strengthened,  domestic carriers will continue to fail. He said the Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) must show courage and ensure there is sound financial risk management systems in domestic airlines. In an interview in Lagos, Kuru referred NCAA to the measures adopted by the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) and the Financial Regulation Council of Nigeria(FRCN) to sanitise the financial sector. He said: “The aviation and transport sector requires solid capital to make it deliver for the good of  Nigerians. It will require a measure of policy consistency and governmental support to thrive. “However, from our experience, no matter the capital thrown at the sector, if corporate governance is not strengthened, it will still fail. “The absence of quality governance and sound financial risk management systems is at the heart of the failures that are common in the sector. “I urge regulators to act with courage by insisting on proper governance in airlines. I recommend they look at the work being done by CBN and Financial Reporting Council to improve the practice in airlines.” He also spoke on the take-over of Arik Air and Aero Contractors Airlines by AMCON, describing it as the best decision to keep the carriers from imminent collapse. Kuru said if not for the take over, Arik and Aero Contractors Airlines would have gone under due to huge debts. He said since AMCON’s intervention, the two carriers had attained stability in their flight operations. He said AMCON’s mission in the airlines was in discharge of its mandate as a stabilising and revitalising tool in the economy. Kuru said at the point of intervening in Arik, the company was witnessing  a high spate of flight cancellations of up to 40 per cent of its on-time performance (OTP). OTP, according to Kuru,  which measures the promptness of schedule flights in Arik Air, at the time of take over, had fallen to as low as 15 per cent. ‘’If AMCON had not taken over Arik Air last year,  the airline would have liquidated, as its workers, including pilots, were owed salaries, in some cases, up to six months,’’ he said. Kuru said:“Staff morale was therefore, understandably low. Several service providers, including fuel marketers, maintenance and spare part companies were withdrawing services or were unwilling to extend credits. There were indeed, significant concerns at various governmental circles for safety and the possible impact of the collapse of the company on the economy.” He clarified that the take-over of Arik and Aero Contractors Airlines by AMCON was not to destroy the companies but to add value to their operations. Kuru said: “We are glad to report that this position has been largely arrested. Cancellations are down to four per cent, in time departure is over 60 per cent, all owed salaries of  staff members are fully paid. “Suppliers are being paid as at when due. This, of course, has come at a cost to AMCON, though the Central Bank of Nigeria and local banks suppoted the intervention.  “As a major policy drive of this government, we were able to save over 3,000 direct jobs and hundreds of indirect jobs in the airline industry. We are, indeed, proud to have played this important role. “AMCON  does not wish to be in the airline business or, indeed, any business apart from its legal mandate. So, AMCON will be willing to exit the firms if the owners of the companies pay the debts owed. “Where this does not happen, the Corporation will seek to strengthen the intervened companies and undertake a responsible exit in a manner that reinforces the sector.”