Bestgift Group of Schools in Ijegun in Igando-Ikotun Local Development Area (LCDA) of Lagos State, will tomorrow  host members of the public and neigbouring schools to its maiden technical exhibition. The show, which will be flagged off by top government functionaries, will remain open for public view at the school premises for five days,. Exhibits shall comprise electrical installations, mechanical productions, fabrications and fittings, as well as motor vehicle mechanics work. There is also going to be an on-the-spot demonstration of dismantling and assembling of machines and other electrical gadgets by the students. Chairman of the school, Basil Madubueze, said the inspiration behind the technical college is to address the massive youth unemployment crises which are gradually becoming a national disaster. Madubueze believed that the only solution to youth unemployment is technical education, which is yet to be accorded its proper place in the country. “Most developed countries of the world we celebrate today are leveraging science and technology, which is our core concern for establishing this arm of our schools,” said Madubueze, an engineer. “We lay emphasis on courses like Electrical/Electronics, Building Technology, Mechanical Engineering, Computer Engineering, Automobile Engineering, among others, thereby putting a solid foundation for students wishing to further their careers in those areas in the higher institutions. It is imperative for students, especially those who cannot further their education to be equipped with the requisite skills that can make them self reliant and employers of labour,” he added. Madubueze, nonetheless, admitted the huge financial implication of putting in place a sound technical school. Aside suggesting lowering of bank interest rates which can go a long way in assisting those wishing to invest in the sector, government, he urged, should also come down on the exorbitant annual dues and levies such schools are compelled to pay. Madubueze said the school re-engaged retired engineers and professional technical educators.