THE University of Ibadan, University of Medical Sciences (UNIMED), Ondo, and Samuel Adegboyega University (SAU), Ogwa, Edo State have okayed herbal medicine for their curricula. This is following a deal with PaxHerbal Clinic and Research Laboratories. Its clinic Director, Rev. Anselm Adodo, broke the news at a briefing in Ikeja, GRA, Lagos. He said UNIMED would run a Bachelor’s Degree in Herbal Medicine, SAU, a higher certificate programme and UI, a Master’s and a Ph.D in African Traditional Medicine at its Institute of African Studies. Also, UI is running a course in Herbal Medicine, through the Pharmacy Department. Rev Adodo said: “An expert committee, with members drawn from key government research and regulatory agencies, set up by the Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON) to draw up standards for official identification of African medicinal plants has also made progress in its research findings.” The Institute of African Studies will also offer a professional certificate programme in Herbal Medicine. “This programme aims to empower traditional healers to professionalise their practice. It is also open to pharmacists and medical practitioners who need a working knowledge of Herbal Medicine with the attendant certification from a credible institution,” Rev Adodo explained. According to him, the undergraduate courses will be fulltime, while the certificate courses can be obtained part time. Besides, Rev Adodo said the Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) has signed a Memoradum of Understanding (MoU) with PaxHerbals to research the use of plants as foods and medicine. “We have also signed an MoU  with PaxHerbals and its subsidiary, the Pax Integral Research and Development Initiative (OFIRDI), and Lagos State Coconut Development Agency (LASCODA) on research into coconut-based products,”  Adodo said. The Nigeria Institute of Medical Research (NIMR), which last year signed an MoU with Paxherbals on research and development of Traditional Herbal Medicine, has established a Centre for Herbal Medicine, Alternative and Complementary Medicine Research, while the Nigeria Natural Medicine Development Agency (NNMDA), and the Pax Herbal Clinic and Research Laboratories have prepared a protocol for a clinical trial of the Pax herbal malarial medicine called Malatreat, which is awaiting ethical clearance from health regulators. “I, as Director of Paxherbals, have always been actively involved, either as a member of a curriculum advisory committee, curriculum review committee or a research committee. My participation brought awareness to several areas of neglect, especially the dearth of literature on herbal medicine from Nigeria and documentation of Nigerian plants and flora for students and researchers. This has compelled Nigerian researchers to depend excessively on foreign publications to help them in their local research, which is practically difficult and not easy to compare. As a contribution towards solving this problem, I decided to publish a research book titled: “Medicinal Plants of Nigeria: An Ethnobotanical survey and Plant Album’, to be released in July, this year,” Rev Adodo said. He explained that the book aims to serve as a workbook for students, teachers and practitioners in the field of ethnobotany and ethnomedicine.  It documents the plants that are traditionally used by the local population, the history of local use, and the traditional beliefs around the use in Nigeria. At a time when so much attention is being given to phytochemica l screening of plants. He added: “There is a temptation to overlook the philosophy of ethnomedicine and cultural use of plants, thereby losing the link between plants and the community. ‘’This research adopts a community-oriented approach to African herbal medicine research and argues for a return to a community-based approach to medicine, wherein the health of the individual is closely aligned with that of the community. Community in this context includes plants, animals and the environment.” One of the major weaknesses of Traditional Medicine, according to Rev Adodo, is that it has not yet moved from the realm of the subjective to that of objective as well as from implicit to explicit knowledge. It is crucial that traditional medicine evolves from implicit to explicit knowledge, from knowledge embodied in individual local healers to a community of knowledge that is available to all, he added. He said in Africa, it is difficult to separate the practice of herbal medicine from the herbal practitioner. “In conventional medicine, it is different; if a patient dies after a series of treatment and medication, people rarely blame or condemn the practice of medicine as a discipline, or declare it completely ineffective. Instead, it just means that a particular case was simply impossible, or not successful. If a medical doctor makes mistakes or acts contrary to the principle of ‘do no harm,’ or is noticed to have been negligent, he or she is penalised by the relevant authorities. “However, such individual mistakes and inefficiencies do not always mean that the discipline of medicine is bad, and the people understand. On the contrary, people often fail to make this distinction when it comes to traditional medicine, they often judge and condemn the practice of herbal medicine itself when an individual practitioner defaults or is negligent. This is partly due to lack of firm control and regulatory system as well, that ensures disciple and effectiveness. On the other hand, lack of documentation, illiteracy and little emphasis on knowledge sharing and research, has significantly retarded traditional medicine as a field of discipline.” Rev Adodo assured that Paxherbals will continue to work with the government and Non- Governmental Organisaions (NGOs)for the development of African herbal Medicine.