…Meddlers behind the allegation – NDDC  A group, the Bayelsa Patriotic Watch (BPW) , has called on President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to beam searchlight on projects awarded by the Nsima Ekere-led board of the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) in the state. The group said undue interference by the board and its Managing Director in projects for the state are affecting their deliveries and performance. But an aide to the NDDC MD debunked the allegation, accusing “political jobbers and mischief makers” who are not getting easy money as they were used to for the attack. The BPW alleged that contracts meant for the state were being awarded to non-indigenes and those who can further the political ambition of some of the NDDC leaders. These were contained in a statement signed by BPW President and Secretary-General, Chief Fyneface Tari and Hon Suoyo Ebi, respectively. The MD’s aide, who spoke on condition of anonymity said, “We are used to such baseless accusation by people who are used to getting free money. “As soon as the free money stopped, they are resulting to blackmail and mudslinging because the MD is not prepared to sacrifice the commission for their personal gains”. But BPW leaders insisted, “Our organization is a collegiate of recognized youths leaders and stakeholders in the protection of and prospecting for greater Bayelsa state and Ijaw interest in the NDDC. “We are constrained to draw the attention of the general public and indeed the Presidency to the cross purposes and selfish pursuit of the NDDC, especially the MD’s neck-deep pursuit of 2019 governorship ambition back in his home state of Akwa-Ibom.” The group said the alleged ambition is distracting the MD from focusing on the development of the region, particularly on their state. “We are alarmed that Mr. Ekere-led board is still desperately awarding juicy contracts meant for Bayelsa people to his cronies and supporters of his gubernatorial ambition in Akwa Ibom state, thereby robbing Peter to pay Paul. “Key life touching projects of NDDC that had been blatantly abandoned by Nsima-led NDDC include the Opu/Nembe sand filled Road; the Shoreline Protection Project in Kaiama, Kolokuma-Opukuma LGA.” They lamented that the board had refused to revisit the project, but instead allegedly “diverted resources and opportunities mean for such projects for personal ambitions.