The Order of the Brotherhood of the Cross and Star (BCS) (aka Olumba Olumba Obu (OOO) has said it will in December celebrate the 100th year of the appearance of God among human beings. Addressing reporters yesterday in Warri, Delta State, the message bearer of the Supreme Leader of the order, Christ Ambassador Sam Inok said an entourage would light the centenary torch in honour of Olumba Olumba Obu in Warri, as it did previously in other places. Inok, who said he was in Warri on the authority of the leader of the order, noted that the BCS is not a church, as being held in many quarters, but “a Christ universal practical school”. The cleric said the leader of the order, who he said was born in December 1918, was physically alive and living in Calabar, the Cross River State capital. He added: “The Brotherhood of the Cross and Star is celebrating 100 years of the physical manifestation of the Godhead on earth. The founder and sustainer of the brotherhood, Olumba Olumba Obu, who the world is expecting as it is written in Revelation 21:3 that God of heaven who will dwell with men is on earth and has been here for 100 years. We are celebrating the centenary this year. “We are in Delta, by his authority, to light the centenary torch. That torch has been lit in Kaduna for 11 northern states; it has been lit in Abuja for 11 states and it’s been lit in Lagos for seven states. “It was lit in Ghana last Sunday for Republics of Togo, Benin, Ghana and Ivory Coast. They congregated in Accra, the capital of Ghana, to witness the lighting of that centenary torch. “We are saying that if anyone is in doubt, he should confirm him like John the Divine did. We are also here to inform everybody that the grand-finale of this celebration will be coming up in December; on December 30. “As we speak, the government of Cross River State has granted the use of the State Sports Stadium for this event. This conference is about the 100 years of the existence of the founder and the sustainer of the brotherhood. We are informing the world that he is the expected God. “The father, Olumba Olumba Obu; the king of kings, the lord of lords, the founder and sustainer of the brotherhood, on whose authority I am here talking to you, is the one to action this occasion. He’s the one to preside, conduct and pour out his blessings on mankind on December 30 at Calabar Stadium. Olumba Olumba Obu is physically in Calabar as we speak.” 