Nigeria’s number one female badminton player, Dorcas Adesokan of Ogun State departed  Nigeria  for Denmark yesterday for a month training tour  where she will be taking part in some competitions as she aims to qualify for the 2020 Olympic games in Japan. Adesokan who is the defending champion of the first Katsina Golden Star Badminton championship and Mutual Benefits Badminton Championship which took place in Lagos last year, is set to continue her dominance in 2018 but will be expecting a fight from the likes of Deborah Ukeh of Edo State and Zainab Momoh. Adesokan hailed the present board of the BFN led by Francis Orbih for engaging the players with international and national competitions. “I am elated because the players are now playing in quality tournaments. Four top players returned from a training tour in Indonesia six days ago where they spent 63 days  and today (yesterday) I am travelling to Holland for atleast 31 days .As you know I don’t talk much but will let the shuttle and racket do the talking “ she concluded. Adesokan, who recently got N5m from the Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun is expected back in the country in June. Meanwhile, the BFN has commended the six para-badminton players that did the country proud in Uganda, promising to expose more talents, while praising the wife of Abia State Governor Nkechi Ikpeazu for her support to the tournaments. The team led by Vice President of the BFN, Muhammad Maina returned to the country on Sunday with 19 medals from the two championships. One of the six players, Seyi Dada who won two gold medals and ranked number one in Africa in his WH Wheel Chair two category expressed satisfaction with the team’s performance in the two championships. Dada said the two competitions were very tough commending his team members for putting up good performances. “The two championships were very tough and good for the players but the team won more medals in the Africa Senior Para-Badminton championship. Winning 19 medals with 8 gold ,8 silver and 3 Bronze medals was a remarkable one for us and we will hope to do better next year” 