The Ansar-Ud-Deen Society of Nigeria (ADSN) has identified hunger as a major cause of insecurity ravaging the country. Poverty is the main reason people are taking to social vices, ADSN said, urging multinationals and corporate organisations to be alive to their Corporate Social Responsibilities (CSRs) as part of measures to tackle insecurity and other socio-economic challenges facing the country. The Abuja branch chairman of the organisation, Alhaji Abdur-Rasheed Oyetunji made the call at the 2019 Pre-Ramadan media conference, ahead of the 24th annual Ramadan lecture coming up on May 19 at the Mosque premises, Maitama Abuja. “We are concerned about the state of poverty and insecurity in the country and how these twin issues can be addressed for the benefit of all in our country. We believe the forthcoming Ramadan which is about weeks from today provides a veritable platform as a starting point to addressing these challenges. “While we commend the government for its efforts at combating insecurity, we believe that other Nigerians, including corporate organisations have bigger roles to play in addressing these issues. This explains why we have as our theme for this year’s Ramadan Lecture “Corporate Social Responsibility: Antidote to Insecurity and Poverty in Nigeria – Islamic Perspective” to be delivered by Sheik Muhyideen Ajani Bello,” Oyetunji said. According to him, while the organisation as a religious body believes in efficacy of prayer, Islam preaches about work and prayer, hence its stance on the need to go beyond prayers to confront poverty and insecurity in the country. He said, “If people are no more hungry, the insecurity in the country will reduce. Poverty is the cause of insecurity in this country. Government should ensure that people are not hungry. Government should make sure that we are our brother’s keeper. We are willing to compliment the Federal Government’s effort on the steps government is taking to combat crime and solve the security problem. “Although the main motive of business is to earn profit, corporate organisations should take initiatives to secure the welfare of the member of the society. This can only be achieved when they discharge their CSR to their immediate host, neighbourhood or community effectively and adequately.”