The cities Ibadan Ilorin 
Makurdi Warri 
Benin Abeokuta 
Osogbo Asaba 
Aba Uyo 
 Enugu Bauchi
Minna Owerri THOUSANDS of Catholic faithful nationwide yesterday stage peaceful protests to register their disapproval and grievances against the killings of innocent people, the bombing of churches by Boko Haram insurgents, militia and killer herdsmen. The protesters said the action was to draw the Federal Government’s attention to wanton killings in the country. According to the, those who are involved in the killings should be unraveled and punished. They specifically condemned the murder of two Catholic priests,  Rev. Fr. Joseph Gor and Fr.  Felix Tyolaha and 17  other Catholic faithful  by on Tuesday,  April 24 at St.  Ignatius Catholic Church,  Ukor-Mbalom,  Gwer-East Local Government Area of Benue State during morning Mass. Heavy gridlock in Ibadan, Umuahia For several hours in Ibadan, Oyo State, vehicular and human movement around Awolowo axis along the state secretariat witnessed heavy gridlock as the church members with placards processed from the SS Peter and Paul Major Seminary, Bodija to the Oyo State Secretariat. A letter was delivered to Governor Abiola Ajimobi for onward transmission to the President. The letter was received by the governor’s Chief of Staff, Dr. Gbade Ojo. The logjam was witnessed on Bodija-Secretariat-Total Garden Road and other adjoining roads like Oshuntokun-Sango, Awolowo-Sango, Aare Avenue, Secretariat-Government House, Secretariat-Mokola, and Customs-Ikolaba. Catholic Archbishop of Ibadan Diocese, Most Rev’d Gabriel Abegunrin, led the protesters. The Ashipa Olubadan of Ibadanland Oba Eddy Oyewole, Catholic priests, members of the church and civil society organisations were among the protesters . Most Rev’d Abegunrin, in the letter, stated:  “The perpetrators of this dastard act are human beings and not spirits from the metaphysical world; they live with us, they are in our midst. It is sickening to note that almost one month after this ugly incident, no one has been brought to book, a situation which is unacceptable. “Our goodwill is fast being depleted by the failures of government. We are not politicians, so we have the moral responsibility to bring this to your attention. As you know, we are peace loving people, but it should be noted that a particular group of people do not have a monopoly of violence. Peace is not the absence of conflict but the presence of justice. So, if we want peace in this country, let us work together for justice.” Ojo, in his response, said Ajimobi would have loved to receive the Catholic faithful personally,  but he was on official assignment outside the state. He promised to deliver the letter to the governor for further actions. Over 10, 000 Catholics protest in Abia over killing of priests, parishioners Also, human and vehicular movement was literarily shutdown on major roads in Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State and Umuahia, the state capital, as Catholic faithful trooped out in their numbers to hold a peaceful protest. The Catholic Bishop of Umuahia Diocese, Bishop Lucius Ogorji, led Catholic faithful in Umuahia, the state capital, to mourn the death of those killed Makurdi. Ilorin cleric seeks lasting solution to senseless killings Scores of catholic faithful staged peaceful procession and prayers in Ilorin, the Kwara capital in solidarity with two priests and 17 others killed by herdsmen in Benue State. The Catholic Bishop of Ilorin Diocese, Most Reverend Ayo-Maria Atoyebi, used the occasion to call on Federal Government to find lasting solution to senseless killings and bloodletting. Bishop Ayo-Maria  cleric condemned the killings of church members as well as other innocent citizens in parts of the country. He said government should rise up to its primary responsibility of protecting lives and property by bringing killers of innocent people to justice. The protest, which started with prayers for the repose of the souls of dead, saw the bishop praying for deliverance of Nigeria from insecurity challenges such as Boko Haram insurgency, herdsmen terrorists, kidnappers, armed robbery gangs. Over 2000 Catholics on solidarity protest in Warri More than 2000 Catholic faithful in Warri also trooped out to demand an end to incessant killings. The Bishop of Warri Diocese of the Catholic Church, Most Rev. John Afareha, who led the peaceful procession around the city, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do all that was needed to end the bloodshed across the country. He noted that it was government’s first responsibility to the citizens. The Catholic clergyman man urged government to rise up to its constitutional responsibility of safeguarding lives and properties of the citizens. The clergyman, who led the peaceful procession from the Cathedral at Okere, through Ajamimogha, to the Government House Annex. They presented a letter to Assistant Director, Government House Annex, Mr. Emiro Nelson, to the Delta State government.  Protesters brace early   morning downpour in Benin Members of the church in Edo State also joined their counterparts across the country to protest the killings. The early morning downpour did not deter the Catholic faithful drawn from across the 18 local government areas as they came out in their large numbers to join the protest. They marched from the St. Paul Catholic Church on Airport Road, Benin City  with placards with various inscriptions like: “Stop rendering people homeless”, “cattle-grazing is private business”, “The Catholic Church in Nigeria rejects Federal Government of Nigeria’s poor handling of security” and “Please, do not turn Nigeria into an animal kingdom”. At the Holy Cross Cathedral along Mission Road where they converged, Bishop of  Archdiocese of Benin, Rev. Fr. Austine Akubeze, said the peaceful protest was to draw the government’s attention to wanton killings in the country. Akubeze, who was represented by Vicar General, Father Augustine Ehigie, said those who are involved in the killings in the country should be unravelled.  Abeokuta, Uyo faithful to Buhari: resign now The Catholic faithful in Ogun State also poured into the streets of Abeokuta, the state capital, in their hundreds to protesting the  recent killing of the two priests and 17 parishioners in Benue State by suspected herdsmen. The peaceful protest, which took off around 10:25a.m. at the St. Anne Catholic Church, Ibara, Abeokuta, was organised by the Abeokuta Diocese of the church in compliance  with the directive of the Catholic Bishops Conference of Nigeria. Bishop of Abeokuta Diocese Olukayode Odetoyinbo, who led the protest, said the church was convinced that some people, particularly those in government,  knew why the spate of killings persisted. He appealed to Buhari – led administration to put a stop to it. Catholic faithful in Akwa Ibom State also joined others in asking Buhari to resign over the gruesome murder of the priests and other parishioners. They trooped out in their hundreds on the streets of Uyo in protest and solidarity with victims and families of those massacre in Benue. The placard-carrying catholic leaders, priests, women, youths and children marched from the Uyo Diocesan headquarters at Brook Street with placards to the Government House, where they registered their complaints before Governor Udom Emmanuel.  Osogbo diocese: incessant bloodletting  wicked and  barbaric Members of the Catholic Diocese of Osogbo in Osun State yesterday protested  killings of innocent Nigerians in many parts of the country. They described the incessant bloodletting as wicked and barbaric. “Nigeria now flows with blood instead of the honey,” the protesters said. With their rosaries,  Bibles and placards with various inscriptions, the protesters called on the Federal Government to find immediate solution to the killings. The Catholic mission faithful,  who dressed in their church uniforms, had converged at Our Lady of Fatimah’s Catholic Hospital, Jaleyemi and marched to the popular Olaiya junction before proceeding to the Osun State House of Assembly, where they presented a statement to the Speaker,  Hon. Najeem Salaam. The Bishop of Osogbo Diocese, Most Rev. John Oyejola, who spoke to reporters through the Vicar General of the diocese,  Very Rev. Fr. Thaddeus Ajayi, said the country now flows with human blood instead of honey.  Holy mass organised for victims in Delta Delta Catholics yesterday joined others nationwide in mourning priests and persons killed by herdsmen with a mass at St. Ignatius Catholic Church, Benue State on April 24. Members of the diocese, led by the bishop, Most Rev. (Dr.) Michael Odogwu Elue, had a rosary procession around the St. Paul Cathedral, Issele-Uku, where a holy mass was held in honour of the slain persons. Rev. Fr. Peter Enuanwa, Rector of St. Felix Seminary, Ejime-Aniogor delivered the homily at the mass presided over by the bishop. In a message signed by the Director of Communications in the diocese, Rev. Fr. Charles Uganwa and read by the Chancellor, Rev. Fr. John Aduba, the diocese deplored  incessant killings of Nigerians and urged the Federal Government to protect the  Nigerians.  Enugu Catholic community hold peaceful procession The Catholic Diocese of Enugu held a special solidarity mass and peaceful solemn procession for people killed by militias. The mass was held by thousands of Catholic faithful at the Holy Ghost Catholic Cathedral, Ogui in Enugu. The faithful and clergy within the diocese, after the mass that lasted for over an hour, also held a peaceful solemn procession within the vast Holy Ghost Catholic Cathedral compound for about two hours. Speaking at the end of the procession, the Bishop of Enugu Diocese, Bishop Callitus Onaga, said the mass and solemn procession was in solidarity with Christians that had died due to activities of militia groups in the country.  Bauchi worshippers: killings callous, wicked A peaceful protest  was staged at Saint John’s Catholic Cathedral, Bauchi Catholic Diocese, comprising Bauchi and Gombe states, with faithful saying the killings were callous and wicked. It was  led by the Diocesan Vicar-General in place of the Diocesan Bishop, Bishop (Dr.) Hilary Dachalem CMF, who was away to Benue to witness the burial along with other bishops. Other Catholics, who could not attend the protest, held masses in their respective parishes, where prayers were held for the souls of the departed.  Bishop urges govt to ‘end the  barbarism’ Catholics in Niger state held a peaceful protest yesterday, calling on the government to end the  barbarism. Catholic Bishop of Minna Diocese Most Reverend Dr. Martin Uzoukwu said that the killings in some parts of the country is as a result of the failure of the government to rise up to their responsibilities. Uzokwum who addressed the protesters who were at the Cathedral with placards bearing various inscriptions, called on the President to prevail on the security service chiefs to stop the killings or step aside.   