PROMOTER Frank Warren has urged Anthony Joshua to accept Deontay Wilder’s offer to make their potential match-up happen in the US. Talks of a showdown between unified heavyweight champion Joshua and American Wilder have been materialising for some time. The fight will act as the first time a heavyweight contest will be competed for all four of the main organisation’s world titles, with Joshua owning the IBF, WBA, and WBO straps and Wilder the WBC belt. Both teams have claimed they want the fight while their rival do not, however Wilder took to social media to publicly offer Joshua £50million to fight him with details later emerging that the fight being hosted in the US must be part of the deal. Promoter Eddie Hearn responded to the offer by questioning whether the offer was genuine or a PR stunt, while Joshua claimed the fight must take place in the UK to reward his loyal fan base. Hearn’s rival promoter, Frank Warren, had his say on the matter when speaking with Boxing News, claiming team ‘AJ’ must accept an offer to travel stateside. Warren said: ‘They’re saying they don’t want to go to the States and Anthony is saying he owes a UK fight to his fans. I’ll tell you what, Ricky Hatton’s fans had the best days out in Vegas. ‘They loved it. Do they really want to do it? You can only assume the reason it’s not happening is because they’re paying him 80 million dollars for his next two fights in the UK.’ Warren also commented on Hearn’s claim that the funds Wilder initially offered should be called into question. ‘First of all, there was a genuine offer made of a guarantee of 50 million dollars,’ Warren said. ‘Whatever happens, he’s going to get 50 million. ‘Then, in accordance to the rematch clause, he’d get 30 million. So, over the course of six months he could stand to make 80 million dollars, minimum. That was the deal.’ Hearn recently signed a $1 billion deal with sports streaming company DAZN to broadcast events in the US and UK, and although Joshua was not part of the deal, Warren suggested the huge money partnership could be the reason behind rejecting a Wilder offer.Warren said: ‘I’d take it (an offer to fight Wilder) where’s he going to get a guaranteed 80 million dollars in the next six months? But they must be guaranteeing him that, otherwise why would they turn it down? They must have guaranteed Joshua 80 million out of that billion they’ve got.’