Read the post to find out about the allegation of a believed Stonebwoy’s cousin who is also a music producer against Stonebwoy – Read the post to find out about the allegation of a believed Stonebwoy’s cousin who is also a music producer against Stonebwoy – The alleged relative of Stonebwoy insists that he (the producer) had helped the young star so many times in various ways especially during the period when Stonebwoy was ‘broken’ The name of this music producer is Ephraim, and he is in the center of the Stonebwoy latest rumors. Ephraim is a believed family member of the beloved by name and recognized by awards dancehall musician. He (Ephraim) has made some straight from the shoulder allegations against Stonebwoy in one of the latest interviews. Are you interested? Just keep reading to find out what exactly Ephraim has said. According to Modernghana.com, the music producer who is Stonebwoy’s cousin is extremely detrimental to the success of the dancehall star. If to be more precise, Ephraim was a guest at Accra-based Zylofon FM, and his main mission was to confirm or disprove the allegations made by him against his popular family member, Stonebwoy. It is not a surprise that such kind of interview was announced by Zylofon Media. The star is ‘out of favor’ of Zylofon Media and not once was in the news related directly or indirectly to his person. Many refer this fact to his beef with the chief of the media outlet Shatta Wale. Ephraim informed the audience that he as a music producer helped (produced) Stonebwoy at no charge for so many times. So the star did not pay him a penny. The music producer also added that he sometimes even gave money to the dancehall star for transportation and food. Do you think that it is all? No, it’s not. According to Ephraim, among the things that touched him to the quick was the unpleasant situation with the Blackberry phone. Someone from the environment of Stonebwoy asked the musician to hand over the phone to Ephraim. However, the star didn’t do this immediately and had used the phone for nine months before handing it over to his relative. Ephraim has also added that when the young dancehall star reached the fame, he (Stonebwoy) got above himself. The music producer insisted that he literally begged the star for more than a year to take part in one of his songs and Stonebwoy has refused all the propositions from his relative. The music producer also revealed that he is not the only family member of Stonebwoy who has been forgotten by the dancehall star after the last became famous and rich. Source: https://yen.com.gh/