I still remember when as a medical student, I was sharing questionnaires about a project I was working on to oil company workers in the Lagos Island area. I found something that was a bit eye-opening to me. The people I asked questions clearly knew most of the things to do to lead a healthy life, the only thing was that they weren’t practicing it. They knew they should be healthier, they just didn’t think it was practical to adopt a healthy lifestyle when being so busy. If you are familiar with life in Lagos, you will notice that the city never sleeps, most people in the labour force wake up around 5 am, rush to beat traffic, stay at work till about 5 pm, only to endure another 2-3 hours of traffic before getting home. Staying fit for most people isn’t an option, they claim to have little control over one of the most important aspects of their lives- their health. Well, the truth is this: there is a way.
In this post, I will explain 9 practical tips you can use to stay fit and healthy even when you think you have no time. As long as you are willing, you can certainly do it. This is where it all begins. I tell my patients routinely that if you don’t have a target, you can’t actually measure any progress you are making, and you can easily lose motivation. So, you should set a SMART fitness goal and write it down. Here’s what smart means: S- Specific: You need to choose a specific parameter you want to improve in per time. Let’s assume you don’t do any exercise at all during the week, your goal can be to spend just 15 minutes exercising every morning before having your bath. M- Measurable: Your goal needs to be something you can measure. For example, if your doctor asks you to lose about 10 kg, you can choose to set a target of losing 1.5 kilograms a week. This helps you track down your progress and can motivate you. A- Achievable: When setting your fitness goals, don’t go overboard with something that is not practical, be real with yourself. If you think you can really only spare 40 minutes to work out per week, be honest with yourself, start with that and gradually scale up once you are able to consistently reach your goal. R- Relevant: One simple way to avoid losing steam when trying to achieve something is by ensuring your goal is relevant to you. Don’t go with your friend’s or sibling’s fitness goals. They may be more or less fit than you. Let your fitness goals be in line with what you are personally convinced to do. This will make you more likely to stay committed to your plan. T- Time-Bound: You should make time a factor when setting your fitness goals. It can’t be open-ended. For instance, you can decide to attempt to lose 10 kilograms over a 3 month period, or declare to yourself that you will work out for 15 minutes each day before going to work for a period of 6 months. After the 6 months, you can then decide renew your plan or even go higher. Always make your goals time-bound. Before you take any action that involves your health, it is good to speak with your doctor or any other certified healthcare professional. Your doctor can use the BMI scale to tell you if you need to lose weight or just keep fit. You may be wondering: what is BMI? BMI stands for Body Mass Index. It is a universal scale that is used to judge whether a person is underweight, overweight, obese, or of normal weight. It is calculated by dividing your weight in kilograms by the square of your height in metres. Here’s how to interpret the result:
Underweight- Below 18.5
Normal weight- 18.5- 24.9
Overweight- 25-29.9
Obese- 30 and above
So, it is important to discuss with a healthcare professional before starting a fitness plan. Also, due to the number of myths around, it is good to be sure that your own fitness plan is healthy and safe. One thing people misunderstand when trying to stay fit is the importance of a good diet. To be honest, what you eat is more important than working out when it comes to weight loss. If you exercise for several hours every day but don’t eat healthily, you’ll probably not lose any weight. It is often painful to see people register for a gym membership, spend hours weekly working out but complain that the weight isn’t going anywhere. They get frustrated and give up on staying fit. So, what then is a good eating pattern? Well, you need to understand that what we eat contains energy in the form of calories. Carbohydrates and fats have high-calorie counts, proteins have fewer calorie counts. So, you should still have a balanced diet that contains all the nutrients but reduce the amount of carbohydrates and fats you take in and replace them with proteins. You can choose to decrease your intake of bread, yam, rice, and cassava while increasing your fish, and chicken intake. You don’t need to avoid eggs, you can take the white part, it is highly proteinous. I also suggest that you don’t skip meals, skipping breakfast would mean that you will compensate for it by taking a heavy lunch. You should try to avoid late dinners too. Let your workout schedule be practical in line with your available time and capabilities. We know its easy to admire those celebrities on Instagram who seem to consistently spend hours in the gym every day, but your own schedule is different. To see maximum results, include a period of working out to your daily schedule (you can keep about 1 or 2 free days to avoid burnout). Even doing some jump ropes and aerobics in the morning for about 10-15 minutes can make a whole big difference in your fitness levels. As time goes on, you can adjust to include more intense and specific workouts. A little exercise is by far better than no exercise at all. This is not about working out. It is about embracing physical activity in its totality when carrying out your daily routine. An example is walking or riding a bike to work. The beauty of this is that it compels you to do some form of exercise every day without consciously taking out time to workout. It is passive, you get to work after completing several helpful movements that can help you stay fit. If your workplace is far from your home, you can alight from the bus or park at a location that is about 15 minutes walk from your office so that you can enjoy some fitness boost on your way to work. Apart from these, if your office has several floors, you can choose to avoid the elevator and walk up and down the stairs instead, the little extra calories you’re burning will add up to make a significant change, also, your muscles will be more active. A sedentary lifestyle increases the chances of developing diseases like hypertension, type 2 diabetes, heart disease, osteoarthritis, and stroke. People with some of these chronic conditions may have issues with their mobility as time passes, especially as bones become less dense, requiring some aids like crutches and scooters. I once heard someone say “What you do to your body before you turn 50 is what it will give you back after 50”. So, if you don’t want to be a senior riding around in an electric scooter all the time because of knee problems from arthritis, you should prioritize physical activity today. Many people underestimate the power of drinking water regularly. Your body is made up of 55-65% water, hence, drinking enough water to maintain your body’s water balance is not an option, it is necessary. You should try to drink at least 3 litres of water every day if you are an adult. If your job is outdoors or at a field, you’ll definitely need to drink more than this amount. Drinking water helps you stay fit by helping your food digest well, keep you from overeating, and help your organs to work properly. You should also take a bottle of water with you when at the gym to prevent you from getting burnt out quickly. Sleep is a human necessity, but the truth is that most of us are sleep deprived. According to researchers, adults need about 7-9 hours of sleep for your body to function properly. A good sleep helps your muscles and joints recover well for the next day’s workout and occupational activities. It also improves your mood, making you cheerful and positive. A huge part of our lifestyle depends on the friends and company we keep. The more you stay around people that care about their health, the more likely you are to pay attention to yours. I am not saying you should throw away all your friendships because they don’t work out, that won’t be good. What I am suggesting is that you could ask your friends to join you to eat well and workout. That way, you all can motivate each other, encourage a healthy diet, and stay accountable to each other when trying to achieve your different fitness goals. Alcoholic beverages contain a lot of calories. So, if you still take beer when on a fitness or diet plan, it is likely to fail. You should try to lower your alcohol intake to almost zero when you are trying to stay fit or lose weight. Another thing people don’t know about alcohol is that our bodies treat it like a toxin and tries to eliminate it from the bloodstream. The liver is specifically assigned this role. This is why chronic alcoholics are more likely to have liver diseases than those who do not take alcohol. Conclusion While it may seem quite hard to think of being fit when you have a 9-5 job, it isn’t impossible. Using these practical tips, you can actually stay healthy and live a more balanced life.
As long as you desire to be fit, you can take it a step further by drawing up your personalized fitness goals and plan, discuss with your doctor, and start. As time passes, you can measure your progress, and adjust your plan as you deem fit.  Guest Article by Dr. Charles-Davies Omiete, a medical doctor based in Lagos.