Secretary General of Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF), Mr. Anthony N. Z. Sani has faulted the recent outburst of former President Olusegun Obasanjo who said, he will not support President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid. The ACF scribe said though former President Obasanjo remains important in politics, President Buhari can still win election without Obasanjo’s support. However, elder statesman and Second Republic Adviser to ex-president Shehu Shagari, Alhaji Tanko Yakasai has insisted that President Buhari cannot get his support in the 2019 presidential election. He was responding to a question posed to him on telephone whether he is in support of Obasanjo’s outburst that President Buhari will never get his support in the 2019 presidential election. The ACF scribe said, Obasanjo believes that his criticism of Buhari is capable of bringing the government down like the previous governments. He however noted that, the former President’s past letters were not as controversial as the one to Buhari. Sani in an interview said that, rather than weighing Buhari down, Obasanjo’s attitude has strengthened the President’s resolve and determination to vie for second term to prove the former president wrong. According to him, “In democracy, everybody is important. In that sense, former President Obasanjo is important. But that is not to suggest that President Buhari cannot win the elections without Obasanjo. On his part, Yakasai said, “I was the first person to say it even before Buhari’s election in 2015 that I will never support him, because I believe he (Buhari) was not prepared to rule Nigeria. Himself and his party were not prepared to rule Nigeria. “Obasanjo supported Buhari in the first place; but now, they have parted ways, and what he (Obasanjo) generally said is that a good politician is he who can retain his supporters.” He also wrote off President Buhari’s three years in office, insisting that, “I didn’t see any concrete thing he has achieved. I can only agree that he has achieved something in the fight against Boko Haram; but anybody, including you, can, as well, achieve something in that regard considering the resources deployed by the Federal Government in the fight against Boko Haram.