The Mufasir il-lmam of Osogboland, Alhaji Maroof Ishola, has admonished  governorship aspirants of the All Progressives Congress (APC) to  place the welfare of the people above their personal interest in their bid to succeed the incumbent governor, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola. Ishola gave the admonition while delivering a sermon at the special prayer session organised to mark the 61st birthday celebration of the governor. Imam Ishola implored the contenders to see continuity as sacrosanct rather than personal interest, saying they (aspirants) should be very careful not to allow Osun slip out of the hands of the progressives. While calling for cooperation and love among  party members,  the cleric stressed that care should be taken not to allow the good job the outgoing administration of Aregbesola has done to be destroyed by those who don’t know the extent of sacrifices the governor has made. He held that the only way the Aregbesola legacies can be sustained and built upon is to allow peace to reign and support whoever emerges as the party’s flag-bearer. “You should all remember that Aregbesola has done so much for the people of the state and the party members, hence the need for whoever is seeking the coveted seat not to allow carelessness and ambition to destroy the good legacies that had been built by the present administration”, the cleric stressed. In his remarks, the Governor of Osun, Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola, urged all governorship aspirants under the APC to remember that all that has a beginning must have an end as the expiration of his second term in office is near.He called on the contestants to remember that the move of the APC to rule over Osun has never been about the position of office but on the need to rescue the masses out of the drought which was visible in almost all the sectors as at then. “So the fact is that my coming into office was not about the affluence or power attached to the office, it was not about personal ambition to be called a governor,  it was about the genuine need to rescue our state from the shackles of retrogression which we met on ground.This is what I want my  party members to have at heart, you should not put your personal ambition ahead of the love for this state. Meanwhile, the Senator representing Osun East Senatorial District, Senator Babajide Omoworare has joined other well wishers to celebrate . The Senator congratulated the Governor for attaining another year in his journey through life under God’s infinite mercy and guidance, describing him as a symbol of good governance and exemplary leadership which is phenomenal and significant for development of humanity and democracy. Omoworare went further to pray that God will continue to guide the governor in his divinely given assignment to uplift the state and give him sufficient wisdom and grace for greater heights and success. “Mr. Governor sir, our own symbol of good governance and leadership, I join millions of your family and friends to felicitate with you on this day of yours, wishing you many more years of celebration,” the Senator said. 