THE question people have continued to ask back home in Biu is what may have necessitated close allies of former Acting Director-General of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ambassador Muhammed Dauda, to join in a bitter fight against him? It was rather curious and intriguing to many people that the duo of Mustapha Shehu, a publisher and media consultant from Biu in Borno State and Mustapha Betara Aliyu, a retired Deputy Director of NIA, also from Biu, who were close allies of Daura for more than 50 years, could join to fight their brother, Dauda, also from Biu. Those who know the three gentlemen are still piqued at what could have gone wrong to the hitherto cozy relationship between them. I know as a matter of fact that MB Aliyu, Muhammed Dauda and Mustapha Shehu were pals from the cradle, and not only contemporaries, but were always together when Dauda was still the Acting Director-General. I understand that while Mustapha Shehu was seeking to be engaged as a media consultant, M B Aliyu wanted his premature retirement from the NIA reviewed, so that he could enjoy the benefits of a director. It is common knowledge in the service that MB Aliyu has petitioned virtually every National Security Adviser from the time of General Aliyu Gusau and has tried to cajole every Director General since that time, including Muhammed Dauda, to have his matter reviewed. Perhaps he had hoped that, Dauda, being his own kinsman, will do that for him, but the Acting DG declined, insisting it was a bad case. I must confess that I have a fair knowledge of what may have transpired as both Mustapha Shehu and Mustapha Betara Aliyu used to be my close allies too, until I found out that I was actually riding on the back of two tigers. Dauda may have also come to the same realisation and refused to appoint MB Aliyu as his SA, contrary to the expectations of many of us who were regulars around him. One may think that Dauda’s refusal to appoint MB Aliyu as an SA, coupled with the rapid progress Dauda made even as MB Aliyu’s junior: becoming a Director, an Ambassador and subsequently the Acting DG of the NIA, at a time MB Aliyu could not transcend the position of a Deputy Director, may be part of what came between MB Aliyu and Dauda. Also, his refusal to hire Mustapha Shehu as a media strategist could have angered Shehu. Beyond these, there could be more motives for the duo to move against Dauda. I would have dismissed the assertion that Dauda is also being fought by his own brothers as a mere hoax but for the allegation from an insider in the NIA to the effect that our own brothers are at the center of a campaign to further denigrate Muhammed Dauda. I learnt of a ploy to compel him to withdraw the suit in court challenging his purported dismissal: an issue that has become worrisome to NI authorities. Suffice it to say that the close affinity between Mustapha Shehu and MB Aliyu stems from their commonality of attitudes and characters. For Shehu, since his sojourn outside the shores of Nigeria for the Technical Aid Corp, which gave him the opportunity to also pursue other endeavors, he has technically kept all his friends, except M B Aliyu, at bay. In the same vein, MB Aliyu, since his career at the National Intelligence Agency became wobbly and eventually ended rather unceremoniously, he has been leading a life of exclusivity with friends and even relations. But there seems to be a good understanding between the two, the basis of which no one knows. After carefully analyzing what could possibly be their common grouse against Muhammed Dauda, I had the strong feeling that Dauda’s sins may be his refusal to play the nepotism card by drawing Mustapha Shehu and MB Aliyu into the system. Or what else could be the root cause of the worrisome brothers’ macabre dance? *Habu, a long-standing ally of the parties, writes from Abuja