Despite an order by the Lagos High Court restraining the implementation of Tier-Based Minimum Solvency Capital (TBMSC) policy by the National Insurance Commission (NAICOM), some insurance companies, Chief Executive Officers (CEOs) have indicated the Tier level they plan to operate out of the three available categories The CEOs, on the instruction of their boards and shareholders, are working with the regulator on the TBMSC policy plans. While some of the boards and shareholders have distanced themselves from the court order, they are on the other hand aggressively seeking additional capital in other to position properly to play well in either of the three Tiers categories. The TBMSC structure is a complementary measure to the ongoing implementation of the Risk-Based Supervision (RBS), programme. It is a three level model, which specifies capital requirement for each tier based on their respective risk classification. Tier-3 of the TBMSC stipulates that companies will operate on the existing minimum paid up capital of N2 billion for life, N3 billion for non-life and N5 billion for composite underwriters. Life companies will only be permitted to underwrite individual life policy, health insurance, and miscellaneous insurances. Non-life companies will only underwrite fire, motor, engineering (only classes covered by compulsory insurance), general accident, agriculture and miscellaneous insurances. To operate in tier-2 of the TBMSC, companies must have 50 per cent additional capital base. Life companies must have N3 billion capital base and will underwrite all tier-3 risks and group life assurance. Non-life companies must have N4.5 billion and will underwrite all tier-3 risks, as well as engineering (all inclusive), marine, bonds credit guarantee and suretyship insurances. For tier-1 players, companies must have 200 per cent additional  capital base. While life companies must have N6 billion capital base and will underwrite all tier-2 risks and annuity, non-life companies must have N9 billion capital base and will underwrite all tier-2 risks, as well as oil & gas, (oil related projects, exploration & production) and aviation insurances. In essence any composite company, that is life and non-life, that wants to be in tier-1 must have N15 billion, tier-2 must have N7.5 billion while tier-3 must have N5 billion. But some shareholders had on September 13, 2018 dragged the commission to court and secured a restraining order against on TBMSC structure implementation. Justice Hassan of the Federal High Court, sitting in Lagos, restrained the Commission from implementing the TBMSC structure until after the expiration of 30-day pre-action notice. The case was filed by Sir Nnamdi Nwosu and seven others  versus the NAICOM with suit number 1483 of 2018 FHC/L/CS/ 1483/18. Counsel to the plaintiffs are B. C. Igwilo, SAN and Chuks Nwachuku. A CEO, who spoke under the condition of anonymity, said as operators, they cannot work against their regulator. He said while they pray for a postponement of the implementation of the policy, it is in their best interest to continue with the processes of the policy. 