Peacemakers Community Development Foundation has concluded plans to carry out sensitisation on how youths can be engaged during the 2019 general election. A founding member of the foundation, which is a non-profit organisation with affiliation to a United States of America- based non-profit organisation called Peacemakers Community Development Centre (PCDC), Shola Adedeji, who spoke with reporters, said it intended to empower youths in Lagos State to kick off the nationwide campaign. “The foundation will train youths in value of self-sufficiency by developing their capacity and capability as individuals towards being job creators, rather than being used as instruments of thuggery. “We have designed plans that will ensure that youths are meaningfully engaged during the 2019 general election in order to avoid being used as instruments of thuggery. We intend to empower youths for self-sufficiency by developing their capacity and capability as individuals towards being job creators,” she said. Adedeji said the organisation, which was founded in 2002 as Peacemakers Community Development Centre (PCDC) in Irvington, New Jersey, United States, was incorporated in 2007, adding that Peacemakers Community Development Foundation, the sister organisation in Nigeria, came into existence in 2012 with youth empowerment training programmes. “It was formally registered as a non-profit organisation in December 2016.” She said the foundation’s plan was to expose and engage youths in skills acquisition that would be beneficial to them now and in future. Adedeji added: “In the past five years, the organisation has assisted over 50 youths in overcoming their challenges such as re-uniting the homeless with their parents or foster parents through counselling. “As part of our roles as a non-governmental and non-profit organisation, we aim to offer the youth employment through community support services. We plan to put in place natural skills that support youth empowerment programme so as to place them right for a better future. “Besides, we plan to engage youths that are dropouts by sending them back to school to acquire knowledge for their future betterment through provision of technical and vocational education, provision of special scholarship programmes, among others.”