Burly defender and former youth international, Aliyu Abubakar, talks about fashion, fast cars and football in a rare interview with MORAKINYO ABODUNRIN. Enjoy… With the manner he pays attention to his physique and related finesses, Nigerian youngster Aliyu Abubakar is seemingly  taking after his idol, Cristiano Ronaldo, the Portuguese forward who currently plies his trade with the Italian club, Juventus Football Club. Upon his signing for The Old Lady in the summer, the 33-year-old former Real Madrid striker reportedly has the physical capacity of a 20-year-old as doctors at the Turin-based club stated, among other things that Ronaldo has just seven per cent body fat – which is around three per cent less than the average professional. His muscle mass which stands  at 50 per cent was higher by around four per cent than the average professional player and the top sprint speed he recorded at the World Cup – 21.1 mph, a result he replicated during his medical – was quicker than any other player at the tournament. So, in a layman’s language, Ronaldo was in pretty good shape and he seems not to have aged in the past decade much to the delight of his growing army of fans. “From the start, I like everything about Cristiano Ronaldo, especially the way he looks after his body,” Abubakar, the 22-year-old former junior international who was in the Golden Eaglet class of 2013 that won FIFA U-17 World Cup in the UAE, told The Nation at the break of dawn in late September. “I’m simply in love with Ronaldo; and there was a time I was wearing his hair style until I saw my friend, Isaac Success, with dreadlocks after he joined Watford from Grenada. “The dreadlocks look cool on me but I have tried to keep mine in different styles. Success’ own is like Mohawk but I’ve kept mine on the punk side yeah. But Abubakar is not just a jolly copycat of some sort, with the rigorous manner he fine-tunes his own body which makes him look like a hulk amongst his contemporaries. “As far as my physique is concerned, I inherited it from my dad but I still have to work a lot in the gym to maintain a muscular look. I work hard on my own even after the training with the team and I do extra push-ups and gym workout before and after the training in order to keep my body in good shape. “On Ronaldo, I like his fighting spirit and he is a hardworking player on and off the pitch. “I love his passion and I have watched many of his interviews and documentaries; so I like everything about him. He is a kind of person that doesn’t care about what people say once he believes in his capabilities on what he wants to do and I can say I emulate that from him.” According to him, his fitness regimen is as simple as A-B-C:  “Everybody keep asking how I have managed to look young and fit but it’s a simple secret; every day, I tried as much as possible to sleep at least seven to eight hours. “Even I sleep during the day time and as often as I can. I do take naps of almost fifty-one hours.  The first thing I do when I wake up in the morning is to play worship gospel songs and thank God for another beautiful day. I follow up with some stretching and some push-ups in order to set my day rolling. “I smile a lot. I love music and dancing, which is good for my system too. I play a lot but at the same time I try to stay focussed on my dreams. “I grew up in Kaduna in the midst of older people who taught me a lot. This really helped me to stay focussed and I remember those days that I had to go out and do some electrical work in order to get money for football shoes. That’s why I call myself a son of grace,” Abubakar, a Christian stated. Of course, Abubakar has an impressive wardrobe and the Kaduna-raised dude can be likened to a dream guy that has taste for good things of life. “Oh! I love to look smart, very smart always, but my greatest weakness is shoes; I’m a shoe freak,” stated Abubakar who wears size 44. “In fact, I cannot count the pairs of shoes that I have presently because they are just too many and I still have many still stored away in my home in Finland. “My style of dressing is unique because I dress according to the occasion; where I’m going to and the kind of people I’m going to meet naturally determines the kind of attire I’ll put on. “I don’t just put on any cloth; I’ll first imagine how the dress would fit me before putting them on me. I do my shopping every month and if possible after every two weeks but I don’t do yearly. “Of course, my favourite colours are red and black. I choose red and black because it usually looks cool on me. Red and black are unique colours; red makes you to look different and black can go with anything. “These are things that have been part of me; I love shoes, fashion, nice house and good cars. I have one car in Nigeria but I have Mazda CX7 2010 model. The kinds of cars I want to drive in the future are Bugatti, Rolls Royce, Lamborghini and Escalade. “As far as music is concerned, I have liked Davido right from day one and he’s one of my favourite artists. I also love Kranium, 2Pac and lots of gospel artists. I’m a lover of good music and what I listen to depends on my mood. I love dancing and most often I dance before going for matches since I get my motivation from that.” Of course, Abubakar is quite aware that good life is not only about material possession and he explained he derives maximum joy by touching lives especially that of the less-privileged class. He offered: “One of the things that give me joy is helping people if I have the opportunity. I try my best possible to visit widows and orphanages anytime I’m on vacation in Nigeria. “My mother is also the joy of my life; my dad is late and may his soul rest in peace. We lost him in 2011 and my mom has been a great support to me. She lives in Kaduna and I really want to do everything to make her happy. In fact, I have a surprise for her and this will be done when I’m in Nigeria.” Currently attached to Slutsk in the Belarussian First League, the burly defender has improved greatly since he arrived in Europe in 2014, few months after his qualities came to the fore in the heart of the Nigerian defence during the 2013 FIFA U-17 World Cup. “Well, by the grace of God, I was able to take my career to the next level and since after the U-17 championship in the UAE, I have only played once for a youth team and that was in Israel with Ashdod, which was just for three months,” he revealed. “Thereafter, I was promoted to the first team where I played a couple of games before leaving Israel for Finland where I had wonderful moment with KuPS. “It was not as if it was rosy from the start and I remember when I had issues with an agent which eventually cost me the opportunity of playing for the flying Eagles at the African U-20 Championship in Senegal. “But I think it was also part of things that helped me to grow and become what I’m today because I learned to fight and believe in myself. “I’m enjoying myself here in Belarus and the reason I joined Slutsk is because it’s at different level compared to Finland. “It is an opportunity to develop my career better because the bigger the league, the bigger the challenge. “I played for two years in Finland and had my best moment during the first season in 2016. “Altogether, I have played in Israel with Ashdod; in Finland with KuPS, from where I later moved to Georgia with Dila Gori and back to Finland with PS Kemi before finally getting to Belarus with Slutsk.” With two recent Man-of-the-Match awards with Slutsk, Abubakar admitted the Belarussian First League club has given him a veritable platform to perform at his optimum best, adding that everything is looking up for him. “I want to continue to improve myself and coming down here to Belarus has really helped shape up my game,” he volunteered. “I want to do my best here and who knows who is watching. “ Of course, I would love to move to a bigger league in Europe one day but my attention now is with Slutsk and if I can be consistent, I guess the opportunity of playing for our national team will come very soon.” ABUBAKAR ACCURATELY On dream destination I will love to go to the Caribbean and just chill out during the off season. I have heard a lot about the Caribbean and it would be great to visit there; to explore the beaches and see how what it is like living in that region. I wouldn’t say that is where I would love to have my honeymoon when I get married. I will let who ever I marry to decide that. When the time comes, I will let the woman decide where she wants her dream honeymoon to take place.  On dream cars The kinds of cars I want to drive in the future are Bugatti, Rolls Royce, Lamborghini and Escalade.  I have one car in Nigeria but I have Mazda CX7 2010 model. I love the Mazda because it’s a fast car turbo 2.3 and it’s a high car as well, that’s why I like it very strong.  On his humble beginning The person who bought my first football shoes was Mr. Friday Yusuf Bashayi.This is one person who never gave up on me. Though he’s a bouncer, he follows me to almost anywhere I want to go and play football. My parents too supported me, especially my mom who regularly bought soccer shoes for me. It’s  just  amazing to have these  two people at the early stage of my life and not also forgetting my sister; Miriam Abubakar.