The Bayelsa State Ministry of Information and Orientation has commenced a two-day specialized training for new members of the National Youth Service Corp (NYSC) on violent-free elections in 2019. The training was designed to cover strategic public engagement, civic enlightenment and new media campaign on the need for voters in the state to elect the right leaders during the election. The training also involved modalities of  conveying messages on the effect of violence during elections and the importance of a peaceful electoral process. Inaugurating the training in Yenagoa, the Commissioner in the Ministry, Daniel Iworiso-Markson said it became important to raise the level of awareness on the need to elect credible people that would help sustain the legacies of the present administration. He explained that Bayelsa could not afford to go through another path of retrogression adding that the people must be wise in their choice of representatives in the state and National Assembly. The commissioner further explained that part of the problem that bedevilled the state in the past was the inability of persons elected to work together to bring development because of parochial interest and unnecessary political mudslinging. He said: “The conversation on the performance of the Restoration Government and the huge investment it has made in key sectors should be brought to the fore, to remind Bayelsans that all of it will be wasted without having people who share the same vision of the new Bayelsa. “Everything needs to be done to avoid a repeat of what characterized the last general elections that claimed several  innocent lives and loss of properties”. Iworiso-Markson disclosed that at the end of the training, the corp members would be exposed to basic tools in political communication. He said they would be integrated into the ministry’s new media team to enable them unleash what they have been taught via the social media. While urging the corp members who are mainly from Batch B Stream 1, to see the training exercise as a great opportunity to enhance their capacity, Iworiso-Markson added that they would find it useful even after their service year. 