The Muslim community in Ekiti state on Thursday rejected the three major appointments made so far by Governor Kayode Fayemi, since he was sworn into office on Tuesday. State Coordinator of the National Council of Muslim Youth Organisations, (NACOMYO), Mr Tajudeen Ahmed, registered the displeasure of the group at a media briefing, after a protest at the Ado Ekiti Central mosque. He described the appointments made so far by the governor as not only lopsided but a grand plan to marginalise the Muslim community in the state. Ahmed said the appointment of the Secretary to the State Government, the Chief of Staff and the Chief Press Secretary was against balance and fairness which Fayemi promised the Muslim community. “The exclusion of Muslims from the principal officers of this administration is worrisome, unjust, condemnable and unacceptable. “The Ekiti Muslim community saw the appointments as a calculated attempt to exclude it from the fundamental aspect of decision making process in the state. “Excluding Muslims from the first three important appointments announced by the governor is shocking and highly disturbing to all Muslims in the state,” he said. The group said Muslims in the state constituted about 40 per cent of the Ekiti State population, adding that the governor was given their total support during the governorship polls. According to him, the exclusion of the Muslims in this regard is a violation of the fundamental objectives and principles of state policy as enshrined in the amended 1999 Constitution. “The exclusion of Muslims from the core principal appointments of Dr. John Kayode Fayemi is a violation of the motto of the Federal Republic of Nigeria as provided in Section 15 (1) of the 1999 constitution (as amended). “Rather than projecting “Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress”; the recent appointments made by Governor Fayemi will breed “disunity, commotion and backwardness,” he said. He called on Fayemi to breathe life into Section 14(4) of the constitution which provided that ‘the composition of the government of a state, a local government council, or any of the agencies of such government or council, shall recognise the diversity of the people. The Muslim community called on the Governor to urgently review the appointments to accommodate Muslims. “We also call on Governor Fayemi to ensure inclusion of Muslims in all future  appointments to be made at both state and local government levels. “This will certainly pave way for the reign of justice, equity and peace in our dear state.” NAN recalls that Fayemi on Tuesday night after his swearing-in appointed Mr Abiodun Oyebanji as Secretary to the State Government. He also picked Mr Biodun Omoleye as Chief of Staff and Mr Yinka Oyebode as the Chief Press Secretary to the Governor