Eshanekpe Israel a.k.a Akpodoro, leader of National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators (NCNDE-A) was prominent among ex-militant generals, who backed Muhammadu Buhari for President in 2015. He established his loyalty further by helping to cripple operations of the destructive Niger Delta Avengers (NDA). But today, the Urhobo-born ex-agitator has alleged his group was abandoned after working for the ruling All Progressives Party (APC) administration. In this interview, he puts this and others into perspective. My name is Eshanekpe Israel a.k.a Akpodoro. I am an Urhobo man from Gbaregolor in Ughelli South Local Government Area, Delta State. I am an ex-militant leader with over 17,000 followership in the Niger Delta. During the disarmament of militants, I played a major role in that process, and we achieved results. The generation of the military echelon at that time can testify to this. How has the Amnesty Programme been? So far so good, the administrators of the Amnesty Office are the major impediments to the success of the programme owing to their love for aquisition of wealth occasioned by massive looting and lack of focus. Therefore, it will be plausible to say the programme is neither here nor there. How do you assess the Muhammadu Buhari’s administration? President Buhari’s administration is difficult to assess. Nigerians are frowning more than before. Nigerians are hungry. Any leadership that spreads hunger in the country is a failure. So, the APC government has failed. Are you part of the failure? No, I am not. Since the President decided to abandon those of us who worked for him by empowering those who opposed him, I had to withdraw my support for his re-election. Why? It is seemingly not in the character of the President to reward loyalty, particularly those who are not from his place or religion. Remember, I was the only ex-militant leader, who declared support for Buhari in 2014 even though it wasn’t fashionable then. I was used to work against my people for Buhari to rule. My life and that of my family were put on the line for Buhari to be President. Today, I have nothing to show for my loyalty to him. Do you regret being instrumental to President Buhari’s success story in the fragile security in Niger Delta? I don’t regret pivoting the process that brought renewed militancy to a halt in the Delta region. That region is our home, and we have no other place to call ours. Buhari’s interest in the region is political, while mine is regional and national solidarity. Therefore, I’ve no regret. My only regret was that I worked for President Buhari against my people to become President, after which he neglected me and my followership. I led my group of over 17,000 members to work for Buhari’s victory. When did you decide to withdraw your support for the President? My decision to withdraw my support for Buhari’s re-election was taken when it became obvious that he would not reward loyalty. When he called the bluff of those who were instrumental to his ascension to power, I took my decision. When the President decided to empower members of the opposition against those of us who almost lost our lives for his cause, I decided to leave him. Really? Yes. I left Buhari when he patronised notable members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) against who we fought to bring All Progressives Party (APC) to the Niger Delta, I took my decision to dump him. When I was asked to bring $100,000 by Aso Rock ‘profiteers’ to have audience with the man I worked for – President Buhari, I decided to withdraw my support for the President. What necessitated the demand for $100,000 in Aso Rock? There was a growing need to see the President at the time. What need? I was privy towards the end of 2015 to the plan by the Niger Delta Avengers (NDA) to resume hostilities in January 2016. Several letters about that plan was sent by me to the security chiefs but they didn’t act until the January 2016 strike by the Avengers. Repeated strikes by the Avengers caused the security authority to call me in July that year. Of course, between January and July 2016, you will recall how many times bombs went off in the Delta region. I met with a handful of ministers too after the strike in January, explaining the enormity of the plan by the Avengers to wreck havoc on our national patrimony in the region, but was tossed here and there. At a point, I made moves demanding to see the President, but his handlers demanded $100,000 from me to see the man who told me to stabilise the Niger Delta region. Also, I needed to see the President over the neglect of my group – the National Coalition of Niger Delta Ex-Agitators, NCNDE-A, and its affiliates by the administration, and possibly engage him on the need for patronage. But $100,000 was a major impediment. So, what happened thereafter? I was eventually engaged by the Army to cripple the operations of the NDA and we succeeded, and eventually we were further abandoned. What do you make of the tardiness of the security chiefs as they failed to act swiftly on your information? They are lackadaisical and carefree. They don’t act when needed. They allow evildoers strike severally before they half-heartedly rise to the occasion and that’s the more reason we have killings everywhere in the country. For me, overhauling the security architecture of the country is overdue but unfortunately, the President is not in touch with the reality on ground; he is caged by the racketeers, who I call Jankolikos, in Aso Villa. Who are we? Members of the NCNDE-A and its affiliates, led by me. So, why didn’t you approach the party leaders? I did, but I was rebuffed by the Asiwaju Bola Tinubu-led Reconciliation Committee after I was told to submit all documents as mentioned by me to the politician’s aide in his Abuja home following a rally by members of my group. If I may mention this, Asiwaju, prior to the election hosted me in his Lagos home at Bourdillon. He was very happy seeing me that day and he gave me the title: No. 1 APC ex-militant leader … He did much better  compared to the deception of Rotimi Amaechi who tricked me into making declaration in the creek for Buhari only to renege in all his promises. Incidentally, and as customary of politicians in our clime, Asiwaju became inaccessible after the victory till date. How did that affect you? My group members, till date thought I’d been settled, and they became hostile but for the fact that they knew how honest I was, the group would have been in extinction today. What’s your next line of action? For 2019 election, I am still in discussion with powerful forces, which have all it takes to defeat President Buhari. I’m in talks with those forces, which have the capacity to fulfil promises to the nation and individuals.  My coalition is discussing with those who can overrun APC candidate at the poll. We need a more visionary and energetic leader, who can redeem Nigerians from poverty and despondency. President Buhari has tried his best; he has fought corruption in the media, let someone else come fight hunger and starvation. What do you have to tell Nigerians? Stay out of trouble; pursue your dreams diligently and participate more in deciding who your leaders should be. Be patriotic, show solidarity to the Nigerian state. Most importantly, get your PVC and vote out this regime of hunger and starvation. 