Senator Saidu Dansadau is a frontline politician from Zamfara State. He is the Chairman of the newly registered National Rescue Movement (NRM). Until he declined to return to the Senate in 2007, he was a member of the defunct All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP). He is at present the governorship candidate of the NRM in Zamfara. In this chat with newsmen he explained why he is contesting the election, what his party is offering the Nigerian public, especially on the issue of restructuring, among others, reports Gbenga Aderanti MANY people would want to argue that we have enough political parties right now and that there is no reason for INEC to register more parties. Why did you and your like minds form National Rescue Movement? Of all the 93 political parties registered by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) now under the leadership of Professor Mahmood Yakubu, the National Rescue Movement (NRM) is the most creative and the most resourceful. We have planned to change and introduce new approach to the style of governance and change the process of governance. We have introduced, through our constitution, manifesto and other party policies, novel ideas that have never been in the Constitution, manifesto and policy [[[of any political party in Nigeria from independence to date. We are the only political party in Nigeria today whose registration is online and whose structure is up to polling unit level. A Nigerian in China or any part of the world can register as member of NRM in his home polling unit. National Rescue Movement model of restructuring is the party miracle. All revenues accruing to the party shall be shared to the five levels of the party structure, national level 10%, state level 5%, local government 5%, ward level 10% while 70% shall be deployed to the polling unit level. The plan, when we get to the presidency, is that our capital budget structure will take the same pattern. That is 70% of our budgetary capital allocation shall be deployed for executing development projects and provision of basic amenities and other social developments at the grassroots level. This is the NRM restructuring programme. This is our own type of true federalism in which the federating units are more powerful and more beneficial of the nation’s   resources. It is as well in the NRM Constitution that local government chairmanship is for retired bureaucrats and technocrats who are credible and have adequate experience and exposure to ensure prudent, just and fair management of the local government funds. One of the early bills NRM presidential candidate will send to the National Assembly is a bill for an act to amend the existing revenue allocation formula in such a manner that state shall get more than the federal government allocation while Local Government Areas shall get more than the states. NRM planned to increase the share of derivation funds from 13% to 15%. However, in our effort to ensure justice and fair play at all levels of government, 70% of the derivation funds shall be spent on the development of oil producing areas within every oil-producing state while 30% and statutory allocation shall be deployed for the entire state. The essence of this NRM model of restructuring is to fast track the provision of basic amenities, equitable distribution of nation resources, justice and fair play as well as the development of rural areas in the country.  That is devolution of power and resources of the nation from the center to the other components. In party administration, by way of leadership for example under NRM Constitution, we have devolved the power of disciplinary action from the National Executive Committee to the polling unit level. By the provision of NRM constitution, disciplinary actions to be administered against erring members of the party shall be administered by the polling unit executive committee, unlike what is obtainable in all the political parties where disciplinary action is only taken by the national and state executive councils. You served as a senator, why are you now vying for governorship? My motive for contesting the governorship is because of the socio-economic challenges Zamfara State experienced from 1999 till date. Zamfara is one of the unfortunate states in Nigeria that since 1999 till date has never got a leader that attempted to provide good governance. That is why the state is going through the insecurity and other challenges it has faced so far. There is no state in the country that has gone through agony, ordeal, and predicament of insecurity like Zamfara State. I also want to mentor the youth in Zamfara in such a way that through my politics, my behavior, attitude, character and my leadership by example, will culminate to the provision of good governance. I also want to show Nigeria and Nigerians and in fact Africa that it is quite possible to provide good governance in Nigeria. My hope and prayer is that if God, in his mercy, wisdom and power, gives me the governorship of the state in 2019 and helps me to get to the 2nd term and helps the party to govern the state for minimum of three terms, I am going to make Zamfara the envy of the remaining states in the federation. There is a plan to make Zamfara State Africa’s center for commerce and SMEs. I will as well, make Zamfara State the model of mechanized agriculture, not only in Nigeria but Africa. If you govern well, you earn respect of your people. However, that respect would come when you act according to the rule of law. A leader must be ‘untribalistic’ and unbiased. He must be just, fair, equitable to all, irrespective of political inclination, religion, sex and geographical location. Everyone will be treated the same in all respects. What are your chances against the already established parties like APC and PDP? For anybody who knows me, especially those who know me as far as when I was in school, I have a character such that I don’t believe there is anything that is impossible. Whatever I plan to do, I will always put justice, fairness and equity as my watch word; that is why when I was in Teachers Training College, when my class mates were given all kinds funny nick names mine was justice. Why? Because at that time, whatever I was doing with my peers, I always insisted that justice must be done and people should be truthful, reliable, trustworthy and honest. So, I have the character and uprightness; I have no iota of discriminative tendencies.  The manifesto and constitution of the NRM makes the party unique and if implemented, in no time the country shall get out of its current socio-economic and political challenges. Our performance in the first four years   will enable us win the subsequent presidential elections.  However, even if we don’t win, I am optimistic that by God’s grace, the worst that may happen to us is to win two states.