The Senator representing Yobe South Senatorial District under the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Mohammed Hassan, popularly called DEMBU has laid claims that he remained the most authentic candidate elected to fly the flag of the party in next year’s general elections. The Nation reports that both Sen. Mohammed Hassan and Former Minister of Police Affairs, Adamu Maina Waziri emerged as candidates of the party at two parallel senatorial primary elections that were held in Potiskum on Tuesday. But Sen. Mohammed Hassan has insisted that the team that conducted his election was “more genuine and authentic than any other character that is claiming to be a candidate of the party for the senatorial seat”. According to him, four, out of the five man electoral committee sent from the PDP National headquarters including the chairman and the secretary of the committee conducted his election in the full observance of INEC and security protection. “I can’t imagine that some characters are laying claims of been elected as candidate for Yobe South senatorial seat. As far as I am concerned, I have been authentically and genuinely returned as the candidate of the party in an election that took place under a very fair and transparent process. “I want you to note that out of the five members of the electoral committee of the PDP that came from Abuja, four including the Chairman and the Secretary presided over my election. I want to ask, who did the other election. In my own opinion, there was only one election which I am declared the winner,” Sen. Mohammed said. On his part, Adamu Main Waziri could not answer my calls or respond to a text message I sent to him. The Nation recalled that at the two parallel primaries held at Idrissa Cinima, Adamu Waziri emerged winner with a wide margin of 341 votes followed by Sen. Mohammed Hassan with 15 votes, while at the other venue, where a similar election was also held, Adamu Waziri and his nephew Haruna Bawa Waziri trailed with 3 and 5 votes respectively from Sen. Mohammed Hassan who pulled 324.