Political economist and management expert, Prof. Patrick Utomi, on Monday expressed concern that Nigerian politics if left unchecked would be in danger of being infiltrated by criminals. Utomi said this in Abuja at the High Level Public-Private Sector Forum, hosted by the National Endowment for Democracy (NED), the International Republican Institute (IRI), the National Democratic Institute (NDI), the Center for International Private Enterprise (CIPE), and Solidarity Center, which was themed “Democracy that Delivers”. He said in a speech that “the government is so dominating and suffocating in Nigeria and in my view it’s part of the reason why Nigeria hasn’t made progress. “In Nigeria, there is an obsession with the government; the people believe that the government will fix things, that the government can do things, not knowing how important it is that we consider together political enterprise and human progress”. “One of the most frustrating things about Nigeria today is that most of those in public offices don’t have the capacity for where they are. There is no talent profile to determine who should be where. “Most of them don’t have the foggiest clue what it takes to provide the environment to make the country prosperous”. Etomi lamented. He advised on the need to have checks and balances system and a Joint Consultative Committee (JCC), which will publish the state of our democracy report annually, adding that the JCC should prescribe a talent profile that the political parties will use for their recruitment and socialization for people who seek public offices. He noted that if we are going to make progress in Nigeria, we will have to create an enabling environment in which the private sector, public sector, and CSOs can collaborate to make a number of things happen. Also speaking at the forum, the Country Director of CIPE, Omowumi Gbadamosi, said that economic well-being is at the heart of society and that real and sustainable prosperity can only be achieved if private enterprise is encouraged, enabled and rewarded. She noted that the secret of successful democratic governance is the relationship between business, government and civil society, which are interdependent. “These are the three pillars of any stable society. Business is the only entity which relates real jobs, pays real taxes, generates real products, and provides goods and services for all citizens. “Our global mission is to strengthen democracy through development of private enterprise, market reforms, and public/private dialogue.” The NED Program Officer for West Africa, Christopher O’Connor, explained that the endowment provides direct assistance to Civil Society Organizations. “We are inspiring political inclusion leading up to 2019,” he spoke. “Nigeria desperately needs to promote its rule of law.” “We also have to build linkages between Civil Society Organizations, the government, public and private sectors, and labor to advance democracy and free, fair, and credible elections.”