New Levante forward Moses Simon tells TAIWO ALIMI that living and working in Europe has not robbed him of his taste for African delicacies, such as pounded yam and egusi soup. One hundred and eight appearances for Belgium elite division club AAA Gent in three years are enough for Nigeria winger Moses Simon to worm his way into the hearts of fans. Along the way, Simon, aka ‘daddy’, notched 21 goals with multiple assists. The Super Eagles’ striker , who missed the Russia World Cup following  an eleventh hour injury , said he would miss fans, managers, coaches and colleagues of ‘Buffalo’ as he moved on to greater things in the Spanish La liga with Levante. “When I came to Gent I was a teenager and they took care of me,” recalled Simon with a sense of nostalgia. “I was taught the ropes in Belgium. They have great managers and coaches. We are a big family and I will miss Belgium. It is a great city.” However, three seasons in Belgium could not erase some things that he had picked up from home. “The food in Belgium is great but I never get around to it. I don’t eat it much. I go for the African food. It is not difficult to find African food because there is a lot of African kitchen and restaurants in Belgium. “Then, my wife cooks excellent African dishes so that eliminates eating out a lot of times. I love pounded yam and egusi soup. It is healthy and I can eat it many times.” It is the same for Simon in the area of entertainment and fashion. “I love the African agbada (traditional Yoruba garb). Though I don’t wear much of it in Belgium because of the weather, whenever I come home I can’t have enough of it, especially during special occasions. If you don’t see me in agbada, then I would be wearing the simple ‘buba and sokoto.’ “I listen to African music. I love Nigerian artist. I have loads of their stuff and we listen to them in my home. Before the World Cup, some of us in the Super Eagles were practicing ‘shaku shaku’ dance (a dance hall step made popular by Nigerian rapper Olamide) to show off whenever we score any goal in Russia (Simon missed Russia World Cup by injury). I love to show off my steps whenever I want to dance,” Simon said. Home, Jos-Nigeria also brings fond memories for Simon, who started kicking football on the streets as a boy. “Growing up in Jos was a privilege because many talented footballers came out from there. I grew up on the street kicking football wherever we found space. Becoming a footballer has always been my dream. I followed all the big players on TV. I later played for my school. I was snapped up by Golden Boot Soccer Academy from one of my school matches. I was in the academy for seven years and learnt the rudiments of the game there. We had good coaches who looked out for us and helped me move abroad. I picked up my tricks from the street.” Unlike many of his peers whose parents don’t take kindly to career in football, his parents supported and prayed for him. “My mother did not fret when I told her I wanted to be a footballer. Rather, she prayed for me and used to supply me with my needs. She was my pillar of support, always praying for my success.” While crediting his religious inclination to his late mom, Simon acknowledged his father for his love for tradition, culture and family. “I am deeply religious and I can say I inculcate that from my mother. She is always praying for me and at a tender age she made me understand that one with God is majority. She taught us to be close to God wherever we find ourselves and that we would enjoy His favour when we do so. “Moving abroad was not easy because I was close to my family and did not want to leave them. But I had to continue my future. My family understood my choice and my father told me I would succeed. We are quite close. He likes to call me ‘daddy.’” Simon was recently recalled to the Nigeria national team. He spoke more about his return, transfer to Levante and on other issues. BEGINNING I have a humble background. My family live in Jos and I have fond memories growing up in Jos. In fact, it was a privilege because many talented footballers come out from there. We used to look up to these great players and that fuelled my dream. I grew up on the street kicking football wherever we found space. Becoming a footballer has always been my dream. I followed all the big players on TV. I later played for my school where I was snapped up by Golden Boot Soccer Academy from one of my school matches. I was in the academy for seven years and learnt the rudiments of the game there. We had good coaches who looked out for us and helped me move abroad. I picked up my tricks from the street. I watched Celestine Babayaro play for Chelsea on TV and we wanted to be like him one day playing in Europe. MISSING THE WORLD CUP That episode is behind me now. But I must thank those who identified with me during that trying moment. My colleagues in Gent were wonderful. They stood by me during my injury and got me back to fitness. I will like to thank all my fans for the love, support and prayers during this trying time, you all are amazing people. It’s just a pity that I couldn’t make it to Russia but man proposes, God disposes. The Nigerian team to the World Cup was a very united and that is largely due to the effort of the coach, Gernot Rohr, and the leadership of the Nigeria Football Federation. A healthy spirit in camp is really important going into a major tournament like the World Cup and that we did not make it beyond the first round does not mean nothing was achieved. Nigeria played well and we need to build on that success.” LIVERPOOL MISS Before Gent accepted Levante bid for me, I was linked to Liverpool and other teams in Europe. I wanted to play in England. That is my dream since I was a kid watching the EPL on TV. My wish is to play in England, but that has to wait.  Liverpool is a very big team with a large squad, the type of team where you have to work extra hard to get games. Most players like such challenges and I am not different. But Levante met all the conditions for my transfer and here I am. I am young and looking forward to playing in England. Right now I am committed to Levante and I intend to honour that contract to the letter. LEVANTE Levante is a great place to be. I have settled in nicely and soon I know I will have my time and will be all over the place. We have a compact team. We have been winning important matches and I’m happy that I am listed. I have played some minutes and bidding my time. We started badly but we are picking up the pieces. The team is evolving and once the belief mentality sets in fully, we will be unstoppable.