The candidate of the All Progressives Congress for the Ovia Federal constituency seat in the House of Representatives, Mr. Dennis Idahosa, has promised to pay students bursary from his salaries and allowances. Idahosa said he used his salary as a Commissioner of Investment under Comrade Adams Oshiomhole to pay indigent students tuition fees and provide soft loan to market women in Ovia. He made the promise while having interactive session with students from drawn from the University of Benin, Igbinedion University, Okada, Edo State Polytechnic, Usen. Tayo Akpata University of Education, College of Agriculture, Iguoriakhi and the National Youth Council of Nigeria (NYCN). All the institutions are located in Ovia North East and Ovia South West local government areas. Idahosa said he would not renege on his promises to effectively represent their interest as a Federal lawmaker. He stated that a certain family placed Ovia constituency in its pocket without any meaningful development. The APC candidate said he would collate a data base of the unemployed and match same with job opportunities that may arise. According to him, “I will do things differently. I will work for the youths and the students. I was not born into a rich family and the condition I grew up made me commit myself to helping the poor. “I will not change my attitude towards the poor. I will give grants to students and assist them with bursary. I will work with the State and federal government to attract development to all parts of the constituency. “I am not here to tell you stories, I have been told by God to come liberate my people. I am not contesting for an executive position, but mine is to work with the three tiers of Government to impact on the lives of the people of the constituency. “Some certain family have placed the federal constituency in their pockets and have failed to impact meaningfully to the development of the area. I, with your support, have come to liberate the constituency from this family,” he said. The students said they have made up their mind to vote out Barr. Omosede Igbinedion over what they termed “failure to effectively represent their interest” as a lawmaker. They said Omosede elected on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) neglected her constituents since her election in 2015, and failed to meet the yearnings and aspirations of the students and youths of her constituent. Spokesman for the students, Oviafabor Armstrong, said the decision to work, mobilise and vote for Idahosa was borne out of the fact that he has been consistent with support for the students’ and youths, even without being a lawmaker. “Being a youths herself and her background, we thought she understands our plight, but we were wrong as she went to sleep soon after her election. “She did not only failed to impact in the development of the Federal Constituency by way of attracting people oriented projects to the area, she has also failed to represent our yearnings and aspirations as student’s’ and youths. “As you may be aware, the constituency probably has the largest concentration of Higher Institutions in Nigeria, with no fewer than five higher institutions, we have the number to decide who our representative is,” he stated. 