A retired Police Commissioner in Bayelsa State, Mr. Austin Iwar, cannot be forgotten in a hurry. He left indelible memories in his brief stint as a police boss in the state. For residents of the Police Barrack in Yenagoa, Iwar was God-sent. Since its establishment even before the creation of Bayelsa, the police barrack had no potable water. In fact, there was no water at all even for cooking and washing. Police families in the barrack spent a lot of money daily buying water from vendors. But recently, they heaved a sigh of relief. Iwar, who retired recently from the force, inaugurated a water project in the barrack. The State Secretary, Police Officers’ Wives Association (POWA), Mrs. Pauline Ebenuwa, said the wife of a former Commissioner of Police, Mrs. Janeth Amba, started the project. She said the wife of Iwar through her husband ensured the completion of the project. “There was no support from any agency. We only relied on the Commissioner of Police, Austin Iwar, to complete the project”, she said. The POWA secretary confessed tags residents of the barracks suffered untold hardship for many years because of lack of water. She said they relied on vendors from the northern part of the country for water. She said: “Our people have been suffering because of water. Our chairperson thought about giving them water which is life. That was why she started this project. It has been challenging for men and women in this barrack because of lack of water. “Janeth Amba initiated the project. It was completed by Mrs. Iwar. We are grateful for what God has done for us. We have been buying water from vendors. We didn’t have any borehole. It was expensive. We were spending about N500 to N1000 daily on water. But now, water is free”. Iwar, who inaugurated the project, described water as very critical to human existence. He commended the leadership of POWA for identifying a problem in the barrack and initiating a solution. He said: “Water is very critical to human existence and it is very important that wherever you are if you don’t have water, you have many problems. Granted that there is water everywhere in this state but not all the water everywhere can be useful. “This barrack has been existing for a long time even before the creation of the state. The police families living here have suffered over the years getting good drinkable water that can also be used for cooking. “So this project was initiated by POWA to support the people that are living in this barrack. From their own little contributions, they were able to raise money to build this project so that their colleagues will benefit from good water. “Residents in the barrack should use the water judiciously. They should not waste water. The water should be used properly. We should respect water because it is life”. Also the Officer in charge of Works DSP, Ebenuwa John, gave a brief history of the project. He said Mrs. Amba started it, others made their contributions but that Mrs. Vivian Iwar ensured its completion. He boasted that the project was executed by the Engineering Department of the Police. “We did it ourselves. It can easily be maintained and it is designed for everybody to have access to it”, he said. Also at a brief retirement ceremony in Yenagoa, friends of Iwar gathered to celebrate him. The Governor of Bayelsa State, who was represented by his Deputy, Rear Admiral John Jonah (retd), government officials and police officers from across the country sang Iwar’s tributes. The officers and men of Bayelsa police command were particularly happy at the professionalism deployed by Iwar in crime-fighting. Iwar started his career in the Nigeria Police as a Cadet Assistant Superintendent of Police in 1984 and bowed out in October 2018 as CP on the attainment of the mandatory retirement age of 60. Iwar within the short period he served in Bayelsa created six divisions in Ekeremor and Sagbama local government areas of the state. In Ekeremor, he established Aleibiri, Peretorugbene, Egbemo-Angalabiri and Ogbo-Tobo divisions under the Ekeremor Area Command. In Sagbama, he set up the Toru-Orua Division under the Sagbama Area Command. At the retirement ceremony, Iwar expressed mixed feelings about his retirement, thanking God for a successful career after 33 years of service in good health. He also said that his experiences in the Police made him realize that Nigerians are peace-loving people, stressing that Nigeria has some of the best police officers in the world. Iwar thanked the state government and the people of Bayelsa State for their cooperation and support during his short duty tour in the state. The deputy governor further commended Iwar for his professionalism. He harped on the need for security agencies to partner and work in synergy and share information with one another for the common interest of peace and security of the state. He described Iwar as a thoroughbred, committed and dedicated police officer. Jonah  stated that policing in Nigeria was a very risky job. He added that Iwar should therefore thank God for a successful career in the Nigeria Police Force. He wished the retired CP success in his future endeavours and requested him to be an ambassador of the state government, having served in Bayelsa as CP. In his tributes to Iwar, the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Daniel Iworiso-Markson, in a statement described him as one of the best police officers to have served in the state. Iworiso-Markson  said Iwar was an unusual crime fighter, a professional police officer and strict disciplinarian who served diligently in various commands and formations throughout his remarkable career. He noted that despite the brief stay of the retiring police boss in the state, he worked so hard to ensure that crime and criminality was drastically reduced. While congratulating him on his successful service to the country, Iworiso-Markson said the government and people of Bayelsa would not forget his disposition to ensuring the safety of the state. According to him, Iwar deserves to be honoured for his quintessential role in molding young police officers who see him as a role model and called on the Federal Government to consider him for higher responsibilities. He also wished the former police commissioner well in his future endeavour and prayed God to continue to direct him in the right path. Speaking at the event, the new Commissioner of Police, Mr. Ebere Onyeagoro, assured the people that he would be very professional in carrying out his duties. He noted that standards already achieved by his predecessor would not be lowered. In their separate goodwill messages, Chief Robert Enogha, Chairman, Eminent Persons Forum; Chief Ernest Samuel, Chairman, Police Community Relations Committee ; Chief Boma Spero Jack, Special Adviser on Security to Governor Dickson and Mr. C. Chiabua, Controller of Prisons, Bayelsa State Command, all congratulated Iwar for his distinguished service to his father land.