Osinbajo, el-Rufa’i meet team confident of victory Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and Governor Nasir el-Rufa’i met with the Enactus team of Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, just before the team members travelled to the United States to represent Nigeria at the ongoing Enactus World Cup Challenge holding in Silicon Valley in California. The ABU team won the national championship of Enactus held in Lagos last July, earning the ticket to represent Nigeria in the global entrepreneurship contest. As the students prepared to depart for the U.S., they were invited to the Kaduna Information and Communication Technology (KADICT) Hub in Kaduna State to meet with the Vice President and the governor as part of the move to rekindle the entrepreneurial spirit of the team members. At an interactive session with Prof Osinbajo and el-Rufa’i, the students were tipped to bring the Enactus World Cup trophy, while also urging them to continue to use their innovative skills to improve livelihoods. Prof Osinbajo said he was pleased with the impact the team made with its entrepreneurial project which addressed the challenges that followed Lead poisoning in Zamfara State. The students developed an innovative solution to the challenges faced by the people affected in the Lead poisoning by creating sustainable economic growth through an aqua-ponic device. To effectively prepare the team for the World Cup Challenge, the ABU team participated in the eight-day boot camp organised by the Enactus Country Office in Lagos, where team members’ presentation skills were assessed. When briefed about the aqua-ponic project designed by the ABU team, the Vice President described the students’ efforts as “brilliant”, expressing optimism the team would win the global contest, given the impact of the project. The team arrived U.S. on Tuesday to contest for $50,000 prize. Enactus World Cup is a world-class entrepreneurial social innovation contest, hosting students, academic and business leaders from 36 countries from around the world.