Daniella Okeke is an actress, entrepreneur and producer. In this interview with Yetunde Oladeinde, she talks about the things that make her tick, her inspiration and memorable moments. WHAT or who inspired you to go into acting? I think I had always wanted to do some form of entertainment aside watching music and TV sitcoms on screen. But one defining moment for me that really made it click was during my childhood days. I am one of those 80’s/90’s children who grew up watching sitcoms like The New Masquerade, Fortunes and other soap operas. Back then, I watched great actors like Regina Askia, Chika Okpala, Richard Mofe-Damijo and others. I saw how they delivered their roles so well; this thrilled me and I aspired to be on screen someday. These sitcoms spurred me to pursue a career as an actress. So, I joined the theatre group in my church when I was little where I played different roles in my church drama group, at school drama club, and the rest is history. What are the other things that occupy your time? The other things that occupy my time are my business, Dope Accessories, and my foundation (Daniella Okeke Foundation). These two things take much of my time when I am not on any movie set. I love making people happy and help in the little way I can to reach out to the less-privileged ones amongst us. It is my way of contributing my own quota to the society which made me. Also, my business is important to me and so I take it serious. What were you doing before this and what was the experience like? Well, I’ve always been an actress. I have great passion for acting because it makes you play different characters with messages to convey to the viewers or listeners. As I said earlier, I started acting when I was younger and as soon as I finished my university education and National Youth Service Corps programme, I didn’t do anything else apart from chasing my dream of becoming a professional actress and earning my living through it. I love what I do and I don’t have any regrets going into the acting world. I have met veterans in the field of acting and this has encouraged me to hone my skills. I fell in love with acting and have never looked back since I took it to a professional level. I don’t regret going into it. Acting made me go into movie production. I am a very inquisitive person and want to know the real process of film production. So, I went to film school to learn the art of filmmaking. I went to the New York Film Academy in the United States. The good thing about acting is that it makes you go into a character and makes it believable to the viewers. I have featured in a lot of movies as well as produced my own film. I must say it has been an exciting journey so far. Let’s talk about some memorable moments in your life and career My memorable moment in life was when I found God and when I opened my first business establishment (Dope Accessories). And in my career it was when I shared the screen with one of the veterans in the industry whom I look up to; Nkem Owoh. He is a prolific actor and I enjoyed working with him. What are some of the challenges you have encountered along the line? Some of the challenges I faced as an upcoming actress are being camera shy, not being able to take my lines properly and difficulty getting a movie role. Initially, it wasn’t so easy but I was determined to succeed. How did you cope with them? I coped with these difficulties by working extra hard, coupled with the advice and encouragement of my senior colleagues in the industry then. Their advice really helped me to become a better actress. Facing those up and downs made me work harder and master my craft. Also, seeing those who were before me do what they know how to do best and still remain relevant in the industry made me believe that if they can do it, I can. Who or what do you consider as the greatest influence in your life and career? The greatest influence in my life and career is God who is my pillar and the one who gives me inspiration. Also, my parents have always encouraged and supported me right from my days as a member of the drama club in church, to my first movie role and up till now. They have always been my greatest influence and I am grateful to God for blessing me with wonderful parents who care and love me. In my low moments, they have always showed concern. Let’s compare when you started doing this and now, what has changed? In what ways has this changed your lifestyle? The things that have changed from when I started and now, is that back in the day, I was camera shy and didn’t understand the rudiments of the industry but now I am more professional in front of the camera and I am able to bring any movie character I play to life. As per the industry, the technology and the way we used to shoot the movies back then and now has changed drastically. There has been major improvement in marketing, editing, storyline and now we use more sophisticated equipment to shoot movies than before. What are the new things you would like to see in the sector? I would like to see more government intervention in the sector. In 2014, this sector was one of the sectors that boosted our economy when it was rebased. The government should intervene in the area of funding and providing infrastructure that the sector can use. Piracy is really affecting the Nigerian film industry and I would like to see a change. I also like to see a change in the way we tell our stories. We need to tell more of our African stories. I also think that for the Nollywood industry to be highly successful, we need to pay attention to details in our film productions. I believe we will get there with time. Have you learnt any lesson? One of the biggest lessons I have learnt so far in the industry is when you work hard and improve your acting skills, you would excel in the industry. Life has taught me to believe in myself and strive to be the best that I can be. I have learnt to take things easy, and never to give up. I have learnt to accept constructive criticism and overlook the ones meant to pull me down. You know, there are people whose job is to destroy people’s personality and never see something good in others. So, I have learnt to take one step at a time and improve on what I do. How do you define style? I will define style as the way you present yourself.  It has to do with exuding confidence and knowing who you are. Also, style goes beyond dressing but it is an expression of your individuality. I am a fashion conscious person. My style is sassy and stylish. I love to look good and comfortable. What are those things you treasure most in life? The things I treasure most in life are my parents, my health and my positive outlook. Another thing I treasure is the feeling of doing something worthwhile; to have a sense of satisfaction at doing or having done it well. I also treasure my intellectual curiosity. Do you relax at all? When I am not working, I unwind by listening to soft music while reading a very interesting book. I also relax by going to the beach and at home. You must have principles that you hold onto The principles I hold onto in life very dearly are honesty, integrity, forgiving spirit and humility. I hold onto them dearly. These principles have guided me and helped to shape me into becoming a better version of myself. Can we talk about the people you admire and your role models? I admire my parents a lot; they are my number one role models because they brought me into this world and nurtured me. They gave me the best upbringing, taught me to be diligent and made me to know the value of hard work. Other people I admire and look up to as role models are Bishop David Oyedepo, Nkem Owoh, Pete Edochie, Richard Mofe-Damijo (RMD), Patience Ozokwor and Rihanna. They are wonderful people who have excelled in their various endeavours. If you had to advise Nigerian women, what would you tell them? My advice to Nigerian women is not to lose their dignity as women in order to succeed in life. Hard work brings success. They should not depend on men for everything but work hard to get their own. Also, I would advise our Nigerian women never to look down on themselves but believe in themselves. Women should invest in themselves, mingle with people that will help them grow and have a positive attitude. Though things may be tough initially, hold on tenaciously, never lose focus. They shouldn’t see it as obstacle but a stepping stone to their greatness. With time everything will fall in place. They should try to stand out and shine. What are the things that you wouldn’t do in the name of fashion? I would not expose my body all in the name of fashion. I love to look good and wear outfits that suit my personality; no doubt about that, but going nude or exposing those sensitive parts of my body is a no-no for me.