The Freedom and Justice Party ( FJP ) has said its Presidential candidate, Dr Breakforth Onwubuya, would be guided by the manifesto of the party which was based on equity, fairness and justice. Mr Arthur-Regis Odidika, Chairman of FJP in Anambra made the assertion while speaking to newsmen in Awka on Tuesday. Odidika said the candidate, if elected would work toward restructuring of the country, and called on the electorate to vote for the FJP in the presidential election. “FJP conducted its presidential primary in Abuja on Oct. 7, and Dr Breakforth Onwubuya, our national chairman emerged. “Our candidate, Onwubuya is credible, sincere and compassionate; he is also a democrat who will work for the common good of every Nigerian. “FJP is for restructuring, combating insecurity, diversification of the economy, massive employment and fight poverty; it is a party hoisted on equity, freedom and justice, and these are what we guarantee Nigerians. “Our candidate will work for an egalitarian Nigerian society when he emerges winner,” he said. Odidika said FJP was now formidable in Anambra as it had taken roots at all political levels in the state with committed faithful to mobilise votes during the elections. “We have been able to build a very strong political base in Anambra, well rooted in the 326 wards of the state with functional wards, local government and state executive committees. “At the moment, we have no fewer than 8, 000 political foot soldiers in Anambra, these are members of the executive from the wards up to state level. “They are highly convinced political mobilisers who are ready any day to work for FJP in Anambra,” he said. The chairman urged all eligible voters in Anambra to collect their Permanent Voter Cards, which is presently being distributed at the ward levels. He said the party was already carrying out awareness at the community level to encourage people to get their PVCs. “On our part, we are doing a door-to-door evangelism for the electorate to get their Permanent Voter Cards, it starts with our families “We want to ensure that our members and indeed, all Anambra people to go and collect their PVCs,” Odidika said.