NIGERIANS have been warned to drive safely and protect their environment against crimes during and after the ‘Ember’ months. Speakers, including senior police officers, road safety chiefs and others spoke at a public lecture titled: “Ember months’ sensitisation, road traffic enlightenment and accident prevention awareness”. It was organised by the Police Community Relations Committee (PCRC) Area ‘J’ Command, Ajah, Lagos State. The Area Commander, Felix Oben, an Assistant Commissioner of Police, said people should sensitise one another on the need to be conscious of the “Ember” months, to avoid accidents. Oben, represented by his second-in-command, Oni Omololu, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), advised motorists and other road users to be careful when they drive on the road. “When you drive or ride on okada, be careful. When you are trekking, make sure you look very well before you cross the road to ensure there is no accident. We must also be conscious of our environment to prevent crimes,” he said. The police chief urged motorists to observe traffic rules, shun drinking while driving, ensure that their vehicles were in good conditions and avoid over-speeding or driving against traffic. Assistant Route Commander of Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) Mohammed Saleh said the ‘Ember’ months are seen as accident-prone period, “but it is a thing of the mind”. “When one is disciplined, the road will be accident-free,” he said. Saleh said causes of accidents included mechanical, human and environmental factors. He said motorists, especially commercial drivers, consumed illicit substances and wanted God to protect them. The assistant route commander enjoined drivers to be conscious that “other road users are mad and only they are normal.” ”Vehicles owners must be good to their drivers. Let us consider the lives of the drivers as very important by being mindful of their welfare. Some vehicle owners go to restaurants and spend a lot of money, not caring for their drivers. When you care for your drivers, they will drive you carefully and be considerate in time of trouble,” Saleh said. He said speed limit is for the good of drivers, passengers and other road users. Saleh urged people to assist accident victims, saying the public should report accidents to security agents. The FRSC officer advised people to obey traffic signs, use seat-belts and avoid distraction through making of phone calls. He called on his audience to enlighten others that traffic signs and lights were to be obeyed to save lives. Saleh advised motorists to do periodical checking of their vehicles by “fix your types, wipers, hazard lights and others in your vehicles”. An officer with the Lagos State Traffic Management Authority (LASTMA), Aladesida Olanrewaju, said: “Keys to safe driving during and after the ‘Ember’ months include good vision: Look with your eyes but see with your mind. Proper care of your car: Don’t depend on bi-annually or yearly inspection. “Courtesy: Safety comes before right of way. Proper signalling: Failure to signal is dangerous and inconsiderate. Physical fitness: Let someone else take the wheel if you are not physically and mentally alert. “As soon as rain begins to fall, turn on your windshield wipers, use your defroster with your air conditioning to keep the air dry and prevent window from fogging, use low beam headlight to help others see your car and increase your visibility, turn on your emergency flashers when you can’t see clearly and get to a safe place and be careful of stagnant and running water “Obey traffic rules include: Don’t receive phone calls while driving, don’t smoke while driving, don’t drive without fastening your seat belt, don’t drive with baby on the front seat, don’t hoot your horn unnecessarily, don’t over speed and don’t engage in dangerous overtaking.” The PCRC Chairman, Chief Samba Elemoro, said the lecture was organised to enlighten road users and prevent accident during the ‘Ember’ months.