Bayelsa State Governor Seriake Dickson yesterday said all Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)  delegates from the state would vote for a presidential aspirant with the capacity to restructure the country. The governor said the state’s bloc votes in the Presidential Convention scheduled to hold in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, for the candidate that, displayed enough courage and capacity to restructure the country. Dickson, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media Relations, Fidelis Soriwei, spoke  during a meeting with leaders and other stakeholders of the party in Government House, Yenagoa. He said that the state and the entire Ijaw nation would only vote for a candidate that is ready to promote mutual respect for all Nigerians as well as create a level-playing ground for all, irrespective of ethnic and religious leanings. He said the Ijaw nation would only support and work with a candidate that would give the people equal opportunities and stake in the oil and gas industry adding that the Ijaws had been relegated to the background over the years, despite, their enviable role as oil-producing areas. Dickson said: “Why I have assembled you all is about the position that we will all take as a state and the entire Ijaw nation. All the delegates will vote at the PDP Presidential Convention in one direction and as a bloc. No one delegate’s vote will be lost because the 2019 general election is a very serious election for our people.” Describing the primaries that had taken place across the state as largely peaceful and transparent, he said the full weight of the law would be brought to bear on all those involved in the attempt to disrupt the process no matter how highly placed.  He said: “I have made it clear to the party and the panel that, we don’t want any more violence or any attempt at violence. The exercise in our state has gone on fairly smoothly. And, I condemn those who shot guns yesterday at the Sports Complex and at Ogbia Town and I have directed investigations. “When people take the laws into their hands and do what is wrong, there are consequences and those consequences must flow irrespective of who is concerned. And when the consequences come, people should not read meanings.  When the law takes its course, they will now be looking for people to blame. We will punish each and every one who took part in that. Investigations have already started.” Dickson also urged all political aspirants in the state to exhibit team spirit, stressing that, politics should be seen as an opportunity to serve the people and not a one man game. He said: “In politics, things change. There are some people, if it is not their own way, it is the highway, everybody will go and crash, they don’t care. Those are not politicians but mercenaries. “This game is a group game and never about one man or one woman. The day we worked for them and they became senators, it was not imposition. Some stayed there for 8 and 12 years and others for 4 years. They tend to forget that this game of political service requires loyalty.” The governor said he would convene a meeting with all those, who lost out of the primaries, noting that, the political system had a way of making them relevant by offering them other opportunities to contribute to the development of the state.