The public presentation of a book written by former Chief Judge of the Federal High Court, Justice Rose Ukeje has drawn quite a number of high society in the Capital City. The book titled, “Intrinsic And Extrinsic Aids to the Interpretation of the Constitution, Statues and Private Documents” was roundly hailed as a timely arrival on the judicial scene. It was not all talk and review at the book launch which took place at the Nigeria Air Force conference centre in Abuja as guests were serenaded with music and a cocktail at the end of the book presentation. However, it was accolades all the way as guests present praised the book that had its foreword written by the Chief Justice of the Federation of Nigeria, Walter Onnoghen, saying the problem of the interpretation of the content and spirit of the Constitution will no longer be a hard chore as the book would be a guide to both those in the legal profession and laymen alike. The event drew the presence of the President of the Nigerian courts of appeal, Justice Zainab Adamu Bulkachuwa, Primate of the Church of Nigeria in the Anglican Communion, Nicholas Okoh, Justice Binta Nyako, Senator Andy Ubah, House Deputy Whip, Hon. Pally Iriase and the Deputy Minority Leader of the House, Hon. Chukwuka Onyema, Also present were former Head of Service of the Federation, Engr. Ebele Okeke, former Director-General of NAPTIP, Carol Ndaguba, former minister of Women Affairs and Social Development, Iyom Josephine Anenih, Chairman of Vanguard Newspapers, Mr. Sam Amuka and former Director-General of the Nigerian Stock Exchange, Prof. Ndi Okereke Onyuike, Chris Uche (SAN), Hon. Abdulmmin Jibrin, and Governor Godwin Obaseki of Edo State represented by Festus Osagie. Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara while speaking at the event, applauded the book by the revered Jurist. He said Justice Ukeje’s latest book will bridge the gap in legal interpretation. He said, “There is a yawning gap in this area of law, and thankfully she has decided in make a concerted effort at plugging this gap. The issue of interpretation of statues including the constitution is absolutely important in the advancement of our democracy. “Democracy is all about laws, it’s all about due process, about the rule of law. Therefore, the deeper your laws, the deeper your democracy. We can deepen our laws by deepening the interpretation of these laws to make them applicable to situations that may arise after the laws have been written. There are no better ways to deepen our democracy. Legal luminaries Asiwaju Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN) and his wife, Victoria (SAN) were also at the event. Mrs. Awomolo noted that Justice Ukeje was being futuristic regarding the legal profession by writing a book that would educate legal and non-legal minds. She said: “What better time to present this book than the present, when we have democratic governance and with what is happening around us. This book will help interpret many of the legal logjams that we face” Former Nigerian Stock Exchange Director General, Prof.  Ndidi Okereke-Onyuike noted that the book is a must read for all Nigerians. She noted that it will educate and remove all legal misconceptions from the minds of Nigerians especially a regards the interpretation of the Constitution. Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, Leader of the House, performed the unveiling of the book. He expressed his respect for Justice Ukeje’s intellect, adding that book is a significant contribution to legal intellectualism.