Frontline female politician and former governorship candidate in Lagos State, Chief Remi Adiukwu, has said Nigerians across the country are waiting to ask the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidates a lot of questions as the 2019 general election draws nearer. In this interview with Dare Odufowokan, Assistant Editor, the All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain insisted that PDP and its flag-bearers will be rejected by Nigerian voters at the polls. Excerpts THE PDP is saying there is need to change the government in 2019. Do you think Nigerians will hearken to this call? Nigerian voters are part of the most enlightened electorates around the world. Even our aged parents in the rural areas are more enlightened than we think when it comes to deciding who they vote for. So, those calling for change must wait for the good people of Nigeria to tell them what they may not know or refuse to see as the gains of this current administration. It is the people who will decide. Come to think of it, the changes they are calling for, who will it benefit? Is it the people of Nigeria who yearned for good governance for sixteen years while the same PDP was in power, or a few PDP chieftains who are tired of life outside government just four years in the cold? I don’t think they are thinking about the people. I strongly think they are only calling for change to satisfy their desire to grab power again. Check the list of people who oppose the Buhari government; I mean look deep and see those calling for change today, they include parliamentarians, policemen, customs officials, immigration officials, civil servants who benefited from the corruption of the past. They are unhappy with the honesty of the present and are calling for change so that they can go back to business as usual. They are worried, not for you and me, but that another four years of Buhari will crumble whatever remains of their dreams of endlessly looting the country. They are bothered that their hidden loot will be discovered. They are afraid of policies of the current APC government that has made it difficult for them to continue to steal from the people while pretending to be working for the people. Are you saying Nigerians will not vote for the PDP? Nigerians will still reject PDP in 2019. Mark my words, PDP will do worse than it did in 2015. Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari urged Nigerians not to return members of the Peoples Democratic Party, whom he described as “those who brought Nigeria to its knees from 1999-2015” back to power. I want to align with him and urge Nigerians to ‘look well well.’ The leaders of the party also know they cannot win. The process and outcome of their convention showed that they cannot win. They know Nigerians are yet to forget how they raped the country for 16 years. Buhari came and within three and a half years, he has done so much. I want to believe the change they are calling for will not happen because we already have the good change. So, to the best of my knowledge, Nigerians across the country are waiting to ask the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and its candidates a lot of questions when they hit the streets to campaign for the 2019 general election. It will be a time to answer for the many years of atrocities committed by that political party and its leaders against the people of this country. Based on the above, I want to insist that I am very confident that PDP and its flag-bearers will be rejected by Nigerian voters at the polls. I am waiting to hear what they will campaign with. What on earth will they tell Nigerians? Will they come with the same promises they failed to fulfill in 16 years? Will they deny the atrocities some of them who were with them warned them against and they refused to listen? Nigerians, I am sure, will never return PDP to power. The opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) is using the call for restructuring as a campaign promise. The party and its candidates say they will address the issue of restructuring if elected in 2019. What is your take on this? Let me answer this question very bluntly and sincerely. PDP can never restructure Nigeria and it is not good for the party to promise what it cannot do just because they want to win election. I can say this categorically because I have been a chieftain of the PDP for many years. I operated at the very top of the party’s echelon for all those years. I was part of many decision making processes within the PDP and as such, I can say I know what the party and its chieftains hold dear. Restructuring is not one of the things PDP believes in. They can jump on the band wagon now and proclaim their readiness to restructure Nigeria for the purpose of deceiving Nigerians and winning elections. But the leaders of the PDP and some of us who were with them but left because of their insincerity, know that PDP has no plan to restructure the country. Importantly too, restructuring means different things to different people in Nigeria today. It is a term that is now very misunderstood. It is only due to this misunderstanding of the term that we will still be seeing people who previously openly oppose the call for restructuring now saying they plan to carry out restructuring. When APC was championing restructuring all these years, PDP opposed it. Why the sudden change in tune as election approaches? By the time you interview six people, you are likely going to have six diverse meanings and or explanations for the same word. For me, restructuring is another simple way of describing true federalism. The reorganisation of the status quo, hopefully for a better result, is what I understand restructuring to mean. But this is not what some people see it as. There is no other way to better explain the term in the context of what Nigerians want and what Nigeria needs now than to equate it to true federalism. It is not the same as mere constitutional amendment. It is far more than that. Constitutional amendment is one of the ingredients needed to make restructuring possible. There are others like referendum, etc. For me, restructuring is more than just the redistribution of power, resources etc., in the country. That is what this is all about to some people. That is why somebody can tell you resource control is the solution to the country’s problem. Others will say it is zoning that will solve all our problems. I don’t think so. I believe these are just part of the issues we need to consider when discussing the whole issue. True federalism will address all these and more. So, Nigerians must be careful of what they believe. PDP cannot and will not carry out any restructuring even if it returns to power for 100 years. They had 16 years to do it, why didn’t they? APC have started the process; let us allow the current administration enough time to finish it. But some people say APC didn’t do enough towards restructuring the country since it came to power in 2015? The agitation for restructuring is as old as our democracy, if not older. Yet, no government has successfully addressed the call. But if you ask me, I will say before now, it has been a deliberate omission on the part of successive administrations. It is not possible to say that no government understood the call enough to address it. That was definitely not the case. Rather, I will say it is because the previous ruling parties benefit from the lopsided arrangements. With the centre as strong as it is, any ruling party would not be very eager to make a change. The power at the centre is quite enormous and anyone ruling will not want to whittle this down. Making the required change will need great selflessness and patriotism. And what Nigeria lacked all along are selfless and genuinely patriotic leaders. Unless we put such people who will look beyond personal interest and group satisfaction and consider national interest above party interest, it will be difficult to get a ruling party or government that will holistically and genuinely address the agitation for restructuring. That is the difference now. President Buhari’s selflessness is making it possible for the current government to move fast, very fast, towards restructuring. To those who see nothing being done yet, I want to tell them to be more patient. If we have to do it, let us do it well once and for all. There is no better way than for us to sit down and discuss the issue as a people. That is the only way because it has become an issue in Nigeria and we cannot wish it away. It must be handled with maturity and wisdom. For once, the people, and I mean the real people, must be allowed to say what they want. PDP cannot speak for Nigerian about restructuring. You were a staunch member of the PDP. Why do you think people are leaving the party? Well, I am no longer a member of the PDP. I am now a member of the APC. So, I will rather tell you why people are joining our party. Let PDP leaders tell you why people like me and others are leaving their party across the country. If they are serious, they should have looked into the way their prominent chieftains are leaving their camp to pitch their tent with the APC. People are moving into our party because of the growing confidence in APC. This is the party to be; this is the party that means well for the people. This is the party of development. Recently too, a former Chairman of the PDP, Moshood Salvador, officially joined us; he didn’t come into the APC alone. He came into the APC with nearly the entire structure of the PDP in Lagos State. I also left with my supporters and leaders of Crystal Alliance across the state. Tell me what remains of PDP in Lagos for example; very soon, we will obliterate PDP from the state political map. For me, coming back to APC was motivated by the development the party had brought to the state and the positive politics of Asiwaju Bola Tinubu, national leader of the party. I returned to APC because of Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu’s ability to accommodate all and continually position the party as a winning team. His leadership style enticed me. The progress the APC is also making in Lagos made it necessary for me to join the progressives to further move my dear state forward. I also came to the APC because of Alhaji Balogun, the party chairman, who plays pure and progressive politics. All these are missing in PDP. But the PDP says it has repositioned and rediscovered itself after its loss in 2015? By their fruits we shall know. If truly they have repented of their sins as they say, many of us will not leave the party. Nigerians must beware, PDP cannot change. They impunity that ruined the party continued well beyond 2015. I was a candidate in the last convention of the party to elect national officers. We all know what transpired. A few people are still dictating the pace in PDP and such selfishness is driving people away from them. Also, those who had proved beyond any doubts that they have no good intentions towards the party are not being sanctioned sanctioned. A few people will threaten to deal with the party, like Governor Wike did recently, and the whole party will go begging. They will quickly change their plan and agree to the dictate of just one person or group of persons irrespective of what they majority want. If you now consider how money-for-votes and systematic rigging was brazenly perpetuated during the National Convention of the PDP, I will quickly remember the saying that says “A leopard cannot change its spot”. At that convention, PDP got reduced to a regional party as the South West Chairmanship candidates were frustrated by Wike and others in such brazen manner. The party is till not bigger than individuals or groups within the party. Those who want to be leaders through the courts are also not allowing the party to have peace. It is when they have ensured that across the country, all these impunities have been dealt with; when individuals or groups within the party no longer dictate for the majority that they can say PDP is truly ready to repent of its terrible ways.