The Federal Government will next Monday commence the final  verification and payment of N22.6 billion entitlements to all former staff of the defunct Nigeria Airways. According to a statement by Mr. Paul Abechi,  the  Special Adviser on Media and Communications to the Finance Minister, Mrs. Zaibab Ahmed, the long awaited payment exercise will last for one week and will hold simultaneously in the three regional hubs of Lagos, Kano and Enugu. According to Abechi, the payment exercises will hold at Sky-Power Catering, Ikeja, Lagos; ABC (former Nigeria Airways Office), Bank Road, Kano; and Villa Toscana Hotel, at 1 Aguleri Street, Independent Layout, Enugu. The exercise will last till Monday, October 22, 2018 at the designated centers except for the one in Enugu that will end on Thursday, October 18, 2018. The statement further revealed that, “beneficiaries are expected to come along with the following documents to the centres: Letter of Appointment, Letter of Confirmation, Letter of Last Promotion, Letter of Retirement, NAL Identity Card, Other Means of Identification (National ID Card, International Passport, Driver’s License, etc), Particulars of Bank Account: A cheque slip or statement of Bank Account, Letter of Administration to be presented by Next-of-Kin (NOKs) in the case of deceased beneficiaries. “Beneficiaries will be subjected to biometric data capture; beneficiaries should come along with copies of documents listed above for submission to the verification committee; beneficiaries are to be captured in an orderly manner, hence notice will be placed at the venue and specific date for capturing of each beneficiary will be indicated.” It would be recalled that the federal government had approved N22.68 billion for the ex-workers of the the defunct national carrier. Speaking in Abuja during her maiden meeting with the ex-workers of Nigeria Airways after resumption as Finance Minister, Ahmed said: “some pending fiscal issues in the aviation and education sectors were immediately brought to my attention. I took it as a challenge to quickly address key issues regarding the settlement of existing claims in both of these sectors. Consequent upon this, I am happy to inform you that Mr. President has graciously approved the sum of N22.68 billion and N20 billion to aviation and education sectors respectively,” she said.