– 2,573 swear oath The Lagos State Coordinator of the National Youth Service Corps (NYSC), Prince Mohammed Momoh, has said only two corps members were involved in the ghastly motor accident that happened on the Lagos-Ibadan Expressway in which nine people were killed. In an interview at the Swearing In of 2,573 2018 Batch C Stream 1 corps members at the NYSC Camp in Iyana Ipaja, Momoh said the two corps members arrived camp safely but with injuries and had been sent to the Orile-Agege General Hospital for comprehensive check up. He described as fake the news that 13 corps members had died in the accident on their way to camp. “We had only two prospective corps members coming to Lagos that were involved and we thank God they didn’t die; they were injured. Initially when we called the Road Safety both Lagos and Ogun State, we were told no prospective corps members were involved. We were particularly more concerned with the deceased at first but we were told none. “Later in the day two corps members came to camp – one with an injured hand. We gave him speedy registration. Immediately I took him to the clinic for first assessment because we have a consultant from LUTH with us. We redressed his wound and we immediately evacuated him to Orile-Agege General Hospital for a very comprehensive health check. And he was cleared. “The second one had a head injury. Except for some throbbing headache, nothing was wrong with him. But we didn’t want to take chances. He presented himself on Wednesday. We sent him to Orile-Agege for CT-SCAN this morning. ” The health and safety of corps members is on top of my Director-General’s priority. Because we know what it is to train a child to a graduate and that is why we will continue to do our best during the cause of the national service,” he said. Addressing the corps members, Momoh urged them to settle down to the regimented camp life and be willing to learn. “Discipline and good time management should be your watchword throughout the period of the orientation course. The three-week orientation programme is characterised by para-military drills, leadership training, etc. These training have been designed to impact on you virtues of leadership, social skills, and emotional intelligence needed for a successful service year,” he said. In his speech, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, represented by the Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-house mental Relations, Oluseyi Oladejo, counseled the corps members to pay attention to the skills acquisition programme of the scheme as well as work had to make impact as many before them had done. The chief Judge of Lagos, represented by Justice B.A. Oke Lawal led the corps members to take the NYSC oath.