…APC, PDP Senators square up for a fight  For over 30 minutes Wednesday common sense took flight in the Senate. Tempers rose. Political party affiliation rather than national interest took better part of senators. It all started with a Point of Order raised by the Senator representing Akwa Ibom North East, Senator Bassey Albert Akpan. Akpan (PDP) specifically raised Order 43 which deals with personal explanation under which a senator is allowed to speak about himself and his constituents. The Akwa Ibom North East lawmaker informed his colleagues about alleged looming crisis in Akwa Ibom State. He claimed that the All Progressive Congress (APC) in the state was allegedly plotting to unleash mayhem in the state that would possibly lead to the cancellation of the governorship election in 2019. He further alleged that the aim of APC in the state was to instigate the cancellation of the governorship election in the state in order to deploy federal might to cause challenge of leadership in the state. Senate President, Abubakar Bukola Saraki, ruled that the information given by Akpan was “well noted.” Senator Godswill Akpabio (APC Akwa Ibom North West) who appeared to be agitated by Akpan’s information was angling where he sat to respond to what Akpan said. Saraki asked Akpabio to go to his seat before he could be recognised to speak. The Senate President said that Akpabio cannot speak from a seat that is not his. Saraki added that there was no microphone were Akpabio sat. Senate Leader, Senator Ahmed Lawan reminded Saraki that there was no formal sitting arrangement in the chamber. He said that Akpabio has the right to speak from where he was since the leadership of the chamber has failed to ensure formal sitting arrangement. Lawan noted that he has raised the issue of a formal sitting arrangement with the Senate President without the expected result. The Senate Leader who insisted that the chamber must be guided by its rules added that “we must have sitting arrangement.” Lawan said that there had been movement across party lines with the possibility that more people would still move as they deem fit. Saraki said that the Clerk to the Senate, Nelson Ayewo, was directed to allocate seats to senator. The Senate President said that he believed that the new sitting arrangement would be completed next week. As the exchange of words between Saraki and Lawan continued, Akpabio was visibly boiling where he sat. He insisted on being allowed to speak. Saraki stood his ground that Akpabio should go to his seat before he could be allowed to speak. Senator Dino Melaye came into the picture. The Kogi West Senator attempted to shout Akpabio down. Akpabio got irritated and was also shouting on top of his voice. Confusion descended in the chamber as other senators joined the fray. Chamber decorum momentarily became casualty. Attempt to restore decorum was made by Senator Emmanuel Paulker who reminded his colleagues that Akpan raised Order 43 (personal explanation) which did not give room for contribution or discussion by other senators. The Bayelsa State senator added that by relying on Order 43, Akpabio was not entitled to respond to what Akpan said. Attempts to calm frayed nerves failed. Lawan moved to confer with Saraki apparently about the way forward. Saraki explained that his position was that Akpabio should go to a seat where there is a microphone. He said that Lawan was not fair to him by insinuating that he did not want Akpabio to speak. Lawan said that APC must not be discriminated against on the floor of the Senate. Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, raised Order 11(1)(2). Ekweremadu said that every senator has the right to speak for himself and the people he represents. Senates Mohammed Ali Ndume (APC) and Kabiru Marafa (APC) began to shout on top of their voices. Ekweremadu was forced to sit down. He later explained that the rules of the chamber made provision for sitting arrangement. Akpabio took the floor and said that the seat he sat was allocated to him by the Senate Clerk. He added that the embarrassment he received was uncalled for. Saraki disagreed and asked the Clerk to confirm if he allocated the seat to Akpabio. The Clerk said that when Akpabio requested to sit on the seat, he informed him that there was no microphone on the seat. Ayewo said that Akpabio insisted on sitting on the seat. He said that he had no choice than to allow Akpabio to sit where he wanted. After Ayewo’s explanation, Saraki gave Akpabio the floor to speak. The former governor of Akwa Ibom State promptly demanded for an apology “for the unwarranted embarrassment I received today.” He added that even the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) apologized to Nigerians. He concluded that “until the Senate sitting arrangement is properly constituted I rest my case.” That appeared to be the end of the matter until Ndume revived it by tendering apology for preventing Ekweremadu from speaking. Ndume said that he has nothing against anybody. Lawan also apologized for the altercation on the floor. He said that his position should not be misinterpreted as if he took side with APC senators on the issue. Lawan noted that they should always see themselves as one body working for the good of the country.