There is hope for youths of Ndufu-Echara Ikwo in Ikwo Local Government Area of Ebonyi State thanks to a plan by Senator Emmanuel Onwe to raise 20 millionaires among them every year through farming, businesses and skills. Ikwo, home of two-time governor of the state, Chief Martin Elechi, has also produced two former ministers, Chief Lawrence Nwuruku and Ambassador Frank Ogbuewu. The current deputy governor of the state, Dr.Eric Kelechi Igwe is also from the area. Regrettably, however, many of the communities in the area are still mired in untold hardship and lack. It was gathered that even though farming is the major occupations of the people, their enthusiasm and passion are  often stifled by poor road network ,little or no incentive and general lack of encouragement from many of their political and traditional leaders. You can therefore imagine the excitement of the people when one of their illustrious sons and Ebonyi state commissioner for information and state Orientation, Senator Emmanuel Onwe moved in to change the trend. Worried by the growing unemployment and debilitating poverty bedevilling his people,  the image maker of the Ebonyi state government has devised a scheme , Umu-Echara Nkpoke Cooperative Association aimed at gainfully engaging the teeming youths of the area. The Cooperative Association is to be funded singlehandedly by him. Speaking during the unveiling of the scheme ,Senator Onwe,said the purpose of the  Cooperative was to serve as a medium of  financial assistance to the youths who are willing to engage in useful ventures. At the well- attended event which held on October 20, 2018, at Nkpoke, the ancestral home of Ikwo people, Senator Onwe stated that  his target was to raise atleats 20 millionaires by December 2019. He noted that although youths and women Empowerment remained a cardinal policy of the state government led by governor David Umahi , but he understood that the state government’s scheme would certainly not get to all the youths and women in the state. He stated that it was on the strength of this fact that he deemed it imperative to set up the Cooperative Society and the Empowerment scheme to reach out to those who might not be captured in the various government empowerment schemes currently going on in the state. Senator Onwe who proceeded to make a cash donation of over 1.5 million naira as the starting capital for the Cooperative association, added that he would release another one million naira for the association by April 2019 if the first batch was judiciously utilised by the beneficiaries. According to him, 10 youths would get N100,000 each to go into poultry while 10 other youths would be given N50,000 each as empowerment grants. The senator further noted that what he had done was just an experiment to see those who would be serious with the support given to them and to give them bigger support by next year. He enjoined the beneficiaries to make proper use of the funds. Before embarking on the recent empowerment programs, the former senator representing Ebonyi Central Senatorial District in the national Assembly was highly regarded for what one of the elders of the community described as his consistent humanitarian interventions in Ikwo community. The senator who is currently overseeing the education of over 80 indigent students of the community was said to have recently embarked on fixing some of the  roads in deplorable conditions in the area. In a speech delivered during the unveiling of the Cooperative association, the highly elated people of Ndufu-Echara captured Senator Onwe’s humanitarian spirit and propensity thus: “It is pertinent to note that Senator Onwe has amidst the recession facing the nation shown his magnanimity to Echara people in particular through construction of roads that cut across Echara to Unwueka community. In all honesty, the erection of industrial rice mill cluster at Omege Echara by Mr Onwe heralded a rapid development at the area and has technically ameliorated the plights of his people.” It was gathered that the London-trained  lawyer who was abinitio uninterested in politics was however motivated into joining the game because of his strong desire to uplift the living standard of his people. The speech which was read by the chairman of the Organising Committee of the event, Mr.Alegu Mmaduabuchi Collins, captured the reasons behind Senator Onwe’s initial interest in politics  thus: “Distinguished Senator Emmanuel Onwe(PhD) who happens to be an indigene of Agubata Village in Echara community displayed noticeable politicking due to denial of freedom to construct a road leading across Ebonyi River at Ndiagu Echara. Upholding the grievances of such denial, he made bold to contest and won the position of Senate representing Ebonyi central at the red chamber of the national assembly. “Though the continuity of the process was aborted, Dr. Onwe couldn’t decline his interest of getting Echara involved in developmental strategies.” Onwe who himself is a commercial farmer has equally established a rice mill cluster which according to the community has heralded an era of prosperity in the area. The senator is said to equally  prioritized distribution of fertilizers, rice and support funds to widows and  indigent persons annually. In his remarks, a one-time commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Matters in the state, Chief Oke Oreke described Senator Onwe as a worthy son of Ikwo who has continued to make his people happy and proud. Chief Oreke assured the information commissioner of the unflinching support and solidarity of the people of Ndufu-echara Ikwo . The people further in a motion moved by the Deputy Leader of Ikwo Legislative Council, Hon. Mrs. Orogwu Mary adopted governor David Umahi as their sole governorship candidate come 2019. They noted that Ndufu-Echara has been a PDP ward since 1999 and promised to return a block vote to the governor come 2019.