LISTENING to Mannie’s dating-fever programme – Say My Name – on the popular Good Morning Nigeria show on Cool FM last Thursday, a young guy, Briggs, called in, as is the tradition, wanting to be sure where he stood with his girlfriend, Sonia, who resides in Abuja. It became clear that Sonia preferred another guy, Michael, who not only shares proximity with her but who, apparently, was better loaded (if you know what I mean). Considering the manner in which Sonia, who was so unpretentious, dazzled the presenters; Mannie and Taymi B, another caller who was equally blown away tagged her president of all the ‘Amakas”. To understand the new meaning given to Amaka, a beautiful Igbo feminine name is to listen to Innocent Idibia’s latest song under the same title. The phrase, Amaka Disappoint Me in 2Baba’s story is a jibe that has made the song even more popular. Not only have comedians been using Amaka as synonym for everything unfaithful about a woman, someone also sang a cover of the trending 2Baba’s song – all for the fun of it. Back to the story of Sonia, two things that further convinced the caller that she was the president of all the ‘Amakas’ were the punch lines she borrowed from some trending songs. One, she said something like, Na Dem Dey Rush Us to buttress her status as a woman in high demand. That phrase is from CDQ’s song titled Fine Boyz. When asked what song she would like to listen to in closing her phone-line session, she simply said: If We No Make Money, Wetin We Gain. That lyrical phrase is another strong one, coming from a new artiste who is obviously blowing as we speak. His name is Victor AD, and the title of the song is ‘Wetin We Gain’ It says in part: “Phone dey ring Na family dey call oh If no be billing, na something dey sup oh Anyhow e be, omo money is involve oh Oluwa bless me ’cause I no fit dull oh…  {Chorus} If we no make money Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?) If we no buy the benz Wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?)…” Like Sonia, music is the language that defines the aspiration of many young people of today, and it takes a music wannabe who wants to break into the highly competitive market to understand how this fact, and evolve a strong phrase that may appeal to the aspirations of potential fans. This next one – “My Papa No Be Dangote, Adeleke, But We Go Dey OK” is another promising song from a new kid on the block Teni. It is titled ‘Case’. Teni uses case to prove her feat wasn’t a mistake, after winning Headies’ ‘Rookie Of The Year’ early this year. Such is the power of punchy lines as part of the ingredients of good music. Going back in time, we can recall how 2Face’s ‘African Queen’ and its video has remained a classic. Now, every good woman from this part of the world is an African Queen, and you would think 2Face owns the franchise to the two words. There are other few examples of lyrical catch phrases that have become day to day slang among music fans. Olamide, in “Pepperdemgang” gave us Pepper Dem Gang; Slim Case in “Issabanga” gave us Oshaprapra, Oshapropro to connote something potent; Zamora in “Importanter” gave us Importanter as something or someone more important; Mavin crew gave us “Dorobucci’, with Doro as a prefix to something and everything beautiful; Tiwa & Don Jazzy tickled us with “Eminado”, a word that generated controversy; Davido took the slang “Gobe” to another level with See Gobe; Small Doctor’s song, “Penalty” which gave him a break not only used a football language, the phrase, If You No Get Money, Hide Your Face became an anthem; Korede Bello’s “Godwin” soared with I Don Get Alert, God Win, launching the artiste into fame; Davido’s “Aye” got people talking with She No want designer, She No Want Ferrari, She Say Na My Love O…’, just like “Da Mi Duro” the song that brought him to limelight with Ema Da Mi Duro… Emi Omo Baba Olowo… another artiste that rules the airwave is Harrysong whose Reggae Blues became a street anthem with phrases like, ‘After The Reggae Play The Blues….Share The Gala Share The Booze… Enjoy Yourself Baby Boo, Cos Even Your Boo Get a Boo’. Of course, that earned him an endorsement by Gala, and the rest, as they say, is history. As much as most music of today have been said to be all-sound and no-message, there is commercial potential for creativity, and upcoming artistes only need one strong outing to give them the reign while it lasts. LISTENING to Mannie’s dating-fever programme – Say My Name – on the popular Good Morning Nigeria show on Cool FM last Thursday, a young guy, Briggs, called in, as is the tradition, wanting to be sure where he stood with his girlfriend, Sonia, who resides in Abuja. It became clear that Sonia preferred another guy, Michael, who not only shares proximity with her but who, apparently, was better loaded (if you know what I mean). Considering the manner in which Sonia, who was so unpretentious, dazzled the presenters; Mannie and Taymi B, another caller who was equally blown away tagged her president of all the ‘Amakas”. To understand the new meaning given to Amaka, a beautiful Igbo feminine name is to listen to Innocent Idibia’s latest song under the same title. The phrase, Amaka Disappoint Me in 2Baba’s story is a jibe that has made the song even more popular. Not only have comedians been using Amaka as synonym for everything unfaithful about a woman, someone also sang a cover of the trending 2Baba’s song – all for the fun of it. Back to the story of Sonia, two things that further convinced the caller that she was the president of all the ‘Amakas’ were the punch lines she borrowed from some trending songs. One, she said something like, Na Dem Dey Rush Us to buttress her status as a woman in high demand. That phrase is from CDQ’s song titled Fine Boyz. When asked what song she would like to listen to in closing her phone-line session, she simply said: If We No Make Money, Wetin We Gain. That lyrical phrase is another strong one, coming from a new artiste who is obviously blowing as we speak. His name is Victor AD, and the title of the song is ‘Wetin We Gain’ It says in part: “Phone dey ring Na family dey call oh If no be billing, na something dey sup oh Anyhow e be, omo money is involve oh Oluwa bless me ’cause I no fit dull oh…  {Chorus} If we no make money Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?) If we no buy the benz Wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?)…” Like Sonia, music is the language that defines the aspiration of many young people of today, and it takes a music wannabe who wants to break into the highly competitive market to understand how this fact, and evolve a strong phrase that may appeal to the aspirations of potential fans. This next one – “My Papa No Be Dangote, Adeleke, But We Go Dey OK” is another promising song from a new kid on the block Teni. It is titled ‘Case’. Teni uses case to prove her feat wasn’t a mistake, after winning Headies’ ‘Rookie Of The Year’ early this year. Such is the power of punchy lines as part of the ingredients of good music. Going back in time, we can recall how 2Face’s ‘African Queen’ and its video has remained a classic. Now, every good woman from this part of the world is an African Queen, and you would think 2Face owns the franchise to the two words. There are other few examples of lyrical catch phrases that have become day to day slang among music fans. Olamide, in “Pepperdemgang” gave us Pepper Dem Gang; Slim Case in “Issabanga” gave us Oshaprapra, Oshapropro to connote something potent; Zamora in “Importanter” gave us Importanter as something or someone more important; Mavin crew gave us “Dorobucci’, with Doro as a prefix to something and everything beautiful; Tiwa & Don Jazzy tickled us with “Eminado”, a word that generated controversy; Davido took the slang “Gobe” to another level with See Gobe; Small Doctor’s song, “Penalty” which gave him a break not only used a football language, the phrase, If You No Get Money, Hide Your Face became an anthem; Korede Bello’s “Godwin” soared with I Don Get Alert, God Win, launching the artiste into fame; Davido’s “Aye” got people talking with She No want designer, She No Want Ferrari, She Say Na My Love O…’, just like “Da Mi Duro” the song that brought him to limelight with Ema Da Mi Duro… Emi Omo Baba Olowo… another artiste that rules the airwave is Harrysong whose Reggae Blues became a street anthem with phrases like, ‘After The Reggae Play The Blues….Share The Gala Share The Booze… Enjoy Yourself Baby Boo, Cos Even Your Boo Get a Boo’. Of course, that earned him an endorsement by Gala, and the rest, as they say, is history. As much as most music of today have been said to be all-sound and no-message, there is commercial potential for creativity, and upcoming artistes only need one strong outing to give them the reign while it lasts. LISTENING to Mannie’s dating-fever programme – Say My Name – on the popular Good Morning Nigeria show on Cool FM last Thursday, a young guy, Briggs, called in, as is the tradition, wanting to be sure where he stood with his girlfriend, Sonia, who resides in Abuja. It became clear that Sonia preferred another guy, Michael, who not only shares proximity with her but who, apparently, was better loaded (if you know what I mean). Considering the manner in which Sonia, who was so unpretentious, dazzled the presenters; Mannie and Taymi B, another caller who was equally blown away tagged her president of all the ‘Amakas”. To understand the new meaning given to Amaka, a beautiful Igbo feminine name is to listen to Innocent Idibia’s latest song under the same title. The phrase, Amaka Disappoint Me in 2Baba’s story is a jibe that has made the song even more popular. Not only have comedians been using Amaka as synonym for everything unfaithful about a woman, someone also sang a cover of the trending 2Baba’s song – all for the fun of it. Back to the story of Sonia, two things that further convinced the caller that she was the president of all the ‘Amakas’ were the punch lines she borrowed from some trending songs. One, she said something like, Na Dem Dey Rush Us to buttress her status as a woman in high demand. That phrase is from CDQ’s song titled Fine Boyz. When asked what song she would like to listen to in closing her phone-line session, she simply said: If We No Make Money, Wetin We Gain. That lyrical phrase is another strong one, coming from a new artiste who is obviously blowing as we speak. His name is Victor AD, and the title of the song is ‘Wetin We Gain’ It says in part: “Phone dey ring Na family dey call oh If no be billing, na something dey sup oh Anyhow e be, omo money is involve oh Oluwa bless me ’cause I no fit dull oh…  {Chorus} If we no make money Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?) If we no buy the benz Wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?)…” Like Sonia, music is the language that defines the aspiration of many young people of today, and it takes a music wannabe who wants to break into the highly competitive market to understand how this fact, and evolve a strong phrase that may appeal to the aspirations of potential fans. This next one – “My Papa No Be Dangote, Adeleke, But We Go Dey OK” is another promising song from a new kid on the block Teni. It is titled ‘Case’. Teni uses case to prove her feat wasn’t a mistake, after winning Headies’ ‘Rookie Of The Year’ early this year. Such is the power of punchy lines as part of the ingredients of good music. Going back in time, we can recall how 2Face’s ‘African Queen’ and its video has remained a classic. Now, every good woman from this part of the world is an African Queen, and you would think 2Face owns the franchise to the two words. There are other few examples of lyrical catch phrases that have become day to day slang among music fans. Olamide, in “Pepperdemgang” gave us Pepper Dem Gang; Slim Case in “Issabanga” gave us Oshaprapra, Oshapropro to connote something potent; Zamora in “Importanter” gave us Importanter as something or someone more important; Mavin crew gave us “Dorobucci’, with Doro as a prefix to something and everything beautiful; Tiwa & Don Jazzy tickled us with “Eminado”, a word that generated controversy; Davido took the slang “Gobe” to another level with See Gobe; Small Doctor’s song, “Penalty” which gave him a break not only used a football language, the phrase, If You No Get Money, Hide Your Face became an anthem; Korede Bello’s “Godwin” soared with I Don Get Alert, God Win, launching the artiste into fame; Davido’s “Aye” got people talking with She No want designer, She No Want Ferrari, She Say Na My Love O…’, just like “Da Mi Duro” the song that brought him to limelight with Ema Da Mi Duro… Emi Omo Baba Olowo… another artiste that rules the airwave is Harrysong whose Reggae Blues became a street anthem with phrases like, ‘After The Reggae Play The Blues….Share The Gala Share The Booze… Enjoy Yourself Baby Boo, Cos Even Your Boo Get a Boo’. Of course, that earned him an endorsement by Gala, and the rest, as they say, is history. As much as most music of today have been said to be all-sound and no-message, there is commercial potential for creativity, and upcoming artistes only need one strong outing to give them the reign while it lasts. LISTENING to Mannie’s dating-fever programme – Say My Name – on the popular Good Morning Nigeria show on Cool FM last Thursday, a young guy, Briggs, called in, as is the tradition, wanting to be sure where he stood with his girlfriend, Sonia, who resides in Abuja. It became clear that Sonia preferred another guy, Michael, who not only shares proximity with her but who, apparently, was better loaded (if you know what I mean). Considering the manner in which Sonia, who was so unpretentious, dazzled the presenters; Mannie and Taymi B, another caller who was equally blown away tagged her president of all the ‘Amakas”. To understand the new meaning given to Amaka, a beautiful Igbo feminine name is to listen to Innocent Idibia’s latest song under the same title. The phrase, Amaka Disappoint Me in 2Baba’s story is a jibe that has made the song even more popular. Not only have comedians been using Amaka as synonym for everything unfaithful about a woman, someone also sang a cover of the trending 2Baba’s song – all for the fun of it. Back to the story of Sonia, two things that further convinced the caller that she was the president of all the ‘Amakas’ were the punch lines she borrowed from some trending songs. One, she said something like, Na Dem Dey Rush Us to buttress her status as a woman in high demand. That phrase is from CDQ’s song titled Fine Boyz. When asked what song she would like to listen to in closing her phone-line session, she simply said: If We No Make Money, Wetin We Gain. That lyrical phrase is another strong one, coming from a new artiste who is obviously blowing as we speak. His name is Victor AD, and the title of the song is ‘Wetin We Gain’ It says in part: “Phone dey ring Na family dey call oh If no be billing, na something dey sup oh Anyhow e be, omo money is involve oh Oluwa bless me ’cause I no fit dull oh…  {Chorus} If we no make money Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?) If we no buy the benz Wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?)…” Like Sonia, music is the language that defines the aspiration of many young people of today, and it takes a music wannabe who wants to break into the highly competitive market to understand how this fact, and evolve a strong phrase that may appeal to the aspirations of potential fans. This next one – “My Papa No Be Dangote, Adeleke, But We Go Dey OK” is another promising song from a new kid on the block Teni. It is titled ‘Case’. Teni uses case to prove her feat wasn’t a mistake, after winning Headies’ ‘Rookie Of The Year’ early this year. Such is the power of punchy lines as part of the ingredients of good music. Going back in time, we can recall how 2Face’s ‘African Queen’ and its video has remained a classic. Now, every good woman from this part of the world is an African Queen, and you would think 2Face owns the franchise to the two words. There are other few examples of lyrical catch phrases that have become day to day slang among music fans. Olamide, in “Pepperdemgang” gave us Pepper Dem Gang; Slim Case in “Issabanga” gave us Oshaprapra, Oshapropro to connote something potent; Zamora in “Importanter” gave us Importanter as something or someone more important; Mavin crew gave us “Dorobucci’, with Doro as a prefix to something and everything beautiful; Tiwa & Don Jazzy tickled us with “Eminado”, a word that generated controversy; Davido took the slang “Gobe” to another level with See Gobe; Small Doctor’s song, “Penalty” which gave him a break not only used a football language, the phrase, If You No Get Money, Hide Your Face became an anthem; Korede Bello’s “Godwin” soared with I Don Get Alert, God Win, launching the artiste into fame; Davido’s “Aye” got people talking with She No want designer, She No Want Ferrari, She Say Na My Love O…’, just like “Da Mi Duro” the song that brought him to limelight with Ema Da Mi Duro… Emi Omo Baba Olowo… another artiste that rules the airwave is Harrysong whose Reggae Blues became a street anthem with phrases like, ‘After The Reggae Play The Blues….Share The Gala Share The Booze… Enjoy Yourself Baby Boo, Cos Even Your Boo Get a Boo’. Of course, that earned him an endorsement by Gala, and the rest, as they say, is history. As much as most music of today have been said to be all-sound and no-message, there is commercial potential for creativity, and upcoming artistes only need one strong outing to give them the reign while it lasts. LISTENING to Mannie’s dating-fever programme – Say My Name – on the popular Good Morning Nigeria show on Cool FM last Thursday, a young guy, Briggs, called in, as is the tradition, wanting to be sure where he stood with his girlfriend, Sonia, who resides in Abuja. It became clear that Sonia preferred another guy, Michael, who not only shares proximity with her but who, apparently, was better loaded (if you know what I mean). Considering the manner in which Sonia, who was so unpretentious, dazzled the presenters; Mannie and Taymi B, another caller who was equally blown away tagged her president of all the ‘Amakas”. To understand the new meaning given to Amaka, a beautiful Igbo feminine name is to listen to Innocent Idibia’s latest song under the same title. The phrase, Amaka Disappoint Me in 2Baba’s story is a jibe that has made the song even more popular. Not only have comedians been using Amaka as synonym for everything unfaithful about a woman, someone also sang a cover of the trending 2Baba’s song – all for the fun of it. Back to the story of Sonia, two things that further convinced the caller that she was the president of all the ‘Amakas’ were the punch lines she borrowed from some trending songs. One, she said something like, Na Dem Dey Rush Us to buttress her status as a woman in high demand. That phrase is from CDQ’s song titled Fine Boyz. When asked what song she would like to listen to in closing her phone-line session, she simply said: If We No Make Money, Wetin We Gain. That lyrical phrase is another strong one, coming from a new artiste who is obviously blowing as we speak. His name is Victor AD, and the title of the song is ‘Wetin We Gain’ It says in part: “Phone dey ring Na family dey call oh If no be billing, na something dey sup oh Anyhow e be, omo money is involve oh Oluwa bless me ’cause I no fit dull oh…  {Chorus} If we no make money Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?) If we no buy the benz Wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain? (Wetin we gain?) Wetin we gain o? (Wetin we gain?) My brother wetin we gain (Wetin we gain?)…” Like Sonia, music is the language that defines the aspiration of many young people of today, and it takes a music wannabe who wants to break into the highly competitive market to understand how this fact, and evolve a strong phrase that may appeal to the aspirations of potential fans. This next one – “My Papa No Be Dangote, Adeleke, But We Go Dey OK” is another promising song from a new kid on the block Teni. It is titled ‘Case’. Teni uses case to prove her feat wasn’t a mistake, after winning Headies’ ‘Rookie Of The Year’ early this year. Such is the power of punchy lines as part of the ingredients of good music. Going back in time, we can recall how 2Face’s ‘African Queen’ and its video has remained a classic. Now, every good woman from this part of the world is an African Queen, and you would think 2Face owns the franchise to the two words. There are other few examples of lyrical catch phrases that have become day to day slang among music fans. Olamide, in “Pepperdemgang” gave us Pepper Dem Gang; Slim Case in “Issabanga” gave us Oshaprapra, Oshapropro to connote something potent; Zamora in “Importanter” gave us Importanter as something or someone more important; Mavin crew gave us “Dorobucci’, with Doro as a prefix to something and everything beautiful; Tiwa & Don Jazzy tickled us with “Eminado”, a word that generated controversy; Davido took the slang “Gobe” to another level with See Gobe; Small Doctor’s song, “Penalty” which gave him a break not only used a football language, the phrase, If You No Get Money, Hide Your Face became an anthem; Korede Bello’s “Godwin” soared with I Don Get Alert, God Win, launching the artiste into fame; Davido’s “Aye” got people talking with She No want designer, She No Want Ferrari, She Say Na My Love O…’, just like “Da Mi Duro” the song that brought him to limelight with Ema Da Mi Duro… Emi Omo Baba Olowo… another artiste that rules the airwave is Harrysong whose Reggae Blues became a street anthem with phrases like, ‘After The Reggae Play The Blues….Share The Gala Share The Booze… Enjoy Yourself Baby Boo, Cos Even Your Boo Get a Boo’. Of course, that earned him an endorsement by Gala, and the rest, as they say, is history. As much as most music of today have been said to be all-sound and no-message, there is commercial potential for creativity, and upcoming artistes only need one strong outing to give them the reign while it lasts.