Nigerians across all walks of life have expressed concern over what they termed ‘extra charges’ they suffer from banks each time they withdraw money. They believe that the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) should as a matter of urgency stop the act by banks as it is negatively them It would be recalled that the Senate recently passed a resolution calling on the CBN to suspend the ATM card maintenance charges being deducted from customers. For Bolaji Sulaimon, an engineer, it is outrageous for banks to deduct excess charges from customers. In his words, “I think they need to stop this act because it is outrageous to deduct such money. For instance when you have 2000 naira in your account the moment you use the ATM (particularly if it’s not your bank)  65 naira is deducted from the money, you cannot even collect the  exact amount you need you will be left with less the amount you originally want to take. We are tired of this system. It just like they are milking us.” Azeez Adebukola, who is an architect, argues that banks should put up a technology that informs customers’ before-hand about these deductions, because he is the sole owner of the account. It is therefore wrong for banks to apply extra charges without informing him. “Well for me, I think it is a senseless idea. I think that I should be informed before any deduction is done on my account. I think the regulatory body should step in and stop this.” Isiaka Lawal, a technician said; “There is nobody that will be happy when you deduct money from his or her account unnecessarily. There are times that I have exactly 4000 naira and I need that exact amount to do something that is very important. The moment the bank deducts the ATM maintenance charges I have no choice than to take the amount left. So the government should help find a permanent solution to this challenge.” A trader, Mrs. Abimbola Ogunbanwo, pleaded for governments’ intervention on this issue. She expressed constant pains as a result of this bank charges. “I feel very bad whenever they deduct my money, especially when I use the card for another bank. Most times you need money and your own bank ATM is not around your vicinity, at that moment you have no choice than to use the other bank and they will definitely deduct money. You however have no alternative.  I am using this opportunity to beg the government to find solution for us so we can withdraw from other banks automated teller machines without them deducting our money. Tawa Yakubu, a fashion designer shares a personal experience as regards bank charges. She said; “There was a day someone sent 2000 naira to me. It was not even up to a minute before my bank sent an alert that my balance is 1950 naira. I could not cry because I actually needed the exact amount the person sent so I think it high time they stop frustrating us.” On her part, a businesswoman, Mrs. Odeyemi Bamidele believes that the excessive charges by banks might be an order from government. “There was a day I went to my bank to complain they told me it was an order from the Federal Government that any transaction being made even with the ATM should attract charges. “So the government through the CBN should help us put an end to this,” she added Motunrayo Akinboye, a trader in Victoria Island corroborated Mrs Bamidele’s story. “For banks to be deducting any time you use the ATM is unfair. So, I feel they have to adjust and put a stop to it. They should stop these unnecessary deductions from customers.”