The on-going military court martial of soldiers of operation Lafiya Dole over violations of human right in the Theatre has sent two soldiers to ten years imprisonment. The President of the General Court Martial (GCM) 7 Division Nigeria of Army Brig. Gen. Olusegun Adesina while delivering judgement on Wednesday said the action of the soldiers was unlawful and against the ethics of the armed forces. The two soldiers were charged for abduction and forceful collection of money from innocent victims amounting to the sum of 1 million naria. Brig.Gen Adesina said the accuse were standing trial ” for 3 count charges include abduction of Alhaji Hassan on the 19th November, 2017 at his residents in Ruwan Shanfi area of Maiduguri to unknown location, forceful demand and reception of the sum of 1 million Naira after he was threatened as BHTs sponsor”. The soldiers confessed committing the offence. The soldiers further narrated that they “evaded the victim’s (Alhaji Hassan) house with a Honda 98 model and dragged the victim out and forcefully took him to Railway Area of Maiduguri, where he was threatened and tagged as Boko Haram sponsor and subsequently demanded N3m. “However, the victim begged and agreed to pay a million naira and then, he took the accused soldiers to his shop at Banban line district where he gave them N1m naira as promised”. In his judgment, Brig. Gen. Adesina said; ” having considered all pleadings by defense counsel, on 1st count charge, you Sergeant Aliyu Hassan and Corporal Nasiru Bello are hereby sentenced to 5 years in prison for abduction. “On count 2 charges that your rank from Sergeant has reduced to Corporal and also your rank from Corporal to private for illegal behavior on uniform; third count charge for extortion of 1 million naira from victims, you are are hereby sentenced to 5 years in prison respectively and service of term shall runs concurrently.” Brig. Gen. Olusegun Adesina read. The affected soldiers are Sgt Aliyu Hassan and Corporal Nasiru Bello. The Nation checks revealed that the General Court Martial in Maiduguri has imprisoned a number of soldiers for different offences for more than one year now.