The Federal Institute of Industrial Research, Oshodi (FIIRO) has trained over three million Nigerians since it was established, its Director-General (DG), Prof. Gloria Elemo, has said. Elemo said at an exhibition organised in collaboration with the Nigerian Armed Forces Resettlement Centre (NAFRC), Oshodi that the institute had also churned out over 500 processed technologies within the same period.. Elemo, represented by Dr. Chima Igwe, a FIIRO executive, said the industrial fruity washer and pepper grinder were among the institute’s latest innovations, adding that its grinder is different from what is in the market. She said:  “What is in the market is pepper grinder with metal robbing of discs for grinding. This one, innovated by FIIRO, has our intellectual property protection on it. It has been launched by the Federal Government. “NAFRC is more like a sister. We have done a couple of things in the past and we are still collaborating. They ordered some of the pepper grinder I mentioned earlier and FIIRO has contributed through equipping their kitchen with locally-fabricated wares. “The institute has trained over three million Nigerians and 75 per cent of them are in the Southwest, especially the micro, small and medium scale industries.” Elemo said FIIRO innovated and sold processed technologies to industries to produce in bulk and sell. “Engineering outfits have been evaluated and licensed to produce these equipment. They work with FIRO, we give them our designs. There is always a follow up on our processed technologies. “We have a department we call the Planning, Technology, Transfer and Information Management. Under this department, we have officers that follow up and get feedback and need assessment, adoption studies, among others. “We monitor not only quality, but also the procedures we have handed over to such people that are adopting our procedures. “We are on the right path and making a lot of strides. The Federal Government is making efforts to be sure that our local content is recognised and that’s exactly one of the reasons FIIRO was established.” NAFRC Commandant Air Vice Marshal (AVM) Abubakar Liman said the joint exhibition was to foster collaboration between both agencies in the pursuit of national development. He urged Nigerians to support the nation’s industrialisation drive by patronising locally-made goods. “The essence of this exhibition is to showcase the institutions’ products to the trainees and the public for their awareness and patronage. Our workshops design and produce customised products. “Some of the products are simple equipment made by the trainees for use in cottage industries and agro-production. The curriculum is designed to enable the trainees fabricate and maintain the equipment for their use.” Liman said plans were on to review the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) between NAFRC and FIIRO to meet current trends, adding that the centre was awaiting the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC) certification to start marketing its products.