Volunteers and other stakeholders within the Dangote conglomerate global otherwise called Dangote Champions operationalized the company’s sustainability policy framework when they embarked on various activities aimed at impacting the environment positively across Nigeria and in some African countries. This, the Champions explained is to promote sustainable development in ‘The Dangote Way’ under the seven sustainability pillars adopted and practicalized by the organization. The activities, which coincided with the United Nations 73rd General Assembly at the New York Headquarters were carried out with a ‘Call to Action’, included environmental cleanups, tree planting, road rehabilitation, health outreach and sensitisation. Others involved awareness creation on safety and clean environment, hospital sanitation and clean-up, educational outreach and donation of materials, and organisation of symposia; all of which were undertaken by volunteer Dangote staff members and other external partners and stakeholders. The sustainability exercises, which spanned four days (September 24 to 27) included cleanup of Oniru Block-Makers Village in Victoria Island, Lagos by volunteers from the Group’s Headquarters; Ajibese community undertaken by Dangote Cement PLC at Ibese; cleanup of Anjorin Market in Apapa by Apapa Greenville; and Isolo community clean-up by DCP Cement Depot, Isolo. There was also beach cleanup and tree planting in Tema by DCP Ghana; hospital sanitation and cleanup in Bounsa by DCP Congo; educational outreach in Douala by DCP Cameroon; and road rehabilitation and symposium by DCP Gboko in Benue State of Nigeria. The Oniru activities, which were carried out alongside programme partners like VisionScape, Growing Businesses Foundation (GBF), and the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF), showcased the seven sustainability pillars of the Dangote Group, including environmental, economic, social, financial, operational, financial, cultural, and institutional pillars. The Oniru block-makers village cleanup, witnessed by the Dangote Group Chief Human Resources Officer, Mr. Usen Udoh; Mr. Mohammed Sani-Dangote; Chief Operating Officer of VisionScape, Mr. Thomas Forgacs; Head, SME of LSETF, Mr. Charles Anyanwu; and Programme Director of GBF, Mr. Seyi Dare, involved dozens of volunteers from Dangote Head Office. Aside the cleanup of the block market, a female beneficiary, Alufojie Happiness Mercy was given a loan by GBF to help improve the block and cement seller’s livelihood and financial sustainability. Speaking at the Oniru cleanup, Mr. Udoh commended the staff volunteers and noted that the Dangote Group was setting a standard in environmental sustainability, which other companies will soon emulate. Also, the Group Chief Sustainability & Governance Officer, Dr. Ndidi Nnoli noted that, “We have certainly made some inroads on engagement from stakeholders. We believe that having our people engaged and rewarded for innovation and commitment in their chosen fields (e.g. during Sustainability Week) will also translate to commitment and engagement at the workplace, with a greater sense of belonging and increased productivity. We have this week, through volunteer hours, transformed hospitals, roads, beaches, schools, markets, classrooms, communities… but above all we have touched lives!”      