Outgoing Ekiti State Governor Ayo Fayose has said the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) invitation will not allow him to attend Tuesday’s swearing-in of the governor-elect, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. Fayose said his scheduled appearance at EFCC’s Abuja Headquarters falls on the same day Dr Fayemi will be sworn in at Ekiti Parapo Pavilion, Ado-Ekiti, the state capital. He also vowed to attend any commission or panel of enquiry anywhere on how he managed the state’s treasury during his four-year tenure. Addressing reporters at a valedictory briefing, tagged: State of the State Press Conference, where he gave account of his stewardship, the governor claimed that he is leaving office as a “fulfilled man”. He said the possibility of being harassed is another reason he will not attend Fayemi’s inauguration, adding that politicians are “very erratic people”. Fayemi’s Inauguration Committee, on Wednesday, said Fayose was free to attend the swearing-in of his successor. The outgoing governor said he will hand over the instruments of office to the Head of Service (HoS), Dr. Gbenga Faseluka, while he will hand over the Government House and the Governor’s Office complexes to Police Commissioner Bello Ahmed on Sunday. He promised to invite reporters to another media briefing in Abuja to announce his arrival at the EFCC office for its operatives’ grilling. Declining the offer to attend Fayemi’s inauguration, Fayose said: “Politicians are erratic people. If I should attend the programme, some politicians may use the chance to harass me, even when they are not sent by Fayemi. “This will further destroy relationship; the issues between me and Fayemi are not personal. I have been cooperating with the committee set up by Fayemi on this transition. “Again, I have to be in EFCC office in Abuja on Tuesday, but let me say clearly that I am ready to appear before any panel set up by the incoming government to probe my administration. “Let it be known that I am not going anywhere, as being insinuated around. Rather, I will even be available for all manner of state probe by the incoming government. “Be assured that since I do not have anything to hide, I will not fail to also attend any form of probe panels, commissions of enquiry or by whatever that the new government in the state may decide to set up concerning me. “All that is required is just for them to either put a call across to me or send me a notice of invitation, indicating the venue and time. Once all these are fulfilled, they can be expecting that I will make myself personally available, and not through any lawyer or other representation.” 