As they agonise over those who drowned, their submerged homes and washed-out farms, people displaced by floods in Anambra State are also grappling with scarcity of food, and diseases where they are sheltering at a relief camp. EMMA ELEKWA reports For people of Anambra State, it never rains but it pours. In Ogbaru Local Government Area of the state where the flood caused the most havoc, no fewer than four people drowned in the floodwaters. One of them was a son of the late highlife icon, Chief Stephen Osita Osadebe. But as the state mourns the dead, survivors are also brooding over their flooded homes and submerged farms and business places. Still, there is more to worry about. Displaced persons sheltering in a relief camp complain of lack of food, poor health and lack of medicine. The displaced persons, predominantly women and children, camped at Crowder Memorial Primary School, Onitsha, the state’s commercial capital, wondered why they were brought to the camp and subjected to hunger, starvation and bad environment. They said they preferred dying in their various communities to suffering in a strange land where they were subjected to all forms of maltreatment. They appealed for government’s intervention, warning that there might be outbreak of epidemic in the camp if urgent steps were not taken. The Nation gathered that some of the victims trapped in the flooded areas with little or no means of moving out, were further challenged by lack of good drinking water, food and toilet facilities. Narrating her ordeal, one of them, Mrs Nkeiru Ukeje said, “Our children are now looking pale; they need doctor’s attention, but none is coming. Why did they bring us here? No food; nothing.” Another victim, Mr. Innocent Okoye, who sought refuge at the Community Primary School, Umueze-Anam, also said their children appeared pale and needed medical attention. “We lost virtually everything we possess to the flood, because our house in the village was completely submerged which was why we came out to seek refuge and shelter. “Our children need to see doctors very urgently. The sicklers among them cannot cope with the type of food being given to them in the camp,” he lamented. Also speaking, another displaced woman, who preferred anonymity, said some of them were their not familiar with some foods being given them, which she said was capable of causing diarrhoea. She said the nursing mothers among them were in pain with no provisions of cereal foods and custard for the two to eight months babies. She said, “They find it difficult to see hot water to prepare the one given to them by some visitors to the IDP camps. Some of our children look pale, dull faces and sunken eyes as they have endured weeks of hunger in their various communities. “Some of the women and children were in severe health conditions before they were evacuated and brought to the IDP Camp in Onitsha. They appealed to spirited individuals, organisations and government to come to their rescue. One of the local council areas in the state where the flood wreaked havoc is Ogbaru. At the last count, no fewer than four persons died in the area, including Okechukwu Osadebe, 18, son of the late highlife crooner. The younger Osadebe was reportedly swept away by the flood in Atani. His body was later discovered in the early hours of the following day. The mother of the deceased, Mrs. Amaechi Osadebe said her son was with two persons when he was swept away by the flashflood. “The current of the flood was too strong and turbulent that it did not give him any opportunity to swim out of danger,” she sobbed. The father of nine children, Chief Ojike Ajanwu, from Umuokpalaoma kindred, was said to have drowned in the flood while attempting to evacuate his harvested crops. The wife of the deceased, Mrs. Chinasa Ajanwu said they got the sad news where they were taking refuge at one of the Holding Centers located at Ogwuaniocha Community Primary School. “We received the message that my husband had drowned in Obolo village, Ogwuaniocha while attempting to evacuate his harvested cassava,” she said. Chinasa, a nursing mother of a month old baby, who described the incident as shocking, appealed to government to come to their rescue. Transition Committee Chairman, Arinzechukwu Awogu, who decried the increasing level of devastation the flood has inflicted on the lives of his people, regretted that many wealthy indigenes were yet to show any concern for the victims. He put the number of displaced persons at over 90,000, with no fewer than 6,000 taking refuge in government holding centres and clusters. Describing the situation as dire, he stressed that relief materials and food items are needed on a gigantic scale. He said, “Well-to-do Ogbaru people have not shown concern about this devastating flooding; perhaps they are erroneously under a wrong impression that it is government responsibility. “We are faced with nature’s fury, an attempt to wipe our people out from the surface of the earth. “For three weeks now it has been hellish; those outside our environment do not understand what we are facing. The situation is not normal and certainly not the type we enjoy. “To some of them, it’s our way of life. Can the eagle be said to enjoy a whirlwind even though it’s natural for it to glide? We have no fewer than 90,000 displaced persons. No fewer than 6,000 are taking refuge in government holding centres and clusters. “Supplies of relief materials are in short supply, more than half of displaced persons sleep on bare floor; children are suffering from cold because of insufficient mats, mattresses and blankets. “The state government has been stretched beyond its limit as all we’ve got so far has come from them. I now sound like a broken record while presenting the grim situation of my people before superior authorities. I appeal to Ndi Ogbaru to rise to this challenge. “My team is grateful to those individuals and groups that have come forth with food items and relief materials. I therefore, urge for more assistance.” Another community which was not spared by the flood was Anaku, in Ayamelum Local Government Area. One of the major rice farms in the state, Coscharis Rice Farms, was completely taken over by the flood, with the road leading to the farm inaccessible. Investigation indicated that about 1,500 hectares of the rice farm was submerged by the raging floodwaters. The State Deputy Governor, Dr Nkem Okeke, during an inspection tour to the area, described the situation as extensive, sympathising with the management over the incalculable losses. He said, “I presume, judging from the topography of the farm that the company must have taken precautionary measures in insuring the farm against such losses and emergencies. “I just hope that the incident will minimally affect this year’s rice production. “Already, the governor has resolved to ensure that enough rice is produced in the state for consumption and export to other parts of the nation. But when the need arises, government will help.” On his part, Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Afam Mbanefo revealed that he had anticipated a decrease in the year’s projection as a result of the flood disaster. He explained that the state usually based its rice projection in line with the production from core rice investors in the state including Coscharis Farms. “But I promise more preventive measures against the reccurrence of flooding on this farmland. “There is need for two cycles of rice planting here to enable the company to meet its annual rice target,” he said. Farm Operation Manager, Mr Shepherd Hurudza, while appreciating the state government’s concerns over the company, said the estimated damage on the farm was yet to be determined as the flooding keeps spreading. In Anambra West, some displaced persons lamented absence of potable water, food, shelter and toilet facilities, insisting that they need evacuation. The Umueze-Mmiata Road is currently flooded, causing the people to seek shelter on the bridge as some of them have since mounted tents on the road side. They said that they defecate inside the river, which also served as their source of drinking and cooking water. The people are also exposed to dangers of being attacked by dangerous reptiles like snakes, crocodiles, hippopotamus because they are surrounded by floodwaters. The situation is the same at the Community Primary School, Umueze Anam, where a good number of displaced persons were currently accommodated. Some people are also trapped in the floodwaters. One of the flood victims, Mr Innocent Okoye, who sought refuge at the Community Primary School, Umueze-Anam recounted his experiences. “I lost virtually everything I possess to the floodwaters and my house in the village is submerged too; that is why I came here to seek refuge and shelter,” he said. When asked why he did not relocate his family to the Holding Centres, open to the people of the local council, Okoye feigned ignorance of such arrangement. “I am also using this medium to appeal to government to assist our people who have virtually lost everything they have to the floodwaters; and most of them live in dangerous areas like the Otupu Bridge. “The area is exposed to dangerous reptiles with no food, water, electricity, and toilet facilities,” Okoye said. The state government has opened centres where relief materials can be sent, following sustained inquiries from various individuals and groups in Anambra State and beyond on how they could contribute to alleviating the suffering of flood victims. A statement by the State Commissioner for Information & Public Enlightenment, C. Don Adinuba, disclosed that the centres were at the office of the Anambra State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA) on the Enugu-Onitsha Expressway, Awka. He said the rest were located at the headquarters of Ogbaru Local Government Area, Ayamelum LGA, Awka North LGA, Anambra East LGA, Anambra West LGA, Onitsha North LGA and Onitsha South LGA as well as Ihiala LGA. “Although the disaster affected eight local government areas in the state, it was more devastating in Ogbaru, Anambra East and West LGAs, as well as Ayamelum LGA where several communities have been submerged, resulting in the sack of over 10,000 people from their homes, schools, offices, farms, markets and places of worship. “The flood victims are “desperately in need of foodstuffs, drinking water, cooking utensils, mattresses, mats, beds, buckets, clothes, healthcare and sanitary facilities. “Although the state government “has been preparing to grapple with the crisis since July when the Nigerian Hydrological Service Agency and the Nigerian Meteorological Agency warned that Anambra and the other flood prone states would experience unusually high water levels comparable to those of 2012 which wrought havoc in many parts of Nigeria, the current disaster is stretching the state resources”. According to the commissioner, all types of relief materials can be sent to any of the mentioned local government headquarters except medicines which have to be left with the state Ministry of Health, Jerome Udoji Secretariat, Awka, to ensure professional handling and administration. He advised those who want to give money to the victims to send it to Anambra State Flood Disaster Account Number 5030091612 Fidelity Bank. Adinuba quoted Governor Willie Obiano as saying that “he is profoundly touched by the powerful sense of solidarity which Nigerians from different sections of the country and from all walks of life have been demonstrating with the people of Anambra State since the flood disaster. Vice-President Yemi Osinbajo visited the flooded areas on a wooden boat with Governor Obiano and Labour and Productivity Minister Chris Ngige at Umueze, Anam, in Anambra West LGA where he commended the governor for taking proactive steps to check the effects of the flood.