*Plans Hajj Saving Scheme to increase participation  President Muhammadu Buhari on Friday received the 2018 Hajj report at the State House, Abuja. The Chairman of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON), Alhaji Abdullahi Mukhtar Muhammad, briefed the President after the jumaat prayer. Speaking with State House correspondents, after the meeting, he said “I briefed Mr president on the outcome of 2018 Hajj which was recently concluded and Mr President was very happy with the outcome of the Hajj. “He particularly commended Nigerian pilgrims for behaving excellently during the Hajj and he urged and directed that the commission should do everything humanly possible sustain the tempo and the successes recorded and also commence preparations for the 2019 Hajj in earnest. We should try to sustain the tempo of the successes recorded. “I briefed Mr President about the turn out of the pilgrims and we all appreciate the reasons and what ought to be done in future to make sure that Nigeria fills up its quota. “And part of the measures to be taken will be the introduction of the Hajj Saving Scheme programme which will enable pilgrims who want to pay over a long period of time to start paying by installments. “And all regulatory framework to ensure the success of the Hajj Saving Scheme will be put in place and government will do the needful for the take off of the scheme in due course.” he said According to him, one of the main challenge faced was the medical fitness of some of the pilgrims. He said “In some states, you see people who apparently are aged and don’t have accompanying relations to support them. “We are not saying no to the registration of aged people but they should have an accompanying relation who should give them all the support they should require to perform the hajj in the best manner. “To address this, we are going to strengthen our education and enlightenment programme and also the medical screening aspect of it will be strengthened. “We will consolidate the gains we have recorded with the concert of the national medical team to make sure that this is achieved in subsequent Hajj.” he said.