At the governorship primary of the Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Jimi Agbaje, a pharmacist, was elected as the flag bearer. Can he defeat the candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in next year’s election? Group Political Editor EMMANUEL OLADESU examines the prospects and constraints of his ambition. Shouts of ‘Jay Kay is okay’, the slogan of his campaign platform, filled the air. Jimi Agbaje, the governorship candidate of the Lagos State Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for next year’s election was in high spirit. “A new Lagos is possible”, he said, amid cheers by his supporters, who listened to his acceptance speech after the primary. It was his third attempt. Despite the past electoral defeat, he is bubbling with enthusiasm and optimism. But, can he triumph at the poll next year? Agbaje is a household name in Lagos, held in esteem by many people across political parties. As a pharmacist and businessman, he has made money and name. Many people see him as a man of honour and integrity. He took off from ‘Idile’, a group of promising minds motivated by transformational ideas. But, he rose to prominence as an Afenifere foot soldier, serving the umbrella Yoruba socio-political group as treasurer. Many thought that his activities should have earned him a cabinet position in the Tinubu administration in 2003. But, sources said he declined the offer of government appointment. He was, unknown to a lot of party men, eyeing the driver’s seat. In 2007, Agbaje believed that he had paid his dues as a labourer in the vineyard of the socio-political organisation and the party it weaned, the Alliance for Democracy(AD). He unfolded his ambition for governor on the platform of the defunct Action Congress (AC). The party rose from the ashes of the AD, following its liquidation by the PDP-led Federl Government. However, the governorship primary did not favour him. Agbaje alleged that it was not free and fair. When Mr Babatunde Fashola(SAN) lifted the party flag, other aspirants cried foul. Agbaje, Olufemi Pedro, Tokunbo Afikuyomi, Remi Adikwu Bakare, Abiodun Ogunleye, Oyinlomo Danmole, Kaoli Olusanya, Ganiyu Solomon, Erikitola, Kunle Lawal, Tola Kasali kicked against the nomination process. Party sources said that the AC leadership reached out to Agbaje. He was asked to consider the option of contesting for the Senate in the Central District. But, Agbaje rejected the offer on the ground that it would amount to injustice, since it was public knowledge that the former chairman of Apapa Council, Alhaji Muniru Muse, was already holding the ticket. To spite former Governor Bola Tinubu, Agbaje, Afikuyomi, Danmole, Lawal, and Adikwu-Bakare defected to Democratic Peoples Alliance (DPA). A week after, Afikuyomi went to the All Nigeria Peoples Party(ANPP) and emerged its governorship candidate. Pedro left for the Labour Party (LP), and later, the PDP. Surprisingly, Afikuyomi later showed up on poll day as Fashola’s agent at the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) office. In DPA, Agbaje floored Adikwu-Bakare during the governorship primary. Another aggrieved aspirant, the late Prof. Kunle Lawal, became his running mate. Adikwu-Bakare, former Commissioner for Women Affairs, hurriedly left for the Progressive Peoples Alliance (PPA). She lost her deposit at the poll. After the shadow poll, an Afenifere chieftain told reporters that Adikwu- Bakare was  fired by her wrong projections, wondering why the elders would prefer her to Agbaje who had served them meritoriously. The campaign was hot. It was a moment of emotional wrenching. Fashola, Agbaje, Adikwu- Bakare, Afikuyomi and Musiliu Obanikoro were at war, as it were. Few years back, they belonged to the same party, AD, an offshoot of Afenifere. Agbaje’s manifestos were not significantly different from the promises made to Lagosians by Fashola and Adikwu-Bakare. The language was the same. Except Obanikoro’s PDP, the parties are similar. Throughout the campaign, Agbaje and Fashola only disagreed on one point the viability of the Fourth Mainland Bridge. While Agbaje said it was not a priority, Fashola insisted that the people needed it for ease of transportation. Up to now, it has remained a tall order. However, the battle was fought with vigour. Feathers were also ruffled. There was a great deal of political investment. Desperation could not be ruled out. The candidates were enveloped in anxiety. Agbaje was gifted in speech. He ran a neat campaign devoid of thuggery, unlike the PDP train of cutlasses, clubs, bows and arrows. Agbaje had money to run the campaigns. Apparently, he was supported by his rich friends. His print adverts were captivating. His radio and television jingles won souls. He toured the grassroots and made impressions. He avoided scandals like poison. One of his friends, Dr Kanyinsola Ajayi(SAN), said Agbaje would not be forgotten in a hurry because of the way and manner he engaged the masses. His associate, Mr Yinka Odumakin, shared the same view. He said the DPA candidate established himself as a credible and formidable alternative to the ‘same of the same’. However, Agbaje was soon to be put in a tight corner by  former Deputy Governor Pedro during one of the live debates. Pedro had inquired from him, derisively, the experience that qualified him to vie for the governorship of Lagos as the owner of  a patient medicine store, with not more than five employees under his control. The DPA candidate noted the scornful look and the attempt to diminish his profile. When Agbaje rose to defend himself, he returned the missiles. He reminded the former number two citizen of Lagos that when he was a Managing Director of a bank, he was a shareholder, indeed a Director, which implied part ownership. Agbaje also asked Pedro to explain the circumstances that led to his exit from the bank.  Besides, he added that the former deputy governor should respond to the allegation by his boss that he had not properly rendered his account of stewardship. Pedro flared up, taking exception to those replies. He explained that when he left his former working place, the organisation held a befitting send-forth for him. Despite the enormous electoral investment, Agbaje came third, trailing Obanikoro, who was defeated by Fashola.  The love of Lagosians for Agbaje was  undermined by a corresponding reluctance to adopt his party by voters. He was a strong contender hindered by his weak party. Agbaje lost the election, but not his honour. He claimed that his photograph or logo disappeared on the ballot paper. In protest, he went to the tribunal, urging the temple of upturn the results. He also lost in the court. In 2011, Agbaje did not contest. A source said APC leaders offered the position of deputy governor to him. But, he rejected it. He only attended political conferences and commented on burning national issues, particularly the electoral reforms and the national question. In 2015, he finally yielded to pressures on him by the PDP to run for governor. A sort of war broke out between him and Obanikoro. But, backed by Chief Bode George, he emerged as the candidate. During the election, former President Goodluck Jonathan threw his weight behind Agbaje. His party had lost the presidential election, but PDP wanted to win Lagos. The members of the Oodua Peoples Congress (OPC) were on the prowl. Although PDP won some House of Assembly and Representatives seats, the ultimate crown eluded the party. Agbaje was defeated by the All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate, Mr. Akin Ambode. After the election, Agbaje was said to have parted way with his leader, George. The retired soldier wanted to be the PDP national chairman. Agbaje, backed by Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike and his Ekiti State counterpart, Ayo Fayose, struggled for the position with George. Both of them later lost the slot to Uche Secondus, who was also sponsored by the PDP governors. During the PDP primary, Agbaje defeated his rival, Deji Doherty, who does not enjoy his kind of popularity. But, can he beat the APC candidate,Babajide  Sanwo-Olu, in next year’s poll? In 2015, the PDP-led Federal Government supported Agbaje’s cause with big money. Ethnicity was also invoked as majority of Igbo gravitated to the PDP. Many were interested in partaking in the bonanza. But, does the same situation exists now? At the state and federal levels, the APC wields the power of incumbency. Many PDP chieftains, including its chairman, Goke Salvador, some legislators and their supporters, have defected to the APC. Agbaje has reputation. But, is his platform strong enough to take him to the Lagos State House?  