The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) has released the names of National Assembly candidates in Ekiti State. The list of candidates cleared to contest was displayed at the gate of INEC state headquarters in Ado Elite. Parties including People’s Democratic Party (PDP), All Progressives Congress (APC), African Democratic Congress (ADC), People’s Party of Nigeria (PPN), Democratic People’s Party (DPP) are fielding candidates. In the senatorial race, the APC candidate cleared for Ekiti North is a former National Assembly member, Senator Olubunmi Adetunmbi. Former Houses of Representatives member, Hon. Opeyemi Bamidele cleared to fly APC flag in Ekiti Central senatorial district. Bamidele defeated the incumbent Senator, Mrs. Fatimat Raji Rasaki in the APC senatorial primary held in Ekiti Central. Former Minister of State for Work, Prince Dayo Adeyeye is the cleared APC candidate for Ekiti South. Senate Minority Whip, Senator Biodun Olujimi, who is seeking re-election, has been cleared as the PDP candidate in Ekiti South senatorial district. Chairman, Senate Committee on Air Force, Senator Duro Faseyi, who is also seeking re-election, is the cleared PDP candidate for Ekiti North. Former Ekiti State Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Mr. Obafemi Adewale, is the PDP candidate for Ekiti Central. Three out of the incumbent House of Representatives members in the PDP fold were cleared by INEC to seek re-election. They are Mr Kehinde Agboola (Ekiti North 1), Mr. Akin Awodumila (Ekiti South 2), Mr. Segun Adekola (Ekiti South 1) and Mr Ayo Oladimeji (Ekiti Central). New entrants cleared to run in the House of Reps poll are Chief Bisi Kolawole (Ekiti Central 2) and Mr. Sola Omotoso (Ekiti North 2). APC House of Reps candidates cleared are Mr. Peter Owolabi (Ekiti North 1), Mr. Ibrahim Olarewaju (Ekiti North 2), Mr. Sola Fatoba (Ekiti Central 1), and Mrs. Omowumi Ogunlola (Ekiti Central 2). The rest are former Chief of Staff, Chief Yemi Adaramodu (Ekiti South 1) and former Ekiti House of Assembly Speaker, Mr. Femi Bamisile.