For seven years the Eagle Square venue for October 1st Independence Day Anniversary celebration was a no-go-area for the last two administrations. Since October 1, 2010, the administration of former President Goodluck Jonathan and the current administration moved the Independence Day parade to the forecourt of the Presidential Villa. In the forecourt of the State House, only limited aspects of the independence parade were carried out during the period. The aspects of showcasing the military might of the nation in the form of equipment parade and air shows were completely avoided during the seven years. The shift in the venue by the Jonathan’s administration was informed by the bomb blasts that rocked the Square and  its environs during the celebration in 2010. The celebrations that year, which were also to mark 50 years independence of Nigeria from Britain, turned out to be everything the Jonathan’s administration never expected. People residing or present in the city during the blasts were shaken to their marrows by the attacks. The once peaceful Eagle Square arena turned rowdy and unsafe as guests and other Nigerians at the venue and its environs scampered for safety. In the blasts, at least 12 people were feared dead while many others were injured. Some eyewitness accounts that day claimed that the blasts were caused by car bombs. The two first blasts appeared to have been timed to achieve the highest damage to those who responded to the first blast, as they went off about five minutes apart. It was also reported that a smaller third explosion went off within the parade ground, believed to have occurred from a gun that accidentally went off. Interestingly, before that day, the militant group, Movement for the Emancipation of the Niger Delta (MEND) had threatened to target the Independence Day festivities. The attacks by MEND, which had been pushing for a fairer distribution of the country’s oil revenues, were the first time the group was targeting the capital city. Prior to the attacks, most of MEND’s attacks were targeted at pipelines and supply terminals in the Niger Delta region. The group believed that there was “nothing worth celebrating after 50 years of failure”. Jonathan, who was then inspecting a guard of honour at the time, described the attack as  a “wicked act of desperation by criminals and murderers.” While the fear of the 2010 attacks kept the Eagle Square deserted for seven years on Nigeria’s national day, a former militant leader, Charles Okah, in March this year was found guilty of plotting the 2010 Independence Day bombing. From the ruling, he is to spend the rest of his life behind bars. To return Nigeria’s independence day anniversary celebration to what it used to be, President Muhammadu Buhari last week Monday, October 1, 2018, broke the jinx. He observed the 58th Independence Day parade in high key at the Eagle Square, Abuja. Contrary to some sceptics, who believed that the event scheduled for Eagle Square that Monday will be cancelled at the last minute, Buhari arrived at the Eagles Square for the anniversary  parade around 9.30am. He stayed at the venue with other top government officials and dignitaries for the two hours duration of the parade. Buhari kickstarted the parade with inspection of guards, which was followed by march past in slow and quick time. There was also a march past by para-military organisations, agencies and Nigeria Police Force (NPF) mounted troops. Also on display were military equipment march past on low loaders Apart from police dogs displaying the trainings they had acquired and thrilling the guests, outriders also took the stage by displaying their skills. The Nigerian Air Force mishap during training three days earlier also could not stop them from participating colorfully in the aerial show at the Eagle Square. To bring the ceremony to a close, the military personnel also took part in firing of volleys and 21 gun salute. Before departing the venue, President Buhari signed the 58th Independence anniversary register. There were however some dramas at the venue shortly after Buhari and the dignitaries left the venue. Some APC youths wearing black T-shirt took over the arena and in a procession with the APC flag, started moving around, singing songs in support of President Buhari’s reelection bid in 2019. Trouble however started when somebody, who infiltrated the group, stole the telephone set of one of the youths. Rather than submit the telephone set when he was caught, he drew out a dagger to scare away those who tried to get the telephone set from him. With the thief’s supporters at the venue backing him, it almost turned to a free for all fight. They ran, pushed and pursued one another around the venue for over 15 minutes. It got bloody when some of the thief’s gang started throwing stones, which made the youths to run helter-skelter around the venue for safety. One young boy of about 15 years was not too lucky as one of the stones landed on his head. The boy, who was bleeding profusely, was given first aid treatment by some members of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps at the venue. With the 58th Independence Day Anniversary celebration over, it is hoped that the 59th anniversary next year and subsequent ones will not experience bloodshed of any kind. 