A Kaduna based non-governmental organisation, ATM Beauty Mpire has organised an entrepreneurial training for students and youths. The event which was held in Kaduna, was part of activities to mark Nigeria’s independence anniversary. Participants were drawn from Kaduna State University and other tertiary institutions in the state. Speaking on the choice of celebrating Nigeria’s independence with skill acquisition training for youths and students, Chief Executive Officer of ATM Beauty Mpire, Asabe Tonia Moses said, the surest way to the country’s economic development is through entrepreneurial skills development. Moses said, Nigerian youths had been greatly marginalised, and there was the need to bring them out of the bondage of searching for unavailable white-coller job. According to her, “we are here tonight, not just because it is the celebration of Nigeria’s 58th independence celebration, but because it marks the second edition of a seed born out the need to be self employed, transfer of ideas, knowledge and vocational skills to the nigerian youths, who have been greatly marginalised in this country. “What we are witnessing today is also to make the youths employers of labour, and not wait for the unavailable jobs sought by thousands of graduates churned out yearly from our various tertiary institutions. I cringe at thoughts of unemployed youths loitering about in the society, especially after graduation. This is what ATM Beauty Mpire thought it wise to empower our youths, give them a sense of belonging and bring out the entrepreneurial potential deposited in them albeit, unknowingly. “This is why we go the extra mile to bring business experts for business discussion to put our youths through especially on how to start up small businesses and be self sufficient. “ATM Beauty Mpire is a full event mgt org registered, whose mission is to train and equip youths in various vocations. We are a team of professional beauticians and event managers geared toward providing excellent and unique services to its clients through professionalism, originality, simplicity and trustworthiness to serve humanity at it best.