Confusion trailed the conduct of the governorship primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Cross River State Monday as two factions of the party held two separate exercises to produce two governorship candidates. Although the faction that was recently inaugurated by National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, led by Dr Mathew Achigbe, had resumed office as the state executive council of the party, the other faction led by Mr. Godwin Etim-John had continued to insist they were the authentic one. So Monday, both factions had overseen the conduct of the two separate primaries. Both had adopted the direct primaries’ method. From the Etim-John faction, Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Pastor Usani Usani, emerged as the winner of the primaries scoring 47, 313 votes. Announcing the result at the collation centre of the party Secretariat of their own faction in Calabar, the Chairman of the gubernatorial election Committee, Emmanuel Annom, said the Minister having scored the highest number of lawful votes in the gubernatorial primaries is declared the winner and Governorship candidate of the party for the 2019 general elections in the state A breakdown of the result he read indicated other aspirants got as follows; Senator John Owan Enoh, 1, 486 votes; Eyo Etim Nyong, 1, 168 votes; John Upan Odey, 1099 votes; and Edem Duke, 1, 322 votes. Mr Etim John said the processes the party went through were turbulent and rigorous. “We thank all the aspirants. We have appeal panel, all those who feel aggrieved should follow the due process of our party constitution and accept the outcome,” he said. At press time yesterday the other primaries, which was conducted by Ali Magaji led committee, was yet to collate the results from the 196 wards in the 18 local government areas of the state. The governorship primaries of the Achigbe-led executive council, was shifted to Monday from Sunday by the National Vice-Chairman of the APC, South-South, Chief Hilliard Eta, following the late arrival of electoral materials. But a top party source cried foul, alleging that materials were not evenly distributed to the wards. However, when contacted Monday evening, Eta said that the election had been conducted in all the 196 wards, adding that collation would soon commence. Two governorship aspirants of the party, Chief Edem Duke and Prof. Etim Nyong, had on Sunday raised the alarm that the party structure was being hijacked by Eta to favour a governorship aspirant from the central senatorial district. Eta had described the allegation as false, saying the process would be free and fair.