A man identified as Mr. Cyril Ogolo is currently being interrogated by personnel of the Aba Area Command of Nigeria Police Force (NPF) after he allegedly slept with his twin stepdaughters of about seventeen years respectively. Our reporter gathered that while the mother of the twin girls just delivered a baby for Ogolo, one of the twins is however, carrying three months pregnancy for her stepfather, who is an indigene of Opobo, in Opobo/Nkoro Local Government Area of Rivers State and a spiritualist/herbalist based in Aba, the commercial nerve of Abia State. Our reporter learnt that the mother of the twins left the biological father of the twins: Mr. Maduabuchi since 2010 and has since been living with her lover; Ogolo with the twins who have been going to school from his house until recently that they just finished their secondary final examination; WAEC. Sources close to the family who would not want to be named said that the father of the girls, Mr. Maduabuchi died and was buried last year after efforts to bring back home his wife failed. According to one of the sources, the twins had resisted Ogolo’s several attempts to sleep with them, but after he was said to have his way when efforts made by the girls to draw the attention of their mother to the actions of their randy father failed to yield fruit. It was said that the matter was reported to the Azuka Police Station off Ikot Ekpene-Aba Expressway when the twins absconded their house to take refuge at a friend’s house in Uyo because they could not face their mum’s rot. A police source who spoke to our reporter said that the matter was initially reported at Azuka Police Station before it was transferred to the Aba Area Command where the matter is being investigated. According to the police source, Ogolo had petitioned one of the Pentecostal Churches where the wife worships, accusing them of aborting the baby one of the twins is carrying. The source however said that upon the strength of the petition by Ogolo, they subjected the twins to medical test only to discover that one of them is carrying three months pregnancy for the stepfather. The source stated that Ogolo when questioned by the investigating officer, confessed sleeping with the girls and being responsible for the child one of them is carrying. The source added that Ogolo would be charged to court as soon as investigation into the matter was concluded.