Nigerians acknowledge October 11 for girl child who is deeply in pains and agony. However, we need to act and not acknowledge alone this day. Girl child right is the equal right and privilege a young female child should have as the male. The female child is subjected to cases of sexual abuses, less health care, less educational support from the parent and government, more house chores compared to the male child. Scientifically, there is no report that genetic makeup of boys is stronger than girls. Hence, why subject our girls to an inferior state of mind? Why do we make them a second class citizen in the community where they have equal legal right as boys? To win this battle for our girls we need to fight this barbaric menace from the base. Our parent or guardian should treat them equally. House chores should not be attached to a specific gender. Let the girls grow to know that they have equal right and access to education, medical support, marital commitment e.t.c. Dear government, your powers, your success, your democracy are nothing and vain if our girls are not having equal right as boys. The government and NGOs should create awareness in schools via curricular and co-curricular activities. They should also practice what they preach by engaging women in governance. Our women who are helm of affairs should endeavor to take the bull by the horn because each story of a successful woman encourages a lot of girls to be at par with boys. Our pastors, imams, elders, chiefs, kings should remember that ‘’Rome that was not built in a day wasn’t built by men alone’’ You’re a girl, you’re strong, you’re immaculate, you’re smart. Have you ever been told that you couldn’t do something because you are a girl? Oprah winfrey was molested by her cousin, uncle and family friend, but yet she made it. A yoruba adage says ‘’Omode gbon, Agba gbon lafi da ile ife ‘’ not Okunrin gbon. Let us build a world where males and females have equal right, this will make the world the best place to live. 