The Osun State  government has said a 10-year State Development Plan (SDP)  2018-2028 was designed to make Osun become a strong and sustainable economy in Nigeria. 

The State  Commissioner for Economic Planning and Budget Development, Dr. Olalekan Yinusa, made the disclosure at a one-day validation meeting of the State Development Plan (2018-2028) and 2019 Budget Consultation Forum in Osogbo, the state capital. 

Represented by the Permanent Secretary,  Ministry of Economic Planning and Budget Development, Mr. Segun Olorunsogo, the commissioner  said the implementation of the development plan would provide an overall policy framework for sectoral planning and service delivery. 

According to him, the plan was also intended to provide a comprehensive framework for developing Osun State in the next ten years and would be a main document guiding development plans of the government. 

He further explained that the concept was also designed to be a poverty reduction strategy for the state. The commissioner, who said the document would bring about  a  road map to sustainable development and growth for the state, noted that it would be an important instrument for the efficient management of resources to increase access to and deliver better services to a greater proportion of the state population. 

He maintains that the development plan would help in the reformation of the public financing management and also bring about citizens engagement towards wealth creation, Human Capital Development and infrastructural growths. 

He, therefore, charged all stakeholders, including the civil society organizations traditional institution the media, religious and political leaders, to support the government achieve its goals, adding that everyone must have a role to play in securing a better future for Osun. 

Also, the Director for Planning in the ministry, Mrs. Yetunde Esan, in her paper presentation, called for promotion of sustainable development through pragmatic, transparent, accountable and inclusive governance. 

Esan also called for the mobilization of both human and material resources towards making the state a socio- economic and cultural hub. 

She harped on the need to diversify and enhance revenue base through provision of enabling business environment to attract and retain investors and expand existing businesses. 

The Project Coordinator of the Osun State and Local Governance Reform (SLOGOR), Mr. Yemi Ijidele, said the state development plan would show where the Osun would be in the next 10 years and to know the direction it should follow for a rapid development. 

Ijidele further explained that SDP would aid the government in its bid to transform the state to the greater hieght, adding that any government that is coming up will not deviate from  what is already planned  in the document.