Protests in the three senatorial districts of Ondo state over the clearance of the incumbent senators in the three districts to retain their seats at the National Assembly beyond 2019 have remained persistent. The clearance was carried out by the National Working Committee, (NWC) of the ruling party on Tuesday. The aggrieved party supporters said the imposition could spell doom on the party ahead of the 2019 elections. Leader of the protesters in Akure,the state capital who is the APC Youth leader,Babalayo Olutayo criticised the national leadership of the party for not creating a level-play ground for all aspirants. Babalayo said “we are saying no to imposition, we are saying no to automatic ticket to any aspirants, there must be a room for everybody to accommodate. We don’t want criminality and impunity in our party, we ask for change and this is not the change we asked for. “When Adams Oshiomhole took the leadership from John-Odigwe Oyegun,we thought everything will change for good but things has gone to unbearable condition. “Oshiomhole has not really helped us. if you go to the APC constitution, article 20 states clearly that party primary must go either direct, indirect and consensus, there is no room for automatic ticket in our constitution and we want to know how the leadership came about the automatic ticket. Also,some of the aspirants including the Incumbent Senator representing Ondo Central, Tayo Alasoadura who is one of the beneficiaries of the automatic ticket said the NWC erred in screening them to become candidates of the party for senatorial contest ahead of 2019. However,Senator Boroffice maintained that he did not get the ticket through backdoor but because of his loyalty to the party. According to him,he had in the past won many elections and still have his supporters solidly behind him. Governor Akeredolu was said to have visited Abuja in connection with the crisis over the automatic ticket. Observers noted that Akeredolu was supporting Dr Tunji Abayomi for the North District,Lucky Ayedatiwa for the South District and equally have Senator Tayo Alasoadura in his good book to retain his position in the central.