Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of Kano Electricity Distribution Company (KEDCO), Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, has said that President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term would mark the consolidation of Nigeria’s development through his anti-corruption battles and increase the reputation of the country in the comity of responsible nations. Dr. Gwamna made the assertion when he paid solidarity visit on the Bauchi State Governor, Alhaji Mohammed A. Abubakar, to congratulate him on his victory at the recent governorship primary of All Progressives Congress (APC) at the Government House, Bauchi. The KEDCO boss, who recently joined the APC in his home state of Gombe, disclosed that the forthcoming general election would mark a new beginning for the progressives, stressing that Buhari has laid the necessary foundation to grow the economy and increase the well-being of Nigerians. He urged Governor Abubakar not to be dismayed by the defection of certain former members of APC saying that those who do not belong to APC in spirit and body have left to give room to those who appreciate the integrity quotient of President Buhari. “What is happening in the country is like a shaking. Politicians who are not totally committed to service to the people would be displaced from APC, because they must have seen that the President does not condone looting and impunity. “Your Excellency, I am amazed by the monumental achievements you have recorded in the past three years. It is this commitment to service and love for the masses that attracted me to APC and I believe when President Buhari comes back for his second term, Nigerians would see how great the country would be,” Gwamna stated. He assured the governor that he would work assiduously to ensure that APC captures the entire Northeast, noting that plans to make Gombe join the fold of progressive state have commenced in earnest with his entry into the party. Earlier Governor Abubakar praised Gwamna for his foresight and unparalleled efforts in stabilising KEDCO, pointing out that he joined APC at the right time to help make the founding of a new Nigeria realistic. 