There was a time, when only at the age of 32, a citizen of Nigeria can become the leader of the country. Former Head of State General Yakubu Gowon assumed the mantle of leadership and became Nigerian leader in 1967 when he was 32. At 44, the legendary Zik of Africa, Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe of blessed memory, became Nigeria’s first ceremonial president. The memories of the iconic General Murtala Muhammed, who was murdered in a bloody coup, shall remain fresh in our annals. Needless to say, it was at the age of 37 that providence foisted on his shoulders leadership responsibilities. In this respect, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, erstwhile civilian president, first piloted the ship of the country as Head of State while he was youthful. History has it that in 1976, when he succeeded the late Murtala Muhammed, he was barely 39.There are still some precedents. The current President Muhammadu Buhari also belongs to the league of personalities who became Nigeria’s leader in their youthful age. In 1983, the 41-year-old Daura-born military General became the Commander-in-Chief after toppling the civilian government of Alhaji Shehu Shagari. Suffice to say, it was after the Buhari/Idiagbon junta regime was dethroned that General Ibrahim Babangida came into national prominence at 44. No doubt, they all emerged as leaders—at different points—through military putsch, and not via ballot box. Most of the celebrated nationalists who stoically campaigned and fought for the country’s sovereignty were youths in their 30s and 40s. There are many Nigerian youths, who have, and are still making waves in several fields of human endevours. Even beyond the shores of the country, we’ve seen extraordinary accomplishments of young, enterprising, resilient, talented and innovative Nigerians, who attained enviable feats and sterling successes recorded in sports, education, business, sciences, literature, Information and Communication Technology (ICT), and music, to mention a few. Sadly, the narrative about the Nigerian youth in politics and governance since 1999, when this republic took off, is anything but gratifying. Our youths, who desire to be lucky as old leaders, wish they were privileged to be in political leadership position as their peers across the world. They are enthralled by the story of the 40-years-old Emmanuel Macron, who became French president at 39. They marveled at the reality of a then 31-year-old Sebastian Kurz, emerging as Austria’s Chancellor. It also baffled them how Emil Dimitriev, born in March 1979, is presently the acting Prime Minister of Macedonia. It also beggars their belief that the punk hair-styled Kim Jong-Un, North Korea’s supreme leader, in his 30s, could be offered such opportunity to lead his country and Justin Trudeau, the 43-year-old Canada’s Prime Minister. To address the political marginalisation of the youth in Nigeria, the #NotTooYoungToRun campaign, a social movement by a group of youths, aimed at widening the political space for visionary young people, was birthed last year. Though, an advocacy bill, but perhaps its principle resonated with Mr. President’s mantra of ‘Change’. Thereafter, the bill enjoyed presidential assent at a colourful event in the Villa and it was signed into law. It is hoped that the new law would spur young Nigerians to throw their hats in the ring of political contest, with the eligibility age for presidential aspirants now lowered to 35 from 40; and that of governorship hopefuls and federal and state legislative houses pegged at 30 and 25. Indeed, the euphoria that greeted the historic assent was indescribable. But, it seems it might be short-lived. As the general elections draw close, the prospects of greater political participation envisaged by the #NotTooYoungToRun law is becoming a mirage. Take for instance, the sale of Expression of Interests (EOI) and Nomination Forms by the dominant political parties; the exorbitant costs were greeted with mass hysteria. Nigerians of sincere goodwill, in their unison, lampooned the political parties. The repulsive nomination fees to be paid by aspirants on major political parties were intended to disenfranchise competent youths from vying for elective positions. Many young people may perish their ambitions, because to lack of financial war chest. Soon, it became manifest that the parties do not care a hoot about young and creative problem-solvers—who will proffer workable solutions to the myriads of socioeconomic woes bedeviling the country—but for moneybags and corrupt politicians bereft of sound ideologies. Many analysts have attributed the desperation to retain power by ‘old breed’ politicians to the juicy perks and mouth-watering freebies accruing to their political offices. The action of Nigeria Consolidation Ambassadors Network (NCAN)—a political group composed mainly of youths—who purchased the APC nomination form for Mr. President to seek re-election, is the most senseless and irritating. Indeed, nothing shows how unserious the youths are than their penchant for crowd funding the purchase of nomination forms for some senators, governors and presidential hopefuls. Meanwhile, civil society activists should rise and advocate for a legislation that will peg nomination forms at reasonable amounts, and within the reach of every intending aspirant. It is time the youths have a deeper thought about their role as agents of social change and societal rebirth. This would help us identify attitudinal and behavioural flaws, with the singular objective of righting age-long wrongs, while also charting a progressive course for the nation. With rational thought and judgment, young people must, henceforth, resist being turned into political beggars, campaign mobilisers and tools in the hands of desperate politicians. The youth should see it as an obligation to sponsor and support young politicians with clear vision, impeccable integrity and intimidating leadership credentials. As youths, we must show their readiness in demanding a generational power shift. Otherwise, our quests for leadership roles and relevance would remain a tall order. 