A member of the Lagos State House of Assembly, Setonji David, has urged President Muhammadu Buhari, to reconstruction the Lagos-Badagry-Seme Expressway. David, representing Badagry Constituency II in the Lagos State House of Assembly, made the plea following the President’s visit to the area on Tuesday. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that President Buhari flew to Seme for the official handover of the new Economic Community of West African States Border Posts in Badagry to his counterpart in the Republic of Benin, Patrice Talon. The president was accompanied by the Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode, and other officials to inaugurate the upgraded border posts. David told Our Reporter that residents of the area were going through hardship because of the collapse of the international road. “I think the visit of President Buhari to Badagry should renew his commitment to completely reconstruct this very important road. “It is an embarrassment and our people are suffering. “Apart from the plights of transport workers and commuters in the area; the nation is making huge money from the borders, hence the more reason for reconstruction of the road. This road is a gateway to our country. “I am optimistic that President Buhari will include the repair of the road in the 2019 Budget so that people in this area can enjoy a new lease of life,” the lawmaker said. David, also the Chairman, House Committee on Urban Development and Physical Planning, urged the government to consider the tourism potential in Badagry for national growth and development. “Badagry is the next tourism destination for Nigeria. It is a tourism destination throughout and outside Nigeria. “We are trying to prevail on the government to repair our roads. Badagry should be the next stage of development in Lagos State,’’ he said. David advised residents of the area to be hopeful that the Buhari-led administration would reconstruct the road. The lawmaker commended Ambode for his efforts to alleviate the sufferings of users of the road.