• Says posterity will judge Senator Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central) yesterday parted ways with the All Progressives Congress (APC), citing “grave injustice by the leadership of the party.” The lawmaker announced this in a letter addressed to the APC Chairman, Ward 6, Tudun Wada North, Kaduna State. He said:”I present to you my highest compliments and wish by this communication to formally offer you my resignation from the APC. “I had joined the APC and remained with it against all odds in the belief that it will constitute a veritable platform for the realisation of those democratic ideals which I hold very dear. “I joined in the belief that honour and integrity will be the ultimate ethos of the party and most importantly, that internal democracy will always be the norm.” The lawmaker expressed disappointment at the manner in which the tenets of the party were being thwarted. He added that, “only posterity can affirm the extent to which the APC has committed to and reflected these values. “As I exit the APC at this point in time, I wish to formally thank the party for availing me the platform upon which I am currently serving this country.” He said only posterity can affirm the extent to which the APC has committed to and reflected those values. Sani, was the only aspirant cleared to contest the senatorial election by the national leadership of the APC and  endorsed by the appeals panel. His name was however missing from the list of the APC candidates sent to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Thursday, October 18. The Nation gathered that the party forwarded the name of Mallam Uba Sani, the preferred candidate of Governor Nasir el Rufai to the electoral body against the advice of the appeals panel that the primary that produced him was conducted in contempt of the court. Contacted yesterday, the National Publicity Secretary of the party, Mallam Lanre Isa-Oniru said the party would  react appropriately in due course. He said “we received the news of the alleged defection of Senator Sheu Sani through media reports. The party leadership will relate with all the facts concerning the reported defection and react appropriately in due course.” However, the national leadership of the APC has said it has learnt of media reports regarding the resignation of one of its senators, Shehu Sani. Shehu Sani. The party in a statement by its National Publicity Secretary, Mallam Lanre Issa-Onilu said it was studying all the facts before taking an appropriate action. He said, “We received the news of the alleged defection of Senator Shehu Sani through media reports. The party leadership will relate with all the facts concerning the reported defection and react appropriately in due course,” he said. Sani had reportedly announced his resignation in a letter addressed to his ward chairman in Kaduna State. The letter signed by the lawmaker and copied to the National Chairman of the party, Mr Adams Oshiomhole, however, did not state his next political destination. 