THE Federal Government is putting efforts in place to initiate prosecution against indicted individuals, organisations and agencies mentioned in Justice Obiora Nwazota report on liquidated national carrier Nigeria Airways Limited, The Nation has learnt. This is coming as the Presidential Initiative on Continuous Audit (PICA) and Federal Ministry of Finance begin the payment of N 22.3 billion to ex-workers and pensioners of the former national carrier, this week. The searchlight on the rested national carrier is said to be focused on recovery of huge sums of money from individuals, organisations and agencies that mismanaged the airline. The Justice Obiora Nwazota Committee, was a Judicial Commission of Inquiry  that worked for 12 months, completing its task on May 8, 2002. It submitted the draft of the white paper on November 18, 2002. The white paper indicted some high profile individuals and organisations/ agencies from whom various sums running into billions of naira have been recovered. Confirming the development, Chairman of Aviation Union Grand Alliance (AUGA) and Chairman of Ex -Airways Workers, Comrade Lookman Animashaun said though the workers and pensioners are excited over the approval for payment of their severance benefits, they want Buhari to ask questions on how the airline was ruined . He said the President should go beyond asking questions but insist on the implementation of the recommendations in the White Paper released by the Justice Nwazota panel. Animashaun said looking into the recommendations of the White Paper could not be more apt than now, when the Justice Nwazota is still alive to give credence to the contents of the document. He said the ex-Airways workers would want Buhari to push for the prosecution of politically exposed persons who were indicted in the White Paper, but straddle across the political landscape untouched. Animashaun said:” Though we thank President Muhammadu Buhari for approving the release of our severance benefits, but the President must ensure government goes back to the white paper and institute a commission of inquiry, more so that Justice Obiora Nwazota is still alive. “Every recommendation in the white paper should be implemented to the letter and the names of persons indicted in the report should be prosecuted .It is only when government does this that the wounds inflicted on the psyche of former workers of the rested national carrier would heal .”