The council of chiefs and residents of Ijede, have appealed to the Lagos State Government to repair all the bad roads in the community. They made the appeal in an interview with our reporter, on Thursday at Ijede Palace in Lagos. The Regent of Ijede, Chief Aliu Musediku, said the deplorable state of the road had adversely affected economic activities in the community, especially the only road that connects the community to the city. According to the Regent, the condition of the road has also led to the rising rate of auto crashes experienced by commuters coming and going out of the community. “We want the state government to help us repair the roads, if you want to go from here to the metropolis you will spend at least three hours on the road due to its deplorable condition. “Sometimes, while the drivers are trying to avoid potholes, accidents are caused in the process. “When the present government led by Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode, came into power, we wrote to him concerning the road and he promised to repair it, up till now nothing has been done to alleviate the sufferings of our people, ” the Regent said. Chief Musediku explained that the deplorable state of roads had also discouraged some of the residents from doing business and some had relocated from the community to other areas. Mr Taiwo Oredoyin, a resident of the community, commended the state government for its efforts on road construct but urged them to prioritise major roads linking one community to the other. Mr Wasiu Ogundeyin, a commercial driver, said that the deplorable condition of the road had damaged their vehicles; a development he noted which made the drivers to spend unnecessary money in the repair of their vehicles. He added that the bad roads were the major cause of traffic gridlock in the area, and there was an urgent need to address the problem, while commending the state government for work done so far. “Ambode has performed but we urge him to do more because that is the only way the people can enjoy the dividends of democracy,” he said.