THE politics of nominations appears to be tearing apart the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). In the eye of the storm are the national chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, some governors and legislators who lost out at the primaries. A combative Oshiomhole has justified his position on the controversial shadow polls. He explained to reporters in Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), that some governors  were after him because he insisted on rules, regulations and guidelines. He predicted that the plot to remove him will fail. However, the crisis is polarising the party ahead of next year’s elections. The plot by the powerful clique made up of some President Muhammadu Buhari’s kitchen cabinet members and some governors means that much energy would have to be dissipated on crisis management. The impression is being created that the ruling party is divided. Oshiomhole may have offended the clique because of his refusal to do their biddings. The governors’disaffection with Oshiomhole is not unconnected with their failure to impose their cronies as flag bearers for next year’s polls. The governors are said to be looking for a replacement for the chairman. Their calculation is to get someone more amenable to their interests and demands as chairman, a source said. A party insider disclosed yesterday that one of the Southwest governors is coordinating the onslaught against Oshiomhole. “Members of the National Executive Committee (NEC) are being contacted to agree to the removal of the chairman,” he added. The chairman is not sleeping on guard. He has the support of notable party elders, particularly the national leader, President Muhammadu Buhari, who has also advised him to reach truce with the aggrieved chieftains. According to sources, the president is finding ways of restoring peace so that the party can go into elections as a united fold. Oshiomhole may have refused to be on the defensive. He has not allowed himself to be boxed into a corner by the obvious gang up. As a former governor, he is not afraid of his former colleagues in the APC Governors’ Forum. He has maintained that he is not ready to compromise his principle to please a few, adding that impunity should not be permitted in the party. Oshiomhole said he has a mission to galvanise the APC into a disciplined and cohesive platform capable of winning elections. During the primaries across the states, there was gulf between the state chapters and the NEC over the modalities. Also, there were confusion and anxieties in many chapters. While the governors call the shots in their states, the onus was on the national leadership to constitute the committees for the primaries. In amany states, there were disagreements over the adoption of consensus, indirect primary and the direct system. For example, in Ogun State, where Governor Ibikunle Amosu claimed that the candidates emerged through consensus, the NEC affirmed the emergence of Dapo Abiodun as governorship flag bearer because the primary was conducted by the panel it set up. The anxiety peaked as the October 18 deadline  for the submission of candidates’ list was approaching. The time constraints, sources said, motivated the national leadership to opt for consensus, which led to the controversial selection in some states. To Oshiomhole, the step was politically correct. However, the option was used where there were clear disputes over the ticket. APC National Publicity Secretary Lanre Isa-Onilu urged the aggrieved to bury their hatchets and allow peace to reign. He justified the step taken by the NEC, saying that it was the best it could do at that moment. On the Zamfara APC crisis, he said: “The issue is that there were crises. The INEC guidelines provide for the resolution of such crisis. It happened in other states, including other parties, which also had issues with their primaries. “There was no particular issue in Zamfara State to warrant the special attention being given it. There was a primary in Zamfara, but the fact that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) wrote that there were no primary election in the state stirred up issues. We have submitted names of candidates for the legislative seats in Zamfara State and for all other states.” Onilu is optimistic that the Ogun APC crisis will be resolved. He said the report Amosun has threatened not to support the APC, if his preferred candidate, Adekunle Akinlade, is dropped, was mere speculation. Onilu added: “The governor has a right to express his interest as a leader in APC. Where there are issues, it can be resolved through the party mechanism and I am sure that the party will do that, there is nothing to worry about in this regard.” The governors were not happy that the NEC kept the list of candidates it submitted to INEC secret. A source said the leadership of the party had to rally its legal team to advise it on the steps to be taken in dealing with the primary crisis. Apart from Zamfara, other states where the APC also employed the consensus option include, Rivers, Cross River, Adamawa, Niger, Imo and Nasarawa. A party chieftain, who supported the NEC on the vexed issue, said: “Many flag bearers have been thrown up by governors who did not command majority support. Popular candidates are edged out. Oshiomhole, should be commended. ‘If the aggrieved governors are popular, there is no need for them to impose candidates. They should have prepared for primaries.” To Oshiomhole, there is no going back on the NEC’s decision. He chided some chieftains he described as “conservative elements” for spearheading the plot to pass a vote of no confidence on him. He vowed to insist on party supremacy and discipline.” Oshiomhole said history would justify his efforts and  posterity would vindicate him. However, a chieftain from the Southwest called for “compromise and reconciliation,” warning that the division could spell doom for the party during the elections. He said: “The governors should not be disparaged. Oshiomhole is a former governor. He should know how to better communicate with his former colleagues. “The party needs a special reconciliation committee to resolve the logjam and nediate between the NEC and the governors and other aggrieved leaders. “APC cannot afford to risk another gale of defections. It is better to forge unity than to wobble on as a divided house. No problem is beyond solution. “The president should also take the initiative as the national leader and father of the party. If the governors withdraws their support from the candidates that did not emerge through them, the party may suffer.  It is better to reconcile the aggrieved politicians in the interest of the party.” Oshiomhole is a strong politician. He is bold, brave and courageous. As a union leader, he survived the tempest. In Edo State, where he was governor for eight years, he fought against godfatherism and triumphed. He was also fortunate to win the succession battle, installing Godwin Obaseki as governor. During the APC chairmanship race, he dwarfed other contenders-Clement Ebri and Oslareimen Osunbor-who withdraw from the race. He was anointed as the national chairman. He was the sole candidate. To him, party governance is not a tea party. Since he assumed the reins, he has been up and doing. Oshiomhole came on board at a time of division when APC was battling with threats of defection by prominent members. He swung into action. He was able to persuade many chieftains to sheathe their swords. But, he also failed to convince others to maintain an abiding interest in the ruling party. The defection did not translate into a major decimation. Oshiomhole the wordsmith returned fire for fire. His arrows of sharp criticisms did not miss the targets. The chairman berated the defectors, saying that they lacked candour and honour. He said APC will survive without them. The ex-APC chieftain returned to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Since then, they have been firing salvos at the ruling party. Oshiomhole has led the party to victory in Ekiti and Osun governrship elections. He campaigned vigorously for victory in the two states. Although the results of the polls are still being contested in the two states, it is not due to the chairman’s undoing. Today, Oshiomhole is on the hot seat. He faces a formidable challenge. He is not someone who runs away from challenges. But, can he afford to lead a divided party to a critical election? A chieftain from Lagos said: “The founding fathers of the party cannot afford to sit on the fence. PDP is putting its house in order, or so it seems. The proposed elections are very important. The APC should put its house in order. “The lesson is that the change from delegates system to direct primary threw some people off balance. Since it is now the vogue, I hope stakeholders will adjust.” Until the post-primary crisis surfaced, Oshiomhole was generally popular as a party leader. But, many of those challenging his authority now are the same people who endorsed his candidature. Will there be reconciliation? Will they succed in their plot to remove the chairman? Can the conflict still be resolved in favour of the governors? Who will reconcile Oshiomhole and his former colleagues?