It was a busy week for the outgoing Ekiti State Governor, Ayo Fayose, as he commissioned some projects and met with stakeholders defending the way and manner he managed the treasury and ran the state. Odunayo Ogunmola, in this report, highlights major events that shaped Fayose’s last week in power IT was a long and eventful week for outgoing Governor Ayo Fayose as his four-year tenure winds down in less than forty eight hours. The week was marked with commissioning of some projects and meeting stakeholders where the departing state Chief Executive gave account of his stewardship. Fayose, who courted controversies during his four years in office as governor, was still his controversial self in the last week he spent in the Government House. The Afao-born politician, during one of his last outing, claimed that about 70 percent of the projects in Ekiti were executed and commissioned during his first and second tenures. His first tenure ran from May 29, 2003 and October 16, 2006 when he was impeached and removed from office by the second House of Assembly. The impeachment has been set aside by the Supreme Court. The second tenure started on October 16, 2004 and will come to an end tomorrow, October 15, 2018. As Fayose exits the Government House, it has been a mixture of nostalgia, emotion, fulfillment and uncertainty about his future when he will be called to give account of his tenure. The week also witnessed a dramatic change of leadership in the Ekiti State House of Assembly with the emergence of a new Speaker, Mr. Adeniran Alagbada. The lawmakers caught the people of the state unawares by removing Fayose’s man, Mr. Kola Oluwawole, as the Speaker in what was described in some quarters as a “legislative coup.” The plot was executed by three All Progressives Congress (APC) lawmakers and eleven People’s Democratic Party (PDP) lawmakers believed to be aggrieved against Fayose. Apart from removing the Speaker, the angry lawmakers also suspended 14 lawmakers loyal to Fayose, including Oluwawole and his deputy, Mr. Sina Animasaun, for 125 legislative days. The action that many observers believe may shut them out of the legislative chambers till the end of their tenure in June next year. Fayose used the opportunity of his last week in office to make pronouncements on what may become of him after his tenure might have ended. Activities marking the end of Fayose’s tenure began on Tuesday with the inauguration of Gifted Talents Academy in his hometown, Afao. The school was one of the signature projects of Fayose during his first term but he could not execute the project before the impeachment crisis erupted. Speaking while commissioning the school, Fayose stressed that he did his best for Ekiti within the limited resources but accused the APC-led Federal Government of sabotaging his efforts. He accused the government at the centre of withholding financial entitlements of Ekiti State, including Paris Club refund cash and Budget Support Funds. These, according to him, accounted for why he is owing core civil servants four months arrears of salaries and local government and primary school teachers seven months. Fayose alleged that the funds are being kept for his successor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, urging civil servants to demand the arrears from the new helmsman. On Thursday, Fayose inaugurated the new Ministry of Finance building, which he named after the former Minister of National Planning, Chief Ayo Ogunlade. He said his administration has a record of honouring heroes in their lifetime and not waiting until they die before immortalizing them. Also on Thursday, Fayose addressed a valedictory press conference tagged “State of the State” address which was attended by traditional rulers, political leaders, senior civil servants, journalists and other stakeholders. He used the forum to react to the removal and suspension of his loyalists by the new leadership of the House of Assembly saying “I would not dabble into their internal affairs.” Fayose urged the lawmakers to work with whoever that has been chosen as the Speaker saying the Assembly must put the interest of Ekiti first in whatever they do. Fayose said history would be kind to him as the projects he executed, like the Ado-Ekiti Flyover and Oba’s Market, will be there for the present and future generations. While defending his integrity against allegations of graft and plunging the state into debt being leveled against him by the opposition, Fayose declared his readiness to appear before any panel to defend how he managed the treasury. Despite the belief in some quarters that he had perfected plans to flee the country to evade justice, Fayose told the gathering that he would personally make himself available at the office of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to answer for alleged crimes while in office. He said: “Let it be known that I am not going anywhere as being insinuated around. Rather, I will even be available for all manner of state probe by the incoming government. “Be assured that since I do not have anything to hide, I will not fail to also attend any form of probe panels, commissions of inquiry or whatever that the new government in the state may decide to set-up concerning me. “All that is required is just for them to either put a call across to me or  send me notice of invitation, indicating venue and time and once all these are fulfilled, they can expect that I will make myself personally available, and not through any lawyer or other representation,” he said On Friday, Fayose joined the people of Araromi-Ugbeshi community to celebrate the autonomy granted them by his administration to celebrate installation of the new monarch. The traditional ruler, the Owa Eleshi, Oba L.A. Adeyeye, was ‘coronated’ and presented with his staff of office. Fayose used the occasion to explain that his administration could not grant all requests for autonomy by many communities to prevent confusion. Fayose, on Friday tendered his handover note as part of activities marking his exit from power on Friday. The handover note was received by the Head of Service, Dr. Gbenga Faseluka. The governor also presided over the last State Executive Council meeting where he was praised by members for doing his best for Ekiti. The special cabinet meeting was attended by traditional rulers, legislators, senior government officials and party leaders. In an emotion-laden voice, Fayose said: “What has a beginning must have an end. It is not the number of years spent but the quantity and quality of achievements. “I thank the people of the state for their cooperation and urge them to extend same to the incoming administration. “There should never be a vacuum; our priority must be Ekiti in the discharge of our duties. “I’m a man who came, saw and conquered. I can’t finish all, I have done my best. “History will be kind on me as a man who has given his best to the people. I will remember all for your support, I bear no grudges against anyone.” Thanking the people of Ekiti for their support, Fayose urged them to cooperate with the incoming administration to take the state to greater heights. Today (Sunday), Fayose will hand over the Government House complex to the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Bello Ahmed, to allow guests that will come for Fayemi’s inauguration access. The governor is also expected to be hosted to a civic reception by the people of his community in Afao after which he is expected to proceed to Abuja to answer EFCC summons. As he prepares to take a bow, there are so many questions being asked today. They include: What does the future hold for Fayose? Will he escape the various booby traps believed to have been set for him? Is it true that Ekiti treasury was looted under him? Are the allegations against him true or false? The answers will be given in the next few weeks.