With a series of high-tech features including a vault entrance, 360 Glam Cam Square, aerial hostesses, robot bartenders and other attractions, the much talked about Lagos Fashion Week will round off with Heineken Live Your Music party on October 27, 2018. This was announced at a press cocktail held recently in Lagos, where Heineken for the third consecutive year was revealed as headline sponsor for the 2018 edition of the Lagos Fashion Week. Heineken Lagos Fashion Week (HLFW) is a fashion platform that drives the Nigerian and ultimately, the African fashion industry, by bringing together buyers, consumers and the media to view the current collections of designers at a four-day event in the fashion capital of Lagos, Nigeria. Speaking at the press cocktail to officially kick off this year’s event, Emmanuel Oriakhi, Marketing Director, Nigerian Breweries Plc, who was represented by the Senior Brand Manager Heineken, Obabiyi Fagade said, “To further elevate the Lagos Fashion Week experience, Heineken is bringing back the signature high energy and exclusive Live Your Music party as a  climax to the fashion week. With this party, we will ensure that we close the week with a memorable and exciting music and party experience.” “Our consumers will also have the opportunity to create personal playlists of songs from various music genres on the Heineken music website. These personalized playlists will form part of the music selection at the after-party. It is a party you really would not want to miss.” Music fans during the Fashion Week will have the opportunity to create a personal playlist of songs from various genres on the www.heineken.com/ng/liveyourmu sic website. These personalized playlists will be played live at the event, which is being headlined by three of the top DJs in the music industry. The Heineken Live Your Music Party is an exclusive music experience that will engage fans for an unprecedented 168 hours and have them openly populate their playlist. The week-long music experience will also give Heineken consumers the opportunity to not just attend or watch a music event or concert, but to be part of the creation of the most anticipated party of the year.