.ADESINA, MOMOH TO RECEIVE HONORARY DOCTORATES .ABUAD, A MODEL IN NIGERIA, SAYS BISHOP OKE  Seventy two students of Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti ( ABUAD ) will graduate with First Class honours at the 6th Convocation. The Vice Chancellor, Prof Michael Ajisafe, who disclosed this on Monday at a press briefing to herald activities marking the convocation. Ajisafe explained that all the first class graduates have been offered automatic jobs as academic staff. Graduating students who bagged Second Class Upper are 343 while 366 obtained Second Class Lower. A total of 93 students bagged Third Class. Total number of graduating students is 917. Two distinguished Nigerians will be honoured with honorary doctorate degrees. They are the President of African Development Bank (AfDB), Dr. Akinwumi Adesina and Chairman/Chief Executive Officer of Channels Television. The duo will be bestowed with honorary Doctor of Letters. Momoh will deliver the convocation lecture on Saturday. Ajisafe explained that the University was graduating its first set of medical doctors which he described as unprecedented. Meanwhile, the President of the Sword of the Spirit Ministries, Bishop Francis Wale Oke, has described Afe Babalola University, Ado-Ekiti
(ABUAD) as a model for other universities in Nigeria. Oke, who is also the Bishop of Christ Life Church with headquarters in Ibadan, said ABUAD is the answer to what Nigerians are looking for in Europe and other parts of the world. The cleric who said he had been to other universities in Nigeria stressed that ABUAD stands out in terms of academic excellence, quality assurance and a citadel of learning to emulate. Oke made the remarks on Sunday at the thanksgiving service to mark the 6th Convocation of the university. The bishop said that the ABUAD is a message to other Nigerian Universities, that “they can be centers’ of excellence and an all round human development centers, as well as of global reckoning.” He said: “If it is possible in ABUAD, it is also possible in other universities. I have been to the university to study and I have friends who own Universities, but ABUAD stand out.”