-You are selfish, Alimekhena  Candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party for Edo North Senatorial seat, Engr. Abubakar Momoh, has challenged its opponent in the All Progressives Congress, Senator Francis Alimekhena to a public debate. Momoh told Senator Alimekhena not to hope on the political oxygen of National Chairman of the APC, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, to win the 2019 elections. In a statement signed by him, Momoh who was a former member of the House of Representatives accused Senator Alimikhena of poor performance and discrimination against the Owans and Akoko-Edos. He said the political oxygen Comrade Adams Oshiomhole provided for Alimekhena in 2015 has been exhausted and dried out. He said, “The debate will provide a platform for Senator Alimikhena to present his score card to the constituents while I will also provides my score-card as a former member of House of Reps representing Etsako Federal constituency and my blue-prints for the Senatorial district if elected. “As we prepare for the 2019 polls, I call on my supporters to judiciously use the power of the PVCs by trooping out en-masse to vote for the PDP. “Surely, I will not disappoint you all. You have tested my capacities and capabilities and I believe I did not fail you. This time will not be an exception. I will redouble my efforts to ensure adequate and effective representation of your varied interests in Abuja”. But Alimekhena said he would use the outcome of the 2019 elections to retire Momoh from politics. A statement by his Personal Assistant, Benjamin Atu, said the people of Afemai land were tired of politicians like Momoh who has constantly sought elective positions since 1999. According to the statement, “Hon. Momoh who is the PDP candidate for Edo North 2019 election has been a councillor, Local Government Chairman, member of the State House of Assembly and a former member of the House of Representatives. “How can a man be so selfish and self seeking? Afemai people have constantly voted for Hon Momoh in different political platform without any project to his credit.”