Founder Solid Rock Kingdom Church in Mkpat Enin local government area of Akwa Ibom state, Apostle John Okoriko has said that President Muhammadu Buhari is God’s answer to outcries of Nigerians against the evil of corruption. At a press briefing marking his 70th birthday, Okoriko said on Friday that God brought Buhari to power in 2015 to rid the country of corruption which had ravaged the socio-economic and political lives of Nigerians. According to the cleric, the President’s integrity, passion and commitment to the fight against corruption earned him overwhelming victory in the 2015 presidential election. He contended that a people deserve the kind of government they yearn for, adding that “I have a lesson that I teach my church that every people deserve the government that rules them beginning from the villages. “If there is a particular village that is corrupt, God will put a corrupt leader there, unless they want change. There are people who want change and God will give them a person that will bring the desired change. “I believe that President Muhammadu Buhari may not be the best, may not be the holiest but just because there was so much cry about corruption; that is why he picked corruption as his major campaign thrust. “He promised he was going to tackle corruption; that is what gave him overwhelming votes because corruption in the country was too much and embarrassing. God just gave Buhari for that purpose. “The integrity that he has gave him the votes when the issue of corruption was so bad. That is my belief. If we are free from corruption and we look for something else that is not found in Buhari, God will put another person because He is involved in human governance”, he said. Okoriko urged Nigerians to get their permanent voter card(PVC)  to enable them make the right choices of leaders in next year’s general elections so that the country can continue on the path of sanity and socio-economic progress. He advised religious leaders to play positive roles in providing sound admonition and values to guide political leaders in the country. On the proliferation of churches, he said, “You will not expect me to say that we should have more drinking joints, more hotels, and more brothels than churches”. 