The All Progressives Party, APC governorship candidate for the 2019 election, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu on Thursday said his administration will be a listening one, which main target shall be to deliver the greatest good to the greatest number of people. Sanwo-Olu made this declaration when he paid a ‘thank you’ visit to party leaders and members at the Iru/Victoria Isand Local Council Development Area Secretariat, in Victoria Island, Lagos. Speaking before a whole lot of senior party leaders, including Prince Tajudeen Oluyole Olusi, Cardinal Odunbaku, Senator Muniru Muse, Mr Joe Igbokwe and a host of others, the former Commissioner of Commissioner for Commerce and Training said, “I am reiterating it, our government will be a listening government. Our government will be a government that will look at the party and the party manifesto. We will not condone wastages and we will ensure that we deliver the greatest good to the greatest number,” Sanwo-Olu thanked the party members for responding within such short notice to elect him at the recent governorship primary held across Lagos, saying ‘I cannot thank you enough.’ He apologized for whatever shortcoming he may have displayed in the past and asked all party members to support the campaign, which he said must reach at least one million households. “We must raise enough funds to reach at least one million households, which by implication means we would have reached at least six million Lagosians,” he said. Sanwo-Olu, who spoke in Yoruba and English, also expressed his desire to get to the grassroots across the state, saying that these were the people who supported him even when they had never met or seen him before. “I saw a woman in Alimosho, who was carrying my banner; she has never met me before. I saw another woman in Badagry, who also carried a banner bearing my image and chanting, ‘Sanwo ni o, Sanwo ni o’, who also has never seen or met me before. These are the people I intend to reach out to, both during the campaign and after the election, so they can feel the impact of government.” Also speaking, Mr Babafemi Hamzat, who competed with Sanwo-Olu at the primaries said the major task before the members now is to target a minimum 50 percent of the total 6.5milion Lagos registered voters. Hamzat was corroborating Tayo Ayinde, the Director General of the Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation BOSCO, who charged members to gear up for a bigger battle as “the general is where we have the biggest challenge.” Lagos APC chieftain, Prince Olusi also charged the governorship aspirant to work for the people and not be distant. He equally charged close allies of the Sanwo-Olu and those who may be lucky to eventually work with him in office to always call him to order and show him the right way.