It was not only a game of money; it was also a show of money.  Those who gave money and those who received money were on the same page. Perhaps it was predictable, given the big political ambition of the big spenders. Reports of big spending by presidential aspirants to get the votes of delegates showed that the national convention of the  Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) which held in Port Harcourt, Rivers State, on October 6, was a travesty of democracy. A report captured the corruption: “Members of the Peoples Democratic Party, who were fortunate to be delegates at the party’s national convention… were said to have received thousands of dollars as bribes from some presidential aspirants. As early as Saturday morning, some of the delegates said they already had up to $9,000 each while they said that they were still expecting more.” The report continued: “A particular aspirant, who had taken part in a presidential primary before, was said to have first offered the delegates $2,500 each in exchange for votes. But when he heard that another aspirant offered the delegates $3000, he increased his own to $4000. Our correspondent however gathered that the first aspirant later offered same amount of $4000, an action that forced the man who offered $4000 to increase his own to $5000.” The report supplied more information: “Another aspirant was also said to have offered a mere $1000. It was also learnt that some aspirants gave out naira to the delegates, while a source said states with large delegates got N50m, while others with fewer delegates got less. However, investigations …also revealed that other aspirants had also offered unspecified amount of money to the delegates. Two delegates from the North-West… confirmed they received cash. One of them, who showed our correspondent the envelope that contained the dollar bills, said they decided to receive the gratification as a means of getting their share of the ‘national cake.’ Who gave what? The presidential aspirants were a former Vice President, Atiku Abubakar, who won the primary; Governor of Sokoto State, Aminu Tambuwal; Governor of Gombe State, Ibrahim Dankwambo; a former Governor of Kano State, Senator Rabiu Kwankwaso; a former Governor of Sokoto State, Alhaji Attahiru Bafarawa. Others were the President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki; a former President of the Senate, Senator David Mark; a former Minister of Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations, Alhaji Tanimu Turaki (SAN) and a former Governor of Plateau State, Senator Jonah Jang. Also in the race were a former Governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi; a former Governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido and Dr. Datti Baba-Ahmed. Take Senate President Bukola Saraki, for example. He is a rich political player who further demonstrated his richness by playing a paymaster’s role in a recent case. With the 2019 general election approaching, the public should expect to see more of the things rich politicians do with their riches because they want power or because they want to remain in powerful positions. When Saraki reportedly paid 20 months’ unpaid salaries of 220 traditional rulers in his constituency, Kwara Central senatorial district, he showed that he had no qualms about using what he had to get what he wanted. The chiefs were mainly district heads from Ilorin East, Ilorin South and Asa Local Government Areas. A report said: “The affected local government councils could not meet their financial obligations to the traditional rulers because of the drastic shortfall in their allocation from the federation account.” Then Saraki provided N49.4m, which the affected traditional rulers received at a ceremony at the ABS Constituency Office in Ilorin, the Kwara State capital, on April 16. The Director- General, ABS Constituency Office, Alhaji Musa Abdullahi, said Saraki had set up a committee to resolve the non-payment of the salaries, and had acted on the committee’s recommendation ?to pay the unpaid salaries. Abdullahi was said to have advised the district heads “to continue to support the senate president to enable him attract more dividends of democracy to the state.” Here is the meat of the matter: Where did the money come from?  The answer to this important question cannot be left to speculation, and will likely lead to further questions. This is because a question may be answered and an answer may be questioned. In the end, there may be more questions than answers. Indeed, the same question should be asked in the case of the PDP national convention: Where did the money come from?  Could it be that the aspirant who gave more money than the others won the primary?  What will happen in the presidential election? It is noteworthy that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) reportedly said it was prepared to make vote buying impossible in the governorship election held in Ekiti State on July 14. INEC’s National Commissioner in charge of Ondo, Ekiti, Osun, and Oyo states, Solomon Soyebi, who represented the Chairman, Mahmood Yakubu, at a stakeholders’ meeting on the continuous voters’ registration, in Ado Ekiti, had said that money was used to influence voters during the last elections in Edo, Ondo and Anambra states. “The elections in Edo, Ondo and Anambra states were largely monetised,” Soyebi had asserted. “We are aware of this. It was ‘see and buy,’ but it won’t happen in Ekiti.” He also said:  “It was N5, 000 per vote in Ondo and Anambra states. We are working with security agencies not to allow it to happen again. We even seized some cash in Anambra State.” Obviously, something needs to be done so that politicians won’t be able to use money to get voters to vote in their favour. Must politicians buy votes? Must they think of buying votes?  To think of buying votes and to buy votes means that there are people who are ready to sell their votes. There can’t be vote buying without vote selling. So it is not only vote buyers that should be condemned; vote sellers should be equally condemned. After all, it is said that it takes two to tango. The general election will show whether Nigeria wants a democracy of vote buyers and vote sellers. 