•Party mourns The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Ekiti State has been thrown into mourning, following the killing of the Treasurer, Mr. Moses Adeoye, on Wednesday night. He was reportedly shot dead in his home in Otun-Ekiti, the headquarters of Moba Local Government, when having supper. The gunmen were said to have invaded Adeoye’s home about 9pm and shot the victim. He was killed a few hours after returning to Otun-Ekiti after being part of the town hall meetings held by Governor Kayode Fayemi in Ekiti North and Ekiti South senatorial districts. Adeoye was the APC chairman in his local government before he became the treasurer at the state congress in September. Police spokesman Caleb Ikechukwu said the command had begun investigation. He said the suspects would soon be nabbed. The state chapter of the APC has expressed shock at the killing of a member of the State Working Committee (SWC). The Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ade Ajayi, said the exco had paid a condolence visit to the deceased’s family. He said in a statement yesterday that the Chairman, Mr. Paul Omotoso, described Adeoye as a responsible, honest and committed party man and prayed that such incident would not happen again. Ajayi quoted Omotoso as describing the killing of the treasurer as a “terrible blow” to Governor Kayode Fayemi, APC, members and Moba people. The APC Chairman in Moba Council, Mr. Femi Adeyeye, described the incident as a “rude shock” to APC members and residents of the community. He urged the government and the party not to forget the family of the slain Adeoye. APC delegation from the state exco paid a condolence visit to the Oore of Moba land, Oba James Adedapo Popoola, in his palace in Otun-Ekiti. Omotoso urged the monarch to seek solace in God on the loss of a prominent son of the community, saying the party would do everything to bring the killers to book. Oba Popoola thanked the APC leaders for the visit, noting that the incident had created an injury in the hearts of the people that would take time to heal. Fayemi urges police to fish out killers EKITI State Governor Dr. Kayode Fayemi has directed security agencies to fish out the killers of the treasurer of the state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Elder Moses Adeoye. He was killed by gunmen at his Otun-Ekiti home on Wednesday night. Adeoye, who was until recently was the chairman of the party in Moba Local Government, was trailed to his home by the gunmen, who shot him in the presence of his family. The governor had upon hearing the sad news, directed security agencies to ensure that the killers were arrested and prosecuted. Dr. Fayemi vowed to get to the root of the matter, stressing that anyone found to be connected with the killing would be dealt with. He said his administration would work with security agencies to stop killings and violence. Meanwhile, the governor has commiserated with the deceased’s family, assuring them of justice. Dr. Fayemi, who was out of the state on official duty when the incident occurred, described the death of the APC chieftain as sad and devastating.  He pledged government’s support for the family. The governor’s condolence message was delivered to the family by a delegation comprising the Secretary to the State Government, Biodun Oyebanji, Chief of Staff, Biodun Omoleye and Chief Alaba Abejide. The delegation later visited the palace of Oore of Otun, Oba Adedapo Oladele Popoola and the party secretariat, where they also delivered the governor’s condolence message. 