A cleric, Special Apostle Akin Owolabi, has urged political leaders and youths to emulate the life of a Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) chieftain, Olorunfunmi Basorun, who turned 80 on October 15. At a thanksgiving ceremony attended by party leaders, traditional rulers and clerics at Gospel Church of Cherubim and Seraphim, Iganmu, Lagos, Owolabi said the APC chieftain impacted on many lives. The cleric noted that those who want to do well in life must emulate the like of Basorun, saying the politician is a lover of humility without discrimination against anyone. He added that Basorun was many things to many people, adding that budding politicians would benefit from his mentorship. Owolabi said: “I must say that Basorun has made great impacts in the lives of many people. He made giant strides in banking, civil service, politics and the social forum. He is hard-working in any field he finds himself. “Baba, who is the Asiwaju of Igbogbo community in Ikorodu, is hard-working. His visionary leadership propelled developments in many fields. This is because he creates time to look at issues that affect human lives and proffer solutions to them as they unfold. “Those of us, who must do well in life, have to follow the examples of Basorun, whose sense of humility cannot be rivalled. He relates with young people as if they were age mates. This one man prayer warrior has everything working for him.” The cleric urged Basorun not to relent in working for the country. He said his political contributions to make the country great again have become matters of expediency. “There is no aspect of human lives that you have not touched. And in each place your foot prints are recorded, it was done with perfection, whose impact nobody can downplay,” Owolabi said. Senator Gbenga Ashafa said Basorun’s selfless service to the development of Lagos would stand the test of time. He added: “Your reputation as a legal luminary, exemplary politician and selfless civil servant to Lagos has earned you not just the position as an elder statesman but a man worthy of emulation. “We are indeed very grateful for the privilege of being associated with you and pray that the Almighty God would continue to keep you in strength and good health.” The event was attended by the Secretary to Lagos State Government (SSG), Mr. Tunji Bello, who represented Governor Akinwunmi Ambode; Lagos State APC governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu; former Deputy Governor Abiodun Ogunlewe; the Special Adviser to the President on Diaspora, Mrs Abike Dabiri-Erewa, Alhaji Mutiu Are, Alhaji Tajudeen Olusi, Chief Lanre Razak, Chief Abayomi Finnih and others.   