A dons, Dr Ifeanyichukwu Abada, has urged the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to remain neutral as political parties play the game of politics according to the rules and to ensure free and fair elections in 2019. Abada, the Head of Department of Political Science, University of Nigeria Nsukka (UNN), made the call in an interview with News Agency of Nigeria on Tuesday in Nsukka. He said INEC as the electoral umpire should be neutral and should provide level playing field for all political parties before, during and after the 2019 general elections. He added that “INEC should conduct transparency test for its workers to know those who are qualified to work for the commission that will not compromise their positions.” He advised political parties should not give tickets to members who see election as do or die affair but those who see it as selfless service to fatherland. He also urged INEC to ensure that the alleged vote-buying that characterized recent elections in
Ekiti State and Osun State governorship elections did not happen during next year’s general elections. Abada said “vote-buying would put a question mark on the integrity of the commission. “INEC should disqualify the candidate of any political party caught in vote buying in any election
to serve as deterrent to others. “Civil rights groups should collaborate with INEC to sensitize electorate on the danger of selling their votes, which is their electoral power to elect good candidates that will bring development to their area. “The electorate should be made to understand that any politician who buys votes will not help them or bring democracy dividends to the people because he or she will believe that he has paid the people by buying their votes.” The don advised Nigerians to be patriotic and to put national interest above other personal interests to move the country to the next level. “`For Nigeria to be among leading democracies in the world, we should think more of what we will do for our country and not what the country will do for us,’’ Abada said.