THE Labour Party (LP) has declared it was not presenting candidates in the forthcoming general elections. Its National Publicity Secretary, Ebere Ifendu, who spoke at a news conference in Abuja, said there was no substantive national chairman and secretary to sign Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  nomination form for such candidates. She said the tenure of the party’s National Working Committee (NWC), led by Alhaji Abdulkadir Salam, expired on October 10, 2018. Ifendu added that Salam has refused to obey the consent judgment, which ordered the party to convene a national convention to conduct fresh elections. She dismissed a purported National Executive Council (NEC) meeting, which reportedly took place in Minna. According to the publicity secretary, the meeting was not properly constituted in accordance with the LP Constitution. She said: “There is a subsisting court order that gave us a mandate to conduct an all-inclusive national convention. The judgment is a consent judgment, which involved all parties, including Abdulsalam, who signed the documents that was used for the judgment. “So, it is no longer what INEC can interfere with. The court orders must be respected. INEC wrote the party a letter asking for an all-inclusive national convention, but Abdusallam went ahead to elongate his tenure outside the content of the consent judgment. “So, he is already in violation of the consent judgment. INEC on its part has obeyed the court order by asking LP to go and hold an all-inclusive national convention. “I am repeating it again LP cannot field candidates for the elections in 2019, reason being that the tenure of the party’s present National Working Committee has expired on October 10. There is no existing national chairman and national secretary of Labour Party as we speak.” Ifendu said: “Article 13 (2) A, explicitly spells out the composition of the party’s National Executive Councils members. Among the persons on the lists are the Presidents and General Secretaries of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) and Trade Union Congress (TUC). “None of these constitutional members of the organ were in attendance nor represented. That clearly shows that the purported NEC meeting has nothing to do with LP whatsoever.”  