 Preparatory to 2019 general elections, All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara state has charged its members to put their act together in order to end misrule in the state. The party added that bad governance has bred impunity over the years in the state. APC also hailed governorship candidate, Alhaji Abdulraham Abdulrasaq and other candidates of the party on their emergence. “They must continue to bear in mind that, they have been pushed forward to help in ending mal-administration, incompetency and high handedness in the corridors of power,” the party said. Also, a group of intellectuals under the auspices of Kwara People’s Network (KPN) has urged the National Working Committee (NWC) of APC to bridge the loop-holes created in the just concluded primaries of the party in the state. State Chair of APC Hon Bashir Bolarinwa “we can assure our members, supporters and good people of the state that every aggrieved person or member will be reached in the coming days, so as to present a united front that will dislodge the pretenders in government. “We will continue to rely on the support, counsels and prayers of our members, supporters and the good people of Kwara state as we walk into  2019 to elect true representatives for our people.” Hon Bolarinwa said: “However, we are grateful to party members for displaying high level of commitment, dedication and readiness to make our political liberation struggle in Kwara State, a done deal. “We shall continue to accord our party leaders, members of the executive council at all levels and the teeming supporters their pride of place in the scheme of things. “We have a duty to appreciate our aspirants for all offices whose efforts put more life into the party. You moved round the state, propagating the ideals of our party. You committed your hard earned resources to the process. We don’t have enough words to appreciate you. “We are grateful to the father of the party, President Muhammadu Buhari for finding time out to meet with our governorship aspirants and stakeholders in the party from the state. KPN added that a correction of the deficiency created by the primaries would ensure inclusive governance and give every Kwaran a sense of belonging. It added that that would give APC a landslide victory in the 2019 elections in the state. In a statement, National Coordinator and Secretary of the forum Busayo David and Abdulazeez Lukman said that APC “has the qualities and manifestos that can lead our dear state to the Promised Land, which made us to support the APC in kwara and Nigeria so that we can enjoy the dividends of democracy.” The statement reads: “The sharing formula used in distributing the elective positions majorly at Kwara Central and Kwara South senatorial districts, is a bit deficient. In kwara central that comprises of four LGAs; Asa, Ilorin east, Ilorin south and Ilorin west, which are divided into two federal constituencies; Asa/Ilorin west and Ilorin East/Ilorin south. Asa and Ilorin east have been given House of Representatives, Ilorin west has both governor and senate while Ilorin south has none. Based on the fact stated, it will be fair enough to consider Ilorin south for senate. “Similarly, Kwara South comprises of seven LGAs; Ekiti, Oke-ero, Offa, Oyun, Irepodun, Isin and Ifelodun. Kwara south has two federal constituencies which are Offa/Oyun/Ifelodun and Ekiti/Isin/Irepodun/Oke-ero. Offa has the Senate seat, though Oyun has none but Ifelodun should be considered with the House of Representatives. “We hereby humbly call on NWC of APC to treat this matter with utmost urgency. Irepodun local government area has been represented at the House of Representatives for16 years. The only Christian that won House of Representatives from Ekiti local government area should not be denied.”