THE Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) yesterday arraigned a former Kebbi State Governor Saidu Usman Nasamu Dakingari before Justice Ismail Haruna Bashir of Kebbi State High Court 2 for alleged misapplication of N1,094,320,000 belonging to the state. Out of the cash, about N349,475,000 was allegedly diverted in connivance with the then Commissioner of Finance, Mohammed Bello Tunga and the Secretary to the State Government (SSG) Garba Rabiu Kamba The vote was  meant for the provision of power generators and “other logistics” for all polling units in Kebbi State for the 2015 general elections. According to a statement by the ICPC spokesperson, Mrs. Rasheedat A. Okoduwa (mni), Tunga and Kamba had earlier been arraigned for prosecution by the commission at the Kebbi State High Court. The statement said: “However, immediately after the commencement of proceedings, the court was informed that Tunga, the former Commissioner of Finance, had passed on. “Consequently, the prosecution counsel by way of oral motion prayed the court to strike out the late commissioner’s name, which was granted.” “Dakingari, who was the state governor between 2007 and 2015, was further accused of conspiring with his political associates to misappropriate N430,000,000, which was released to provide logistics support for security agencies during the 2015 general elections. “The  ex-governor was also charged for siphoning N315,000,000, which was approved and disbursed to enable Imams and Mallams organise sensitisation and enlightenment programmes  against religious incitement of supporters for the 2015 general elections in the 21 local government areas of Kebbi State. “However, ICPC’s investigation activities revealed that the said amounts were shared among his political allies as no power generators were purchased nor was any Imam or Mallam among the beneficiaries of the sensitisation money. “The former governor was, therefore, arraigned on a  six-count charge of offences bordering on criminal conspiracy, theft, conferring corrupt advantage on political cronies and using position for gratification. “ICPC’s counsel Elijah Akaakohol averred that the defendant’s actions were contrary to and punishable under sections 19 and 26 (1) (c) of the Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Act, 2000. “If found guilty, he shall, on conviction, be liable to a term of five years imprisonment without an option of fine.” He pleaded not guilty to all the charges preferred against him when they were read out to him. The counsel to the accused person, Asiwaju Adegboyega Awomolo (SAN), through a written application, sought the relief of the court to grant his client bail. Bail was granted to him for N10m and one surety in like sum, who must be resident and possess property worth N10 million within the court’s jurisdiction. The case has been adjourned to December 4 and 5, 2018 for trial to begin.  