Former President of the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF), Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdullahi has described corruption as the biggest obstacle to the nation’s development, saying President Buhari remain the only antidote for corruption in the country. Speaking at his investiture as Patron of the Women for Buhari and Osibanjo, Lulu said he will join in mobilizing support for the second term bid of the President whom he said has been a blessing to the nation. The formal NFF Boss hailed President Buhari for sanitizing the nation and the great efforts he has been making in addressing corruption which he said has been the greatest impediment to the development of the country. He said: “Before the coming to power of Buhari, Nigeria used to be seen as money-laundering, pariah nation. But today, the story is different, as Buhari is the first leader to really tackle corruption headlong, and the task has not been easy. “In all my years on earth I have not seen a leader who has fought corruption like Buhari. There is no doubt that God has ordained him to lead Nigeria and no human being can change this.” He scored President Buhari high on security, adding that without him coming to office Boko Haram insurgents would have taken control of the larger part of the country, especially the North. He scored Buhari and his team more than 90 per-cent and urged Nigerians from all walks of life to rally round Buhari and his deputy in the 2019 elections. Leader of the Women for  Buhari and Osibanjo, Amb.Fatima Adams said they decided to confer the honour of a patron on Alhaji Lulu Abdullahi because of his track records in football administration, especially when he was the president of the Nigerian Football Federation from 2006-2010. She said Lulu’ s transparency in the administration of the place, as well as his overall administrative qualities speak volume about his competence and eligibility, where he impacted on the people that came across him, especially those from his home state Kogi. Ambassador Adams said even since his leaving office, Alhaji Lulu Abdullahi has continued to conduct himself exemplarily, providing education and jobs for the poor and those in need. She said with Lulu’s appointment into President Buhari’s Support Group, he should bring his qualities to bear in ensuring that President Buhari is re-elected in 2019.