.Police arrest 21, invite Kuye A notorious cultist and alleged serial murderer known as Ibrahim alias Small Japron was on Wednesday evening killed by a rival cult group at a political party that political gathering in Obanikoro. Also killed was one Solo said to be a dreaded cultist in Somolu. It was gathered that the duo were among several other persons who attended the gathering organised by House of Representatives member Ademorin Kuye. It was learnt that the gathering was held at Home Touch, 228 Ikorodu Road by Obanikoro. The Nation reports that Small Jepron has been arrested by the police on several occasions and imprisoned but he usually found his way out to continue his reign of terror in Somolu, Bariga, Fadeyi and Ojuelegba areas of the state. Sources said the deceased were trailed to the place by the rival cultists, who also attacked people. Confirming the incident the police said they died as a result of injuries sustained during the fight. Spokesman Chike Oti, a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) said 21 suspects were apprehended and were being questioned, adding that Kuye has been invited for questioning. He said: “Recall that the Command had on September 10, issued a press statement warning politicians not to gather in public places without notifying the police to enable adequate provision of security and prevent hoodlums from hijacking such events. “Regrettably, the host of the political meeting, Hon. Ademorin Kuye did not inform the police of his intention to host his supporters. “However, 21 persons have so far been arrested in connection with the case and are currently being questioned by homicide detectives of the State Criminal Investigation and Intelligence Department (SCIID) Panti, Yaba. Also invited to Panti, is the politician, Hon. Ademorin Kuye. “The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Imohimi Edgal has ordered a manhunt for the perpetrators of this act, vowing that the command will leave no stone unturned in ensuring they are prosecuted. “He once again requests politicians to inform the police before gathering in public places. He notes that until the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) gives the go ahead, political campaign at this time is illegal and those in breach of the Electoral Act will be made to face the full wrath of the law.”