Vice Presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), Peter Obi arrived the Akanu Ibiam International Airport, Enugu amidst a rousing reception by the people of Enugu State. The former governor of Anambra State came aboard an Air Peace Aircraft and was received by a high delegation of Enugu State government functionaries. Immediately the vice-presidential candidate emerged from the arrival hall, the entire airport was thrown into ecstasy with PDP supporters dancing and gyrating. Obi was driven in a long convoy to the Government House Enugu where Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi was at hand to receive him. At the reception were members of the Enugu State House of Assembly led by the Speaker, Edward Nnaji and members of the state Exco. Obi also visited the President General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo was he and his entourage held a closed door meeting. The vice presidential candidate told both Ugwuanyi and Nwodo that his candidature was all about Ndigbo and not a personal project. While soliciting for their support, he said his success depended on them the Igbo leaders. “I for one I cannot stay there for four years and people will be talking about deplorable Enugu /Onitsha Road, Port Harcourt /Enugu Road. “This nomination is about our people. It is an opportunity to readdress our problem. I believe Enugu ‎is our capital. I pay my tax in Enugu. I need your support. “I have been visiting our leaders including the governors regarding my nomination. And I am here today to pay courtesy call on the Ohanaeze Ndigbo President General as all of us are under him. I am to intimate him on the development so that we will work as family.” Nwodo told the visitor that Ndigbo are pleased by his nomination as the vice presidential candidate of PDP, adding that ‎it will go a long way to address the marginalization of the Igbo. He described Obi as incorruptible as he was never invited by security agents on corruption charges after he left office as governor. Governor Ugwuanyi described Obi as “indeed iconic son of Igboland as well as a formidable and trusted Igbo man”. He said by the grace of God, Enugu State is a PDP state and thank the people of the state for their massive support for the party in 2015 and hope that it would be better in 2019 with Peter Obi.