Nigerian governments need to institutionalize a culture of policy stability and certainty and implement policies that will encourage savings and investments in equities funds in order to drive stable economic growth and development. A foremost investment banker and chairman, Capital Bancorp Plc, Mr Olutola Mobolurin said the current steep decline in the stock market was due majorly to perception of political risks and uncertainties around pre and post election periods as well as the low level of domestic capital available in the equities market. Addressing financial journalists yesterday in Lagos during the 30th anniversary of Capital Bancorp Plc, Mobolurin called for a complete review of strategy to boost investor confidence and build up long-term equities funds for the development of local industries. According to him, uncertainties in the economy and fear that 2019 general election might throw Nigeria into deep crisis were major factors that have led to massive dumping of shares by both foreign and Nigerian portfolio investors. He said government has a duty to address uncertainties at every level of its developmental efforts in order to rebuild investor confidence in Nigeria. “Everywhere in the world, politics and elections affect the stock market. I don’t think we should worry too much about it. However, people may worry about what can happen after the elections. It may turn some people totally away from Nigeria if they perceive us as an unstable country. If you scare people by giving them the impression that this is a country that is about to break up, that is where I see a problem. Politicians need to watch their utterances,” Mobolurin said. He said Nigerians must demand from the government and the politicians that they need stability in the political system, economy, and currency. “They must demand for low inflation because, that is where the prosperity of every citizen can be assured. If our system becomes more stable and we improve the environment for business and investment, even Nigerians who have money abroad will start bringing them back here,” Mobolurin said. He noted that there is apathy in the equities market from not only the foreign investors but also Nigerian investors pointing out that even pension funds managers have stopped investing in the stock market due to perceived high level of political risks and uncertainties. According to him, there are negative implications for all these uncertainties and apathy as equity investment represents the largest form of investment one could have, because it has no maturity date and the returns on equities is the residual returns from the company. “Equity investment has no coupon like debt instruments and for many other reasons; it acts as hedge against inflation. If everybody is investing in debt instruments, what will happen when interest rates falls? It is important that we have a strong stock market. The second thing is that if people perceive equity investment as risky and a no-go-area, the rate of capital formation in the country will decline. The only contribution to capital formation by a middle income person who will not be in business is his investment in the stock market,” Mobolurin said. He called for a comprehensive overhaul of the Nigerian financial system in a way that will allow the system to support economic growth. “There are ways we can save.  It may be corporate savings which can help to drive this economy. We should encourage private equity fund private funds to come up and we must find a way of getting every business to contribute to the growth of that industry. We need to get capital into the hands of those who have idea. We cannot satisfy 200 million people on the basis of importation. We must get this economy back to work,” Mobolurin, who is also chairman of NASD OTC Securities Plc, said. He attributed Capital Bancorp’s success story spanning 30 years of corporate existence to adherence to ethical standard and innovation. “We started Capital Bancorp on strong ethical values. We strive for professionalism as we invest in our people; train them to be knowledgeable and fair to everyone. We do everything in our power to adhere to regulations and to play by the rules,” Mobolurin said. Managing Director, Capital Bancorp Plc, Mr Higo Aigboje assured that the company would sustain its customer-focused approach by continuing to explore ways to satisfy customers. According to him, the company shall continue to uphold the ideals of its founding fathers which have kept it waxing stronger in the last 30 years. The company held its 30th Annual General Meeting yesterday where shareholders were rewarded with dividend.