English Language Department Head, Benson Idahosa University (BIU), Dr A. Esimaje, has said the current academic culture in the country supports plagiarism because of the importance placed on paper qualification, and not on knowledge. Esimaje, who spoke against the backdrop of the rising tide of plagiarism, said scholars who plagiarised were encouraged to do so because there was no strict guideline and measures in place to discourage the action. Those that engage in plagiarism, she said, are impatient to seek knowledge, noting that they found it easy to copy other people’s work than expending their energy on research. She said: “If you know something you will be happy to write about it, with the aim to educate people. So, it is the absence of knowledge that encourages people to engage in plagiarism. If the so-called scholars have requisite knowledge and are not lazy to engage in research, they will not plagiarise. “Most times, it is not always the fault of the students or scholars who do that, it is the fault of the system. That is the academic culture we have in this country. I believe that we are inching towards a systematic failure. This is a period when students are not being equipped with what it takes to conduct brilliant research and write the project reports. “The culture we have is, write project papers that fall in line with the template of project writing. Students are forced to write project reports anyhow. This way, the academic culture has been encouraging plagiarism. There are people called academic vendors, who put together projects for students.” Dr Esimaje noted that students, nowadays, usually engaged academic vendors to help them source materials from different places, after which they do patch-writing without linking the materials together. The student, she said, would submit the poorly written materials for defense and get marks for ideas not original theirs. She said the fault should not be fully seen in students who plagiarised, but in the system that failed to prepare and equip them with knowledge on how to conduct proper research. She said: “It is also the failure of our society, which places value on paper qualification. A lecturer in the United Kingdom (UK) is assessed based on the research he has written in reputable journals within the UK. In Nigeria, different system produces a lecturer and a different system is used to assess the lecturer.” 