Dr David Oyedepo, the Chancellor, Covenant University, Ota in Ogun has called on parents not to allow their children and wards to have their ways in a bid to actualise their goals in life. Oyedepo made the call at the 17th Matriculation Ceremony for 2018/2019 academic session of the institution on Friday. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that a total of 1,694 students which comprised 1,525 undergraduates and 169 postgraduate  students were matriculated. The chancellor noted that most of the problems confronting the country could be traced to poor parenting and lack of attention for their children. “Train up a child in the way he or she should go so that when the child grows up, he would not depart from it. “Appropriate training of children will discover treasure built in them while an inappropriate training would turn them to thrash and liabilities in the future,” Oyedepo said. “Many great men that we are seeing today are as a result of appropriate training that their parents had inculcated in them.” Oyedepo, who is the presiding bishop of the Living Faith Church, however, advised parents not to watch their wards go into the ditch because “most children of today are indisposed to instructions. He further urged parents to invest more in the education of their children, saying quality training is the key to a desirable future. Accordig to Oyedepo, both parents and the children should allow the institution’s core values to sink in their lives to bring bring the best out of them and help them achieve their set goals. Prof. Aaron Atayero, the Vice-Chancellor of the institution, said the university’s graduates were the most employable graduates in the country because of the entrepreneurial skills they acquired. Atayero recalled that the university was recently ranked the best university in Nigeria and the best in West Africa by Times Higher Education (THE). NAN also reports that Times Higher Education World University Rankings is an annual publication of university rankings by THE magazine. The publisher had collaborated with Quacquarelli Symonds (QS) to publish the joint THE-QS World University Rankings. “The institution has been able to achieve this remarkable milestone through its holistic approach to human development and inculcating learning curriculum in our students, ” he said. The vice-chancellor also said that the institution was working toward effecting change in the recovery of our education sector as a nation and restore the dignity of black man.