Inculcating and educating our children in leadership and parliamentary processes will not only sanitize our political and electoral space, but will also cause these children to make impacts in their generation and various constituencies in the future. This was made known by the founding President of Children and Youth Awareness Development (CYAD) Foundation, Mrs. Temilola Odetola, at the Children and Youth Democratic Electoral Model (CYDEM) program, organized for the pupils of Primark International Academy on Friday in Abuja. The program which saw the active participation of pupils in the election of their prefects, was reminiscent to the democratic, open and transparent processes of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). According to Mrs. Odetola, “CYDEM is a program that is initiated to give voters education from the cradle. It is one created to inculcate democratic virtues in our children. “It also aims to help children have parliamentary consciousness from childhood. “The program was approved and started in 2009, and is well represented in 20 states of the country. “We hope that this program will lead to the death of voters apathy in the nearest future. This program is in line with what the government approved – the ‘not too young to run’ bill; which has now become a law. “Our intention is to prepare the children to give better leadership to their own generation. The idea is that once these children attain youthful ages, they can begin to cause generational change in their various constituencies either as councilors, senators or even governors.” Concerning the level of acceptance and challenges the organization faces, Odetola explained that the acceptance is so high that their major challenge is in both human and financial capacity to expand the program across the six geopolitical zones in Nigeria. Although, INEC approved and supported the program with a sum of six million Naira in the year 2009, however, the organization is yet to receive further support from any other government agencies and ministries. “We implore the government to come in and look into the CYDEM project ad assist us. We can have it institutionalized in such a way that it helps to not only educate the children about electoral values, but also inculcate leadership, moral and ethical values in our children. “We also set up children parliaments within the school. We teach them parliamentary activities and how to take parliamentary decisions that will affect their fellow pupils positively. “We hope that CYDEM plus will be sponsored and accepted by the government; we can call it Junior INEC, to prepare the children for the ‘not too young to run’ law. This way we can even provide employment for thousands of youths,” she said. One of the parents present at the program, Mr. Jolaiya Taiye Moses, said that: “It is a welcome development which will make the (political) orientation of our children faster than we think. With the rate of their education and exposure, by the time these children find themselves in higher institutions of learning, they will make politics easier.”