Water-tight security arrangements have been made by the Rivers State Police Command and other security agents for today’s national convention of the main opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Port Harcourt, the capital city of the hitherto volatile Rivers State and its environs are being properly guarded by security agents, considering the large number of PDP members from the 36 states and Abuja who will be converging on Adokiye Amaesimaka Stadium to elect a candidate that will challenge President Muhammadu Buhari, the presidential candidate of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), during the 2019 election. The Public Relations Officer (PRO) of the Rivers State Police Command, Nnamdi Omoni, a Deputy Superintendent of Police (DSP), in a telephone interview yesterday assured all PDP delegates and other persons who would be at the convention that there would be adequate protection of their lives and property, urging them not to entertain any fear. Omoni said: “Water-tight security arrangements have been made by the Rivers State Police Command. I can assure you that the national convention of the PDP will be seamlessly held and there will be no security breach in view of the heavy deployment of policemen at the venue of the national convention, hotels, entry and exit points, as well as other strategic points. “All the black spots in Port Harcourt and its environs have been identified and are being properly policed. Day and night movements before, during and after the convention will be without any incident.” The 12 presidential aspirants expected to slug it out at the convention are Aminu Tambuwal, Atiku Abubakar, Rabiu Kwankwaso, Bukola Saraki, Sule Lamido, Ahmed Makarfi, Attahiru Bafarawa, Ibrahim Dankwambo, Tanimu Turaki, Datti Baba-Ahmed, David Mark and Jonah Jang. Addressing a crowded press conference at Hotel Presidential, Port Harcourt yesterday, the Director-General of Tambuwal Campaign Organisation, Mike Omeri, assured that the Governor of Sokoto State would be crowned winner by the delegates at PDP’s national convention in view of his capacity, youthfulness, capability, experience and as the most qualified candidate. Omeri said: “The accredited delegates will be free to cast their votes without interference, but I can assure you that almost all of them will vote for Gov. Tambuwal, who has never been invited for questioning by any security or anti-graft agency. “Governor Tambuwal is young and he believes in the future of Nigeria. He also believes that Nigeria has passed the stage of potential, but now at the stage of possibilities and fulfilment of dreams. He has a blueprint to transform Nigeria and he always speaks from the heart.”