After about 64 days of debriefing,  former Department of State Services (DSS) Director-General  Lawal Daura has been released from custody and his security aides restored. President Muhammadu Buhari has the final say on Daura’s fate. One of the allegations against Daura is unauthorised deployment of hooded security operatives to the National Assembly. It was learnt that some Daura associates are pushing for a key role for him in the President’s re-election campaign. Although he was in charge of security during the 2015 Presidential Campaign, it was unclear which specific role might be assigned to him. The former DG of DSS, who was removed on August 7, 2018, had been in a safe house for de-briefing as a former head of an intelligence agency. According to sources,  Daura was released on Tuesday to rejoin his family. A source, who spoke in confidence, said: “He was released on Tuesday and he has rejoined his family accordingly. “During his de-briefing, he insisted that he acted in the national interest in deploying operatives in the National Assembly. He also described the allegation of being a mole in the government as ‘utter balderdash.’ He protested what he described as maltreatment by the government. “The Inspector -General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris, in his report, claimed that Daura ‘acted unilaterally, without informing the Presidency. He did not share or intimate other security agencies on the unlawful operations’. It is left to President Muhammadu Buhari to decide whether  the ex-DSS boss has a case to answer. “Don’t forget that the sack of Daura was greeted with discordant tunes in the Presidency and Buhari’s cabinet.” But there were speculations last night that Daura had been “restricted” from talking to the press. One of his associates who pleaded not to be named, however, denied that Daura had been restricted or banned from speaking with the press. “He has a lot to say but as a former intelligence chief, he will be guided by the ethics of the profession. “The former DG is only pained by the fact that he was sacrificed and his integrity rubbished. He feels the nation should hear the other side.” As at press time, there were indications that Daura may play a key role in the re-election campaign of the President. Some of his associates have been pushing for the role, which is yet to be defined. Daura was in charge of security for the Presidential Campaign Organisation of the APC in 2015. Another source said: “Some members of the kitchen cabinet and powerful forces in government still believe Daura should play a key role in the re-election campaign of Buhari. “Some have recommended him for intelligence back up for the campaign but a few others have made a strong case for his return to security desk like the case in 2015. I think the details of the role he will play will emerge in the next few weeks.”