The new television viewing commercial by the Union Bank has attracted a lot of enthusiasm on the social media with many viewers hailing and identifying with the plot. The story line is about a taxi driver battling societal forces that threaten his fledgling business to a youth corps member hoping for a better future to a photographer wishing for better social amenities. The plot also touches love and inter–ethnic integration. Union Bank’s nation-building stance is not out of character. As a financial institution with a rich heritage, the Bank has over the past 100 years, come to be recognised as a trusted partner, helping generations of Nigerian individuals, families and businesses achieve their goals. As a Bank which has been in existence for over a century, Union Bank knows what it means to go through tough times and emerge better. In a marked departure from the average bank advert, which typically focus on marketing the institution’s products and services, the Bank’s two-minute commercial communicates strong themes of introspection, perseverance, optimism and hope of a better future for Nigerians. Built on the theme of Uncle Thomas, the Bank challenges Nigerians not to lose hope or become the ‘ultimate pessimist’ like Uncle Thomas. Instead, the commercial encourages everyone to continue to believe in a better future. The TV commercial, which was coordinated by Image and Time brand agency, was shot in various cities across Nigeria, including Kano, Lagos and Enugu. Due to popular demand, the closing date to enter for the 2018 edition of the DStv Eutelsat Star Awards competition has been extended till Friday, 26 October 2018. Students between the ages of 14 and 19 now have extra time to be inspired to write a creative essay or design a poster. This year’s topic is “Currently, satellites are being used in a variety of ways but there is always room for expansion and growth. Write an essay or design a poster on areas you believe the full potential of satellites has not yet been explored or embraced.” Students can enter for the eight edition of the DStv Eutelsat Star Awards competition today and stand a chance of winning exciting prizes.  The overall essay winner will be eligible for a trip for two to Paris, France, in the company of Eutelsat and onwards to French Guiana to see a rocket launch into space. The DStv Eutelsat Star Awards competition is open to all learners from secondary (high) or combined schools on the continent where MultiChoice Africa maintains operations. Entry forms can be obtained from any MultiChoice Resource Centre, the nearest MultiChoice office or via www.dstvstarawards.com. Entries are accepted in English, French and Portuguese and will be judged on the basis of high-standard criteria of accuracy, creativity, originality and innovation. For the first time this year students are also invited to engage with the Awards community through a dedicated Facebook page.