Intermarc Consulting Limited Board of Directors  has announced the company’s strategic repositioning, which is expected to launch the organisation into its next phase of growth and expansion. The firm, in almost two decades, has focused on electronic business with emphasis on e-banking and e-payment intermediation in Nigeria and across Africa by providing cutting-edge solutions through consultancy services. According to a release by the company in continuation of the fulfilment of its vision of consistently providing world class skill acquisition, advisory and strategic solutions, the firm has repositioned to focus on Digital Financial Services (DFS) through consulting, specialised research, training and workshops, conferences as well as project management. This is in line with the company’s partnership with Microsave – the global leader in DFS consulting. Jacqueline Jumah, a renowned Digital Financial Services Specialist, has joined the board and management of the company to lead the implementation of the company’s business strategy as the Managing Director. Jacqueline will bring to the table her years of experience in the DFS space, most recent of which is her role at Microsave as a senior management staff of the company. She holds a Bachelor of Science Degree in Applied Statistics and a Master of Science Degree in Finance and Banking, University of Nairobi, Kenya. Her professional skills include strategic operations in agent distribution network deployment and scale-up, DFS Business Strategy Development, DFS Product Development, Market Research and Risk management gathered over years of work in banks and in the financial services sector, and across several countries such as Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, Uganda, Sierra Leone, Malawi, India, Pakistan, Tanzania, Rwanda, Zambia, among others. Jacqueline is a certified trainer in DFS Product Innovation and Development, Agent Network Management and Behavioural Science and Design Thinking. She is also a Certified Product Innovation and DFS Curriculum Developer.