Segun Caulcrick is the former Country Manager, UPS Nigeria and currently the Executive Director/Chief Executive, Foundation for Value Transformation. In this interview with HABIBATU AMINU and MISTURA GAFAR, the over 60-year-old leadership coach shares his vision for a society where people would adhere to moral ethos and be just to one another. 
Excerpts: As a trained accountant, what informed your decision to set up a foundation? I have corporate sector background and I worked with UPS in Nigeria for over 20 years and my last assignment was as Country Manager for Nigeria. When I took over the reigns of office in Nigeria, we had challenges in terms of the resources we were generating and then we looked at how we could improve on our standing as a company. We discovered that people were not really giving us results until we now looked into the culture. We had the right values but those values hardly guaranteed better results. But after careful introspection and soul-searching, we soon discovered that our organisation needed to have the right mix of values that must align with the culture. Thankfully, within the next two years period, we saw a transformation never seen before in the company. In the past, UPS Nigeria usually came a distant 40 position in the country-by-country ranking within the global group. But within two years, Nigeria won first prizes successive years in a row besting countries like Britain, Germany and so. From then on, I discovered that leadership is very important so is and culture and what drives our culture are values. Expectedly, I was able to use this knowledge to help the organisations to grow better and become leaders within their spheres of influence and all that. As to what informed the setting up of the Foundation for Value Transformation, I would say that it is a child of necessity. It was founded in 2012 and the motivation was that a group of people, who eventually became trustees of the Foundation, all had the general consensus that everybody in Nigeria wants good result, good outcomes and good quality of living. But we discovered that those aspirations can only come about through actions, views and decisions. There are decisions you have as an individual in the society that comes from mindset and your mindset is a function of the values you hold as an individual. As a people, we need to deal with our values otherwise we will just be going round in circles and walking aimlessly without achieving anything.  No matter what you do in this country, if the values are not right you will not get result. Having said that, at the Foundation for Value Transformation are focused on values that drive the society and we a lot to engage various stakeholders in the society to sensitise them to be aware of the connection between values and the result they get. We all want the best for the nation but we can’t achieve that without dealing with our values. Even if we have a good president he can only do his best in eight years and if good values don’t go down deep into the nation that all and sundry would embrace; the governors, lawmakers and other stakeholders, nothing is going to happen because whatever enforcement and progress he makes in office once he leaves, they leave with him. So values are fundamental to resources you get to the society. You talked about values and all. These are all intangibles. Do individuals or corporate bodies really subscribe to these ideals? What has been your experience selling your ideas out there? Well, I think the corporate sector understands on the surface the issue of values because when I say the issue surface, every corporate organisation has its own vision and mission statements and all that. But it goes beyond that. But what they need to do is to break this down. If we say integrity is our value, it sounds nice word but how do you show integrity in your day- to -day work? How does a driver who drives your car show integrity? How does your accountant show integrity? How does a sales person show integrity? You can only tout yourself as a company with integrity if every rank and file act and lives by the tenets of integrity, anything short of that is a huge joke. Increasingly there is a strong desire by companies to ensure that the ideals and ideas they stand for become institutionalised as a culture embedded in the day-running of the business. That’s the way to go. Let’s come nearer home. Nigerians are good people but you find out that the values most of us adopt are partly responsible for the problem of corruption we are experiencing today. If you have good people in a corrupt system, they get overwhelmed. Forget about this new generation, the old generation who had parental upbringing, school upbringing, they know what is right but on getting to a system where the right thing is not being recognised, many people who do the wrong things are not penalised you need a strong personal conviction not to join them. I recalled during my working career, a contractor who did a job for us came and told me that ‘Oga this is what we give for the job’ and I said what do you want to give me and he said that is how we do it here.’ But I refused his so-called ‘gift’ and I got that attitude from my father. I recalled once when a man came in the evening to drop a cartoon of drinks for him ostensibly to say ‘Thank You.’ I remember my father blasted him over the phone and told him to come, and carry his drinks. He came quietly the next day to pick it. What I am trying to say is that once a man or contractor gives you money even if it is okay, except you don’t have a conscience, because if he does a bad job you cannot see it because there is a limit to how far you can go because he would say ‘aha ha oga but you know now…’ But when the man knows that you won’t be swayed by all manner of gifts, he would rather prefer to do his job well because he knows he won’t get his money if he performs below par. At the country level, corruption is a major malaise that has slowed down the country’s development at all levels. What can be done to address this menace? You’re right. It is so sad because looking back as a country this is not the dreams envisioned by our founding fathers. There is a lot we must do to get the country back on track. But more than this, it is my submission that education is one area where this revolution needs to begin from. Education is one area we need to tackle because this is where we are going to groom the leaders of tomorrow. The children are growing up and if they don’t own their personal values to understand the issues of the value what they will do is join whatever they see in the society either good or bad. The setting in schools now is to educate and train school leaders and teachers to know how to teach the children about values, not value like Civic Studies which is eventually aimed to pass exams and not just to know the meaning of value or courage for the purpose of passing exams but what you do is to help them imbibe those things into their day-to-day life so when we talk about excellence how do children show excellence in class, school, home, society with help of value? The teachers have to model it and then train the kids not just teaching them but ask them to do various things on assembly and so many methods even integrate those things into their curriculum. For example, when they read literature book ask them the values in the story and so on. So far, we trained 48 school leaders last year in Lagos State. This year, we have a proposal which has been approved by the Ministry of Education to train more school leaders. When a child is trained on value and they get home and tell their parents our teacher told us to do this and not to do that they tend to influence their parents. We have some partners in UK who have been practicing value as well because they realised that character is important in society. Value creation should be something that is continuous and it should be like water and food that people cannot do without.