Chief of Field Office, United Nations Childrens Fund (UNICEF), Enugu Field Office, Ibrahim Conte, says cases of violent disciplinary actions against children is over 90 per cent in Cross River State. Conte, who said this was according to the 2016/17 multi indicator survey (MICS), stated that reports show an increasing trend for cases of child-witchcraft branding, sexual abuse and domestic violence against children. Speaking during a three-day training of police officers on handling cases of children in Calabar, Conte, who was represented by Maureen Zubie-Okolo, said survey findings, media reports and routine administrative data show that that there is a high prevalence of violence against children. “UNICEF calls on stakeholders to improve actions to reverse the trend of violence against children and provide quality and timely preventive and restorative services. These will include security and access to justice to children already affected. “As part of the ongoing Child Protection System Strengthening programme in Cross River State, this training is key in enhancing the capacities of the police force in preventing and responding to violence against children in line with the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child and the State’s Child Rights Law. “All stakeholders need to do more to support children who are in conflict with the law with child-sensitive services for their reformation and reintegration,” he said. Director Citizens Rights, Ministry of Justice and UNICEF Focal Officer, Mrs Florence Agbiiji, said the training was organized in collaboration with the Ministry to train police officers of the Cross River State Command on the standard of operation procedure for children cases because the police are critical stakeholders in the children justice administration. “They have to be trained and UNICEF has developed a standard of operation which means that wherever officer have to handle issues concerning children, they should all have similar approaches in handling children and doing things to the best interest of the child. “We are on track because there have been series of training and sensitization. You can see that here we have about 50 police officers from the various local governments in Cross River State and they are being trained and after they trained they will take the knowledge to their various units or stations and with the sensitization we are having a change so it is a progressive work and we believe we are going to get there. So far there is an awareness that police officers now have that it is no longer business as usual when you have to deal with cases that involve children. Children that are in conflict with the law and children that are in contact with the law. “Children are to be treated in a special way that is why we are talking about this training because you cannot treat a child the way you treat an adult. So there are procedures you have to use when dealing with a child. We want justice for the child. A child who is in contact with the law may not necessarily be an offender and so we need to be able to know how to deal with that child to take the child from that dangerous position that the child has found himself or herself. Even if a child is an offender, you have to treat the child in a manner that you will be able to preserve the integrity of that child because the child is a human being and has a right to be protected,” Agbiji said.