A former Assistant Director with the National Intelligence Agency (NIA), Ibrahim Ibrahim, has clarified that he voluntarily retired from the service of the agency in 2006. He said he was never at any time disengaged by the NIA under any guise. He also explained that he does not hold extreme religious views in and out of office. Ibrahim made the clarifications through his counsel, Affis Matanmi Esq of Gravitas Law Partnership, against the backdrop of a publication by The Nation on Saturday on April, 22 2017. He said the publication was “false and malicious”. The letter from Ibrahim’s counsel said: “We have been consulted as Legal Practitioners and our professional services retained by Mr. Ibrahim Ibrahim hereinafter referred to as “Our Client” and on whose express instruction we write to you in respect of the above subject matter. “Our client’s brief and complaints are that: On April 22, 2017, your newspaper The Nation published a false and malicious statement concerning our client wherein our client was described on page 8 of The Nation’s publication of 22nd April, 2017 in the following words: “… Corroborating the suspicion, a former Assistant Director of NIA, Mr. Ibrahim Ibrahim, told a national newspaper that “Jonathan approved $289 million or so in November 2014 in excess of the approved budget of the agency. “So that excess was intended as campaign funds.” But a top NIA official faulted the claim. “Ibrahim was talking rubbish, he was disengaged a long time ago”. “He was no longer in the system, so he could not have known of appropriated or special funds.” “How can someone who left the system about five to six years ago be talking authoritatively? Even as an Assistant Director in the system, he could not ‘have known about the financial status of NIA. He is too junior to be in the picture.” He said Ibrahim was disengaged for alleged extreme religious view, he has been looking for an opportunity to get back at NIA. Let him leave the presidential Investigative Committee to do its job, he said…” The counsel said the concerned publication has affected his business and relationship with neighbours. The letter added: “The said statement was published in your newspaper circulated nation-wide, and our Client being a well-known person with friends, family and business associates all over the country and abroad has been receiving incessant calls and messages due to the referenced publication since 2017 till date. “In fact, neighbours and residents of his community, who do know him well, have withdrawn and dissociated from him due to this defamatory publication. “As you are aware, in this modern era, newspaper publications have a wider coverage beyond the regular newspapers purchased from the vendor stands. These days, people from all over the world, with smart phones and gagets, now have access to daily newspaper publications via their phones. ” Consequently, people all over the world were able to read your defamatory publication that our client was disengaged from the services of the National Intelligence Agency (N IA) as well as your statement that our client is a religious extremist. “Also, in an era where religious extremism has caused most havoc in the country, anyone considered as such is a likely suspect to all the atrocities being committed by a “named group” hence, defaming our client in such words affects his general well-being as a person and Nigerian Citizen. “Furthermore, your defamatory piece has caused our client grave economic downturns as our client’s business associates have refused to further have personal and business relationships with him as they now perceive him as a religious extremist who they consider unfit for business dealings. “You may wish to know that our client voluntarily retired from the service of the National Intelligence Agency (NIA) sometimes in 2006 without any allegation as contained in your publication. Please, find attached NM ‘s acceptance letter of our client’s letter of voluntary resignation.” The ex-director demanded immediate retraction of the story and an apology. A July 30, 2006 letter to Mr. Ibrahim Ibrahim by the Federal Ministry of Foreign Affairs, confirmed the voluntary retirement of the ex-Assistant Director. The letter, which came  from the Directorate of Inspectorate, Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Abuja, was titled “RE: VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT and signed by J. S. Shu’aibu(Director) for: Permanent Secretary The letter said: “Yours dated 4th  May 2006 on the above subject refers, please. ” I am directed to convey to you, the Permanent Secretary’s acceptance of your voluntary retirement from the Service with effect from 30th July 2006. “In view of the above, you are kindly requested to surrender all government property in your possession, including identity card(s) to the Security Department and obtain clearance from your Director before your final disengagement. “Please, accept the Permanent Secretary’s good wishes in your future endeavours.” EDITOR’S NOTE:  As a reputable newspaper, the said publication was not intended to defame, hurt, injure or cast aspersion on Mr. Ibrahim Ibrahim, a former Assistant Director with the National Intelligence Agency (NIA). We apologise for the use of “disengaged” and “extreme religious views” attributed to him in the story.