Senator Solomon Adeola (APC, Lagos West) has hailed President Muhammadu Buhari for the approval of award of contract for the construction and rehabilitation of Lagos-Badagry Expressway. Reacting to the outcome of the Federal Executive Council’s (FEC’s) deliberation on Wednesday, where the council approved the award of N63.023billion contract for the rehabilitation and reconstruction of Lagos-Badagry- Seme Border Expressway, Sen. Adeola said it was a commendable action on the part of the Federal Government, adding that it was determined to ameliorate the suffering of his constituents and other Nigerians. He said collapse of major roads over the years had caused commuters hardship and crippled businesses along the international land gateway to Nigeria. “Millions of my constituents, other Nigerians and foreigners plying this important international highway in Lagos spend gruelling hours in gridlock occasioned by the deplorable state of vast sections of the roads leading to Seme international border with Benin Republic. “Last year, I took my town hall meeting and empowerment programme to Badagry and we spent four and a half hours to reach Badagry from Ikeja for a journey of less than one and a half hours. I spent a night and a day to conclude what should ordinarily be a programme of less than three hours,” the senator said. He said the approval of the 46- kilometre road contract as announced by Minister of Works, Power and Housing Babatunde Fashola to include a 24- kilometre six lanes and 22- kilometre retaining the old four lanes would impact on the welfare of the people and business growth along the corridor. Adeola, the chairman of Senate Committee on Local Content,  added that with the Governor Akinwunmi Ambode administration undertaking the construction and rehabilitation under contract from the Eric Moore to Okokomaiko section, Nigeria, at the completion of the contract, would have fulfilled its part of the Lagos-Abidjan Highway project as agreed by the Economic Community of West African States’ (ECOWAS’) heads of state since 2013. He promised to keep a track on the progress of the contract for its complete execution, noting that in a bid to ameliorate people’s suffering on that axis of his humongous senatorial district, he facilitated the rehabilitation of Baale-Olodi Apapa Road (Boundary-Berger-Suya -Kirikiri Bridge) in the 2017 budget by the Federal Road Maintenance Agency (FERMA), as well as inclusion of rehabilitation of Gbagi-Owode Road in Badagry in the 2018 budget of FERMA. 