Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello, has been lauded for the significant improvement in the outlook of the FCT through massive investments in infrastructure. The Chairman and Chief Executive, National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission, Mr. Richard Egbule, gave this commendation when he led the Board of Commissioners and management of the Commission to pay a courtesy call on the FCT Minister. According to the Wages Commission boss, this has significantly improved FCT’s traffic situation and enriched the living standards of the residents. Chief Egbule noted that these achievements were particularly substantial, coming at a time of lean financial resources. The Chairman remarked that the level of accomplishment was not altogether surprising given what he knew of Malam Bello at the time he was the Chairman of the National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON). The chairman underscored the massive rehabilitation of road infrastructure going on in Karu, while observing, “It goes to tell of the commitment of the FCT Administration towards leaving no area of the FCT behind in the project of giving Abuja befitting infrastructure and amenities”. He thanked the Minister for going beyond the city to consider the satellite towns and grassroots in the spread of amenities. Chief Egbule used the occasion to appeal to the Honourable Minister for a plot of land on which it plans to develop a befitting headquarters for the Commission. He lamented that the Commission which came into existence 25 years ago, does not have a property to call its own. As a result, he disclosed, the various departments and units are flung and scattered in various parts of the city making operations and supervision of the Commission’s staff very difficult. Responding, the FCT Minister, Malam Muhammad Bello welcomed the Chairman and his team and assured them that FCTA was willing to help the Commission in its quest for a befitting accommodation. The Minister lamented that while some establishments are eager to obtain plots for the development of their secretariats, some others who had benefitted from such plot allocations are either dragging their feet to develop their plots or have proved incapable of doing so. He disclosed that the FCTA intends to revoke such plots for re-allocation to establishments that are ready to develop their plots. The Minister noted that FCTA is desirous of bridging the housing deficit in the Territory by emphasising mass housing, especially through workers cooperatives. Bello commended the Commission for its support in the efforts towards establishing the right salaries of the teeming workforce of the country, a task, he noted, the Commission has discharged creditably over time.