THE suspended Executive Secretary (ES) of the National Health Insurance Scheme (NHIS), Prof. Usman Yusuf, yesterday forced his way into office in defiance to the directive of the organisation’s governing council. Workers were divided yesterday over his continuous stay in office. Some supported him and many others staged a protest against his leadership. Yusuf was last week sent on indefinite suspension for the second time in 15 months for some alleged infringement. The Executive Secretary had insisted that the council lacked the power to suspend him, arguing that it is only the President, who appointed him that could remove him from office. One of his aides, who had arrived ahead of the executive secretary, forced open the gate to allow the Yusuf’s car to go in. Members of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria struggled with policemen to bar the suspended executive secretary and his entourage from having access to the complex. While the workers blocked the road with their union vehicles, the police and a few operatives of Directorate of State Services (DSS)  helped him in, as he abandoned his official vehicle outside the gate. The crowd of protesters soon fled as police shot teargas and pepper spray into the air. Also, the workers were divided, with one group routing for his return and other want him to stay away. The group in support of his suspension tried to deny him access into the premises. Those supporting him also struggled to ensure he gained entrance. While all these was going on, policemen, who were stationed at the premises of the scheme as early as 7am to keep law and order, teargassed the crowd. At about 4:15pm yesterday, the suspended executive secretary was spotted leaving the office of the Minister of Health. He left the ministry in the convoy of three vehicles. A source at the ministry told The Nation that a Permanent Secretary from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation had met with the Minister and the chairperson of the of the council. Chairman of the NHIS chapter of the Association of Senior Civil Servants of Nigeria Abdulrazaq Omomeji said the governing board lived up to its role as an ambassador of the anti-corruption crusade of the President by suspending Yusuf. Reacting to Yusuf’s non-compliance with the suspension, Omomeji said the suspended ES misinterpreted the Act setting up the agency. Omomeji explained that the suspended executive secretary has a case of fraud, which is against the agenda of President Muhammadu Buhari. Also, the NHIS Chairman, Medical and Health and its joint union, Comrade Olawuyi Kayode, noted that the governing council which suspended the executive secretary has the mandate to suspend him, adding that the union was in support of the governing council’s decision. Kayode explained that Yusuf forced the management to sign billions of naira in the guise of investment. But, an employee who spoke for the embattled ES, Mohammad Gajo, said the governing council failed to back up its claim that the Minister of Health gave nod to the suspension with a letter. He, however, said only President Buhari could suspend or sack the suspended ES from office. “A faction of the union couldn’t allow us to have peace at NHIS. Prof. Usman has brought all his experience to bear to try and provide healthcare for all the people. The suspension, they claim they have the backing of the minister, but we have not seen any paper work. In public service, you need to see a paper work that says ‘I’m suspending you,’ we cannot work with the word of mouth,” he said. 