Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday attacked his opponent in today’s All Progressives Conngress (APC) primary, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, declaring him not proper and fit to lead the state. In a swift reaction, the former Commissioner for Establishment described as “shameless and untrue” the allegations made against him. Ambode also raised security alarm on todays’s shadow poll, alleging recruitment and arming of thugs. He spoke at a news conference at the Government House in Ikeja. Ambode urged the party leadership to have a re-think about Sanwo-Olu. He said: “Now the truth is this, the aspirant that is being put up to compete against us is a not fit and proper person. This is the truth, party leaders and party members have been misled to belive that he is a better candidate than myself. It is also known that he does not have the competence to do what he is being propelled to do. “We believe our leadership should rethink because the truth is this: I will not stand here on the mandate of Lagosians and allow our great party, APC to fritter away the opportunity to put in somebody that opposition will easily take out because of credibility. So I appeal to all our leaders, they should have a rethink. This is not about myself; it is about the greatest opportunity that APC stand to take the progress of Nigeria to a better place.” On why he made that assertion, Ambode alleged that Sanwo-Olu was arrested and detained for spending fake dollars in a club in the United States, and was also on rehabilitation at the Gbagada General hospital. Ambode denied planning to leave the APC because of opposition from party leaders. “I am a full blown member of APC and I am going no where,” he declared. He urged National Chairman Adams Oshiomhole and the party leadership to allow the tenets and principles of democracy by creating a level playground for all the aspirants at the direct primaries. “I plead with them to do the right thing and make the process credible,” Ambode said. He said reason must be allowed to prevail in the greater interest of APC, a party that is known for true democratic values and principles, adding that he stands for the Buhari/Osinbajo ticket and “we must not allow somebody who can’t sell that ticket to jeopardise our chances in the state”. ”In the last three and half years, Lagos has witnessed tremendous improvement in security and infrastructural development and with our performance we have brought in more members to APC. We want a clean contest, allow everybody to be part of the direct primaries and not just some people,” the governor said. He decried the political tension over the governorship primary, which he said had heightened insecurity and fear in the last two weeks. ”The current political situation has caused palpable tension and unnecessary fears among law abiding Lagosians. Security reports available to the State Government indicate that there is an ongoing recruitment and arming of political thugs to disrupt the tranquil atmosphere of Lagos State, in the guise of holding primary election. “As a responsible government that has invested so much in enhancing security of lives and property in the state to enable Lagosians pursue their lawful endeavours, we will not allow any disruptive elements to cause panic or wreak havoc that will affect the progressive strides which Lagosians are known for. This is more so that we have the assurances of our party leaders to conduct free and fair primary elections for aspirants into the various political offices. Ambode added that “It has become imperative to put every stakeholder on notice, especially the Federal Government and Security Agencies, to take more than a passing interest in the development in this State that has hitherto been adjudged as the safest city in Africa. He warned that the state government would do all within its powers in collaboration with relevant security agencies to protect citizens and insulate them from any condition that may breed insecurity or the breakdown of law and order in the State throughout the primaries, campaign and election periods. The governor urged Lagosians to be calm and go about their normal businesses and advised criminal elements “in their own interest, not to forment any trouble in the name of politics or under any guise, as the full wrath of the law will be brought to bear on any law breaker. ”Without being immodest, after three and half years of remarkable performance in bringing growth and development to our dear State, I have humbly expressed my intention to seek re-election in order to consolidate on the giant strides that we have recorded for our dear State and our great party, APC. This is why I once again seek the support of every party member in tomorrow’s primary election. We shall overcome,” Ambode said.