Even as achieving the Abuja master plan remains the battle cry of every minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT), current minister Muhammad Bello says he would like a city that will appeal to everyone. GBENGÀ OMOKHUNU reports Every minister before him has spoken of the Abuja master plan that will produce a dream capital city and enticing environs. They spoke of well laid-out streets with houses built according to the master plan, not a place where anyone can put up any structure anywhere they please. Under Nasir el-Rufai, now governor of Kaduna State, bulldozers were often deployed to tear down structures said to have violated the ultimate plan. Current minister of the FCT Malam Muhammad Bello also has his own vision of the nation’s capital, one that will accommodate people of all ages, and be relevant to generations unborn. That was why he  has directed  agencies and departments in charge of planning the city to evolve measures that would bring about inclusiveness at all levels. He said Abuja as a fast growing capital city should be planned in line with the current realities and in conformity with the international  standards which will be comprehensive in all phases. According to him, the planning  of Abuja would be more effective if traditional rulers and the youth are well represented in the scheme. Bello stated this on Wednesday at the inauguration of  Urban Thinkers Campus Implementation (UTC) committee in Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) conference hall. The minister called on the 20-member committee to adhere strictly to the 10 reference points it  mapped out  to enhanced the remodeling of Abuja city which everyone will be proud of. “Abuja is fast growing city and it must be plan in such a way that even generation unborn will come to enjoy” Recall that FCDA sometime last month put together an Urban  Thinkers Campus programme, which was party of UN habitat aimed at urban renewal agenda. The committee was constituted after the three days event to serve as drivers of the implementation. Bello said the committee members which comprises of all FCTA agencies and departments should work in line with  the Abuja master plan, advising them that despite their busy scheduled they should ensure that the needful is put in place. Responding, the committee chairman and Executive Secretary of FCDA, Engr Umar Jibrin assured the   FCT minister that the committee members will work within the terms of reference to bring about the desired planning of the Abuja city.