Son of the late Moses Olaiya Adejumo (Baba Sala), Emmanuel, on Monday, narrated how his father died. Speaking to our correspondent, he said the late comedian died in his sleep after dinner on Sunday. According to Emmanuel, his late father was discovered dead by his youngest wife, Funmilayo, who “went to his room to give him an information.” He said further: “Baba died last night around 6 O’clock.  He died at the age of 82. I was not there but his wife called the eldest son of the family immediately it happened and that one called me and narrated everything to me. His body had been taken to the mortuary. We will need to hold a meeting before we can fix a date for his burial. “I will miss so many things about my dad. He was a very lively person. He was always advising all of us even those that were not his biological children. He advised everyone equally. He would tell you what to do and guide you.” A neighbour simply identified as Sola described late Adejumo as a prayer warrior. He said he was very accommodating and related very well with everyone. According to Emmanuel,  though Baba Sala was not wealthy, “he was rich in the knowledge of God and he had a wealth of experience. He would tell us that his own father did not encourage him to be a comedian, that he didn’t have anybody to advise him when he was growing up but he was always guiding us and praying for us.” Sympathisers have started visiting his house at Ijoka Street, along Ijebu-Jesa road in Ilesa, Osun State, to commiserate with the Adejumo family. Some of them are members of his Cherubim and Seraphim Church, Isida, Ilesa. A member of the Church, who did not mention his name because he said he was not authorised to speak on “baba’s death, only said late Adejumo was a role model to many of them in the community. Osun State governor-elect, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, condoled with the Adejumo family, the people of Osun State and Nigeria as well as the theatre practitioners for the loss, saying the late Adejumo was an enduring phenomenon in traditional theater. He said: “Growing up to know his dexterity in drama and stage performance actually situated leisure and recreation among the people of Southwest alongside legends like Hubert Ogunde, Duro Ladipo and Ojo Ladipo a.k.a.  Baba Mero. “His great capabilities actually materialized in those worthy legends who passed through his tutelage like King Sunny Ade and others. The entire entertainment industry has lost an encyclopedia of benevolent sarcasm because his works were not mere humour.”