A crisis is brewing in the Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) over the Lagos Central senatorial ticket for next year’s election. Four aspirants are jostling for the ticket. They are: Chief Adesunbo Onitiri, a successful estate surveyor/valuer who is also the General Secretary of Lagos Elders Council; Mr. Kolawole Vaughan and two others. There are agitations over an unpopular aspirant, whose name was said to have been illegally submitted to the party’s national secretariat in Abuja. The aspirant is believed to be least popular, least competent and least credible for the ticket. In a letter, dated October 8, to the party’s National Chairman, Uche Secondus, in Abuja, and its state chairman in Ikeja, the party’s local government chairmen in the senatorial district said Chief Adesunbo David Onitiri’s name was forwarded as the consensus candidate for the seat. Titled: Selection Of Chief Adesunbo David Onitiri As Consensus Candidate For Lagos Central Senatorial, the letter reads: “We, the undersigned leaders in Lagos Central Senatorial District, wish to inform you that we have unanimously selected Chief Adesunbo David Onitiri as the consensus candidate for the Lagos Central Senatorial District. “After proper review of the shoddy election process, which was poorly organised and failed two attempts at the primary, the leaders in the Lagos Central took this decision in view of our readiness to present our candidate for the general election in 2019. “We have reviewed the credentials of the four aspirants as regards their integrity. We have come to the conclusion that Chief Onitiri is the most qualified, most credible and most competent. We shall be grateful for your kind consideration and positive action on our request.” The letter was jointly signed by Dr Amos Fawole, Alhaji Alfa Adeoye (Chairman, Surulere Local Government Area), Mr Kehinde Fasasi (Chairman, Eti-Osa), Mr. Rotimi Kujore, Mr. Malomo (State Exco), Mr. Mike Kolawole (Vice Chairman, Apapa) and Ajisefini Fatai (Acting Chairman, Apapa). Lagos Central Leaders who signed the letter include Senator Kofo Bucknor-Akerele, Board of Trustees (BoT) Member, Lagos and Mr. Adeniyi Adams, State Youth Leader. The party leaders noted that if the PDP desires to win in Lagos, it should field credible, popular and electorally valuable candidates. 