President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday commiserated with the judiciary family following the death of one-time Chief Justice of Nigeria (CJN) Idris Legbo Kutigi. Flags in the judicial arm of government are flying at half mast as directed by CJN Walter Onnoghen. A seven-day mourning period has also been declared. Niger State Governor Abubakar Sani-Bello and Inspector Genral of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris, extoled the virtues of the departed ex-CJN Justice Kutigi (CJN Jan. 30, 2007 to Dec. 30 2009) died on Saturday in London at the age of 78. He would have been 79 later in the year having been born on December 31, 1939 in his hometown Kutigi, Niger State. His eldest son, Sani, who confirmed his death, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Minna that “We are making arrangements to transport our father back for burial.” The late Kutigi left behind 18 children and over 40 grandchildren. He served as the Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice in Niger State until 1976, when he was appointed High Court judge. Kutigi served in that position for more than a decade and joined the Supreme Court in 1992. After 10 years at the Supreme Court, former President Olusegun Obasanjo appointed him  to succeed Justice Salihu Alfa Belgore, who retired on January 17, 2007. President Buhari in a condolence message by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity Femi Adesina commiserated with members of the judiciary and legal profession. The president also condoled with the government and people of Niger State on the death of the eminent jurist. The President said the late CJN will be long remembered and honoured for his visionary roles and contributions in the advances our country has made towards building a strong, independent and impartial judiciary, which is sine qua non for democracy to thrive. He also believed that Kutigi’s “bold and articulate judicial decisions, advocacies on access to justice for all and protection of judicial independence are extant signposts for the advancement of the noble profession in the country and beyond.” In a message by Onnoghen’s media aide Awassam Bassey, the CJN said he received with sadness the death of one ofhis predecessors: “The CJN, on behalf of the Nigerian Judiciary and, indeed, all Nigerians, commiserates with the family of the deceased former CJN and urges them to take solace in the fact that their patriarch lived to the fullness of age and served his country diligently, rising to become the Chief Justice of Nigeria, the highest office in the third arm of government. “As a mark of deserved honour to the deceased jurist, the Hon. Chief Justice of Nigeria has directed that the Nigerian national flag in the premises of the Supreme Court of Nigeria, the CJN’s official residence in the Three Arms Zone of Abuja, all Judiciary institutions including the National Judicial Council (NJC), the National Judicial Institute (NJI) and the Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC), as well as all Courts of Records in the country, should be flown at half-mast for a duration of seven days. “Similarly, the CJN has instructed the Chief Registrar of the Supreme Court to open condolence registers at both foyers of the court to enable Honourable Justices of the court and other well-wishers to pay their last respects.” Governor Sani-Bello said the “late Justice Kutigi is uniquely endowed Nigerian, a man of integrity who has indeed paid his dues in the service of his country in particular and humanity in general.” IGP Idris in a condolence message said: “His death is a huge loss not only to Kutigi people, Bida Emirate, but also to Niger state and the nation as a whole.” The “late Kutigi was an elder statesman, an exemplary leader and a bridge builder who has contributed immensely to the peace and development of the country”. “Even after his tenure as the Chief Justice of Nigeria, he continued with all his good attributes of ensuring justice, peace, unity and progress of not only the state but the country at large.” According to the police chief, “the late Kutigi showed love to all and sundry, irrespective of their tribe, religious inclination and in spite of these, he was a Godly man who had the interest of his people at heart above any other thing. “The was a bridge builder, an amiable personality who is at home with his people, whose vacuum would be difficult to fill,” he added. Senate President Bukola Saraki, Edo State Governor Godwin Obaseki, Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate Atiku Abubakar yesterday mourned ex-Chief Justice of Nigeria Idris Kutigi. Also comiserating with the family of the late jurist are the Arewa Consultative Forum (ACF) and the PDP. Saraki described Kutigi as a “honourable jurist”” in a statement by Yusuph Olaniyonu, his spokesman. The ACF expressed gried while Atiku, in a statement by his media adviser Paul Ibe, said Kutigi showed a great capacity for leadership and broadminded disposition.”