The President of the Christ Apostolic Church (CAC) worldwide, Pastor Abraham Akinosun on Thursday urged Nigerians to vote for a Godly man in the forthcoming 2019 presidential election. Akinosun said same applies to other elective offices across the country. He spoke in Abuja at the official dedication  ceremony of the newly built CAC complex, Medaiyese regional headquarters, Garki-Abuja. The clergy man advised all those yet to collect their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in preparation for next year’s general elections to do so, pleading with Christians to pray constantly for leaders and the 2019 general elections. The CAC boss said: “Because of our lack of prayers maybe that is why our leaders are misbehaving. If we know our roles as representatives of God and try to fulfill our roles God will be leading them aright on what they should do.” His words: “My message for Nigerians in general is that I am urging all and our leaders to look into the lord for solution to the numerous problems facing the country. We should look unto God for change of our behaviors and move nearer to God and call on him to help us. “We have to be Godly in all our steps and everything that we should do as a good Christian is to be praying constantly. “As the 2019 general election is approaching it is our duty to tell all those that have not  collected their Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) in preparation for next year’s general elections. PVCs to go and do so. One of the duties of a good citizen is to vote for a Godly man. This time around I am not begging People to vote for party, they should vote for a Godly man and Godly men around them that they know if he or she is voted into office the person will perform. “Any Christian who feels that he or she is called to meet the needs of people. People are suffering and what to change the situation the person can go into politics. They should have good intention.” Many of the church leaders and members from across the country gathered in Abuja for the dedication.