Ginger is among the the healthiest spice on earth and its loaded with nutrients and bio-active compounds that have powerful benefits to our body. The most important bio active compound in ginger is the GINGEROL Gingerol is the main bio-active compound that have powerful benefits to our body and is the isometric compounds responsible for the heat of ginger Ginger can be used fresh, dried or as a juice. Although ginger is considered safe,it is advisable to talk to your doctor before taking large amount especially for pregnant women and nursing mothers. 1. IMPROVES DIGESTION
Ginger contains volatile oils that can help awaken your taste buds and gets the juice flowing.It purifies the mouth and stimulates the production of saliva which aids the digestion process.Having a combination of ginger juice,salt and lime before or after a meal makes it easier to digest your food 2. HELPS CURE DYSMENORRHEA
Dysmenorrhea also known as painful periods or menstrual cramps,refers to pain felt during a woman’s menstrual cycle and one of the traditional uses of ginger is for pain relief during menstrual pain. A ginger juice is made and taken before and after menstruation. 3. FIGHTS CANCER AND ACTS AS ANTI-AGEING
Ginger is also packed with antioxidants that help protect the body from cancer,particularly ovarian cancer .Antioxidants also protect the skin from free-radical damage that affects collagen production,helping you look younger. 4. ANTI-NAUSEA
Many people have been told to drink ginger tea when they feel nauseous.This is because ginger has been shown to reduce nausea connected with everything from motion sickness to pregnancy to chemotherapy. The rapid absorption of ginger helps it to regulate a person’s bodily functions without the side effects of many modern anti-nausea medications. 5. HELPS MANAGE BLOOD SUGAR LEVEL
Research suggests that ginger can help keep blood glucose levels in check.This is important because these levels have a direct impact on weight loss and weight gain. If you’ve noticed that you are feeling a mid-day crash its likely due to your blood sugar levels. Adding ginger to your lunch might help you stay focused and on task. Think of ginger as an all-natural alternative. Apart from all these medicinal benefits of ginger, ginger is a spice that adds flavor and aroma to our cooking, so the next time you are cooking you can as well add some ginger powder to your food for that amazing aroma.