The Petroleum and Natural Gas Senior Staff Association of Nigeria (PENGASSAN) Wednesday condemned the manner that the Ministry of Interior and the Nigeria Customs Service are corroborating with the expatriates in the oil and gas industry to deny Nigerians their benefits. Addressing journalists in Abuja on the 40th anniversary of the association that is billed to hold on Thursday, the association’s President, Comrade Francis Johnson, said that in the industry, “the challenges are very enormous.” The theme of the 40th anniversary, according to him, is “labour fueling the economy.” He said: “There is a challenge where we have the Ministry of Interior, Customs corroborating with expatriates to make sure that Nigerians do not get their benefits.” He also decried the issue of job auctioning and capital flight as some of the challenges bedeviling the sector at the moment. Johnson expressed worry that “You also talk about the issue of job auctioning; Nigerians are experience capital flight from the jobs that should have been done in Nigeria taken to Dubai and somewhere else whereas there are some Nigerians that are capable of doing it.” He complained that in some of the International Oil Companies (IOCs) there are still security apparatus that are being headed by foreigners whereas during ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo administration there was a policy that any foreigner that has served in any of the country’s apparatus should not head the IOCs security in Nigeria. Another challenge that he highlighted was the abuse of the right and privilege of the oil and gas workers by their employers. Commenting on the collaboration among the unions and the government, he said “we have collaborated with the employers as far as possible to see that the interests are protected.” He advised the government to ensure that it start engaging labour in dialogue from the beginning of an ultimatum instead of waiting till the dying minute. On minimum wage, he urged the government to give workers their dues, adding that that government should adopt a wage and its review timeline to settle the wage issue instead of giving the citizenry the impression that labour is insensitive to their plight. Johnson, however, noted that the association has made remarkable progress in the last few years that include the engagement of government to settle the cash call. He recalled that the association played a major role in the attainment of democracy that the country now enjoys. The labour leader said that “the greatest role that the association and other played was the time of June 12.  That time it was very tough and our members were incarcerated.” He appealed to politicians to always identify the role that labour played in the attainment of democracy, stressing that the politicians should ensure political stability. The association, he said, has ensured that the oil and gas industry fetches the country more revenue.  It has also contributed to the advocacy for the passage of the Petroleum Industry Bill.