No fewer than 6000 unemployed youths in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) will benefit from an organic fertiliser and waste recycling project about to kick off there. The project initiated by the Agriculture Graduates Association of Nigeria (AGAN) is meant to create jobs, promote environmental sustainability in the territory while the processing plant will be located at the popular Gosa Dump site. National President of AGAN, Dr. Egbuta Michael, during a briefing in Abuja explained that a tripartite agreement have already been signed with the Federal Capital Territory Administration and Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development. Michael said the project will fully commence as soon as the funding is secured but other pre-activities is expected to start after the scheduled stakeholders meeting. He expressed concern on the huge tons of wastes being generated daily in the territory but poorly managed except for intervention of waste scavengers. According to him, the idea is to convert the wastes such as plastics, aluminum cans, and other non-biodegradable items into raw materials for other products. “The produced organic fertiliser will be used for farming and sold to other farms while the non-biodegradable waste components such as metals, glass wares are to be processed into recycled materials and sold to local manufacturing industries.” He added that, “a cluster will work in a common facility utilization outfit, which will involve building of standard material recovery facility. It will be compartmentalized into a general waste dumping or sorting bay, metal baling section, plastic crushing and shredding, organic shredding section among others.” However, he noted that funding for the project will be sourced through crowd funding with donations from prominent Nigerians and private firms such as Julius Berger. He said stakeholders meeting to be chaired by the Ooni of Ife, Oba Babatunde Ogunwunsi will be organised ahead of the event kickoff. “Earnings by cooperatives will be by earn-as-you-work basis as records of each member contribution will be kept in a cooperative Bank account,” Egbuta said. Representative from the Department of Agriculture Extension Service, Federal Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Developement, Ime Umoh described the initiative as timely due to ongoing efforts of the current administration to tackle unemployment. Umoh pledged to support the project and drive it to success, stressing that it falls within mandate of the ministry.