The colourful display of the nation’s culture and tradition ended on a high-note in Port Harcourt yesterday as 25 participating states showcased the diversity of the nation at the National Festival of Arts and Culture (NAFEST 2018). NAFEST 2018 which was described as a masterstroke saw Rivers State emerging as the overall best state of the festival.  Bayelsa State placed second, Ondo State took third place, while Federal Capital Territory emerged fourth place and overall fifth place went to Delta State. Traditional musicians, cultural dancers, traditional acrobats and masquerades displayed during the closing ceremony at the Sharks Stadium in Port Harcourt. Top government officials from different  states of the federation were led by the Rivers State Governor, Nyesom Wike, his Ebonyi State counterpart, Dave Umahi, the Abia State Governor, Dr Okezie Ikpeazu and the Director General of National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe joined thousands of spectators to appreciate the rich cultural heritage of Nigeria. Speaking at the closing ceremony, Wike said that NAFEST is not  just a competition, but a platform to promote the culture of the country. He said: “I see NAFEST not as a competition, but a showcase of our diversity and cultural heritage. “Let us use culture to unite this country. The entire country is here and we are celebrating in unity.  Apart from sports, culture is the uniting factor in Nigeria”. He described Rivers State as the economic nerve centre of the country, which is the most peaceful state for investment and hosting of events. “With the successful and peaceful hosting of NAFEST 2018, we have made another statement that Rivers State is safe and secure. Rivers State has hosted the PDP National Convention, NAFEST and the Presidential Visit without hitches”, he said. The Rivers State Governor announced cash gifts of five million naira to each of the participating 25 states. Ebonyi State Governor, Dave Umahi said if politics and religion have failed the nation, culture will unite the country and enhance her greatness. He said that NAFEST Rivers 2018 will serve as a springboard for the greatness of the country. Director General of the National Council for Arts and Culture, Otunba Segun Runsewe said the outstanding Rivers Show proves that Nigeria is a great country. Chairman of the events, Chief Ferdinand Alabrabra said that NAFEST 2018 did not disappoint as it achieved the core objectives of the festival. He said NAFEST 2018 has set a new standard by which future events would be measured across the country.   Highpoint of the closing ceremony was the presentation of different categories of prizes  to winners. There was a colourful closing parade by the states, while guests witnessed a star performance by International Musician, Duncan Mighty. 