The Federal Government and Conservation International (CI) have signed a five-year agreement for the development of the National Parks. The tripartite agreement was signed among CI Senior Vice President, Africa Field Division, Michael O’Brien-Onyeka, Conservator General of the National Parks Ibrahim Goni and the Executive Director of Human Rights Advancement, Development and Advocacy Centre (HURIDAC), Ayodele Ameen, in Abuja. At the pact signing, O’Brien-Onyeka said the partnership would include fund mobilisation from the Global Environment Fund to strengthen the service, build capacity of forest rangers well as improve livelihoods of the host communities in the states hosting the parks. He emphasised that the implementation process would be gradual as it is expected to further improve wildlife protection. “Conservation International believes that forest protection must have people at its centre. We are working to realise the Sustainable Development Goals especially through nature, clean air, water and protecting the ecosystem. “So, the scale of challenge is not a quick fix but a gradual process. At the moment the MoU is for 5 years. “We have used the MoU to capture range of areas we can collaborate. The next step is for the technical team of national parks, CI and other partners. When it comes to training and employment of rangers, we may have a different team that might dona better job.” “For instance, if it is to allow a more robust wildlife enforcement system, which might require changes in the law, then we will get more legal people to work on the draft legislation to work with the parliament. “There are additional funding coming for wildlife specifically within the GEF that does not affect the star allocation of the country,” O’Brien-Onyeka added. Goni applauded the international body for its commitment to supporting the service though the partnership. He pledged to provide needed support to ensure the partnership yields result. Executive Director of the implementing partner, Ameer Bashir said it took over 24 weeks of planning and meetings before the agreement could become a reality. Applauding the seriousness of the service, Ameer restated commitment of development organisations to improving the NPS.