An NGO based in Zaria,  Arewa Youth Trust Foundation has commenced the training of 200 youths on computer literacy in Sabongari, Zaria, Kaduna State. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the training, which is expected to last six weeks, drew 50 beneficiaries each from Sabongari, Bomo, Tudun-Wada and Zaria-city in Sabongari and Zaria Local Government Areas respectively. Speaking during the formal flag-off of the training at the District Head’s office, Sabongari on Sunday, the District Head of Sabongari in Zazzau Emirate, Alhaji Ahmed Bashar-Aminu, lauded the foresight of the NGO. While describing the efforts as gigantic, sound and innovative, the district head said the training would not only benefit the participants but also the entire society. Bashar-Aminu, who is also the  traditional title holder of Dan-Barhin Zazzau, pledged to liaise with Zazzau Emirate Council to boost and spread the activities of the NGO across the emirate to enable other youths benefit from the programme. He called on the participants to make judicious use of the knowledge acquired for their personal gains and to positively impact on the society in general. Presenting a paper entitled: “Talks on Computer Literacy”, the Head of Computer Science Department, Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Prof. Sahalu Junaid said computer has now become the-in-thing globally.   Junaid, who was represented by Dr Dishing Salihu, observed that computer has now become a most in the day-to-day life which must be embraced in all spheres of life to achieve success. In his remarks, the Executive Director, Arewa Youths Trust Foundation, Alhaji Fahad Ahmed-Chikaji, said the essence of the training was to enable the youths get acquainted with the rudiments of Information and Communication Technology (ICT). He said the NGO had earlier conducted series of sensitisation and enlightenment campaigns covering health, education, advocacy policy and campaign, peace building and social investment. Fahad-Chikaji said the NGO had outlined a number of programmes aimed at changing the lives of the youth for the better to pave way for a genuine better society in future. The executive director urged the trainees to avail themselves of the unique opportunity to not only become self-reliant but also future employers of labour. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the training programme also featured sensitisation on negative consequences of drug abuse and thuggery as well as importance of peaceful coexistence in the society.