The project started with three staff, one of whom a nurse, one other person and himself consulting from a plastic table in a room. At the time Dr Sunday Onu had chalked up over 10 years of practice, whereupon he felt he could give more where he was in charge. That was the beginning of 30-bed Deda Hospital, which has been launched in Jahi-Katampe, Abuja. It is now about 12 years ago since the project started. Chief Medictor  Director of Deda Hospital, Dr. Onu said, “We started with three staff including myself, consulting in a room with a plastic table. Most of our patients had trust in our services, with some paying in advance for treatment that they are yet to access. That is how we started. We accepted every criticism and challenges thrown at the team and took correction. “God has been helping us at Deda hospital. When we wanted to start the project, a lot of obstacles came up but today, we are unveiling this project.” “Given excellence in a conducive atmosphere, we are here praying for divine healing for all that we do here. The hospital which started as women and children hospital, he also announced have changed and hence change in logo. Onu also called for government support for private hospitals as it has a big role to play in health care delivery, stressing that public hospitals alone cannot meet the needs of the populace. He also urged government to increase the spread of Health Insurance Scheme as a way of reducing cost of accessing health care in the country. He said: “Government can come in, in terms of waving duties for medical equipment and drugs coming in, if that is done the end users will get it at a low cost, government can also subsidize importation of this equipment, get involved, have a central store, bring it in and distribute to your private individuals at a subsidised rate. “But the call of subsidised health delivery in any nation is insurance, that’s the national health insurance of government, the private health insurance we have not gotten it, only very few are benefiting from the insurance scheme, government need to expand because the scheme is reaching only people who are working with the government and only a little percent of the populace are working with the government”. Supporting Onu’s call for government support for private hospital so as to reduce medical tourism, a Member of the House of Representatives, Olusegun Dokun Odebunmi called for the establishment of a platform where Nigerians can approach to secure loans with minimum interest to help establish and develop the economy. Odebunmi who spoke at the ground opening of hospital, stressed the importance of the private sector in engineering economic growth and development as government alone cannot meet the yearning of the teeming young graduates seeking white collar jobs. He said: “It is only private driving economy that can survive this country especially in the aspect of medical sector investment. if private institutions can be given access to a lot of funds they can bring a lot into the system and save Nigerians from going abroad for medical challenges. There is nothing they cannot do provided they have access to fund. “And Nigeria medical personnel are very sound, the only problem we have is equipment, if they can get equipment they will do wonderfully well,” he said. The Chief Medical Director, Abuja Teaching Hospital, Prof. Bissallah Ahmed Ekele who commended Onu for his foresight, saying that the project is a challenge to those in public service. He hope that the services rendered at Deda will be great and successful given the atmosphere and equipment available at the hospital.