Alhaji Sadiq Sule-Iko, the Chairman, Governing Board, Federal Medical Centre ( FMC ), Keffi, Nasarawa State, has advised the general public to disregard rumours that the hospital is recruiting workers. This is contained in a statement issued by Malam Jamil Nagogo, the Public Relation Officer (PRO) of the centre, and made available to the News Agency of Nigeria on Thursday in Keffi. The statement said Sule-Iko gave the advice when he led the Medical Director of the centre, Dr Yahaya Adamu, and other management team on a courtesy visit to the Emir of Keffi, Dr Shehu Chindo Yamusa III, in Keffi. It explained that the visit was informed by the strength of speculations gaining ground in and around Keffi to the effect that the management of the centre had recently recruited new employees. According to the statement, the board chairman dismissed the rumour, assuring that the governing board will investigate and get to the root of the matter. It said the chairman warned the general public against spreading rumours inimical to the peace and progress of the society. “His Royal Highness, the centre is not recruiting, I want to debunk the rumours going around that the centre is recruiting,” the statement quoted Sule-Iko saying. It stated that the board would not embark on such exercise without informing the traditional ruler and host community.
“The Board Chairman assured the Emir of the board’s readiness to consult him for fatherly advice, guidance and support at all times in order to move the centre to greater height,’’ it said. The statement added that the chairman expressed appreciation to the Emir for his continued support and assistance to the management of the centre and called for its sustenance. Responding, Yamusa III commended the team for the visit and prayed God to give them the wisdom and courage to pilot the affairs of the hospital creditably. The Emir, however, confirmed to the board chairman that there was indeed tension in Keffi regarding the alleged recruitment.
The first class traditional ruler assured that as the chief custodian of his people, he would not watch tension rising in his domain without intervening and subduing it. The emir advised the management to always follow due process in running the affairs of the centre so as to ensure sanity in the system in the interest and progress of the centre and the country at large.