Artisans and tradesmen are some of the largest employment generators in Lagos. The state is retraining them to meet the challenge of a growing economy, DANIEL ESSIET  reports. SOME tradesmen and artisans – metal fitters and machinists, carpenters, motor mechanics, plumbers and others – are in high demand. But there is a shortage of qualified tradies as they are called. They are a vital arm of the economy, especially the construction industry. To provide a qualified and trained workforce  for its economic growth, Lagos State has intensified the training of artisans and tradesmen. The training is also aimed at building their capacities to enable the state to develop world-class artisans well equipped and skilled to face global competition. At the ninth edition of Tradesmen and Artisans’ Week and graduation for re-trained artisans with the theme: “Growing Capacity for a Dynamic Economy: The Artisans Perspective.” Lagos State Governor Mr Akinwunmi Ambode said for the economy to grow, the capacity of tradesmen must be strengthened. ”It is generally accepted today that the advancement of a nation from poverty is not a technical process, but rather a transformation process. At the centre of this transformational process are two driving forces: emotion and enlightenment. These factors are essential in determining the economic growth and development of a nation. And these factors come to play in the quest for success of our tradesmen and artisans. ”Our government will continue to work in collaboration with relevant stakeholders to design and execute programs to enhance the productivity of Tradesmen and Artisans,” the Governor said. Ambode, who was represented by the Secretary to the State Government, Tunji Bello, said: “You can, therefore, rest assured of the continued sustenance of this programme by an All Progressives Congress (APC)-controlled government in Lagos State. We thank all organisations and individuals from the organised private sector that have joined hands with us in our determination to improve the competence and socio-economic condition of our artisans. “Our government will continue to work in collaboration with relevant stakeholders to design and executive programmes, to enhance the productivity of tradesmen because, growing the capacity of tradesmen and artisans remain a key component that we cannot afford to ignore,” Ambode added. According to him, retraining provides income-earning opportunities to Nigerians, teaching and helping them to launch sustainable businesses of their own, and connect them to global markets. He said the state has forged a unique partnership with artisans and tradesmen, enabling them tap into a growing services market. In the last three years, the government through the Ministry of Wealth Creation and Employment, has shown unwavering commitment to tradesmen and artisans, and in addition to providing a platform for individuals and groups to contribute their quota to developing the state. “In line with our policy of inclusion, we have committed to invest heavily on the programme that has benefited individuals and groups, particularly under the state Employment Trust Fund. Through these programmes, we have succeeded in giving a higher sense of belonging to artisans and Tradesmen in Lagos State. Our Artisans have now stepped up and are updating thier skills to meet up with global standards and changing expectations,” Ambode explained. Ambode assured people of the state that the next All Progressives Congress (APC) Governor will sustain his programmes and policies in the state.  One of the most significant initiatives is the online artisans’ market place, a government-wide initiative, which utilises technology to showcase tradesmen’s services to all citizens in an efficient and cost effective manner. Ambode said the online market place was one of the ways to leverage internet access as a way to increase artisans’ availability to markets with improved visibility and discoverability of their products. Commissioner for Wealth Creation and Employment Mrs Uzamat Akinbile-Yusuf said the state would continue to promote and sustain entrepreneurship and employment through effective use of wealth creation strategies and resources by collaborating with all stakeholders. The Commissioner said the Tradesmen and Artisans week, which was the third edition of the programme under the current administration, recognised the contributions of the informal sector to the development of the economy. On the online portal, the Commissioner said it was designed to cater to all artisans regardless of their educational background. The commissioner said the portal will ensure that certified artisans have the opportunity of showcasing their products and services to the world. She also said the second edition of artisans and tradesmen compendium has been produced for sale at the ministry Other achievements, according to the Commissioner, include the release of the annual N12million subvention to the Lagos State Council of Tradesmen and Artisans, the training of 1,500 artisans by Lagos State Technical and Vocational Education Board (LASTVEB) under the Lagos State Tradesmen and Artisans Empowerment Programme (LASTAEP). A significant number of tradesmen and artisans, accorduing to the commissioner, were able to access the Lagos State Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) loans. Lagos State Council of Tradesmen and Artisans LASCOTA president, Mr Nurudeen Buhari, expressed delight for government’s support to the association in the last three years. He lauded  the Governor for fulfilling his promise on the credit facility scheme granted to his members through the state Employment Trust Fund. Buhari urged the government to provide a befitting secretariat for the council and employment for graduates, qualified for various openings. He also said the government should patronise products and brands for the government projects which are civil work, paintings, granite supply and sewing of the government uniforms. The graduation is held annually after the tradesmen must have undergone eight weeks capacity training. Awards were presented to the Best managed zonal body association; Alimosho Construction Workers, Most socially responsible; Lagos State Tie and Dye Association; Best managed state body association; Lagos State Tailor and Fashion Designer Association of Nigeria; Leadership Award (female category), Mrs Idayat Lawal; Leadership award (male category), Arch.C.A .Olowe and Life achievement award to the former President LASCOTA, High Chief Bola Sanusi. One of the graduating trainees, Mrs Folasade Idowu, urged the government to sustain the training of tradesmen and artisans in the state.