A group identified as Buhari National Votes Guards and Awareness on Monday reacted to the emergence of the former Vice President, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar as the presidential candidate of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), saying that, Atiku cannot rule Nigeria. The group said the former Vice President is no match for President Muhammadu Buhari, as they opined that, his political background has been marred with corruption allegations. The Coordinator of the group, Engineer Kailani Muhammad at a press conference in Kaduna on Monday however described Atiku’s emergence as a good omen for President Buhari. Kailani said “the main fact however, according to the majority of Nigerians is that for a certainty, Atiku Abubakar is no match for president Muhammadu Buhari in the presidential election of 2019 because of his alleged political corrupt marred background and President Muhammadu Buhari’s antecedent as a man of impeccable pedigree that is focused towards building a socio-political and economic development. He explained that the former Vice President before securing his ticket under PDP has made four unsuccessful attempts to get a party ticket to contest for the presidency, but “he is not suitable to lead Nigeria at this moment,” as Nigerians have made their stand. Kailani explained that, “Politics in our country today is big-time business. The only impediment for actualization of aspirations in the space in our mother Nigeria is the financial capacity and muscle. It is in no doubt either that Atiku has both in abundance. Nigerians are aware that those with the financial muscle to procure the venture hope to reap a million fold. He said the Buhari’s government has achieved in 3 years, what previous administrations failed to achieve in 16 years, which includes rapid economic growth, transformation in power sector, education, empowerment of Nigerians and among others. While commending the president’s achievements so far in the fight against corruption and insecurity, Kailani also remarked that “Mr President has taken a giant stride to improve the image of the country at the global stage. This are the glaring evidences on ground that some politicians refused to acknowledge,” he said.