Vice President  Yemi Osinbajo yesterday described the flood that ravaged some communities in Bayelsa State as a ‘monumental disaster.’ Osinbajo, who spoke at the Internally Displaced People’s (IDP) camp, Igbogene, on the outskirts of Yenagoa,the state capital,  said his visit was to assess the extent of damage caused by the flood. He said that he undertook an over-fly on a helicopter from the Port Harcourt International Airport through the flooded communities in Rivers and those within Yenagoa metropolis. The vice president observed that the exercise had made him realise the degree of suffering the flood had thrown many of the victims into. Osinbajo commended the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) and its state counterpart, SEMA, for their efforts in assisting the flood victims. He pledged the assistance of the Federal Government to resettle the victims and provide them means of livelihood to start life anew as soon as the flood was over. He said his visit along with the Director-General of NEMA and the Minister of Environment was to demonstrate the seriousness the federal government attached to the welfare of flood victims. The vice president also assured the people that as soon as he returned to Abuja, the federal government would  re-strategise  and get back to the state. In a related development, the Federal Government (FG)  yesterday assured the victims of flood impacted local government areas,  communities of Rivers State of the commitment to rehabilitate them as the return to their communities. The FG also promised to address the problem of perennial flooding of the coastal communities of Rivers state by building more canals and channelisation of the rivers to avoid further disaster. The FG made the statement when the Vice President (VP),  Prof. Yomi Osinbajo visited the Internally Displaced Persons’ (IDP),  camp in Okegbe in Ahoada West yesterday. Prof.  Osinbajo, who had earlier visited the areas submerged in the flood before going to address the victims, said,  “We over flew the whole of Ahoada West LGA and we saw so much of the damage and disaster. Most homes, most of the villages are under water and it is very clear this is a disaster of enormous proportions. “No doubt there is need for immediate intervention, as I thank the Rivers State government for what it has done so far in trying to curtail the problem. Fortunately, the  NEMA has also been working very hard alongside the state emergency agencies.