The fact is that no matter how we try to do things carefully or rightly, there are still some mistakes that we never know we make. Such mistakes are often made in the toilet, bathroom, shower, etc. Flushing the toilet while the lid is open Most people do not actually take note of this error without knowing that the lid is meant to be closed while flushing in order to keep the gross particles in the toilet and out of air. A Microbiologist from the University of Arizona, Charles Gerba said that fecal matters and urine can fly as far as six feet away from the toilet bowl during each flush. Rubbing your body aggressively with towel It is better to pat your body dry to maintain the lipids, proteins and fatty acids that protect your skin from irritation and could be removed if you rub your body aggressively with a towel. Not rinsing your body well Many, especially the male gender, do not rinse their body well which could lead to irritation and blocked pores that can cause acne (pimples). Throwing wet wipes into the toilet Many people have the mindset that wipes are flushable being ignorant of the harm it causes by blocking sewage systems. According to research conducted by Consumer Reports, some personal cleansing wipes still could not break down in the water after ten minutes compared to regular toilet paper which disintegrate within seconds. Sanitary napkins, tampons, condoms, band aids and dental floss are toiletries that should also not be flushed down the toilet. Sitting on water closet for too long It is true that the neat toilet is a conducive and quiet place to read, chat, scroll through social media, etc which most people do. Sitting on that ceramics seat for more than ten minutes puts a lot of pressure on the veins of the lower rectum which can cause hemorrhoids (piles). Just know that the toilet is not for your ‘me’ time. Piling your hair on your head as you shampoo Have you ever wondered why your hair gets tangled when shampooing? Well, it is simply because you pile your hair on top of your head while shampooing. It is advised that it is best to shampoo your hair in its natural positions to get a better locks. Pooing too hard It is advised not to force out strong, hard, stubborn, large and constipated poo-poo. It is better to increase your intake of water and fiber, engage in exercise regularly and try squatting for a few seconds which will reduce the pressure on the veins down there that boost the risk of hemorrhoids. Not rinsing your bar soap in between use This error is common. According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), pathogenic organisms may be hiding out on bar soap during and after use. To be on the safer side, you should rinse the bar soap before and after use in order to rinse off the germs. Placing toilet brush back into its hold immediately after use Let the brush get dry completely in order not to aid in breeding of toilet germs and moisture. Don’t peek at your poo-poo As gross as it may sound, it is very necessary to see what comes out of your butt because it reveals some things about your health. Cleaning your ear with cotton swabs Research has it that, it’s important to realize nothing should be placed inside the ear to remove dirt and debris. This is dangerous and could cause hearing loss or a damaged ear canal or eardrum. Chewing and talking help you move the wax from your inner ear outward. So limit your swabbing to just the external crevices of your ear and not your ear canal. Sponging your body too hard Washing your body with your hands is better and safer than aggressively sponging your body too hard.  Doing the latter, will only aid in removing the skin’s natural protective barrier. Washing your private part back to front The private part should be carefully washed from front to back and not back to front in order to prevent bacteria from entering the penis and vagina which causes deadly infections. Keeping your toothbrush too close to the toilet The American Dental Association advised that toothbrush should be stored separately in an upright position in a dry area to prevent the bacteria that seeks for refuge in toothbrush. Your toothbrush should be kept about four feet away from the toilet and sink. Forgetting to clean your toothbrush It is important to clean your toothbrush regularly before and after use, soak your toothbrush in a cup of vinegar for about 30 minutes and it needs to be changed every three months. Using hot water to wash your hands Why waste resources and time using hot water to wash your hands when studies shows that cold water can reduce the level of bacteria hot water does in your hands. It is left for you to scrub rinse and dry their hands properly. Hot water dries your skin more than cold and lukewarm water does.  Additional information from: https://www.healthyhearing.com/help/hearing-loss/causes https://www.rd.com/health/wellness/toilet-mistakes/ https://www.rd.com/health/bathroom-mistakes-you-never-knew-you-made/