A Federal Peace and Conflict Resolution Commission to address the prevalent farmers-herders crises should be set up, stakeholders said yesterday in Abuja. It was at the two-day summit, organised by The Nation and Television Continental (TVC). It attracted major stakeholders, including lawmakers, religious leaders, breeders, farmers, traditional rulers, academics, state governments, security agencies, members of the diplomatic community and notable leaders of thought. On the final day yesterday Emir of Kano Muhhammad Sanusi 11 urged the various levels of government to make budgetary provision for the maintenance of grazing reserves and stock routes. Represented by Prof Isa Hashim, the Jarman Kano, Emir Sanusi said:  “The three levels of government should provide enough funds through our budgets for the maintenance of our stock. This is what will help us to have an enduring peace in our country. The entire nation needs peace.” Dr. Saleh Umale of the Kaduna State Peace Commission described the farmers-herders crises as long foretold. He identified the improvement of the livelihoods of Nigeria’s rural communities as key to the search for peace. “We need to embrace peace. We are facing crises in the land and we have allowed our minds to be polluted in different communities. We do not have Fulani land like others. We need to support our rural communities. We have to develop in line with other societies. “The Nigerian pastoral sector is in crisis. Nigerians in rural areas especially at the northern part of the country are the ones facing the crisis. The communique urged the government to strengthen security so that farmers and herders would feel safe. It also prescribed that grazing reserves should be embraced, beginning with consenting states. The communiqué, which was read by Dr. Kayode Samuel,  said: “Two of Nigeria’s leading media organisations – The Nation and Television Continental (TVC) jointly convened a two-day National Summit on Conflict Resolution at the Air Force Conference Centre, Abuja on 8-9 October 2018. “The Summit was conceived as an open forum to promote frank exchange of ideas on burning issues of national and international concern, with particular regard to the herdsmen-farmers clashes across the country, with a view to seeking workable and enduring solutions. “Government should set up a Federal Peace and Conflict Resolution Commission. “There is a need to strengthen security arrangements to make both farmers and herders feel safe and to isolate the criminal elements. “There is a need to resuscitate and massively fund the various river basin authorities especially in the north to enable growth of grass for animal grazing to minimize nomadic mobility across the country. “Conflict mediation and peace building mechanisms must be put in place and avenues for constant dialogue between farmers and herders should be promoted. “There is a need to embrace Climate Smart Agriculture that sustains both crop farming and animal breeding could provide a way out of the present crisis. “The proposal for grazing reserves should be embraced, beginning with consenting states while the old bonds that encouraged cooperation need to be built upon. “A comprehensive approach to addressing the environmental factors that drive herders southwards must be explored. According to the communiqué, three discussants of the keynote address, Prof. Biodun Adeloye, Prof. N.A. Gworgwor and Dr. Eustace Iyayi also offered their perspectives. “They spoke of the need to modify nomadism to the advantage of the practitioners and counseled that the nomad needs to combine tilling with nomadism by producing crops like maize on which to nurture their herd.” Other specific recommendations include: The communiqué added: “Governments should draw up implementation timelines for whatever suggestions are proffered for a more harmonious farmers-herders relationship.