Ex-President Jonathan aid on Youths and Students Affairs, Comrade Jude Imagwe has said Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo is the best leader that has the quality to rule the country in 2019. In a statement issued in Jos yesterday, Imagwe said out of the list of northerners aspiring to be president of the country in 2019, non of them posses the leadership quality of Dankwambo. He said, “Leadership is not an exclusive club for some strata. The activities of some Nigerians have shown that in working with people to actualize desirable outcomes that they genuinely possess the requisite traits of leadership. One notable person in this category is Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo, the incumbent Governor of Gombe State and frontrunner to succeed President Muhammad Buhari in the next general elections. “His antecedents portray a humane administrator with unwavering commitment to deliver to Nigeria and Nigerians great, pro people governance hinged on the outstanding values of integrity, service, and respect for fundamental human rights. In a period where economic and social security are in a state of near chaos, Governor Dankwanbo remains a popular and fascinating figure because of his style of leadership, huge and colourful personality, and discipline. He has a rich history of gaining the trust, affection, and respect of those who have worked with and for him. Contrary to the picture of arrogance associated with many political leaders Governor Dankwambo has a reputation for generosity and hard work. “It is important to understand that Alhaji Dankwambo’s leadership is nationally acclaimed today because his achievements are unrivaled especially in the areas of education, health Care, agriculture, and most importantly, human capital development. “The scale and complexity of Nigeria’s problems are intensifying alarmingly. The current systems engaged in combating the issues are inadequate to cope with the challenges. This is what is necessitating a move towards a new governance system where decision making and implementation is shared between all stakeholders so that Nigeria will become truly Federal, more inclusive, safer, and a healthy destination for investment. “Alhaji Dankwambo recognises the imperative need to act decisively in the areas of good governance, education, and combating poverty. He acknowledges the fact that the issues affecting quality of life in Nigeria are interrelated and that the quality can be improved by learning and engaging the experience of viable nations. Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo is a great communicator and sound economic expert with a principle of never accepting unviable existing practices and policies as unchangeable. Imagwe who describes Dankwambo as a great thinker also said “he is a leader who constantly reaches beyond his specific area of influence, a social democrat who places vital significance on vision, values, and motivation. He possesses strong political skills to cope with the heterogeneous nature of the nation’s constituents. “As at today, the reality that confronts Nigeria and Nigerians is that Nigeria and Nigerians don’t want to be managed. They want to be led, and Alhaji Ibrahim Dankwambo is the best available alternative that can fulfill the ultimate agenda.” He said