Days after the Lagos State House of Assembly ordered the Private Sector Participation (PSP) operators to return to work, heaps of refuse still litter Akowonjo in Alimosho Local Government. The development prompted the residents, who admitted that the PSP operators had returned to work in some areas, to appeal to the government to ensure their area was freed of waste, in order to prevent health hazards. The residents told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) yesterday in Lagos that VisionScape, the company contracted to clear refuse, had failed in discharging its duties. They said whenever it rained, the waste would be washed into the drainage, blocking gutters and causing flood. A resident, Mrs. Favour Bassey, condemned the deplorable condition of the streets, which were always littered with waste. She appealed to the government to come to their aid. “They do not pick up our waste and this has left the streets in a bad condition, blocking the drains and making everywhere filthy with a pungent smell. “Any time it rains, since the drains are blocked, the streets become flooded with waste floating everywhere. The government really needs to assist us,” Mrs. Bassey said. Mr. Richard Okafor, a civil servant, who lives in the area, said due to refuse heaps on the streets, epidemic was imminent. “The state of our environment is nothing to write home about. When the drains are blocked, the water becomes stagnant; it serves as habitat for mosquitoes, which cause malaria. “With refuse all over the streets, flies are attracted, which can lead to outbreak of diseases such as cholera, typhoid and food poisoning,” he said. A petty trader, Ms Chinonye Okeke, said despite refuse littering the streets, the Lagos Waste Management Authority (LAWMA) still brought exorbitant bills every month. “I am not happy with the condition of my environment. Everywhere is irritating due to the waste littering the area. Although we pay our bills regularly, the company in charge hardly picks up the waste. “Before, I usually paid N2,000 in a month, but now I pay N3,000. The dues have increased and the services are reducing. The government should come to our aid,” she said. LAWMA could not be reached to comment on the situation. NAN reports that refuse heaps are seen in the nooks and crannies, leaving Akowonjo in a sorry state. 