I read this morning that the National Economic Council (NEC) was set to declare a state of emergency on education in Nigeria. About time, I thought. From reports, it has got to the stage where pupils themselves are beginning to go on strike and are refusing to go to school. I think though that our efforts should begin by taking a good look at the Nigerian classroom and the neglect meted out to it. Believe me, every one of those classrooms, under the tree or not, represents the sum of all our failures. If I ever find myself carrying any placard at all, I’m sure it will read one thing only: EVERY CLASSROOM COUNTS! Luckily, I am too timid to carry one. Anyway, the reason is that too many times, the nation tends to forget many things. It forgets that every pupil in the land is a product of the classroom. Heck, even those people taking political, social and economic decisions tend to forget that they passed through several classrooms in their checkered careers as students. People’s ideologies, perspectives, friendships, bonds, marriages and other life-ties are formed in them across the entire educational strata. Why then do we neglect to take the classroom into account in all of our plans? It is gratifying to remember that there is no world leader today that did not go through several classrooms. Many of us have different stories to tell about the classrooms we have been. I have shared many of my own experiences in some of the classrooms I have been on this column. You remember the joke that goes, ‘she has two teenage children but no other abnormalities’? So also, in those days, the normal classrooms were largely sane and fairly normal, except for the pupils. We were the abnormal ones, but not anymore. In the Nigerian public classroom, what was normal has become abnormal and what was abnormal has become… well, more abnormal. Let’s begin with the normal turned abnormal. You remember how neat and clean the school environment used to be? It began with the buildings. Even in the remote rural areas, the school buildings were not necessarily the best nor did they stand out for their designs. However, you could tell them apart for the authority they represented in their designs, colours and school playgrounds. Now, the abnormal rules. There are school grounds that are no different from the rocky, roughshod and unkempt environment which shares borders with them. The buildings are not only dilapidated; they are actual dangers to the pupils that attend them. In many of them, the walls that have plaster have lost their colours, and the ones that have colours have no plaster. Oh yes, you can see pale or black or somewhere in the twilight zone of brown colour peeping at you from the sands in the walls. Generally, in most public schools, the sand serenades the one who leans against them. The same thing goes for the floorings: many have none, some have cracked ones while others have learners stepping on molded earth. To run therefore, the children have to undulate between earth, blocks and concrete. Many school blocks have open roofs that are pointing skywards because somewhere between rainstorms, no one cared enough to put back the troubled sheets of roofing. Eventually, of course, the sheets take their leave. Then the classroom becomes open to the elements, worsening the incursion of the wild – rain, storms, hail, animals, crows, etc. I guess it points to our generous nature – we did say all were welcome to go in and learn in the Nigerian classroom. Sadly, even the favoured wooden panes are no longer on the Nigerian classroom windows. When they do hang around, they do exactly that: hang around, because they are broken and not replaced. So, resourceful pupils begin to use the permanently open windows as alternative routes for getting in and out of the classroom. Now, it was normal to love and hate the teacher at that time because he did his work too well. In those normal times, the teacher was the head of the class. S/he was respected and appreciated. One world leader even married one of his teachers! Now, that is what I call appreciation sir! I think her teaching methods and ability ensured this. In the Nigerian situation, the teacher is not so appreciated I think, neither by his or her wards, the parents or the employer, which is often the state. When the salary is paid, it is delayed or dangled like a carrot that is never released. Most times, the teacher is expected to make do with thin air for sustenance. In return, he or she does little or no work. I have often asked myself what can be responsible for all these ruinous situations and have not been able to come up with the appropriate answer other than, well, we are living in a third world country and these are the signs. I think the principal culprit though is the weather. The weather is much too kind to us around these parts. The sun smiles down upon our blessed pates almost round the clock so there is no need to go scurrying around repairing anything before a hail of snow that can result in the death of all – pupil, teacher and the ignorer especially, i.e., the one who refused to release funds for the repairs or to pay the teacher. He may be the local government chairman, the state governor, the minister or the president. The chain of command is long. Funds may also be released but someone along that line-up of command may divert the funds and refuse to allow the repairs to be done. The general name for this kind of diversion of funds is corruption but I have a special name for it. I call it wickedness. I think it is plain, good ol’ wickedness that will prompt a man (or woman) to withhold an ensemble of funds needed to keep a school together and he would use it instead to send his or her own children to schools in the UK or the USA, leaving the poor children here to rot in ruins. The pervasiveness of this kind of wickedness in the land is what makes many people think that the black man is generally wicked. Luckily, women are not included so I agree. Seriously, I am taking two things from these thoughts. One, the classroom cannot attract innovative thinking in pupils if, in itself, it needs someone to do some innovative thinking for it. True, children should be made to go to school, but they must be made to want to go back to school and stay in school. Presenting them with learning environments that look like Greco-Roman ruins cannot make anyone come back the next day unless they are gluttons for punishment. The classroom should be made averagely attractive. The second thing is that the teacher should really begin to take charge of the class responsibly. As has been shown many times, many Nigerian teachers are lacking in knowledge, method and abilities to lead any child from ignorance into a state of knowledge. Many teachers’ interest in the job is at Ground Zero level; they stay in the job until ‘they get something better’ to do. For many, that time never comes. So, all their professional lives, they are ‘make-do’ teachers. As the head of the classroom, teachers need to be in charge. For this to happen, self-development is the key. I agree that a state of emergency should be declared in the educational sector. However, our efforts should include empowering the classroom so that true innovations can begin to come out of it. This means that every classroom counts.