Mixed reactions have trailed the sudden emergence of the leader of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB) and Director of Radio Biafra, Mazi Nnamdi Kanu in Israel who was spotted praying in a video and photographs that went viral on the internet on Friday. Our reporter who monitored events in major cities of Umuahia, the state capital and Aba, the commercial hub of the state where Kanu has strong and overwhelming support base in the state and even in the southeast reports that Kanu supporters at Powerline, Ariaria, Cemetery, Shopping Center, St Michael’s road, Pound road and other parts of the state went into jubilation with the emergence of the pictures and video. It was gathered that Kanu supporters whose brand of drink is Hero took to drinking spree at various drinking joints to celebrate his being alive. According to some of Kanu’s supporters who spoke to our reporter on Saturday, there was no better way to celebrate a man who was declared dead than to thank God for preserving the life of their leader. According to the IPOB members including Chukwuemeka Okoroafor, seeing the video and pictures of Kanu praying in Israel is a reassurance that the match to freedom is not yet dead, stressing that it has rejuvenated their faith in the actualization of the Sovereign of Biafra. However, a section of Abia residents have expressed reservations over the sudden emergence of Kanu. According to a security analyst who would not want to be named, it was obvious that Kanu was still alive. “We know that Kanu is still alive. We know that he escaped during the army raid in his father’s home. We probed and from inside sources in the military, we were reliably told that Kanu indeed escaped. That was why Justice Binta insisted that Abaribe knew where Kanu was and that he must produce him. “This video and pictures, has vindicated statement made by former Governor of Abia State; Orji Uzor Kalu who had earlier stated that Kanu as at then was in the United Kingdom. “But to show his level of inexperience, the lawyer to Kanu went and deceived the court to invite Kalu to provide Kanu and it has backfired. It is now obvious Kanu’s lawyer; Aloy Ejimofor knows that his client is alive but has been trying all that he could with Kanu’s supporters to accuse the military of killing Kanu and being in custody of Kanu’s father. “I pity Abaribe whom I am sure that the court is going to mandate bring Kanu to continue facing his trial. And I am sure that with all the drama that has played out since September 27, 2017, the court may not grant Kanu bail until his trial is concluded. For me, I have since yesterday been asking reasons why IPOB would order members to stay away from business in honour of a man that they said was missing when they know that he is still alive? I pity those that died and those that are still going to die for a man that feed fat while they die of ignorance. “While I think that the recent attempt to insult the personality of Kanu by IPOB lawyer has come to nothing, the military is also vindicated of the accusation that they killed Kanu. I am waiting to know what becomes of the court case at the International Court against President Buhari and Nigerian Army. For me, Kanu and IPOB didn’t act intelligently and they will soon know why I said so.”