PEARL Awards Nigeria has called for concerted efforts by stakeholders to engender a stable, sustainable and growing capital market. President, PEARL Awards Nigeria, Mr Tayo Orekoya, at a news briefing in Lagos, said market stakeholders including operators, regulators and government must continue to strive towards market stability, sustainability and growth. He noted that the Nigerian capital market has recently been undergoing a most harrowing experience,  with sustained losses in share values, resulting in huge depletion of wealth to equity stakeholders. He pointed out that while recent losses were caused by variety of factors, all stakeholders must work together to address underlying weaknesses and promote the competitive advantages of the market. “Regulators in particular must intensify efforts towards engendering restoration of investors’ confidence in the market and deepening the market for enhanced development. As partner in progress to capital market regulators, our focus is to continue to promote healthy competitiveness, reward outstanding performance, thereby enhancing vibrancy of the market,” Orekoya said. He said an all-inclusive stakeholders’ approach would go a long way to compliment the efforts of the regulatory authorities towards returning the market to the desired path of sustainable growth and market development. He said the PEARL Awards Nigeria has shortlisted some 90 companies for consideration for the 2018 awards for outstanding companies and individuals in the Nigerian capital market. According to him, the 23-year-old award programme is part of the group’s contribution to the growth of the Nigerian capital market and it has since inception been guided by the principles of fairness, transparency and objectivity in its selection process while its scientific approach in determining nominee companies remains unassailable. “We are not unaware of the huge responsibility placed on our shoulders as a result of the reliability on our sense of judgment by investors and shareholders alike, but are determined to continue to play our part with every sense of fairness, objectivity and equity,” Orekoya said. He noted that the theme for the 2018 edition:”Sustaining the Winning Edge”, is in realisation of the need to recognise and reward companies, which in spite of the challenges in the operating environment, local and international, have continued on the winning edge, outperforming others and emerging leaders deserving of honour in the capital market. For the 2018 PEARL Awards, recognitions, honours and awards shall be in three main categories, including main competitive awards category, which consists sectoral leadership awards, market excellence awards and overall highest award; honorary awards category, which consists PEARL chief executive officer of the year award, outstanding honorary award for capital market development, capital market journalist of the year award and media award for capital market reporting; and the special recognition awards category, which include issuing house of the year award, stockbroking firm of the year award and good corporate governance award.   The awards in the main competitive awards category were determined utilizing nine performance indices namely turnover growth; return on equity; earnings yield; share price appreciation; dividend cover; dividend yield; net asset ratio; dividend growth and profit margin ratio. In order to ensure fairness, objectivity and authenticity in its assessment, the research and collation sub-committee, sourced the required data from the annual reports of quoted companies duly filed with the Nigerian Stock Exchange (NSE) and the Stock Exchange Daily Official lists for the year under consideration. The report of the research & collation sub-committee was reviewed, verified and thereafter endorsed by the board’s technical committee, which subsequently presented it to the full board for consideration and approval. The winning company for each of the awards for which the nominees are listed would be announced at the 2018 Awards Nite, which is scheduled to hold next month in Lagos. Also, the nominees as well as winner of the overall highest award (The PEARL) for this year would be announced at the Awards Nite. 