A millionaire businessman, Pius Kingsley Ebere and his accomplice, Peter Attah have been arrested by the police in Mushin, Lagos for alleged car theft. Items recovered from them include two headlamps, car stereo, four side door automatic control panels, brain box, side mirrors and four rear seats. Ebere was said to have fled when police patrol team led by the Area Commander in-charge of Area ‘D’ Command, Mushin, Akinbayo Olasoji, an Assistant Commissioner of Police (ACP), stopped his Honda Accord saloon car marked FST 616 DV for a routine check last Friday. The auto part dealer in Ladipo International Auto Park Market hurriedly left his car and ran away He was chased, arrested and his vehicle was towed to the station. When the car was searched, the police said some items, engraved with registration number AAA 472 CP, believed to be that of the vehicle he earlier stole, were recovered from the suspect. They are two headlamps, car stereo, four side door automatic control panels, brain box, side mirrors and four rear seats. According to police spokesman Chike Oti a Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP), investigation showed that the items were stolen from a Lexus GX 472 Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV), which belonged to Suleiman Waheed Adebola. The owner, Oti said, had been contacted and he confirmed that the items were the parts of his car vandalised at Ekoro. “Other items recovered from the suspect’s car include five brain boxes of Toyota and Lexus vehicles, four car stereo sets, a pair of Toyota Corolla 2011 rear lights, a pair of Toyota Corolla 2011 headlamps, three pairs of side mirrors and one front grill cover of Infinity Sport Utility Vehicle (SUV). The recovered items are engraved with  registration numbers by their owners, who had been contacted by the police to report with proof of ownership. “Further revelation by the suspect led to the arrest of his accomplice, Attah, aka Dangote, also an auto parts dealer at Ladipo International Auto Parts market, where a search warrant was executed and assorted suspected stolen car parts were recovered. “Police Commissioner Imohimi Edgal advised that vehicle owners should engrave their registration numbers on their vehicle parts, to discourage vandals and expose robbers to the police,” Oti said. He added: “Recall that on September 12, another auto parts dealer from the same Ladipo market, Daniel Ekwerekwu, was confronted by a police patrol team from Anthony Police Division in the morning while vandalising cars parked on the streets of Mende-Maryland.  Unfortunately his attempt to evade police arrest ended fatally, as his effort to scale a high wall led to his death.” 