Youth for Human Rights Nigeria in collaboration with American Corner at Co-creation Hub (CcHub) and the Southwest zonal office of the National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has organised a programme tagged: Peace Day, to commemorate International Day of Peace. The event with the theme: The right to peace, was organised in line with the Resolution 36/37 of 1981 of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), declaring a day of peace to strengthening the ideals of peace both within and among all nations and people. The event, held at American Corner at CcHub building in Yaba, Lagos, afforded the participants to learn about fundamental principle of human rights, ideals of peace and how to build a culture of peace and partnership between peace and human rights. The day was also used to mark the 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. At the event, the participants, including secondary school pupils, learnt how to balance their understanding of what the right to peace means, where it came from, how it affected people in their daily lives and why human right needed to be reaffirmed, especially in contemporary times. Speaking, the convener of the event and National Coordinator of Youth for Human Rights Nigeria, Mr Duke Ifeakachukwu, gave a general overview of Human Rights and the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights, charging the participants to add their voices in speaking up against human rights abuses. He said protection of human rights remained the collective responsibility of the citizens. He said: “Human rights still seem unrealisable in our country, even though the universal declaration of human rights has achieved so much in other countries of the world. It is time all nations and all people lived up to the responsibility of protecting human rights and review the existing mechanisms through which human rights are being promoted and protected.” Emphasising the need to build a nation where peace and justice must reign supreme, Duke disproved claims that violence was inherent in human nature. He admonished the participants to promote ideas that would help Nigeria create a society where peace would reign, adding that Nigerians must be ready to live together by accepting difference of culture, religion, ethnicity, gender, language and other markers of identity. Mrs Nneamaka Omo, Head of Human Rights Education Department at National Human Rights Commission, spoke on Active citizenship and human rights in relation to the right to peace, while her colleague from same institution, Mrs Nneka Anigbo, spoke on The 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights in relation to the right to peace. Both speakers cleared the doubts raised by participants on actions to reduce human rights abuses by the security agencies and people in the positions of authority. Another speaker and a volunteer with Youth for Human Rights Nigeria, Ms. Dorcas Idibie, said peace was possible if people were ready to tolerate one another. The event was attended by staff and representatives of NHRC, American Corner members, and young volunteers from several states. The event also featured musical performance, peace walk, and rendition of peace poems. 