RESIDENTS of Bariga community, a Lagos suburb, on Saturday, October 13, came out in large numbers to benefit from the free consultation, diagnosis, and treatment organised by the ‘Doctors on Air’ initiative in conjunction with the Executive Chairman Bariga LCDA, Hon. Kolade David Alabi. Tagged ‘Free Medical Mission’, the event which held at the Bariga Local Council Secretariat, Lagos, had various volunteer doctors, the Lagos State Ministry of Health and corporate establishments all providing medical assistance to the participants, irrespective of age, gender, or socioeconomic status. Services rendered include cardiology services, breast and prostate cancer screening, dental treatment, eye checkup, skin talk, infertility problems, blood pressure, health insurance, drug abuse as well as the provision of free drugs and medication amongst others. Highlighting the benefit of health to humanity, Hon. Kolade David Alabi said if his administration put all other infrastructure problems in place and his people don’t have good healthcare delivery, everything will be rendered nugatory. “If you build good houses, churches or mosques and people lacked good healthcare whatever you are putting in place will be rendered nugatory. So, health is very important, is the key to all humanity and that is why people say, ‘health is wealth’”. He added, “What we are doing here today is addressing infrastructural decay in Bariga. In my campaign, I told my people that we are going to address all areas of infrastructure problems, healthcare delivery and this is one of it. So, I urged my people to take advantage of this screening to stay healthy. We will be doing this at intervals.” Hon. Kolade, however, heaps praises on the SYNLAB and other partnerships who supported the initiative saying, “Though we’ve been doing this in the past but what we are witnessing here today is more encompassing because it is not only related to one but covers all sphere of medical screening.” Dr. Pamela Ajayi, creator and host of the Doctors on Air stated that the healthcare programme is for everyone especially those who are unable to afford the quality health care clinics. “Don’t wait for symptoms to occur before going for a medical checkup. Nigerians need to be empowered to know their bodies and tell when it needs medical attention. This is an opportunity for you to take advantage of this free medical service to examine yourself and free from diseases with no cost,” she advised.