… parade 19 others  Oyo Police Command have arrested five suspected kidnappers for allegedly abducting and killing a poultry farm owner , Sunday Aladeniyi after collecting ransom from the families. The deceased lifeless body , according to the police was later recovered in the forest along Ijebu-Ode road where the kidnappers dumped it . Mr. Abiodun Odude , the Oyo state Police Commissioner who paraded a total of 24 criminal suspects for various offences at the Eleyele Police Headquarters , Ibadan on Wednesday described the suspected kidnappers as sons of Lucifer . He promised to continue to rid the state of criminal elements that often serve as thorns in the flesh of law abiding citizens. The five suspects , he said were arrested following a report made at the Idi-Ayunre Police Division , and the Anti-Kidnapping Squad was mandated to arrest and rescue the victim who before then had been killed by the suspected kidnappers. The suspects who the police said would soon be charged to court for prosecution are Abdullahi Musa ,37, Isah Tambaya , 20, Yuguda Yusuf ,35, Aminu Ahmadu ,24, and Ojo John , 34. Speaking with journalists in an interview, one of the suspected kidnappers , Abdullahi Musa , 37, who confessed to the heinous crime , pleaded for leniency , while others narrated their sundry roles that led to the kidnap and murder of the poultry farm owner. Musa revealed that one of the staff of the victim who was very close to the deceased had invited other members of the gang , mainly fulani herders to kidnap their boss and were given N20,000 each out of the money collected from the family as ransom. According to him, they had no plans to kill the poultry farmer until one of them raised the alarm that if allowed to go , he (Aladeniyi) would reveal their identify . The state Commissioner of Police who narrated how the suspects carried out their evil deeds further said ” the kidnappers who murdered their victim , Sunday Aladeniyi were arrested on Friday September 7,2018 at about 1830 hours by the Anti-Kidnapping Squad of the command . The suspects after collecting ransom , killed the victim because he could identify one of them. ” Infact, one of the kidnappers who was very close to the victim caused his death because he thought the victim would expose him . ” Among those also paraded were nine students’ cultists of the Polytechnic, Ibadan said to be involved in the killing of a fellow student , Olatunji Hammed a.k.a. Maku in cold blood around Apete area of Ibadan on August 27,2018. The self confessed students’ cultists most whom were on their final year in the institution told journalists that the reason for their membership of various cult groups on the campus was to fight against oppression, injustice and intimidation . The Commissioner of Police said the students were arrested through diligence investigation carried out by the Anti-Robbery section of the state Criminal Investigation Department (CIID) which led to the arrest of more suspects and recovery of arms , ammunition and other exhibits. Apart from the locally made cut to size single barrel gun recovered from the cult members , other exhibits recovered from the cultists include two axes, cutlasses and charms.