Residents of Denro Road in Akute have decried the unabated activities of petroleum pipeline vandals who have been on the prowl since September 29. It was learnt that the criminals had on daily basis siphoned Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) between 12:30 am and 4am from a valve near Denro Market with no resistance from operatives of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) who are supposed to keep 24-hour watch of the pipeline. According to some of the residents who spoke to The Nation on Tuesday their major worries were the offensive odour of petrol that usually choked them each time the vandals commenced their criminal activity as well as the fear of a fire outbreak. Although operatives of the Nigerian Army visited the community on September 30, a day after the vandals began operating there, The Nation learnt that the criminals have continued their action. A man whose name cannot be stated for safety reasons alleged that the criminals have the backing of security operatives, adding “the operate without fear and even fire warning shots some times to scare residents.” The man told The Nation that the vandals usually came with two tankers, adding that before they begin their operation, they will flash their torches across people’s homes to be sure no one was watching. He said: “There is an NSCDC tent in Akute yet these vandals come and operate as though someone is backing them. They do not hide and are not afraid. “They usually spoke in loud voices and they come every night. The place I am talking about is by the Pipeline Bus Stop. Before they used to operate inside the bush part but it seems that place is no longer safe for them. “Since September 29, we have not had peaceful night here. After soldiers came when they first started, the vandals returned the next day and released gunshots. At first we thought they were security people but some of us spied and saw their tankers that was how we knew it was the criminals.” Another resident said the odour from the PMS was affecting his pregnant wife, appealing to the government to deploy soldiers permanently to the place. He said: “My wife is pregnant and that odour chokes her every night. I am begging the government to send soldiers to that place. Let soldiers go and mount surveillance there because it seems the other security have compromised. “Also, I do not know why the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation left that place unlocked. It is not just a pipeline. That place is like a control. The vandals go there, open the valves and when they are fine stealing fuel, they lock it and leave. “There was a day they left it open and fled. It seems they got information that security people were coming. If nothing is done soon, we will die of pollution or even a fire outbreak. “One night I climbed on my bed to peep around 1am and I saw them on top of the tankers pointing their torch to people’s homes to see if anyone was awake. “Also on Saturday night, around 12:30 am, I overheard them questioning a man who seemed to have returned late. The vandals are not afraid. It seems they have strong backing.” Contacted, NSCDC Commandant in Ogun Everestus Obiyo said he was only aware of the September 29 incident and that the command was investigating. Obiyo who faulted the residents for not arresting the vandals on the spot, said they should have at least contacted security operatives while the operation was ongoing. Reminded of the residents allegation that the vandals usually fired gunshots, Obiyo said: “Such an incident cannot be tolerated. There is no way I will know of an incident like that and allow it. The residents should be sharp and arrest the vandals but if they cannot, they should at least call us while the operation is on.” Asked if there were no NSCDC operatives at the particular point he said: “We have a tent over there and my men are on 24-hour surveillance. I have also called them now to put them on their toes. I am only aware of the incident of September 29 which the army came to address. No arrest has been made yet but we are investigating.”