The Atiku Abubakar Presidential Campaign Organisation has said there is confusion in the Buhari Campaign Organisation over the emergence of Atiku as presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). A statement yesterday by the campaign organisation said the Atiku camp was not surprised by the attack launched by the Buhari Campaign Organisation, raising issues about vote buying at the PDP convention. The statement said: “We are not surprised that there is confusion in the President Buhari camp. We expected that they would be thrown into a catatonic state, knowing that Atiku Abubabakr’s emergence automatically means the coming end of their ignominious reign. “That much was admitted by the President’s former running mate, Pastor Tunde Bakare, when he praised the emergence of Atiku as an ‘eagle’ and ‘a cosmopolitan wazobia’ politician. “Obviously, Pastor Tunde Bakare has foreseen that the era of 97% versus 5% has come to an end with the emergence of the pan Nigerian Atiku Abubakar. “We ask how can the Buhari Campaign Organisation disparage the PDP primary that produced Atiku Abubakar, when even the President’s own wife, Aisha Buhari, has condemned the APC’s primary? “Not only did Mrs Buhari condemn APC’s primaries, she described them as ‘unfair’ and lacking in integrity. Who can know President Buhari better than his wife? “Eleven aspirants contested against Atiku Abubakar, during the presidential primary of the PDP. Every single one of them accepted his victory. “President Buhari was the only candidate cleared by the APC to contest its primary. Yet, a coalition of five aspirants are challenging his victory. That alone tells Nigerians his emergence is fraudulent.” The group described Atiku as the most investigated politician in Nigeria and that any smear campaign by the Buhari administration would have no effect. According to the campaign group, President Buahri would have arrested Atiku if he had been found wanting. “However, to set the record straight, we want to remind Nigerians that PDP’s primaries were genuine, free and fair. Atiku Abubakar got 1,532 votes in a contest televised live to millions of Nigerians. “The All Progressives Congress’ primary, on the other hand, was a study in dictatorship and corruption. The sole candidate, Muhammadu Buhari, scored almost 15 million votes. How could that occur without rigging or manufacturing of faceless voters? “No wonder Transparency International rated Nigeria as more corrupt today under Buhari, than just three years ago when the PDP was in power. “The scandals are too numerous, including the $25 billion NNPC contracts awarded without due process, the several padded budgets, the $41 million Ikoyi Apartment scandal, the recall, reinstatement and double promotion of … Buhari financier Abdulrasheed Maina, the N200 million grass cutter scandal, and many others too numerous to mention.”