The former People’s Democratic Party (PDP) governorship aspirant in Gombe State, Dr. Jamilu Isyaku Gwamna, has promised to work for the victory of  President Muhammad Buhari and the All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate Alhaji Inuwa Yahaya in next year’s elections. Speaking to reporters in Gombe Tuesday, Dr. Jamil said: “We are going to work tirelessly and assiduously to ensure that president Muhammad Buhari wins the 2019 elections and the candidate of the APC in Gombe State, Inuwa Yahaya will become the next governor of Gombe state.” Jamilu, who defected to APC with a large crowd of followers in Gombe, reiterated that he is not seeking the governorship of the state for his personal gains rather for the development of the young state and its people. He said: “I am not seeking leadership or position of governorship for the sake of becoming the governor of Gombe state but I am doing that because the good people Gombe state have called on me to do so and I have answered to their calls. “I am not seeking election for myself iam seeking election for the sake of development, my people and as such I shall continue to make myself available to render my services to my people the good people of Gombe state, wherever and in whatever capacity I found myself. APC is our new home and we are ready to collaborate or partner with any good person or organizations that have something good for our people. That we vowed to do and that we shall do with the last blood in our vessels.” According to the Sarduanan Gombe, “Having considered what transpired during the just concluded PD gubernatorial primaries that took place at the banquet hall of the Gombe State government house,” I felt that Gombe state will not be adequately, justifiably and judiciously be represented by the PDP in the state therefore, I belief we have to seek an alternative of that will represents the aspirations of the good people of the state.” He said the noble aspirations he represent cannot be realised under the PDP because of the actions of the governor and his likes, which he said have clearly demonstrated that PDP as a party will not guaranty the actualization of the dreams of the good people of Gombe state. “Having consulted with my people, the good people of Gombe state, we have come to the inevitable conclusion to leave the PDP and decamp to the APC in order to actualize our dreams of taking Gombe to the promise land. And having carefully reviewed our position, we felt that the aspirations of the good people of Gombe state being a young state and with all the hopes of a young state will be best represented by the APC. I therefore, declared that as from this moment I and all my followers wherever they are in Gombe state will be members of the All progressives congress (APC).                     