When the community where the Abia State Government House is presently located paid a curtesy visit to Abia State Governor, Okezie Ikpeazu, the governor reportedly promised the people that their monarch, the father of the Leader of IPOB, Nnamdi Kanu, would soon be reunited with them. Since then, the statement credited to Ikpeazu has generated a lot of mixed reactions among the Abia populace. In this interview with newsmen, Kanu’s younger brother, Prince Emmanuel Kanu, speaks on why the family isn’t moved by the governor’s statement and other issues, reports Sunny Nwankwo YOUR people went to see the governor of Abia State, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu and he reportedly promised them that your father, His Royal Highness, will be back before the end of the year. Can we say that statement is a good development? It is kind of shocking, in fact let me make this clear, Governor Okezie Ikpeazu should leave the Kanu’s family out of his second term project and that’s as simple as that. The governor’s comment; I consider it as an afterthought. No amount of hypocrisy would exonerate Ikpeazu and his Southeast counterparts from culpability, to be honest with you, over the invitation of the military for the Python Dance. We are surprised you are saying this because the governor said he was not in the country when your father’s palace was invaded by the military last year and that he was not consulted by the FG before the action was taken The governor was present in Umuahia when the operation took place and soon after the invasion, there was something he said that was all over the place. He said that he sacrificed the family of Kanu to save Biafra land; that he averted war in Biafra land by sacrificing Nnamdi Kanu; that was what he said. He wants to identify with Nnamdi Kanu now, but funny enough, when Nnamdi Kanu was incarcerated, he never visited him in prison; nor after, so, it’s shocking, what he is saying. Are you saying the promise the governor made about bringing your father back is not going to happen? That is a political statement; you know the way some politicians behave. He shouldn’t think that we can easily be deceived by hiring his supporters from our community to visit him in Government House and by making all sorts of flowery comments about our family; you know, it’s just about politics. If you look at the list of those that went to see him, no elite from my community was there. The President-General never attended, the traditional Prime Minister never attended too. It’s like you are suggesting the visit has some political undertone? Of course, of course, yes of course because this is all about election; it’s all about campaign. How come you’ve not done anything, you’ve not said anything, you’ve not visited the community since after the invasion, all of a sudden you started talking of bringing my father back, from where? If that visit could eventually facilitate the return of your father, won’t you be happy? So, all along we’ve been talking about the whereabouts of my father, he never said anything my brother, he never said anything. How come suddenly nearing election period Ikpeazu is summoning people and telling them about the return of my father. So, all along, he’s been in custody of my parents and my brother as well, so, he should tell the world where they are. The thing is this, you invaded a community, you destroyed them, you never visited again and all of a sudden, you went and mobilized handful of people to come to Government House where you issued a statement; what I may call political talk to them, trying to entice them, trying to get them along to vote for you. The governor said he was not consulted by the federal government before your father’s palace was invaded, why lay the blame on him? He is not saying the truth, of course everybody knows that he is lying; I keep saying this. If you look at the record of those who went to see Ikpeazu, they were a handful of people that were picked. Of course you know because of the level of hunger in the land, people can do the unthinkable; it is well understood. They never went to see Ikpeazu because they wanted to see Ikpeazu, they went to see him probably because of what they could get from him, but that is the simple truth. I’m not against anybody who wants to visit Ikpeazu, but they should remove my family’s name from it; they should not play politics with Nnamdi Kanu or my father’s name. Are you optimistic of your father coming back and are there plans of visiting the governor so as to finalize arrangement for his return? I do not know his whereabouts and I cannot be so sure, but since Ikpeazu has said that, I think IPOB is in a better position now to ask Ikpeazu to tell them about the whereabouts of my parents. As to whether I want to visit the governor, I can’t visit the governor, a governor who came to my house and killed my people and never visited my community again, why would I go and visit him? I’m mourning. So, if the governor wants, the community is there, why can’t he come and visit the community and explain to them what really happened? Why would a handful of people go to meet the governor in the first place? I will find it difficult to go and see the governor. If anybody wants to discuss about my parents, the person should come to our house and meet me and not me going to meet the person because that was where the operation took place; that was where my people were killed, so, the person should also come to the house and meet me, I won’t go and see anyone.