Former House of Representatives member, Mr. Opeyemi Bamidele, former Senator, Mr. Olubunmi Adetunmbi and former Minister of State for Works, Prince Adedayo Adeyeye have clinched the three available senatorial tickets in Ekiti State. At the All Progressives Congress (APC) primaries conducted on Friday, Bamidele defeated incumbent Senator, Mrs. Fatimat Raji Rasaki, to win in Ekiti Central senatorial district. Bamidele polled 61,823 votes as against Mrs. Rasaki’s 3,289 in all the 57 wards of the district. In Ekiti North, Adetumbi polled 21,763 to defeat a strong field of five aspirants. Aspirants defeated by Adetunmbi and their votes are Mr. Cyril Fasuyi (6,021), Dr Olusegun Osinkolu (5,312), Engr. Akin Bamisaye (2,003), Sir Kayode Otitoju (1,183) and Mr. Femi Ajepe (1,183). Adeyeye, despite standing as a consensus candidate in Ekiti South, still polled 51,443. The six APC candidates for the House of Representatives were also elected at the Friday’s primaries. Former Chief of Staff to the ex-Governor Kayode Fayemi, Mr. Yemi Adaramodu emerged as the flag bearer for Ekiti South Federal Constituency 1 while former House of Assembly Speaker, Mr. Femi Bamisile won the ticket for Ekiti South Federal Constituency 2. The Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1 ticket went to Mr. Sola Fatoba. Former Ekiti Assembly Chief Whip, Mrs. Omowumi Ogunlola, grabbed the ticket for Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 2. Former Chairman of the State Housing Corporation, Mr. Peter Owolabi, won the Ekiti North Federal Constituency 1 ticket while former Senior Special Assistant to the Governor on Legal Matters, Mr. Ibrahim Olarewaju, clinched the ticket for Ekiti North Federal Constituency 2. Speaking with reporters in Iyin-Ekiti after being declared winner, Bamidele promised to make the difference if he wins at the National Assembly polls in 2019. He said the direct primary conducted in Ekiti had afforded every member the right of participation as entrenched in democratic ideals,
saying act of imposition would only brew ill-feelings among party members. Bamidele lauded party members for exhibiting so much love for him, urging them to replicate the gesture next year’s February 16, when the presidential and National Assembly elections will be conducted by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC).