…as NEMSA insists government has compensated residents  Iperun district in Ogun State has given the Federal Government conditions for relocating from power line, in accordance with the right of way policy of the government. The residents have told the government that although their lives and property are under threat from the hazards of the high tension, the only condition that they would relocate from their present abode is if the government resettles them. They predicated their reason on the fact that their houses that were built in 1957 to 1958 predated the power line. Already the electricity Distribution Company (DisCo) has disconnected the houses from power supply while the Federal Government is liaising with the state governments to clear all structure on right of way. This was aired in the Service and Safety Half Hour on Radio Nigeria, sponsored by the Nigeria Electricity Management Service Agency (NEMSA), which The Nation monitored at the weekend. Whereas the agency’s Managing Director, Engr. Peter Ewesor insisted that the Federal Government has already compensated the residents in the past, the residents said that they were only given N33,000 in 2015 for inconveniences, and that it was too meager to be called a compensation. Ewesor warned that “it is not sufficient to say that I don’t have the money to build the kind of house I built. But I will tell you one thing: all structures that are compensated under the right of way are compensated commensurately to what you already have where the line is being built. So, as I am telling them is that it is better to leave the line, stay a live so that you can do better things.” Speaking, Ewesor, who is the Chief Electrical Inspector of the Federation, on safety ground said that “the advice I have been giving to them is that some of them should remember that there are people who are actually not under the line that had the misfortune of fire and all their property have been raised down. They have the life to start a new life because it is better for someone to lose his property than for him to lose his own life.” The Chief Executive Officer noted that the residents on the power line are exposing their health to the radiation from the electricity, which he said could destroy the body cells to the extent that they would not function effectively. 77-year-old Ahmed Adesina of 19, Agabra Street, Iperun, said that “my house has been there before the power line. So, my house is not good to be on the power line. They (government) should help us to build house for us to relocate all of us. We are ready to move if the government is ready to help us like what they did in Abeokuta.” Another resident, Tope Otaiku of 12 Dabira Street, Iperun, said that “our house has been here since 1957. Our father who built it is dead and we cannot afford to build a new house. Our request is for government to resettle us.” Makale Mayodele of Dabra Estate accepted that he has been under the transmission line since 1957. He stressed that in 1958, the “power line met us here. Those workers (electricity employees were living in our house. They were putting their equipment in our house. So we didn’t know that it was something that could be dangerous to our lives. From 60s to 70s nobody told us that it could be dangerous to us. In 1988, the government gave us money for inconveniencing us. It was not for compensation for demolition. That money was N33,000 in 2015.“