The English Scholars’ Association of Nigeria (ESAN) has held its 34th conference at the University of Nigeria, Nsukka (UNN), where participants stressed the need for Africans to employ foreign languages in promoting local cultures and dialects. Speaking at the opening of the conference held at the Princess Alexandra Hall, ESAN President Prof Sola Babatunde said local cultures and identities’ survival  was predicated on the prominence given to them in communication. The event, with the theme: Emerging trends in cultures and identities in English studies in Nigeria, was hosted for the first time by the Department of English and Literary Studies. It drew scholars from within and outside Nigeria. Declaring the conference open, UNN’s Vice-Chancellor (VC) Prof. Benjamin Ozumba, represented by his deputy for Administration, Prof Charles Igwe, said English Language was a powerful tool to propagate a culture, urging the attendees to utilise experience garnered at the conference to address the challenges facing local cultures. “Since 1914 when the colonial masters created the country,” the VC said, “English Language became part of the history of the country beyond being taken as lingua franca and language of instruction at schools.” He urged agencies of government to fund the “language research” in tertiary institutions in order to achieve rapid growth in teaching and learning. Keynote speaker and Godfrey Okoye University in Enugu VC, Prof Christian Anieke, stressed the need for expanding extra-curricular activities in tertiary institutions. This, he said, will give students a balanced education as well as helping them to be good citizens wherever they go. He expressed satisfaction with the attendance of the scholars despite the economic imbalance. He also said the association maintained good relationship with the school in achieving a great country. Senator Shehu Sani, represented by his media aide, Dr Godwin Ichimi, said English Language is a tool for fast-tracking development and prerequisite for intellectual development, innovation and job creation. He assured that his office would continue to give young people opportunities that would make them have faith in education. He said: “For Nigeria to be one of the leading counties in Africa, the country must invest in the promotion of English Language and international collaborations. As a lawmaker, my office would do everything possible in supporting quality education and eradicating illiteracy.” The conference organising chairman, Prof Sam Onuigbo, described the event as “an eye opener” for participants from other institutions attending it for the first time. The event featured a lecture about problems of teaching and learning of English Language and prospects in Africa. Participants also got certificates for attending the event. 