The Nigerian League of Veteran Journalists (NLVJ) has announced plans to celebrate 160 years anniversary of journalism in Nigeria.  While linking the advancement of the Nigerian literature to the country’s rich media history, the group said, without newspapers and newspapermen and women,  today’s long list of great writers and editors would not have evolved.  According league’s President Eddie Aderinokun, the group will kick start buildup on activities marking the celebration from November 22 which will culminate in March next year at the same place where it all began – Abeokuta, Ogun State.  Aderinokun who spoke  at the group’s press parley unveiling plans for the celebration noted that next year would be the 160th anniversary since Mr. Henry Townsend published the first newspaper in Nigeria from Abeokuta, Ogun State, adding that the event is being supported by the Ogun State government. Aderinokun said: “It is 160 years since the fourth estate of the realm took off under the auspices of the Scottish evangelist, Reverend Henry Townsend in the hilly country-sides of Abeokuta where the celebration will take off on November 22, 2018 in Abeokuta. As we plan to roll out the drums to celebrate 160 years of journalism in Nigeria, we also are celebrating education and the blessings of education indirectly.  “As a body, we felt we had to remind us all as a people, that journalism practically gave birth to Nigeria as we know it today and that we must remember our roots and water it properly, so that we can navigate the future with sure footedness and clear headedness. Amazingly, amidst a media exhibition and an international colloquium the descendants and representatives of Reverend Henry Townsend with whom we are currently in talks as regards being present in Nigeria at the event would be lavishly hosted by the Ogun State government spearheaded by Governor Amosun. Most importantly there would also be an annual convention in the proceedings, making the whole package an unforgettable experience.”  At the briefing, the league also unveiled its project team members, led by its President, Aderinokun. They include veteran journalist Segun Adenuga (Project Media Director) and Muyiwa Osinaike (Project Consultant /Director).