The police on Monday said they have commenced plans to contain criminal use of explosives and other dangerous allied materials capable of jeopardizing public safety.
Already, operatives of the Explosives and Ordinance Disposal (EOD) department of the police have been trained on Chemical, Biological, Radiological and Nuclear (CBRN) threat mitigation as well as effective methods of attacking Improvised Explosives Devices (IED) through improvised special charges. At the quarterly conference with senior officers and EOD base commanders, Commissioner of Police (CP) in charge of EOD Kayode Egbetokun confirmed the personnel were being trained, retrained to contain current realities. He said the command would intensify vigilance at all airports, seaports and border points to prevent illegal importation of explosive devices. Speaking on the theme “Excellent service delivery towards a safe and bomb free society,” he said explosives remain the weapon of choice for international and local terrorists organisations as well as deadly armed robbery gangs. According to him, CBRN materials were capable of causing great harm and pose significant threats in the hands of terrorists. Apart from malicious use of these weaponized or non-weaponized materials, the Commissioner said accidents could occur in the course of usage or transportation which could cause mass casualties. “It is sad to note that explosives are easily accessible to criminal network and had become a fact of life. This poses a serious threat to internal security and a major challenge to the EOD teams. “It is our duty to deter criminal use of explosive and other dangerous allied materials, but the task in our hand is to completely put a stop to it. “To combat these threats, the capacity and professionalism of EOD personnel across the country have been strengthened for better service delivery.
“In the last few months, a lot has been done with respect to capacity building in the command. Our personnel have been exposed to both local and international training on CBRN threat mitigation/special charges. The command has also established CBRN offices in three major centers- Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja. These centers are saddled with the core professional responsibilities of managing radiological emergencies, monitoring the usage, storage and transportation of hazardous chemical, biological agents and radioactive sources. “A good number of our personnel have now been trained and qualified as CBRN frontline officers to undertake escorts and manage security of radioactive emergencies.
We have established Zonal Workshop Centres in Uyo, Umuahia, Lagos, Minna, Kano and Maiduguri for maintenance of EOD equipment and training of EOD technicians.” Egbetokun further said the command was collaborating with agencies such as the National Emergency Managenment Agency (NEMA), the National Agency for Food and Drug Administration and Control (NAFDAC), International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Nigerian Nuclear Regulatory Authority (NNRA) to develop a framework for prevention and response to CBRN incidents. “It gladdens my heart to note that through the effort and leadership of the Inspector General of Police (IG) Ibrahim Idris, the Police EOD is today in good standing. We are blessed with intelligent, well trained and professionally competent officers who can hold their own anywhere in the world. Our Base Commanders in their various State Commands are known to always deliver on critical assignment given to them.” “Our actions have been geared towards making leakages of commercial explosives impossible. We will not relent. We will continue to deploy human and technical resources at our disposal to stop criminal use of explosives and allied materials. “We will intensify our vigilance at the airports, seaports and border points to deter any illicit importation of explosive and allied materials. We will embark on public enlightenment against criminal use of explosives in our neighborhood, communities, school and on electronics and print media.”