THE Federal Government yesterday approved a White Paper to regulate the activities of labour unions in the public service. Some of the areas included the implementation of the ‘no work, no pay’ policy, prohibition of private practice by medical practitioners and teachers, and the stoppage of non-government workers representing government in collective bargaining. Minister of Labour and Employment Senator Chris Ngige briefed State House correspondents at the end of the  Federal Executive Council (FEC), meeting presided over by President Muhammadu Buhari at the Council Chamber, Presidential Villa, Abuja. The White Paper, he said, prohibits medical doctors and teachers working in Government institutions from working in private clinics and schools. He said: “The Federal Executive Council approved the draft White Paper on the report of the Technical Committee on the Industrial Relations Matters in the Federal Public Service. As you might all been aware, the Federal Public Service in Nigeria has been bedevilled with all sorts of problems and conflict areas. “So, over time, government has set up various committees, brought out establishment circulars, brought out circulars from the various government agencies all in a bid to stem the tide of industrial disputes. “So, this Technical Committee, which was inaugurated on the 21st of April 2016, did their  work and submitted to the Federal Executive Council in October 2017. The Federal Executive Council in turn empanelled a committee of 10, which I chaired to do a government draft White Paper on those contentious areas that the technical committee had looked at. “These contentious areas are the enforcement of Section 43 of the Trade Dispute Act Law of the Federation 2004. This is the section that deals with lock out of workers by their employer without declaring redundancy appropriately because the same establishment, especially in the private sector workers are locked out by their employers. “So, the law that says that if you lock out your workers without passing through the normal channel, due process for the period of the lock out, the worker is assumed to be at work and will receive all remunerations and allowances and benefits accruing to him for the period and that period will also be counted to him as a pensionable period in computation of his pension. “But when workers go on strike, the principle of ‘no work, no pay’ will also be applied because that principle is enshrined in that same section 43 of the Labour Act. That section says for the period a worker withdraws his services, government or his employers are not entitled to pay and the period for which they were absent will not count as part of his pensionable period in the public service. “So, council accepted it as a White Paper recommendation that should be gazetted because even the National Industrial Court has made pronouncement on that law and said that it is clear.” On refusal of some public servants to obey postings because of unionism,  he said: “Another area is that of public servants remaining permanently in the executive bodies of trade unions. Government realises that some persons in the public service go into trade union executive positions, hold offices and they do that for life for as long as they are in the service. “And in doing so, they will refuse postings and redeployment under the guise that they are doing trade union activities, government says no. “You have to be a public servant first before you become a trade unionist. Therefore, if you are there, the public service rules should also be applied to you and in doing so, government says establishments will look at issues and give it a human face in order not to disrupt trade unionism and in furtherance to this, government has also said that there must be tenure stipulations because people stay there without tenures, many organisations give people union positions without tenure. “Government says there is no office that doesn’t have a tenure. Trade unions now should give us Constitution that must have tenure at least maximum of two tenure for any elective position.” He went on: “Again the third point that government looked at in the technical report for us is the authentication of documents in collective bargaining. Often times in government circle, we have gotten circulars that are fake being presented by people who come for collective bargaining agreements. Sometimes, even some parastatals can present something that is not really authenticated. “Government therefore says all collective agreements must be authenticated by the rightful authorities and domiciled with the Federal Ministry of Labour and Employment.” On skipping in the medical sector,  he said: “Government says Head of Service of the Federation must bring out a circular immediately to stop skipping arrangements.” On the seven years tenure fixed for resident doctors training, he said: “The medical training for resident doctors has been contentious. Some medical doctors come into the training and become professional unionists and stay there as permanent job. “The residency training is actually not a permanent job as such, it is a conveyor built arrangements by which you stay and drop off another people come in so government has fixed a tenure for resident training, seven years within which you can pass all your exams. If you don’t pass all your exams after seven years, you are off.”