Is convocation fee of N20,800 mandated on graduands of the University of Ilorin (UNILORIN) a last-minute extortion by the school? This is a question graduating students of the school want management to answer as they alleged introduction of the fee was a way being used by the school to “extort” them. CAMPUSLIFE gathered that the school mandated all the graduating students to pay the N20,800 before they could be allowed to attend their convocation, which starts next Tuesday. The students wondered why the school made the payment of the fee compulsory, noting that convocation should be optional and should not be made forced on students. The students particularly protested the list of items for which the money was meant, pointing out that they only needed two items in the list. The breakdown of the fee showed that each graduating student is to pay N2,000 for convocation gown and order of proceedings, N5,500 for transcript, N400 for the convocation video to be burn on compact disc, N1,400 for muffler, N2,500 for certificate folder, N5,000 for certificate and N2,000 as administrative charges. Master’s and post-graduate students are to pay for the same items, but with an increased administrative charges of N500 which raised the fee to N21,300 for the post-graduate graduands. The graduating students rejected the fees, telling the school not to burden them with “needless charges” after paying their final school fees. The students wondered why the school is asking them to pay for certificates and transcripts, while also querying the logic behind the directive mandating them to pay for certificate jackets. The graduating students also raised objection on the price tag on each item in the list, alleging the management deliberately increased the cost to extort them. Last year, CAMPUSLIFE gathered that graduands paid N12,000 for all the listed items in the convocation package. Going by the breakdown of last year’s convocation fee, N2,000 was paid for convocation gown, N2,000 for order of proceeding, N5,500 for transcript, N1,100 for muffler, N400 for convocation VCD, and N1,000 as administrative charges. No graduand paid for certificates last year. While the graduating students are yet to understand reasons to pay for their certificates, they are also curious to know why the school mandated them to pay administrative charges. A graduating student, who simply gave his name as Miftaudeen, said: “We don’t know what the ‘administrative charges’ is meant for. The school didn’t explain to us why it is charging us for administrative assignment for which the Federal Government is paying their salaries. I personally question this item. Why should graduands be asked to pay for administrative task? The reason for the convocation fee and its increment remains unknown to us.” The graduating students also accused the school of extorting them when they were asked to pay N2,500 to bind their final year projects. UNILORIN, it was gathered, forcibly centralised binding of project and introduce penalty for final year students who failed to pay for the “unsolicited” service. Before the school took over the business of binding students’ projects, individual students, on their own, usually got their projects banded by commercial printers within and outside the campus at cheap rate. It costs N400 to bind a copy of the project, while students pay N1,600 to bind four copies, which are expected to be submitted. Students protested when the school announced the cost of binding the project work. The project binding cost, CAMPUSLIFE gathered, was later reduced to N2,000 after complaints by the graduating students. Commercial printers around the campus also complained that the school action deprived them of their trade. The aggrieved graduands took to social media to express their grievances at what they described as “outrageous convocation fee”. They said the convocation fee was higher than the national minimum wage, describing the fee as “a daylight robbery”. The students created two hash tags – #UnilorinDaylightRobbery and #UnilorinEnoughisEnough – on Twitter to channel their complaints. Kanayo Bobby wrote: “I don’t understand why we need to pay N20,800 when we are leaving the school. Are we going to receive lectures after graduating from the school? When I told my dad that we are asked to pay N20,800 for convocation, he asked if I was owing school fees. Enough of this official extortion.” A student named Afeez, wrote: “UNILORIN used to be known to trend for good reasons, that is learning and character. But now, it is trending for extortion. N20,800? That’s so much for convocation. The school management should kindly cut these ridiculous charges and save itself of ignominy. It is a daylight robbery.” Mumeen Tosho wrote: “Minimum wage is still fixed at N18,000. National Youth Service Corps (NYSC) members” monthly allowance is just N19,800, but UNILORIN convocation fee is N20,800. Are we paying another school fees again or what?” The graduating students also criticised the school for its failure to send their names for National Youth Service. A graduating student, who gave his name as Teslim, wrote: “UNILORIN is printing our certificates abroad for over N68 million. The school has been extorting me for five years now. We can’t even register for the ongoing NYSC Batch C registration because the management is yet to submit our names for National Youth Service.” An alumnus wrote: “Imagine if unilorin eventually succed with this extortion attempt. N21,000 per graduating student multiplied by 8,000 granduands; that is roughly N192 million. For who? Enough is enough.” Reacting, UNILORIN’s Director of Information, Mr Kunle Akogun, described the students’ allegation as “baseless”, saying the convocation was not newly introduced as being speculated by the graduating students. He said the fee was only “reasonably increased” from N18,000 paid by graduands last year to N20,800. He said: “Those complaining about the fee should look at the breakdown and show us how the school is extorting them. The certificates are being printed outside the country to improve the security feature on the document. I wonder why they said the school should not ask them to pay for certificate. This is a culture in an academic environment and UNILORIN is not acting strange in this regard. Also, administrative charges are paid every year by graduands.”