All activities were last Tuesday and Wednesday, brought to a halt at the Moshood Abiola Polytechnic (MAPOLY) in Abeokuta, Ogun State, as part-time students shut the main gate to protest the suspension of lectures by the school’s chapter of the Academic Staff Union of Polytechnics (ASUP).
The protest followed an indefinite suspension of lectures in part-time classes by the teachers’ union, which declared a work-to-rule action over the non-payment of their salaries and arrears for 12 months.
The lecturers at their emergency meeting, where the decision was taken, vowed not to return to work until their salaries and arrears are paid by the government.
The protesters converged in their numbers on the school entrance in the early hours of Tuesday and Wednesday, preventing movement of workers and visitors to the school. Since their lecturers stopped coming to classes, the part-time students complained that they had been rendered useless.
Some of them, who spoke with our correspondent, expressed displeasure over the decision by their lecturers. They vowed to continue to disrupt activities in the school until its management and their lecturers resolve their differences.
The part-time students condemned what they termed “preferential treatment” being accorded their full-time colleagues, wondering why ASUP did not extend its decision to those in full-time programmes. They accused the school’s management and ASUP of not giving “appropriate concentration” to part-time programmes
While expressing their grievances during the protest, the part-time students demanded “immediate resolution” of issues that led to the suspension of lectures.
Speaking on behalf of the aggrieved students, the protest organiser, Adekunle Sanusi, alleged that the school management used the tuition fees paid by part-time students to mobilise lecturers to teach full-time students.
According to him, the protest became necessary after the management and the lecturers failed to give them what they deserved, adding that part-time students paid the highest fee in the school.
Adekunle the protesters would not leave the school gate until the school and ASUP yielded to their demands.
He said: “We are blocking the school entrance because the school and lecturers teaching us have shown that they don’t care about us. It has been two weeks now that ASUP suspended all academic activities for part-time students. And ever since then, there have been no meeting between the management and the lecturers on when lectures will resume. The lecturers declared work-to-rule for the full-time students, while lectures have been completely suspended for the part-time programmes.
“We have tried to talk to all quarters to settle all these issues because we don’t want it to look like we are coming to the streets for no reason. But, all efforts proved abortive. We gave them an ultimatum to meet and resolve their disagreement, but they failed.
“Until our demands are met, we are not going to leave the school gate because part-time programme the major source of Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) for the school. So, it is not right for the school to allow ASUP suspend lectures and watch us suffer, while the same lecturers go to teach our colleagues in the full-time programmes.
“We believe that if any disagreement happens between the school and our lecturers, we, as part-time students, should not be affected based on the exorbitant fees we pay for our programmes. It is our tuition fees that are being used to pay the lecturers, who are teaching our colleagues in full-time programmes.”
Meanwhile, all efforts to speak with the school’s Public Relations Officer, Yemi Ajibola proved abortive up till the time of filling this report.
National Association of Ogun State Students (NAOSS) Social Director, Lukmon Abolade, described the suspension of part-time lectures as an “act of injustice” against part-time students, asking: “How can the management and ASUP treat part-time students who pay the highest fees like that?”
He urged the lecturers to re-consider their decision, noting that ASUP could not justify its decision when full-time students, who pay lesser, receive lectures.
Abolade said: “The school should give the part-time students what is due to them. Every well-meaning student should join this protest to express displeasure over the way part-time students are being treated in MAPOLY. We cannot stop ASUP from embarking on the strike, but the lecturers should know that part-time students are also paying school fees, which the management is using to pay them. We believe every student, irrespective of the timing of their programmes, deserves to be treated equally. If full-time students get lectures, let the part-time students get lectures too.”
A National Diploma (ND) II Business Administration student, Azeez Adegbola, lamented: “We are not going to stop this protest until our lecturers are back to classroom. The management of the school has failed us. How can we be paying that kind of money and the school cannot convince ASUP not to stop lectures? They are using our money to pay full-time lecturers at the expense of ours. For the past two weeks, there has been no lecture for part-time students.”
Also, Gbenga Shobowale, a Higher National Diploma (HND) II part-time Mass Communication student, said the protesters would continue to hold the school to ransom until the lecturers return to classroom.
He said: “The management and our lecturers need to meet very fast and resolve their disagreement. We cannot afford to go home, while our colleagues in the full-time programmes get lectures. We will continue to hold the whole school to ransom. They claimed we are going to start examination by December and they are not giving us lectures, unlike our colleagues on full-time. How do they want us to pass? How many years do they want us to spend on our programme?
“We will not allow the school to rest until they do something about this issue. We must get lectures just like the full-time students, because we have equal rights in the school. When and how are we going to prepare for our examination if lecturers don’t come to classes? We have our various plans after the programmes; the issues between the school and ASUP are affecting our plans. It seems these people take joy in truncating academic calendar at will. This is not done anywhere. We just need to move ahead with our lives. And this is the time we can talk to them to allow us return to lecture rooms.”