Over, 4,000 members of the Kwankwasiyya faction of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kano have elected a former Commissioner of Works and Housing in Kano, Abba Kabiru Yusuf as the gubernatorial candidate of the party. Yusuf, a son in law to former Kano Governor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, was elected at the primaries, which held as early as 1 am on Tuesday, at Lugard House, the Kwankwasiyya Headquarters in the state in the midst of all the party  major stakeholders outside the Kwankwasiyya faction. Announcing the outcome of the result, the Returning officer and Chairman of the Electoral Working Committee of the PDP, Dr Ezego Emeka Onuoha (Justice of Peace), commended the party members for peaceful conduct of the Primaries. ”Number of accredited Delegates, 4,130; nominated aspirants, Abba K. Yusuf, 2,400. And by the power bestowed on the Committee of which I am the Chairman, we hereby declare Abba K. Yusuf, as the candidate to fly the flag of the PDP and to be the Governor of this state in 2019.” In his remarks, Yusuf, not only appreciated his supporters but promised to work for the development of the State when he becomes governor. ”Let me seize this opportunity to thank Almighty Allah for giving us the opportunity to be able to participate in this Gubernatorial Primary election. We want to assure you that we would not let you down. We would bring you closer, to our chest  by the time we go into the Government House, Insha Allah.” The Police Command in the State had earlier prevented the Kwankwasiyya faction of the PDP from conducting their primaries and barricaded the venue of the primary, citing court orders on the PDP leadership tussle in the state. In APC, having defied an initial peace pact, signed last month, the Senor Special Assistant to President Muhammadu Buhari, on House of Representatives Matters, Abdulrahaman Kawu Sumaila and the Senator, representing Kano South, Senator Kabiru Gaya, have signed another peace pact ahead of Tuesday’s  APC’s Senatorial Primaries in Kano State. The signing took place on Monday during a close-door meeting, with Security Chiefs in the State, including the Director of Department of State Services DSS, and the Army Commandant after both politicians were summoned by the State Police Command, following a clash of the supporters of the two politicians on Sunday . Speaking shortly, after the meeting, Kano State Commissioner of Police, Rabiu Yusuf, said Senator Gaya and Sumaila had promised to talk to their supporters to embrace peace and conduct themselves properly, while maintaining law and order during today’s  APC’s Senatorial Primaries. Speaking ahead of today’s Senatorial Primary elections of the APC, an aspirant of the North Senatorial Seat, Engineer Abdullahi Tijjani Mohammed Gwarzo, has withdrawn from the race. Briefing newsmen in Kano, Gwarzo said his decision to withdraw from the race followed an intervention by the State Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and the Commissioner for Local Government,  Murtala  Sule Garo, to reconcile him with the incumbent Senator of the zone, Senator Barau Jibrin. According to Gwarzo, who was a former Deputy Governor of Kano State, his withdrawal was also influenced by interest toward the APC success and the development of Kano North in particular. Gwarzo’s withdrawal therefore leaves, Senator Barau Jibrin, as the only contender for Kano North Senatorial District.