Senate Deputy Whip Francis Alimikhena has emerged as the All Progressives Congress (APC) senatorial candidate in Edo North during the primary. He said  his victory has created the enabling environment for him to dwarf the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in next year’s election. He appealed to the aggrieved to hands with him to win the poll. “The victory is not a victory for Senator Francis Alimikhena but a victory for the development of Edo North. “I called on all those that were in the race withe to come in one brotherhood let us collectively achieve the dream of our party. “The coast is clear, the All Progressive Congress (APC) is coasting to victory in the 2019 general election. The defeat that awaits PDP in the 2019 Edo North election will be more shocking than the 2015  election. “The efforts to achieve the tasked ahead is a collective efforts and we must put our differences behind us to achieve our overall objectives. While appealing to politicians shun politics of bitterness, Alimikhena said: “The inevitable disagreements and issues that arouse during election period are all part of the Democratic dispensation and must not be mistaken for chaos. Debate and argument is part of democracy therefore whatever war of words or misunderstanding that occurred during the process should be regarded as part of the political process and not conflict. He expressed gratitude to the leadership of the APC in Edo State. Alimikhena said his victory at the APC Primary is a stepping stone to the victory that is ahead in the main election. “The trust of the Edo North leadership  has not been misplaced and I will justify the confidence that has just be reposed in me through effective representation.” The senator said he has laid the developmental a foundation for prosperity through the development of infrastructure, appropriate macro-economic, revolving loans and human welfare packages that will eliminate abject poverty and despondence among suffering masses. He admitted that the tasked of developing all communities in one tenure was not possible but assured that every other community will benefit in the next phase of development.  He is seeking re-election to enable him consolidate on his achievement as well as established a developmental benchmark for future legislators. He appealed to the stakeholders to deployed necessary machinery and ensure the victory of the APC at every level.