House of Representatives members on the platform of Lagos State All progressives Party (APC) yesterday endorsed former Commissioner for Establishment, Training and Pensions Babajide Sanwo-Olu for governor. The legislators described him as a hardworking, competent and result-driven technocrat and politician, who will take Lagos to a horizon of progress. Led by the House Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, the legislators visited the Ikoyi resident of the aspirant to decorate him with the insignia of endorsement. The legislators include former Head of Service Yakubu Balogun, former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Rotimi Agunsoye, Bisi Ayinla Yusuf, Jide Jimoh, Jide Benson, James Faleke, Taofeek Adaranijo, Ayodeji Joseph, Setonji Bamgbose, and Wole Diya. Gbajabiamila described the endorsement by the “community of friends” as the last pre-direct primary endorsement by a crucial political structure that has its taproots across the constituencies. Noting that the forum had earlier endorsed Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, he explained that politics is dynamic. In his view, the governor was endorsed then because he had no rival. Gbajabiamila said: “This is the last political structure that is lending support to Sanwo-Olu. We needed to take our time, look at issues dispassionately and deliberate extensively. We had endorsed the governor before. He has done well in infrastructure development. But, politics is dynamic. We have sat down. Governance is not just about infrastructural development. “The GAC had spoken. I was at the meeting. There was no dissenting voice in GAC. Sanwo-Olu is a man of rich pedigree; he has intimidating credentials. He has a lot of experience. We are going to support him at the primary tomorrow (today).” Gbajabiamila spoke on the imperative of party unity, saying that the party will not be divided after the primary. He added: “We have one party. We don’t want a divided party. Whatever is the outcome of tomorrow’s primary, our party will remain united. We believe in Sanwo-Olu, his capability. We believe he will take Lagos to a higher level.” An excited Sanwo-Olu thanked the legislators, promising to endow the office of governor with honour and responsibility, if elected. He said: “A vote for me is a vote for taking Lagos to a higher, bigger and better level in health, education, environment, direct foreign investment. While others are playing low, we are playing high. The party will respond to them. “I feel elated. I feel tomorrow should be today. Our people will make a right choice.”