Former Chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR) Malam Abubakar Bello Abdullahi is contesting to represent Birnin Kebbi/ Kalgo/Bunza Federal Constituency at the National Assembly on the platform of the All Progressives Congress (APC). JOHN AUSTIN UNACHUKWU met him. Excerpts: What is your assessment of the APC government in Kebbi State and how will this performance enhance your chances to win a seat into the House of Representatives? Well, my honest opinion is that Governor Abubakar Atiku Bagudu has accomplished so much in the past three years; he has added value to the state and improved the quality of life of the people. For instance, in agricultural sector, particularly in rice cultivation and production, he has made tremendous progress. Can you explain further? Rice production in Kebbi State has reduced quanlity of rice Nigeria used to import from Thailand. You remember that one or two years back, Kebbi had the largest number of pilgrims to the holy land in Saudi Arabia and majority of them were farmers who made significant amount of money from rice cultivation. Governor Bagudu has also done very well in terms of infrastructural development and roads construction. What are you contesting for? I am contesting to represent Birnin Kebbi/Kalgo/Bunza Federal Constituency in the House of Representatives in 2019. Why are you going into politics? I want to go into politics to serve my people. Over the years, I had served as Public Relations Officer of the Kofar Koka Youth Association; Deputy Speaker, Students Representatives Assembly at the State College of Arts and Science, Sokoto. I was also President of the Federated Organisation of Sokoto State Students Association back in 1984-85. Then I returned to State College of Arts and Sciences, Sokoto in 1987 where I began a career as a lecturer and during that time,   I also served as the chairman of the Academic Staff Union of Schools of Basic, Advanced and Preliminary Studies. Again, when I left the classroom and went to the National Library of Nigeria, I was elected the President of the Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated Institutions (SSAUTHRIAI).  Between 2007 and 2009, while working in Abuja, I was elected the chairman of the Nigerian Institute of Public Relations (NIPR). As I am speaking to you now, I am the National Publicity Secretary of the Bayero University Kano (BUK) Alumni Association. So, you can see that over time I had offered to serve people voluntarily without any remuneration.  So what basically informs my drive to contest for the House of Representatives to represent Birinin Kebbi/ Kalgo/Bunza Federal Constituency is to improve the quality of representation of our people in the House of Representatives. As an activist, unionist and social crusader, what do you think you can offer to your constituency at this point in time? Over time, I have observed the basic issues that are of utmost concern to my people. You know for example that we have arable land in Birnin Kebbi, and so it behoves on whoever represents Birnin Kebbi, Kalgo and Bunza in the Federal Houe of Representatives to make sure that agriculture is given the pride of place in the State. And I am happy that right now, after President Muhammadu Buhari launched the Anchor Borrowers Programme in December in Birinin Kebbi, rice cultivation has really increased phenomenally, alongside other products. Aside from agriculture, I also know that there is also the need to give serious consideration to quality education in my constituency, so basically these two issues, agriculture and quality education  will be part of my legislative agenda when I get to the House of Representatives. I believe that if we till the land and develop our human resources by ensuring quality education for our young ones and all those yearning for education, I think that we will definitely make headway in terms of our development. I have also observed that there is increasing environmental degradation in my area. When you travel by road, you will see that a lot of the vegetation in my area has actually withered out. So, I think that whoever is representing Birnin Kebbi should be able to give serious attention to our environmental wellbeing. In addition to this, there is another explosive issue which is joblessness among the youths. I think that it is just a matter of time before our youths begin to physically attack our political leadership. Good education is the starting point but we must quickly impart skills – in building, carpentry, farming, plumbing, etc. – to our youths and find them working capital, so they can be self-employed. So, I think that youth empowerment and poverty alleviation will take my time while serving the Federal Constituency of Birinin Kebbi/ Kalgo/ Bunza in the House of Representatives. APC has adopted direct, indirect primaries and consensus option to select candidates. Which model do you prefer? At the moment, I really don’t care which option is adopted. Besides, I think that this has been overtaken by events, because I remember that a few weeks ago, stakeholders sat down in Birnin Kebbi and decided to adopt indirect primary election, if consensus arrangement fails. They are for consensus candidates as the first option, but where it fails, they will use indirect primary to choose candidates for the election. As long as the process is fair, I stand a very good chance of emerging as the candidate of the APC for Birnin Kebbi/Kalgo/Bunza in the House of Representatives,   no matter the selection process adopted. What are your chances of winning? I have bery bright chances of winning, because I have toured and met with almost every stakeholder in my constituency and the party. Every stakeholder in the APC and even some of those outside the APC are aware of my aspiration and campaign for a seat in the House of Representatives to represent Birnin Kebbi/Bunza/Kalgo. Besides, I have gone round the wards; there are 35 wards in Birnin Kebbi/Bunza/Kalgo; 10 wards in Kalgo, 10 wards in Bunza and 15 wards in Birinin Kebbi. I have gone round all these wards and met with the party executives, and met the people and I have intimated them of my desire to contest for the election, to serve them by representing them in the House of Representatives. And we were well received; there are also other people, especially civil servants and the political elite rooting for me. A large section of the political elite are supporting me, because they know my antecedents, they know that I had served the people without any remuneration, they know that I am outspoken, they know that I am vocal, well educated, gainfully employed and above all, I am a team player. They know that I am prepared to offer service to our people, so I have a very good chance of emerging as the APC candidate for the election. What comparative advantage do you think you have over other contestants? Well, over time people know that I am a courageous person; they also know that I am well educated and they also know that I am a man of integrity. I have never been involved in any scandal, they also know that I’m from a big and respected family, I mind my business, am at peace with everybody, and they can trust me to deliver. They know they have someone who will go out there in the House of Representatives, stand up and speak for the constituency.  They also know that I  have no time for cosmetics, that I will contribute meaningfully to debates in the House of Representatives because I am not a shy person, they know that I am a professional and whatever I say I do, I do it, a combination of educational, professional and family backgrounds stand me out for the job. 