President Muhammadu Buhari on Wednesday night again blamed the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) for wasting the commonwealth of Nigerians during its sixteen years administrations. According to him, there was nothing to show for the huge resources that were earned in the country during the period. He spoke at a dinner for youth political appointees at the new Banquet Hall of the Presidential Villa, Abuja. He specifically queried the $16 billion expended on the power sector during the administration of former President Olusegun Obasanjo. “There was no power they said they spent $16bn on, where is it?” he queried. The President also expressed disappointment with the Nigerian press over the poor coverage of his go back to land agricultural revolution program. He said that the press did not give the credit of the ongoing transformation in the agricultural sector of the country to his administration. Buhari said: “I’m very disappointed with the Nigerian press. They didn’t give this government the credit of the go back to land program. We have cut down the importation of rice by at least 90 percent.” According to him, Nigerians are now leaving white collar jobs for farming to tap from the revolution. He also said that the country has achieved food security. The President said he appointed Chief Audu Ogbeh as the Minister of Agriculture in view of his experience in the sector. “Ogbeh went to a bank, borrowed money and invested in the agriculture. He suffered but eventually he paid the money. So, you cannot have a better person than somebody who has suffered in the sector, “he said. Speaking at the occasion, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said that the PDP didn’t achieve one-tenth of APC achievements in its sixteen years at the helm of affairs. He said “As a Government arm, we have achieved so much and I am going to make available to you a document that we have put together, which captures what the government has been able to achieve in just about two and half years, what I called a midterm report. “If we have to make a comparison of what has been achieved in the last couple of years, the 16 years of PDP administration will not constitute one-tenth of what we have been able to achieve in the last three and half years. “We went to the 2015 elections with promises, but we will go to the 2019 elections with our scorecard,” he said.