Former British, Commonwealth and WBA International Light heavyweight champion Peter Oboh has urged the Super Eagles to go all out against the South Africa when both sides meet next month in a crucial 2019 Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) qualifier. The former champ, who is also championing better life for sports men and women after retirement, stated that the Eagles must be at their best and make use of their chances when they confront Bafana Bafana in South Africa. Oboh said, “in our next game against South Africa, the Eagles must be at their best as they did in the first game against Libya. As three times AFCON winners, I believe we can win the next one in Cameroon, but we must qualify first.” According to him, the South Africans who defeated the Eagles in the opening game of the qualifiers in Uyo will be a hard nut to crack in front of their home fans. He also expressed happiness over the Super Eagles double victory over Libya in the 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers played in Uyo and Sfax in Tunisia. He said, “I congratulate the Super Eagles for their wins over Libya. It is heartwarming that the Eagles are close to qualifying for the 2019 AFCON, which will be hosted by Cameroon. They have to do everything possible to see that they seal the ticket in South Africa before Seychelles come visiting.” Although he expressed satisfaction with the performance of the Eagles over the two-legged contest against Libya, Oboh said the Eagles almost gave up their chance of stamping their authority over their hosts. He expected more from the Eagles, particularly after their commanding 4-0 win in the first leg. “The first game in Uyo was very convincing. But the return leg didn’t turn out so,” he said. “Being a potential winner of the Africa Cup of Nations, I expected more from them considering that they beat the same team 4-0 three days earlier. I believe the Super Eagles lost concentration in the second half of the second game and this culminated in the pressure from the Libyan side.” Oboh said Libyans play their home games outside their country and this was a disadvantage the Super Eagles should have capitalised on and score more goals. He labelled Tunisia as a “neutral” ground.