Apart from revenues and other domestic incomes, the Nigerian economy also relies substantially on Foreign Direct Investments (FDI). While FDI is different from portfolio investments, which are made indirectly into another country’s economy using such financial instruments as bonds and stocks, FDI is made into a business or a sector by an individual or a company from another country. By incorporating a wholly owned subsidiary or company, acquiring shares in an associated enterprise, through merger or an unrelated enterprise and participating in an equity joint venture with another investor, a foreign direct investor may acquire 10% or more of the voting power of an enterprise in the Nigeria economy. FDI is believed to produce positive effects on host economies including adoption of foreign technology, licensing agreements, employment opportunities, and increased productive efficiency. While the investment code that created the Nigerian Investment Promotion Commission (NIPC) (Decree No. 16 of 1995) and the Foreign Exchange (Monitoring and Miscellaneous Provision) Decree,1995, gave full backing for FDI inflow into the country, Nigeria like other developing countries has made moves to attract FDI because of its advantages as a tool of economic development. Formation of the New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) provided Nigeria and other African countries the platform to join the rest of the world in seeking FDI. But despite the generous incentives to attract FDI inflows with its enormous human and natural resources, the quantum of the FDI into the country has not matched the expectations of the past and current governments in Nigeria. Besides insufficient FDI to the country, some of those that flowed into Nigeria have sort of being a disadvantage to the economy. Some foreign firms have taken advantage of the incentives offered by Nigeria to achieve their various motives of enthroning stable monopolistic control over sources of raw materials in Nigeria for their parent companies. Apart from their unhindered access to control of local markets, they have also utilized low cost labour, thereby boosting their higher returns. Foreign direct investors have also enjoyed low corporate and income tax rates, tax holidays, other types of tax concessions. They also have at their disposal preferential tariffs, special economic zones, investment financial subsidies, soft loan or loan guarantees, free land or land subsidies, relocation and expatriation subsidies, job training and employment subsidies, infrastructure subsidies, research and development support and derogation from regulations, usually for very large projects. Other disadvantages of the FDI inflows into Nigeria include hindrance to domestic investment, risk from political changes in the FDI’s country of origin. Some of them have also posed negative influence on exchange rates in Nigeria. They may also have negative Impact on Nigeria’s Investment while foreign direct investment may also lead to  some kind of modern-day economic colonialism, which leaves host countries vulnerable to foreign companies’ exploitations. To overcome the disadvantages inherent in the FDI Nigeria is used to, there is a new move to ensure the country gets  higher benefits from investments coming from abroad. The new move, under the Nigeria Diaspora Investment Summit (NDIS) scheduled for November 27 and 28, is being spearheaded by the office of the Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and Diaspora, Mrs. Abike Dabiri-Erewa The summit is to get Nigerians residing abroad to channel their investments to Nigeria towards boosting the economy. One great benefit of the new move is to ensure that there is no capital flight abroad and that such investments stays in the country. Speaking on the Nigeria Diaspora Investment Summit, Dabiri-Erewa said, “Considering the current measures introduced to improve the Ease of Doing Business in Nigeria and the fact that Nigeria is fast becoming a robust investment destination for smart investors given the fact that the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) is set and hopes to achieve the ERGP’s goal of 7% GDP growth by 2020. “When we look at the Nigerian Diaspora remittances, the fact that it is over N22 billion a year, which typically goes into helping their families regularly. “However, these funds do not have lasting benefits for majority of the benefactors. Therefore, the Nigeria Diaspora Investment Summit aims to encourage Nigerians in the diaspora to channel their funds into formal sectors. “This way, they and their beneficiaries will have a more sustainable means of generating income on a regular basis. “The Nigeria Diaspora Investment Summit aims to demonstrate that targeting Nigerians in the Diaspora is an effective and sustainable strategy for attracting Diaspora Nigerians to look inward into their home country and channel their funds into investment into the emerging diversified economy of Nigeria.” “It will establish a platform where Diaspora investors can interact with potential sponsors, partners, collaborators and the government. They will have direct round table deals for mutual benefits. “It will showcase and explore in an unprecedented manner, the vast number of government diaspora investment incentives, business investment and potential sponsorship opportunities in all the 36 States of Nigeria. “Also, this summit will explore ways to harness the substantial but unexplored skills, the capital and technical know-how of Nigerians abroad and institutional participants that are major players in the Nigerian economy, including the Organized Private Sector; Government Agencies responsible for Investment Promotion; Foreign Development Partners like USAID, DFID, UNDP, World Bank, IMF etc.” She said that areas of focus for the investments include agribusiness, education, training and skills development, entertainment, hospitality and tourism. Other areas are extractive industry, healthcare, infrastructure and real estate, manufacturing, telecommunication, technology and innovations, transportation, waste management and environmental remediation. Throwing more light on the new initiative, Dr. Badewa T. Adejugbe-Williams, Chairperson, planning committee of NDIS said “Instead of foreign investors coming to invest in Nigeria and taking their foreign currencies back to their countries, we want Nigerians to come and invest here, so the money stays here. “You know our people send monies to their families in Nigeria on a monthly basis usually, but that money goes, it is spent and it is gone. “But we want a sustainable way for them to be remitting money to their families. So with this investment summit, if they come in and invest in businesses in Nigeria to develop the Nigerian economy, and help Nigeria and the same time help their families, they will have sustainable returns on their investments. “And like Honorable said, it could be up to N60 billion This is the inaugural, we hope it will be annual event,” she added It will really be a good news for Nigeria, if this initiative succeeds and more Nigerian investments flows into the country. At least, it will check capital  flight and leave more money for Nigeria’s development.