 The Lead Consultant of Soundinvest Limited, Adewale Champion said consistency will make a man excel. Champion said this at the 7th edition of Nation’s pride summit which held at RCCG, Ayonuga street Lagos. Speaking on the theme of the summit, “Excel”, Champion said “Greatness begins from your mind, life will not give you what you want. To excel in life you have to find your purpose, seek wisdom, embrace change, enroll for mentorship and commit to God” The event which took place on Saturday also coupled with the book launching of Peter Oluwadamilare Oyetunji’s No Limit, the convener of Nations Pride Summit. According to Oyetunji, the 88 pages book is not limited to religion or motivation. “It is multi-purpose. It talks about personal life, life with God, career and ministry, how to live a purposeful life, focusing on goals, wisdom quote’s.” Oyetunji , who is the author of two other books titled “Stop Looking & Start Seeing” and “What Stops You is in you” is a motivational speaker,  writer, editor and a singer. He is the president and founder of Oluwadamilare I Care Foundation and Dream Big Outreach an interdenominational outreach set up to  impact the lives of youth and adults who have lost hopes. “Seeing the challenges youths face in the society inspired me to write this book. No matter what you are going through in life challenges, problems, difficulties there is no limit to your greatness.   Speaking further about the foundation, he said “We give support out to youths like the Makoko youths we gave clothes to today after their presentation. We go round to orphanage homes to put smiles on peoples face and cater for them.” “Goal setting and focus, these are the vital solution I have provided in this book to set goal and focus on it with God’s help in the situation.” Oyetunji said. Speaking to our reporter about limitations he faced and overcame “One of the limitations I have faced is discouragement in the process of putting this book together. One thing about me is that I share my stories with people around me and once I see that people around me do not buy into my vision, I do not listen to them. This is one of the solutions to greatness. Surround yourself with people that buy into your vision. And today I am grateful for it.” He said. Reviewing the book, Cecilia Ologe a member of Dream Big Outreach said “it’s an interesting book, it interprets all a man needs to become successful, try to be authentic, it encourages us to live a better life and set a reasonable standard for ourselves. The author however appreciated all the participants, audience and performing artiste Femi Adekoya, Korede Victoria and Isreal Obadeyin.