The retail market accounts for 16 per cent of Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product. It also holds a $40 billion growth opportunity by 2020, driven largely by a market of over 180 million, a growing middle class with spending power and rising urbanisation. Despite emerging a new frontier of growth for local and international investors and retailers, experts say investors must embrace data and new technologies if they must be part of the future which the retail economy promises. Assistant Editor CHIKODI OKEREOCHA reports. A mix of favourable fundamentals and positive forecast may have positioned Nigeria’s retail sector as a new frontier of growth for local and international investors and retailers. Her large market of over 180 million; a fast-growing middle class with disposable income, rising urbanisation rate and a stable polity are transforming that segment of the real estate sector into a gold mine. Nigeria’s middle class, which is estimated at about 24 per cent of the population, is credited with having the spending power and the taste for new and convenient shopping culture and appetite for foreign products. Government’s recent push to encourage local production of goods as well as supply chain improvements are also said to have contributed significantly to the sector’s growth. Today, the retail sector, according to experts, contributes as much as 16 per cent to Nigeria’s Gross Domestic Product (GDP). A report by McKinsey and Company, a New York-based management consulting firm, also estimated that the growth opportunity in food and consumer goods in Nigeria will reach $40 billion in 2020. The firm hinged its positive forecast on Nigeria’s urbanisation rate, which it estimated at four per cent per annum, making it is one of the fastest in the world. And as the trend towards modernisation continues, prompted by continued population shift from rural to urban areas, the firm said this presents a huge opportunity for global retailers. But, despite these favourable fundamentals and positive forecast, experts say that embracing data and new technologies are key to making the retail sector more competitive and rewarding to investors while also contributing more to GDP. For instance, the Country Head of Fraym, a firm that delivers data and insights into Africa’s fastest growing markets, Ali Djire, believes that embracing a data-driven approach to retail is the way to go. He said in a market under pressure with retailers struggling with under-performing new locations due to steep competition and a lack of critical consumer mix, access to data is increasingly transforming the fortunes of companies in the sector.Djire, who is one of the emerging thought leaders in the field, said: “The need for a data-driven approach is becoming an imperative for retailers to not only inform what products to carry on the shelf, but also to get unprecedented insights into where to locate their stores, how to price based on ability to pay, and how to respond to competition. ”Interestingly, the convergence of Artificial Intelligence (AI), technology and data on Nigeria’s multi-billion dollar retail market will be a strategic focus to local and international developers, investors and retailers at the 4th annual West Africa Property Investment (WAPI) Summit slated to hold in Lagos, November 15-16, 2018.WAPI is the region’s largest and most premier real estate event. It connects the most influential local and international Africa property stakeholders, driving investment and development into a wide range of real estate and infrastructure projects and developments across the region. The Managing Director of the WAPI Summit, Kfir Rusin, said this year’s summit will provide a platform for the traditional retail sector to network and realise the real-world benefits of how relevant data and tech is essential to growing the formal retail sector. According to him, the advent of data and new technologies are critical to quickening the somewhat slow pace of recovery in the retail sector post-recession. As Djire added, “WAPI is a platform for engagement. It is the platform where the message of a data approach in retail could gain grounds.”There is a unique opportunity to engage directly with decision-makers, demystify the concept of geospatial data, and walk them through the idea of a data approach and how it could affect their business and bottom line. “More importantly, it’s an opportunity to hear from them about the ways they think about the market, their business, and their consumers, to ensure that we’re all on the same wavelength.” According to experts, Nigeria’s retail market is considered one of the world’s most significant and accessible investment opportunities. They, however, note that for many, the opportunity has been missed or misjudged due to lack of relevant, actionable and useful data.To underscore the opportunity that abounds in the retail sector, Djire said the value of retail to Nigeria’s GDP has been growing, currently accounting for 16 per cent of the GDP and is viewed by many as a new frontier of growth for local and international investors. The Head of Property Development for Novare Equity Partners, a pan-Africa real estate development fund, Jan Van Zyl, shares this view. “Nigeria is the largest economy in Africa. Therefore, you cannot brand yourself as a sub-Saharan fund and not have a presence in Nigeria,” he said.Van Zyl added: “We believe that we are at the right place, at the right time, and we have invested in four shopping centres in Nigeria since 2010 with a book value in excess of $300 million.” Although, he said the fund was also looking at options in Ghana and Cote D’Ivoire, he emphasised that as one of Africa’s bullish international funds in real estate, the pan-Africa fund was in Nigeria for the long-term. Van Zyl said although, the economic recovery over the last 12 months has been slow, it was not a Nigerian, but an emerging market phenomenon.He also said the fact that many potential new entrants into the retail sector are waiting on the sidelines until the uncertainty surrounding the 2019 election period has settled was not a Nigeria specific cycle, but is experienced in most emerging markets throughout Africa and other continents. The expert, however, noted that there has been a trend of decreasing the size of future shopping centre developments in the current market, which is one way in which the market has recalibrated to cope with market relating to the recession. As part of the recalibration, Djire said his firm was actively working with global investment players, development organisations, as well as local companies to get actionable market insights. ”Through our data, we are seeing early signs of companies leveraging Fraym’s geospatial data platform to streamline their operations and retail strategy. We see a growing need for actionable data for companies to be able to make effective decisions,” he added.The first mall in Nigeria, The Palms, opened its doors for business in 2005. From that time to 2015 when the crisis in the international market forced down oil prices, leading to the country’s worst economic recession in 25 years, the retail market has been gaining significant interest from local and international investors. The investors, which include real estate developers and retailers invested heavily in the development of modern shopping malls and centres similar to what obtains in Europe, America, South Africa and other developed nations. From only two shopping malls – The Palms in Lagos and Ceddi Plaza in Abuja, Nigeria now boasts several malls such as the Jabi Lake Mall in Abuja, Ikeja City Mall and Maryland Mall in Lagos, among others in Port Harcourt, Ilorin, Owerri, and Onitsha. According to accountancy firm KPMG, 10 cities have at least one modern shopping mall as at mid-2017.Nigeria’s retail space has also increased, reaching 326,958 square metres (sqm) in 2017, from 30,000 in 2005. However, the total retail space is still considered small compared to other markets such as South Africa, the continent’s most developed retail economy, which boasts of 23 million sqm of retail space.  E-commerce holds promises Although, digitalisation has not yet reached its full potential in Nigeria, there has been a significant proliferation of online delivery services, indicating that the potential of e-commerce in Nigeria is enormous, given the sheer size of the population.At present, Nigeria’s e-commerce market is estimated at $13 billion (about N4.01trillion). However, experts in the financial service sector have projected its market value to hit $50 billion (N15.45trillion) over the next decade. The National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) was more specific in its projection, noting that the e-commerce sector would contribute about 10 per cent, representing a projected N10 trillion, to the nation’s GDP this year. Already, a recent report by London-based Economist Intelligence Unit (EIU) has identified industry giants such as Jumia, Konga and Jiji as leading the African charge to boost the continent’s growth of online, technology-based retail business.Although, experts say that online retailing is still at its infancy in Nigeria, successes do far recorded by Jumia and Konga, the two largest online retail platforms, are seen as indication that the future of online retailing is indeed, bright. This optimism is hinged on Nigeria’s growing Internet penetration and increased adoption of smart phones. 