An Ikeja Special Offences Court heard yesterday how a defendant in an alleged $200 million oil fraud, Yusuf Yahaya Kwande, jumped the administrative bail granted him by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). The second defendant, Osahon Asemota, was also absent. The two defendants were scheduled to be arraigned before Justice Mojisola Dada with five companies, Trafigura Beheer BV, Trafigura PTE Limited, Mettle Energy and Gas Limited, Renbrandt Ltd and Jil Engineering and Oil Services Limited, on a three-count charge of conspiracy to commit felony, stealing and receiving stolen property preferred against them by the EFCC. Mr. Adebisi Adeniyi, the prosecuting counsel for the EFCC, told the court that despite being served summons, the defendants were absent. He noted that Kwande, the third defendant, had also jumped EFCC bail. “The third defendant (Kwande) is the alter ego of first and second defendant (Trafigura Beheer BV and Trafigura PTE Ltd). “He was granted administrative bail and he jumped bail. It appears he escaped out of the jurisdiction of the honourable court. “The police are still searching for the third defendant and I hope that before the next adjourned date, the police would have apprehended him,” Adeniyi said. Mr. Olabode Olanipekun (SAN), the lawyer for Trafigura Beheer BV and Trafigura PTE Limited, however, disputed the claims of the EFCC. He said: “The prosecution’s claim that the third defendant (Kwande) is the alter ego of the first and second defendant (Trafigura Beheer BV and Trafigura PTE Limited is not correct. “The third defendant has not been served as the alter ego of the first and second defendant and the proof of evidence has no reflection of this. “The first and second defendants are foreign corporate entities and the charge was served on them outside Nigeria by courier, they responded because they did not want to ignore court processes and I got their response at 1am yesterday. “Section 357 of the Administration of Criminal Justice Law (ACJL) would have been relevant if the other defendants were in court. “If there are no proceedings today, it’s not as a result of the fault of the first and second defendants,” Olanipekun said. Mr. A. Aganmwonyi, counsel to Asemota, Mettle Energy and Gas Limited and Renbrandt Limited, explained that Asemota was absent because of an ailment he contracted over the weekend. He presented to the court, a copy of a medical report from the Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH) as a proof of Asemota’s illness. Mr. A. F. Makun, the defence counsel for Jil Engineering and Oil Services Limited, told the court that a representative of the company will be in court at the next adjourned date. The EFCC alleged that the defendants committed the offences in 2008 in Lagos. The case was adjourned till November 5 for arraignment.