Healthy lifestyle is critical to enhancing productivity at work places and promoting family ties, South Korea technology firm, LG Electronics has said. Its Managing Director for West Africa Operation, Mr Taeick Son, said the firm is therefore committed to innovative designs that will enable lifestyle convenience while creating seamless user experience of its products. Speaking in Lagos on Monday at the unveiling of the firm’s new products, Son said: “Today, families are paying more attention to healthy lifestyle and appreciating the importance of having a family meal. These have led to a rising interest in getting smarter in the kitchen. We want to make life better for everyone by providing affordable devices,” He said the firm is offering customers choices kitchen with LG’s fastest-growing feature for the kitchen — LG Instaview —adding that with the firm, there’s no compromise on quality. Speaking on the Instavuew refrigerator, he said  when one knocks twice on the mirrored dark-tinted glass panel on the right side door of the refrigerator, he said the interior lights up to reveal the contents without letting cold air out. “A clear barrier called a Coldsaver Panel between the rest of the fridge and the door-in-door compartment reduces air loss even more. Savvy consumers who want to save time and money will likely learn to put refrigerated snack foods and drinks in the door-in-door compartment for quickest access,” Son said. He said LG’s collection of high-end door-in-door refrigerators set the gold standard for food preservation. In addition to their innovative and ergonomic designs, these refrigerators use insights gleaned from decades of research to lock in cold air and prevent food from degrading. “The ergonomically-friendly design can even decrease the refrigerator’s environmental footprint by decreasing energy consumption,” he added. According Son, LG‘s kitchen package comes with 99.99 per cent anti-bacterial EasyClean feature in NeoChef Microwave Ovens and a catalytic easy clean feature in gas cookers for effortless cleaning He said: “LG gas cookers with catalytic clean feature allows users to clean the oven part more easily, by oxidizing food residues when the inner temperature reaches to 200 degrees Celsius, thereby freeing you from the hassle to wipe out the backside of the oven,” he explained.