Organised private sectors in Oyo State under the aegis of Ibadan Chamber of Commerce and Industries have assured the Oyo state government of collaborative partnership that would aid and promote business and mutual understanding. The group gave the assurance while playing host to the management team of the Oyo State Board of Internal Revenue (OYBIR) who were at the Ring Road office of the Chamber on a sensitisation visit and workshop to the members of the chamber. The  workshop which took place at the Chamber’s boardroom was organised to shed more light on the payment of levies and taxes being collected by the government which recently led to the closure of some companies and business premises across the state. While addressing the participants at the workshop, OYBIR chairman, Mr Bicci Alli challenged the business owners to make the good intentions of the government in terms of infrastructural and social development come to reality by being alive to their responsibilities of tax payment. Alli who was accompanied by the agency’s Director of Finance and Administration, Mr Akin Akinwale also noted that the people have the right to challenge the government on their needs by holding government accountable to ensure taxes paid are judiciously used. Explaining the various taxes and levies due to each level of government, Alli disclosed that the state government is working towards the removal of the  confusion in revenue collection that often leads to double taxation. The revenue boss stressed that both the government and the business community needs each other, adding that without people there cannot be government. Noting that, although, there are many sources where government can source fund, including loans, business interests and selling natural resources, the OYBIR boss pointed out that those sources are not reliable and sustainable. “Reliance on natural resources such as oil has failed us. We don’t have control over the natural resources .There are even alternatives to fossil oil. We struggle to get three billion naira monthly from the Federal Allocation. If the situation continues, we won’t be able to pay salaries. If not for the intervention of the Federal Government many states would have gone bankrupt.  If government cannot pay salaries, the business community will collapse. “Therefore, we can’t depend on natural resources. Hence,we don’t have any option but to rely on internally generated revenues. But at the same time hold the government accountable.” Alli also seize the opportunity of the workshop to cleared the air on the enforcement recently carried out by the agency, saying “it has nothing to do with politics. We follow the law. We don’t have sacred cows.” On his part, the President of Ibadan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Engr. Ismaila Alapa said the visit was facilitated to help create mutual understanding better the business owners and the government revenue agency. Urging the government at all levels to reduce the tax rate in order to stimulate  business activities, Alapa maintained that lower tax rate will encourage small scale business operators to thrive. He also called on the Oyo State House of Assembly to  involve the Organized Private Sector in the budget process in order to make input to the budget so that its impact can be felt by the people.