Former Presidential Adviser, Senator Florence Ita-Giwa, on Saturday said she was committed to work for the peace, progress and development of Cross River State. Ita-Giwa who was just appointed as the official ambassador for the Cross River State Industrial Revolution initiative by Governor Ben Ayade, told The Nation in Calabar that it is well within her right, and she considers it her duty as a political and community leader in the state to intervene at anytime she feels that things are not going well in the state. “Indeed recent events within the political space in the state is cause for concern because if care is not taken the state could degenerate into a political war zone by one of the two major parties in the state,” she said. The Bakassi leader said the recently widely reported meeting that took place in her Calabar residence was one of such interventions. Ita-Giwa said it was her view that the power zoning formula in the state, by which the governorship position should be retained in the northern senatorial district of the state, is the only guarantee numerical challenged groups in the state have against political marginalization. According to her, nothing should be done to upset the arrangement in the state. Senator Ita-Giwa said she has no apologies for accepting her appointment as the official ambassador for the Cross River State Industrial Revolution initiative. She said the meeting in her residence was to brief leaders of the southern senatorial zone of the viability of the Ayade industrial development initiative, having been personally conducted on a tour of the project by Governor Ayade. The former lawmaker said she was convinced that the initiative will fast track the development of the state, and called on leaders in the zone to support the laudable initiative. Ita-Giwa also said she has had no discussions about the deputy governorship ticket of the state, adding that she owes no one any explanations even if she did. According to her, as a very busy individual she does not need the office of deputy governor to impact positively on the fortunes of the state or to support the governor in the development of the state. “I am very comfortable using the political platform as a leader to advance her avowed desire to serve humanity,” she said.