“Though tough, we are not relenting”, President Muhammadu Buhari has said of his administration’s anti-corruption battle. In his remarks at the 24th edition of the National Economic Summit (NES) in Abuja, the President says some powerful individuals are frustrating the efforts, Assistant Editor NDUKA CHIEJINA and MOSES EMORINKEN report. SOME corrupt individuals have built financial war chests to frustrate the battle against systemic corruption, President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday at the opening of the 24th National Economic Summit (NES) in Abuja. The President, who took his administration’s anti-graft crusade to the NES, said the individuals are staking everything to frustrate their investigation and prosecution for corruption-related offences. He reiterated the need to tackle corruption, which according to him is not stunting economic growth, but discouraging inflow of investments. Lamenting persistence of corruption in the system, President Buhari said that perpetrators of corrupt acts “will always find ways to contaminate the reformed system to ply their unwholesome trade.” Represented by Vice President Prof Yemi Osinbajo, Buhari said:  Those involved in corruption have a way of fighting back using the looted resources at their disposal. These corrupt officials have built formidable contacts and financial war chest to frustrate their investigation and prosecution.” Assuring that his administration will push on with the battle against graft, President Buhari assured that his “administration will never be deterred in its anti-corruption war, considering the destructive and contagious nature of the malaise.” He described grand corruption “as outright diversions of public funds by officials of government for Private or personal use. There are other layers of corruption such as taking a percentage kick back from procurement services.” Speaking at the first plenary session, moderated by the founding Dean, Blavatnik School of Government at Oxford University, Mrs. Ngaire Woods, Prof Osinbajo said:  “Corruption in Nigeria attained alarming level prior to now. By 2050, Nigeria will become the World’s third most populous nation and over 60 per cent of Nigeria’s population will be youth. High oil revenue does not translate to job creation because grand corruption is the biggest problem of Nigeria.” Asked by the moderator to name influential Nigerians that have tried to prevent prosecution of corrupt persons, Osinbajo said: “I would like to refer to the Nigerian elite, and it’s probably not fair to be that broad, but practically, every segment, because people who have access to you, they could be political leaders, religious leaders, business leaders, whoever has access to you. “We have a system where people just feel like, ‘why don’t you just give this guy a break?’ Which again is part of the problem? You don’t get one call, you get several calls.” Osinbajo described the slow pace of prosecution as one of the most frustrating parts of the fight against corruption. The vice president said: “Confronting it is crucial as you really can’t avoid it and the only way to confront it is for government to be determined, to be committed to it. “Especially by strengthening the systems that will make corruption become something that will attract consequence, something that will attract sanctions. “If government is committed to it and focused on a number of indices, then I think things will change, and people really want to see some results.’’ He, however, described as encouraging that the government has secured the conviction of two former governors, a development he noted “has shown that the hand of justice may be slow, but it would eventually catch up.” On the significant step so far taken by the government on corruption, Osinbajo said the government had not been folding its arms. He said that the government has been holding those that had made away with public funds accountable,  charging them to court and seizing their assets both locally and internationally. He said: “To an extent, those individuals have been brought to book. Although, the administration of justice process has been slow, the justice system has its own delays many of which can be resolved by legislation. “And there is the attitude of counsel to engage in tactics to keep cases on as long as possible to find a way out for persons accused of crimes. “What we need is a much more efficient system that is able to decide very quickly and take appropriate steps. “We need to pay close attention to the judiciary and the personnel to ensure they are persons of integrity.’’ Osinbajo, therefore, urged Nigerians to join forces and support the fight against corruption in the country for the benefit of all. He said: “The most important thing is to have the critical mass of individuals in the private and public sectors who are committed to the same ideal, especially as it regards corruption. “Frankly, I do not think it involves everyone; I think it requires a few people who are prepared to join forces with those who want to fight corruption. “What is required is for them to see that this is important for all of us and it is in our best interest to fight corruption.’’ High growth rate amid poverty He identified the factors responsible for the high growth figures, rising poverty and unemployment rate in the country. According to him, absolute poverty, defined as the number of those who could not afford the bare essentials as food, shelter and clothing, had been the biggest economic challenge for Nigeria in the past three decades. The President noted that the biggest drain on Nigeria’s resources was grand corruption, which he described as stealing of large sums of the public resource by public officials in collaboration with private individuals He said that the problem of poverty and the attendant deficits in human development indices were significant because Nigeria’s population continued to grow at about three per cent annually. Buhari, however, explained the paradox of high growth figures amid rising poverty and unemployment figures. His explanation: “The first is that high oil revenues do not necessarily translate to jobs. The high revenues can only translate to jobs and better living standards if the revenues are invested in diversification of the economy, infrastructure, education, healthcare, and social protection for those who cannot work. “The question of course is what happens to the revenues? The most important drain on our resources is grand corruption; the stealing of large sums of the public resource by public officials in collaboration with private individuals. “The second reason that explains the paradox of high growth figures and rising poverty and unemployment figures flows from the first, namely: the poor investment in infrastructure and the non-creation of an enabling environment for business. “The third is the lack of commitment to diversification of the economy; which would in turn provide multiple streams of revenue; this is both an issue at the National and sub-national levels. “The fourth reason that explains the paradox of high growth figures and rising poverty and unemployment figures is the low investment over the years in the businesses at the bottom of the pyramid.’’ He said that in addressing the identified challenges, there was a focus on empowering the jobless youth and millions in extreme poverty, by a mix of micro-credit schemes. According to him, the Federal Government is also focusing on infrastructure support for markets and small business clusters, welfare for the most vulnerable and direct creation of jobs. The President said the Federal Government under his watch was committing at least 30 per cent of the yearly budget on capital, especially infrastructure. He listed other measures aimed at addressing poverty as diversifying the economy especially agriculture, mining and the promotion of Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises (MSMEs). Others are: strong fiscal discipline, especially zero tolerance for grand corruption; support to states for payments of salaries and emoluments; social protection programmes covering at least five million of the poorest. The President said that most of the measures were captured in details the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). “Generally speaking, we have kept faith with these objectives; by putting in place stricter regime of fiscal discipline, we provided for 30 per cent capital expenditure from 2016 in spite of earning 60 per cent less. “We invested so far a total of N2.7 trillon in capital spending; the highest ever in the history of the country. “This covers investments in rail, roads, power and dams. “In diversifying the economy, Agriculture has been a major success story with increasing budgetary allocation to Agriculture from N8.8 billion in 2015 to N46.2 billion in 2016 and N103.8 billion in 2017.” First gold refining licence issued Budget & National Planning Minister Udo Udoma, said that the Federal Government has issued the first gold refining licence to Kian Smith Limited, as part of its effort to revamp and diversify the economy. The issuance of the gold refining license, he said, was a product of the Focus Labs as contained in the nation’s economic blueprint – the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). He said: “The primary objective of the ERGP was to get Nigeria out of recession, which the policy document has successfully achieved.” As an outcome of the ERGP, the Focus Labs, Senator Udoma said “have also been able to accelerate the development of the national gold development policy and the establishment of a federal gold reserves scheme in Nigeria.” He said: “I am happy to inform us that the first gold refining licence has been issued to a company called Kian Smith Limited, which was one of the companies that participated in the labs. The Federal Government is finalising modalities to purchase gold from local refiners, via a federal gold reserves scheme.” Kian Smith is a Nigerian company, registered seven years ago, with focus on minerals, commodities and marine services. The minister also said: “A local automobile assembly plant was being supported to double it delivery in Nigeria and help drive economic growth.”