The Police Service Commission and Nigeria Police Force on Monday clarified the air on the recent promotion of senior Police officers. The promotion exercise recently carried out affected three Assistant Inspectors General of Police (AIGs) who were promoted to the rank of Deputy Inspectors General of Police (DIGs) and four Commissioners of Police (CPs) to the rank of AIG. Following the promotion, there was a report which claimed that there was tension in the Force  but the PSC and the NPF described the report as untrue adding that there was no tension whatsoever. The Commission also said the approval of the promotion followed due process. The report reads in part: “Indication has emerged that tension is building up in the Police Force as the Inspector General of Police (IGP), Ibrahim Idris has rejected the promotion of an Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG), to the next rank of Deputy Inspector General (DIG) by the Police Service Commission (PSC) without his recommendation”. The report also claimed that the IGP showed disapproval when he learnt of the promotion of Mr. Musa Katsina Muhammed from AIG to DIG by the Commission, instead of AIG Abdulsalam Iyaji, he recommended. Reacting to the report, the Commission’s Spokesman, Ikechukwu Ani said: “The Commission wishes to state that there is no tension in the Nigeria Police Force rather there is a new wave of hope as the Commission moves to sanitize the Force and return it to the path of rectitude. “The new Management has since assumption of office insisted on working strictly with laid down rules and regulations guiding its Constitutional mandate of Appointment, Promotion and Discipline in the Nigeria Police Force. This procedure was observed in the promotion of three Assistant Inspectors General of Police to Deputy Inspectors General. “Before the recent promotions, the Nigeria Police Force had four DIGs representing four geo-political zones. They are Maigari Dikko, from Katsina, representing the North West; Joshak Habila, from Plateau State, representing the North Central; Emmanuel T. Inyang, from Akwa Ibom State, representing South South; and Agboola Oshodi-Glover, from Lagos, representing South West. “The Commission considered the recommendations of the IGP of three AIGs for promotion to DIGs. “They were Mohammed Sani Usman from Bauchi, representing North East; Peace Ibekwe-Abdallah, from Anambra, representing the South East and Abdul Salami Iyaji from Kogi, representing the North Central.” The statement continues: “At the time of the recommendation, Musa Katsina Mohammed was the most senior AIG in the Nigeria Police Force but was curiously not recommended. “The Commission in its wisdom and satisfying the necessary and relevant requirements approved the recommendations of Sani Usman to take the place of the North East and Ibekwe-Abdallah for the South East. “It rejected the recommendation of Iyaji and in his place promoted the most senior AIG, Kastsina Mohammed from the North West. “It is instructive to note that all the geo-political zones are currently fully represented in the DIG cadre in the Nigeria Police Force and the remaining vacant slot was ceded to the most senior AIG. “It is further instructive to note that the IGP is also from Niger State, and invariably also representing the North Central. No Geopolitical Zone is therefore left out in the promotion The Commission also stated that it was under no obligation to wholly approve all recommendations from the IGP for appointments, promotions or discipline. “Such powers wholly reside according to the Law with the Police Service Commission. The current Commission is determined to commit itself to the letters of the Constitution and the Act in the discharge of its responsibilities, since it is by so doing that justice and equity will always be done to the entirety of officers and men of the Nigeria Police. “It will ensure as earlier stated that all promotions in the Nigeria Police Force from assumption of office of this management are based strictly on merit, seniority, availability of vacancies, even spread and attendance/successful completion of relevant courses.” Also reacting, the Nigeria Police Force in a statement by the Force Spokesman, Ag. DCP Jimoh Moshood said the affected officers have been duly posted as recommended by the Commission. Moshood said: “For avoidance of doubt and to set the record straight, the IGP had promptly approved the postings of the newly promoted DIGs and AIGs to their duty posts via internal signals released on the 18th October, 2018. Giving details of their posting, the Police said: “DIG in charge of  Department of Finance and Administration, Maigari Abbati Dikko; DIG in charge of Department of Operations, Habila Joshak; DIG in charge of Department of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Emmanuel T. Inyang; and DIG in charge of Department of Logistics and Supply, Agboola Oshodi-Glover. Others are: “DIG in charge of Department of Research and Planning, Musa Katsina Muhammed, DIG in charge of Department of Training and Development, Mohammed Sani Usman and DIG in charge of Department of Force Criminal Intelligence and Investigation, Peace Ibekwe Abdallah.” The Police urged members of the public to disregard and the publication insinuating that there is tension in Police as a result of the DIGs promotion.