Ekiti State Governor, Dr. Kayode Fayemi, has ordered immediate dissolution of the boards of government agencies, parastatals and corporations in the state. Chairmen of the boards of these agencies are directed to hand over to the most senior officer in their respective agencies. A statement on Friday by the Secretary to the State Government, Mr. Biodun Oyebanji, said the dissolution however does not affect the statutory boards. He said: “Government appreciates members of these boards for the services they have rendered to the state. “Composition of new boards will be announced at a later date.” Meanwhile, a first class traditional ruler in Ekiti State, the Alawe of Ilawe-Ekiti, has expressed confidence in the ability of Governor Fayemi to make positive impact in governance during his second tenure. The Alawe who described Fayemi’s victory at the July 14 election as “historic and divine” said the former Minister of Mines and Steel Development has the pedigree, exposure and experience to turn around the fortunes of Ekiti. Oba Alabi made the remark in his palace when he hosted two Ilawe indigenes, Mr. Yemi Adaramodu and Mrs. Yemisi Ayokunle, who recently emerged victorious in the primaries of the All Progressives Congress (APC). While Adaramodu won the APC House of Representatives ticket for Ekiti South Federal Constituency 1, Ayokunle won the APC House of Assembly ticket for Ekiti Southwest Constituency 1. The traditional ruler described the duo as capable and competent to represent their constituencies at the federal and state legislatures and canvassed support for them. The royal father pointed out that Fayemi’s pedigree and competence are never in doubt judging by the giant strides witnessed during his first term between October 2010 and October 2014. The APC Elders’ Forum also congratulated the governor and his deputy, Otunba Bisi Egbeyemi, on their assumption of office. The Forum in a statement by its Chairman, Chief George Akosile and Secretary, Chief Abiodun Ajayi, said the inauguration of new government will bring new lease of life to the people of the state. “We are very much aware of your ability and capability to govern the state effectively. The elders are assuring both of you of our total support, commitment and loyalty to your administration in Ekiti State,” the body said. The APC elders prayed for the success of the new administration for positive transformation of Ekiti State with the hope of realizing the dreams of its founding fathers. They hailed President Muhammadu Buhari, Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, APC National Chairman, Mr. Adams Oshiomhole; National Leader, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu; governors, ministers and party leaders for their presence at the inauguration and their interest in Ekiti State. 