Leaders of political parties are trying their best to ensure free, fair and credible primaries to pick their governorship candidates. The Nation reports that the parties are rescheduling the exercise in some states to douse tension and buy time for the conduct of rancour –free primaries. MORE governorship candidates emerged yesterday after the conduct of shadow polls by parties in states. Most of the candidates are of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). But the APC rescheduled the exercise in some states to avoid post–primary crises. In other states, factions held parallel congresses, with the each announcing its standard bearer. Aspirants, many, against their wishes, announced their withdrawal from the race. Some simply stayed away from venues of the primaries. Stage set for Lagos primary today Ahead the rescheduled Lagos governorship primary today, Governor Akinwunmi Ambode yesterday received members of the panel deployed APC National Working Committee (NWC) of the party to conduct the shadow poll. Receiving members of the Clement Ebri-led panel in his office at Alausa, Ikeja, Ambode urged them to do all within their power to ensure a level playing field for all aspirants in the contest. Other members of the panel include: Ahmed Mahmud Gumel as Secretary; Mr. Nze Chidi Duru; Chief Clever Egbeji; Senator Clever Ikisikpo and Ambassador Jerry Ugokwe. The governor said it was important that the election, when conducted should be seen to be free, fair and credible to all aspirants concerned, adding that “it is only in such situation that democracy, which the party upholds is entrenched.” Ambode will be jostling for the APC ticket with a former Commissioner for Establishment & Training Babajide Sanwo-Olu in today’s shadow poll. The other challenger, former Works & Infrastructure Commissioner Dr. Obafemi Hamzat had withdrawn from the race at the weekend. He pledged support to Sanwo-Olu. Expressing confidence in the selection of the panel’s members, Ambode said he has no doubt that the panel would live up to expectation and deliver a credible process, which according to him, will go a long way to determine the future of Nigeria and the greatness of Lagos in particular. “This is a very star studded election team, they are distinguished Nigerians in their individual and collective rights. “There can’t be any better collection of a team to any state election monitoring in this country than the distinguished personalities brought to Lagos and it only shows us the importance that the National chairman of our great party attaches to what is happening in Lagos. Ebri said the panel deemed it fit to pay a courtesy visit to the governor as the number one citizen in the state and to also intimate him on the process for the conduct of the primaries. He said: “As the number one citizen of Lagos, we felt obliged to come and see you particularly when you are contesting for the position of governor for which we all believe you have done so well. “We are the panel that has been constituted to conduct primaries. We are seven members and there are indications that there would be one or two additions due to the work load here. “We have come to intimate you that this exercise is going to take place in the next few hours. I also like to apologise for the delay, it had to be postponed as a result of logistics in Lagos, Imo and some other states because of the pressure and work load from the secretariat and other developments that have taken place,” the chairman said. Ebri, a former Cross River State governor, assured the governor that he and his team were ready for the task ahead and would do everything possible to ensure that the process is seen to be free, fair and credible. “Lagos is more like a decider and like they say, when Lagos sneezes the rest of the country catches cold. So, that is why we are very careful about what we are doing and the National Chairman asked me to send his best wishes to you and ask us to come and do the right thing to the satisfaction of all members, more so that the president of this country stands for transparency and detests corruption and a situation where no one feels manipulated.” APC declares Ekere winner in A’Ibom The APC governorship primary electoral panel yesterday declared the results of the party’s governorship primary which took place on Sunday in Akwa Ibom State. Chairman of the panel, Yamman Momoh, at the APC state secretariat on Ikot Ekpene Road, Uyo, declared Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) Managing Director Nsima Ekere winner of the primary. Announcing the results yesterday, Momoh said Ekere polled 160,458 votes from 167,696 valid votes cast across the 329 wards in the state. Ekere was distantly followed by Sir Bassey Dan-Abia, who garnered 4,189 votes, while Senator John Akpanudoedehe and Edet Efretuei scored 2,015 votes and 1,234 votes respectively. Eight votes were voided. The results from Uyo Local Government Area were cancelled due to reports of electoral irregularities and violence. The results were announced in the presence of some party chieftains, including the Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly Matters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, the Managing Director of the Oil and Gas Free Trade Zone Authority (OGFTZA), Umana Umana, leader of the party in the state, Don Etiebet and others. The panel chairman described the process as free and fair, despite few reported cases of violence and snatching of materials. Momoh disclosed that two petitions have been received by the panel, adding that an appeal committee would soon be set up to address contentious issues resulting from the exercise. In his response, Ekere appreciated all members of the party in the state for electing him to fly the party’s flag in the 2019 governorship election. He said there was no victor and no vanquished as he intends to carry everybody along if he emerges governor next year. It’s Umara-Zulum in Borno The Borno APC ticket was won by Prof Babagana Umara-Zulum, who polled 4, 432 to defeat his closest opponent Idris Durkwa, who had 114 votes at the party’s governorship primary election in Borno. Declaring the result of the election, electoral committee chair Ahmed El-Marzuq disclosed that other aspirant Gambo Lawan scored two votes while Mustapha Baba Shehuri * Ambassador Baba Jidda and Maigira Atom got one vote each. He explained that about 317 votes were declared invalid, adding that 5,012 delegates participated in the election. Ten out of the 21 aspirants cleared by the party for the governorship primary election in the state withdrew from the race to back Umara-Zulum. The other four aspirants abstained from the election. Those who withdrew were: Kaka Shehu; Sen. Baba-Kaka Bashir Garbai, Sen. Habu Kyari, Mohammed Makintami and Adamu Dibal, Adamu Zaufanjinba; Mai Sheriff, Babagana Tijjani Banki, Mohammed Liman and Mustapha Fannarambe. The four who abstained were Mutawwalli Kashim Imam; Mustapha Baba-Shehuri, Amb. Baba Ahmed Jidda and Abba Jato. Fintiri gets Adamawa PDP ticket Former Adamawa Assembly Speaker and Acting Governor Ahmadu Fintiri emerged winner of the Adamawa PDP governorship primary election. Declaring the result yesterday, the returning officer for the election, Adamu Shuaibu, said Fintiri scored 1,656 votes, followed by Amb. Mohammed Jameel, who scored 465 votes. Bala Ngilari scored 78 votes, Aliyu Umar scored eight votes, while Dr Umar Ardo scored only one votes. Two other contestants, Sa’ad Tahir and Alhaji Adamu Modibbo withdrew from the primaries. The returning officer said: “I, Adamu Shu’aibu, returning officer of the Adamawa PDP governorship primary election, wish to announce that the election was transparent, free and fair. “And after counting the votes, I wish to announce that Umar Ahmadu Fintiri, having scored the highest votes of 1,656 is hereby declared winner of the Adamawa PDP  Governorship Primary Election,” Shu’aibu said. In his acceptance speech, Fintiri thanked the party’s stakeholders, especially Atiku Abubakar, Bamanga Tukur and Prof Jibrin Aminu, among others. Appreciating the delegates for their commitment, Fintiri promised to bring meaningful development into the state. “If elected, I will guarantee the welfare of people of the state, especially the civil servants. And I will make the retirement to be blessing rather than curse as being experienced in the state,” Fintiri said. Badaru clinches Jigawa APC ticket Jigawa State Governor Muhammad Badaru yesterday secured the mandate of APC members fly the party’s flag in the governorship election next year. Announcing the result of the primaries, electoral committee chairman Abubakar Yaradua, said Badaru scored 3,123 votes to defeat his only opponent, Ubale Hasheem, who garnered 54 votes. Yaradua explained that 3,828 delegates across the 27 local government areas of the state participated in the election. According to him, 35 votes were declared invalid while 500 of the delegates collected ballot papers but did not vote. In his acceptance speech, Badaru described the endorsement as a “vote of confidence” for him to continue the good work he had started. “I promised you that you will never regret voting me to recontest in 2019. I also hope that the gesture will bring more unity among all APC members, to ensure massive victory in the general elections.” Ganduje polls 2.7m to get Kano ticket Kano State Governor Abdullahi Ganduje has clinched the Kano APC 2019 governorship ticket with 2,740,847 votes. The governorship primary election committee chief returning officer, Dr. Pius Odubu, announced the result at the state party secretariat in Kano yesterday. He said: “After collating all the results in the gubernatorial primary election conducted by the APC, Ganduje secured 2,740,847 votes.” Ganduje expressed satisfaction with the result and commended the peaceful conduct of party members during the direct primary. He said: “Our dear voters have faith in what we are doing in our effort to strengthen democracy and sustain the development projects, programmes and policies.” The exercise was generally considered to be peaceful in all the 484 wards of the 44 local governments in the state. Galaudu is Kebbi’s PDP candidate In Kebbi State, Senator Isa Galaudu won the PDP primary election in Kebbi to become the party’s flag bearer for the 2019 governorship election. Galaudu was elected at the primary election at event centre on Gwandagbagi-Argungu Road in Birnin- Kebbi after polling 1,072 votes out of the total 2,226 votes cast. His closest rival, Umar Tafida, scored 720 votes, while Buhari Bala and Abubakar Gari scored 322 and 28 votes respectively. Declaring Galaudu as winner of the primary, the electoral panel chairman, Ado Datti, said the election was hitch-free and recorded 20 invalid votes. Galaudu thanked party members for their support, stating that he was glad to be their preferred candidate. He said: “I will soon announce my campaign manifesto to Kebbi people and it is about having an all-inclusive and responsive governance. “We shall strive to have a united, secure and economically strong state for the prosperity of all.” Masari wins Katsina APC ticket Katsina State Governor Aminu Masari emerged the APC flag bearer for the 2019 election. Announcing the result on Sunday in Katsina, the governorship primary election committee chairman in the state, Dr Isa Adamu, said that the election was contested by three aspirants. Adamu said 5,627 votes were cast during the primary election, saying that Masari scored 5,562 votes to emerge winner during the election. He said that Abubakar Ismail Funtua got eight votes, and Garba Dankane had only one vote. According to him, 56 votes were invalid. In his acceptance speech, Masari thanked the delegates for re-electing him as the party’s candidate for 2019 election. He assured delegates that he would try to ensure unity among party members for the progress of APC. Masari urged those who lost out in the contest to support him so as to ensure its victory in the general elections next year. Ex-FCT Minister Bala is Bauchi PDP candidate A former Federal Capital Territory (FCT) Minister Senator Bala Mohammed emerged in Bauch as the state’s PDP governorship candidate. According to The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) report, Bala defeated two other contestants – senators Abdul Ningi and Adamu Gumba – at the keenly contested primary election. The chairman of the PDP electoral panel, Chief Dan Orbih, announced that Mohammed scored 1,335 votes to emerge winner; Ningi got 802 votes and Gumba polled 15 votes. He noted that only 32 invalid votes were recorded during the election. According to him, the election was free, fair, peaceful and conducted in accordance with the party’s constitution. Orbih urged members of the party to remain loyal to the and work hard to reclaim the state. He commended the delegates for their resilience and conduct during the exercise. Sokoto deputy governor is APC flag bearer Sokoto State Deputy Governor Ahmad Aliyu emerged the APC standard bearer for the 2019 governorship election. Announcing the result yesterday in Sokoto, the APC governorship primary election chairman Sulaiman Abubakar said the election was contested by four aspirants. Abubakar said that 3,606 delegates out of the 4,600 voted during the primary election, saying that Aliyu scored 2,282 votes to beat his closest rival, Faruk Yabo, who scored 837 votes during the election. Abubakar said that Abubakar Gumbi, got 70 votes, while Senator Abubakar Gada, had 20 votes. The chairman added that 397 votes were invalid. In his acceptance speech, Aliyu thanked the delegates for electing him as the APC candidate for 2019 election. He promised to ensure unity among party members for the progress of APC. Aliyu also urged those who lost in the contest to support his candidacy in order to ensure APC victory in the 2019 general elections. Buni is APC Yobe candidate The National Secretary of the APC Mai Mala Buni emerged the party’s governorship candidate in Yobe after defeating three others in the party’s primary in Damaturu. Returning officer for the party’s primary election Umar Kareto announced the results yesterday. Kareto said Buni polled 2,797 votes to defeat House of Representatives member Sidi Karasuwa, who scored 23 votes, Umar Ali, who polled eight votes and Aji Kolo, who netted four votes. The election, which lasted for about 13 hours, was conducted peacefully with delegates from the 17 local government areas of the state. The returning officer commended the governorship aspirants and their supporters for their cooperation during the primary and acceptance of the result. Karasuwa conceded defeat and pledged to work for the success of the candidate and the party in the 2019 general elections. Ali, who described the primary as a family affair, pledged to commit his political structure to ensure the victory of the party in the 2019 polls. In his acceptance speech, Buni commended delegates of the party for the confidence reposed in him, saying it is a collective victory for all the contestants and the APC. He promised to run an all-inclusive administration that will bring everyone on board to enhance the development of the state. Senate Leader Ahmed Lawan congratulated the candidate, other aspirants and party supporters for the hitch-free conduct of the election. He lauded party members for exhibiting uncommon unity and passion for growth and development of the state. Dr. Lawan also commended the three other aspirants for conceding defeat, describing them as compatriots with the spirit of sportsmanship. Ombugadu is Nasarawa PDP candidate House of Representatives member of the,  Emmanuel David Ombugadu has emerged the Governorship candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Nasarawa State. Chairman of the state primary committee, Emmanuel Anyanwu, announced the result yesterday at about 5:30am at Keffi Local Government Area secretariat, venue of the primary. According to him, Ombugadu got 745 votes to defeat his closest rival Solomon Ewuga, who got 551 votes. He, therefore, declared Ombugadu as the winner of the election and the party’s candidate in the state. A NAN report said that out of the 1, 502 delegates, only 1, 490 were accredited to vote. Ombugadu, 40, thanked the delegates and leaders of the party for the confidence reposed on him and promised not to let them down. He also appealed to all members of the party to join hands with him to ensure victory for the party in the 2019 election. Ombugadu graduated from the Government College, Keffi in 1995 and went on to study economics at the University of Jos He graduated in 2001. Lado emerges Katsina PDP candidate Senator Lado Danmarke won the Katsina State PDP governorship ticket in an election that was contested by five other aspirants, including Ahmad Yar’adua and former state deputy governor Abdullahi Faskari. Others were the former PDP candidate in the 2015 governorship election, Musa Nashuni, Umar Tata and Alhaji Sada Ilu. The chairman, PDP gubernatorial primary election, Senator Bala Adamu, said that one of the aspirants, Kabir Kofa, withdrew from the race. He said that Danmarke scored 3,385 votes to emerge the winner, Yar’adua got 243 votes, while Faskari and Nashuni had only one vote each. The chairman noted that Ilu and Tata had no vote, while there were 28 invalid votes during the election. According to him, the election was free, fair, peaceful and conducted in accordance with the party’s constitution. Only Danmarke and Yar’adua were physically present at the election venue. The other four aspirants were not at the venue. They also did not send agents to stand in for them. Useni, 75 is Plateau PDP candidate SEVENTY-FIVE-YEAR-OLD Senator Jeremiah Useni emerged the PDP governorship candidate in Plateau State for next year’s election. Useni polled 1018 votes to defeat 12 other aspirants at the party’s primaries. His closest rival Johnbull Shekarau got 340 votes. In all, 2,097 delegates from the 17 local government areas voted at the primaries. Useni, a serving senator, representing Plateau South senatorial zone, once served as the minister of the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) and a former Transport minister. He was also between 1984 and 1985, the military governor of the Old Bendel State, now made up of Edo and Delta states. Prior to the commencement of voting, Senator Victor Lar, on behalf of the aspirants promised to support whoever emerges as the winner in Plateau State. Senator Useni will face incumbent governor Simon Lalong of the APC, who won his party’s second term ticket, unopposed on Sunday. Ashiru gets Kaduna PDP slot Former House Representatives member from Makarfi/Kudan Federal Constituency Isa Ashiru beat beats former governor Mukhtar Ramalan Yero and Senator Suleiman Othman Hunkuyi to get the PDP governorship ticket in Kaduna State. Ashiru, a former governorship aspirant of the APC All in the 2015 elections, polled 1,330 votes out of 2,547 votes cast to emerge the party’s flagbearer. Yero scored 36 votes and Hunkuyi, representing Kaduna North in the upper chamber of the National Assembly came second with 564 votes. Hunkuyi recently defected from the ruling APC to the opposition party at the peak of his feud with Governor Nasir Ahmad El-Rufai. He was closely followed by the former National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) Director-General, Mohammed Sani Sidi, who polled 560 votes. Businessman Shuaibu Idris Mikati scored 16 votes; former Attorney-General and Commissioner for Justice Jonathan Kish Adamu scored two votes. Declaring Ashiru as the party’s candidate, chairman of the PDP primary election committee, Philip Aivoji, said 39 invalid votes were recorded, while no votes was recorded for the remaining two aspirants. According to Aivoji, Ja’afaru Sa’ad and Dr. Mohammed Sani Bello had withdrawn from the race as the poll commenced on Sunday. In his acceptance speech, Ashiru expressed appreciation to the delegates and the party for the confidence reposed in him to bear the party’s flag. He promised to carry other contenders along in his campaign team, as well as in government if elected the next Kaduna State governor. APC primary stops abruptly in Enugu The APC governorship primary in Enugu was abruptly stopped at about 1am yesterday, midway into balloting. The exercise was marred by multiple cases of violence as attempts were allegedly made to exclude some aspirants and members of the party from having access to the venue. The contenders include: Senator Ayogu Eze, George Ogara and Ben Eche. The exercise at the temporary stadium of the University of Nigeria, Nsukka, Enugu Campus, witnessed the arrival of members as early as 9am on Sunday. The election committee had earlier apologised to delegates for their late arrival from Abuja and also informed that they forgot to come with election result sheets, but that notwithstanding, the committee said it was going ahead with the conduct of the exercise. Before then, a faction led by Deacon Okey Ogbodo,  was denied access into the venue by the police on the grounds that their faction was not recognised. Infuriated by the action of the police, one of the governorship aspirants, George Ogara, who was already seated at the venue, challenged the police and expressed displeasure by their action. At about 1am, the Enugu State Police Commissioner Mohammed Danmallam ordered the stoppage of the exercise, citing orders from above. ýThe primary was rescheduled for Thursday as directed by the National Secretariat. The direct primary option will be adopted instead of the earlier indirect mode. Protest over suspension of Adamawa APC primaries Many delegates, including some members of the National and State Houses of Assembly have protested the suspension of Adamawa governorship primary by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC. In a statement yesterday by party’s Acting National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena, the NWC announced the rescheduling of governorship primary for Adamawa, Enugu and Lagos states. Addressing the agitated delegates at Ribadu Square, Governor Mohammed Bindow urged them to take it easy and accept whatever happened as an act of God. He said: “I want to apologise to you over the development and to thank you for your patience and cooperation as we await further directive from the party. “I remain loyal to the party and urge every party member in Adamawa to be calm and loyal party member.” Also speaking, House of Representatives member Abdulrazak Namdaz, urged the people to remain calm, adding that whatever the situation, be it direct or indirect primaries, “it’s the people of Adamawa that will vote for the candidates of their choice. We are not afraid of facing direct or indirect primaries.” The APC primaries initially scheduled for Sunday ran into a hitch when two of the three aspirants, Mallam Nuhu Ribadu and Dr. Mahmood Halilu contesting with Governor Bindow, announced their withdrawal over the method of primary and choice of venue. Ribadu, a former chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) has indicated interest to participate in the rescheduled primary election. The Director-General of the Ribadu Campaign Organisation, Salihu Bawuro, made this known at a news conference in Yola yesterday. Bawuro said the campaign team was satisfied with the decision taken by the party’s national headquarters on the cancelation and rescheduling of the governorship primaries in the state. “Now that the national headquarters had intervened to correct the abnormalities surrounding the Sunday’s unsuccessful primaries,  Malam Nuhu Ribadu will be in full contest now that it is the direct primaries,’’  Bawuro said. Lagos APC primary now today The Lagos State All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship primary will hold today following its shift by the Natioal Working Committee (NWC). The party also rescheduled the primary in Enugu and Adamawa states and announced dates for primaries in Kwara and Osun states that were not part of the earlier announced dates. The mode of primaries for Enugu and Adamawa states was changed from Indirect to direct primaries. Acting National Publicity Secretary Yekini Nabena said Enugu and Adamawa direct governorship primaries would hold on Thursday. The governorship primary in Kwara State will also hold on Thursday. 