The tennis season is coming to its end, however, there are many interesting competitions ahead of us, which you can follow at our platform. This season the tournaments of the Grand Slam series were quite intriguing. This is particularly true for the women half of the championships, where every time a different athlete won the title, and a whole number of players were real contenders for the victory. Serena Williams who could have won both Wimbledon and the US Open is back; however, the American lost in the finals of both tournaments. Novak Djokovic is a great example of how to rise from the ashes. Many experts have already pensioned the Serbian tennis player off and did not see him as a real contender for winning the major tournaments. However, he managed to shame the critics, and did it twice. Unlike Serena Williams, Novak succeeded at both Wimbledon and the US Open finals, so he is back to the elite of world tennis. Free livescore today is always fully available at our website. This is your chance to follow several competitions simultaneously, which is especially important at the initial stage of the major tournaments, when dozens of matches take place during one day. However, attention is paid not only to tennis, but to many other sports disciplines. The most popular are: •        basketball; •        football; •        hockey; •        volleyball. We regularly increase the number of events so that our customers can receive the necessary information in full.  Conclusion of Tennis Season Despite the completion of the Grand Slam series this year, the remaining months of 2018 will still hold many competitions that will certainly please fans from all over the world. They are important both in terms of winning rating points and earning prize money. It is now very easy to follow them using your mobile device. Our Internet portal provides the latest information on tournaments from around the globe. This allows you to always stay informed and know the names of the key favorites of confrontations. The closing tennis season will surely be remembered by fans for a long time, because there were both triumphant comebacks and the rise of previously unknown athletes who in the future will shine even brighter. You can always find out about their successes, as well as the latest news at our platform.