African Students For Liberty (ASFL) has organised a leadership training workshop for pro-liberty students’ leaders at the Federal University of Agriculture, Abeokuta (FUNAAB) in Ogun State. The event was held at the CENT Auditorium on campus, with the objectives to develop the leadership capacity of the participants. Over 70 students participated in the capacity building in various areas, including event planning, students’ activism, public relations, leadership, and promoting sensible drug policies. The event started with a remark by Local Coordinator of ASFL in the school, Adeniyi Adebayo, who told the participants about vision and mission of the organisation. ASFL’s Alumni Relations and Programs Director, Lilian David, shared tips on how the participants could organise successful events on their campuses. She said: “Evaluating the success of your event will require that you set goals and expectations, get feedbacks, evaluate your finances and set success indicators prior to the event.” ASFL’s African Programs Associate, Oluwafemi Ogunjobi, who spoke on Driving students activism on campus, listed ways the students’ leaders could use to promote freedom on their campuses. Personal Assistant to the FUNAAB Vice-Chancellor, Mr Olasunkanmi Olajide, spoke on Impact of public relations in today’s society, during which he told that participants that public relation was regarded as “credible promotion” of a message to the public. He said a good public relations strategy should create a unified message that would help in marketing and business development. Assistant Director of International Programs at Students For Liberty (SFL), Olumayowa Okediran, spoke on How to combine liberty and academics. He said the leaders needed to sell the success stories on campus and highlighted the gains recorded in promoting liberty on campuses. He advised the participants to continually engage in discussion in tackling challenges they faced in the cause on advancing liberty and freedom on campus. Leadership Director at SFL, Moronfolu Adeniyi, who spoke on Youths and drugs, described abuse of drug as “a serious public health problem”, but said outright ban on drugs was not the solution to the abuse. He said government and non-governmental organisations should intensify awareness and campaign in sensitising young people on the effect of excessive drug intake. The event ended with presentation of books and branded shirts to three participants who gave a live publicity to the event on Twitter and other social media platforms. 