The Ikeji Arochukwu has ended with various cultural displays. Over the years, Ikeji Arochukwu has gained prominence as an important and remarkable cultural celebration by Arochukwu descendants within and outside the country. It has become a veritable platform to showcase their rich cultural heritage spanning several centuries. Ikeji Aro, as it is popularly known today, has a long history dating back to about 912 AD when it was first celebrated by the ancient kingdom. Ever since, it has become an annual festival which is observed in Arochukwu and about 360 Aro communities scattered all over the world. The new yam festival of the Aro, which usually takes place in the month of September, is programmed to last for three weeks from the day of proclamation for the commencement by the highly revered Eze Aro which is currently being held by His Royal Majesty, Eze Ogbonnaya Okoro. Ikeji Aro is usually a sacred period which is devoted by Aros to give thanks to the creator for blessings, protection and bountiful harvest. It involves elaborate traditional ceremonies throughout the Arochukwu Kingdom.Each day has a unique programme attached to it which is observed religiously. It is usually a cultural extravaganza involving all the 19 villages making up Arochukwu kingdom, including kit and kin in diaspora. One of the major characteristics of Ikeji Aro festival is the capacity to attract Aros in diaspora, who would always want to take advantage of the occasion to visit their ancestral community. Every Aro person has a unique attachment to his Aro origin and the Ikeji festival is one of such events that draw them closer home.  This explains the usual mass return by Aros in diaspora during the period.  Unlike new yam festival in other Igbo communities, Ikeji Aro has a strict tradition that has remained intact and is passed from generation to generation. From the first day to the climax, which is called Ekekpe, there are usually cultural activities that would engage the people. Such cultural activities portray the uniqueness of the people. However, Ekekpe remains the most significant aspect of the entire Ikeji Aro festival.  It is a day when the people gather at the community square known as Amaikpe to pay tribute to their ancestors and fallen heroes. Ekekpe symbolizes the true cultural heritage of the Aro.  It is the grandeur of the Ikeji festival with the people appearing in their colorful traditional attire, spectacular traditional dances and masquerades.  The Aros and their visitors alike have always looked forward to Ekekpe with great expectation and excitement. Although the Ikeji festival has retained its traditional value over the years, there has been an attempt in the recent time to gradually but cautiously introduce some innovations to make it truly an international festival.  This is taking into cognizance of the fact that the Aros are global citizens who have exported their cultures to various parts of the world. In bringing such innovation the organizers of the Ikeji Aro festival are working with the mindset that it should no longer be seen as one local traditional festival, but one that should command global attention. This became clearly manifest in this year’s Ikeji Aro festival, which had as its theme: Culture for development.  The festival which held from September 5 – 27, 2018, saw the introduction, for the first time, a program for the youths.  According to the Chairman of the organizing committee for 2018 Ikeji Aro, Dr. Azubike Okoro, given the significant role of the youths as agents of development, it was considered appropriate to provide them a platform to showcase their talents and creative energies. The event, tagged: “Arochukwu Got Talent”, which took place on the eve of Ekekpe at Amaikpe ground, turned out to be a harvest of thrilling entertainment and talent discoveries. The audience, which included the President-General, Nzuko Aro worldwide, Mazi George Ezumah and other prominence Aro indigenes, were held spellbound with fascinating display of talent and creativity by the youths.  Impressed with the array of talents paraded at the event and the enthusiasm exhibited by the youths, the organizers of Ikeji Aro 2018 and the Nzuko Aro leadership were of the opinion that ‘Arochukwu Got Talent’ should be made an integral part of Ikeji festival. This will not only help in deepening Aro culture and tradition among the youths but also provide a veritable platform to harness their rich potentials for the development of the community. Apart from discovering and nurturing talented Aro youths through the Ikeji festival, the theme “Culture for development” is a holistic programme aimed at using culture to drive the development of Arochukwu kingdom.  This can be better appreciated considering the fact that Aro has rich cultural history dating back to several centuries.  They are proud of their ancestral heritage which is easily expressed in their mode of addressing, tradition and festivals. The Aros are among the first set of people to be exposed to western education in Nigeria and are widely travelled, which gave them strategic advantage over other communities in eastern part of Nigeria. They are also great merchants and entrepreneurs who have contributed in the development of other communities across the country and beyond. This has informed the concept of ‘culture for development’, which is intended to harness the rich culture of the people towards accelerating the development of the area. In line with this objective, the Ikeji festival is being re-branded to enable it attract corporate sponsors and mass participation. This has started yielding the anticipated result as indicated in the recently concluded Ikeji festival which attracted big corporate sponsors like, MTN, Nigerian Breweries, Sobaz, and other organizations. Equally significant was the unprecedented large turn-out of the people throughout the festival, especially during the Ekekpe. For the first time in a long time all the 19 villages in Arochukwu were present at the Ekekpe, which marks the climax of the celebration. The Aro in diaspora were in attendance, which shows a renewed confidence in the Ikeji festival. The star prize of a trophy and N100,000.00 was won by the troupe from Asaga village while Obinkita village took the second position with a trophy and N50,000.00. The third price was won by Amangwu village and they took home a trophy and N25,000.00. Two villages, Amuvi and Ugbo, got consolation trophies for the 4th and 5th positions. As the Aros and the rest of the world continue to savour the splendid memories of the 2018 Ikeji with its rich cultural content as highlighted in the various cultural dances and masquerade displays, the organisers are upbeat that more is yet to come. It is obvious that there is inter-relationship between culture and development, and the Aros are prepared to leverage on this towards transforming their community.