The Academic Staff Union of Polytechnic (ASUP) has suspended its planned nationwide strike to protest lack of government attention to technical education in the country and the implementation of government agreement with the unions. The Union had issued a 21 day ultimatum, threatening to commence an indefinite strike from November 2, but said in a statement after its National Executive Council meeting that it was suspending the planned strike to give government ample opportunity to address its demands. National President of the Union, Usman Dutse said the union was satisfied by with steps being taken  the government to address the union’s demands and therefore decided to give them the opportunity to concritise efforts being made to  address their demands. The statement reads in part: “Our union had brought to the notice of government the urgent need to attend to the sector that has suffered under the throes of gross under-funding which has engendered under-growth in all aspects of the polytechnic system. “Our union is particularly worried that state institutions are the worse off. Salaries are still owed in many state owned institutions with some owed up to ten months arrears, especially in Abia, Adamawa, Benue, Edo, |mo, Kogi, Ondo, Ogun, Osun, and Oyo. “Managements and Governing Councils have been recalcitrant and persistently trample on union officials in our various chapters by arbitrary suspension and sacking of officials and outright mis-representation in administration of the institutions, non-implementation of the Needs assessment; delay in accenting to the Amendment of the Polytechnic Act, victimisation of union officials, withdrawal of allowances and persistent shortfalls in personnel releases to Polytechnics as well  as the lethargy shown by government in the renegotiation of the union’s 2010 agreement. “These were compounded by the deployment of arm twisting measures in forcing our members into the IPPIS module without addressing the union’s concerns. “This continued neglect and seeming government’s indifference on issues concerning the polytechnic sector led to our union’s twenty-one day ultimatum which expired on the 23rd October, 2018. “Following this ultimatum, our union has had engagements with government and its agencies. Particularly worth mentioning was the meeting of 18th October, 2018 between our union and the government represented by the Permanent Secretary in the ministry of Education with representatives from the NBTE and Budget and Planning. At this meeting government exhibited considerable concerns to prioritise the challenges of the polytechnic sector towards ameliorating them. “Rising from the emergency meeting of NEC therefore, the Union In consideration of the appeals by the government and commitments to resolving the issues In dispute, resolved to put Its planned industrial action on hold to allow government more time to concretise its promises on our demands.
The union also resolved to reconvene its NEC meeting by the end of November, 2013 to assess the progress made and take appropriate actions. “The union is in gratitude to its teeming members, as well as members of the public for their support so far even as we pledge to sustain the struggle  for a better teaching and learning environment,  welfare conditions and brighter future for our  graduates  and technical education in the country.”