Picture yourself jumping from the era of walking over to the wall to switch off the lights to one where you can control the lighting, temperature, security, refrigerator and ventilation from your smartphone? Welcome to the era of smart homes. Homes are getting smarter, thanks to technological advancement. You are gradually moving to that point in the future where the voice assistant becomes integrated into your home; everything in your home will be controlled by your voice. Things are going to change from what you currently experience in your home. Here are 5 ways home automation will change the way you live. Monitoring Your Home Gets Easier You will eventually move away from installing expensive spy cameras all over your house to being notified the moment there is a breach of your security protocols. With home automation, you will be able to check in on your family even when you are away using your mobile phone or tab. Motion sensors in the home will notify you the moment suspicious movement is detected inside or around your house. These motion sensors can be attached to a hidden 360 camera, which captures pictures of the spot where the movement occurred. You will also receive an alert if your oven or gas cooker is left on and unattended to. Reduces Anxiety Have you ever found yourself in that awkward situation where you just can’t remember if you locked the door to your house or not? This can easily trigger anxiety but with a smart home, you will know for certain. From the comfort of your office, you will be able to see if your door is locked or open. Relax better Smart technology will make it possible for your house to understand your mood and help you rest better. For instance, when you return home from work, your house can sense your presence and play an appropriate song and accompany this with appropriate lighting. Your home becomes capable of doing things like welcoming you home and playing your favourite playlist. In a smart home, the nightlight knows when you get out of bed and brightens your path to the bathroom. Parenting assist Home automation will go as far as switching on the light in your bedroom and send you a notification when your newborn or young children wake up in the middle of the night. 