To curb drug abuse and rape on their campus, students of the Yaba College of Technology (YABATECH) with support  from their Rector, Mr Femi Omokungbe, and notable alumni of the institution have organised a 5,000-man walk and concert tagged: “The walk against drug abuse and rape in YABATECH”. During the walk organised by Elbrarach Worship Team, a Christian group on campus, participants moved round the campus bearing placards with messages like: “Codeine is not for refreshment”, “Mini skirt is not consent; no is no”, “Drug abuse can affect your mental health”. The concert, themed: “An evening with the King”, which held at the packed YABATECH Sport Complex, featured popular songstress, Shola Allyson Obaniyi as one of the artistes. Addressing the students, the Rector, who was represented by Dean Student’s Affair, Mrs Olape Shobande, urged them to say no to drug abuse and rape, and extricate themselves from codeine and tramadol use. She praised the students, organisers, YABATECH Magazine, YCTCU and Elbrarach for bringing out such meritorious initiative aimed at making the school more learning- condusive and student-friendly. Popular fashion designer and alumna, Ejiro Amos Tafiri, who was also at the event, showed utmost approval for what the students did. She said: “Rape in our society has been on the high side.  It is high time we speak out.” The Editor in Chief of YABATECH Magazine, Ohore Emmanuel, spoke about the concert being the first of its kind in the history of YABATECH. He said: “Never in the history of YABATECH has a programme of such magnitude happened. The substances, though a gradual process, have been killing our youths and it is high time we talked about it. It is a good thing that the students have realised the problem and decided to tackle it as that has shown good patriotism in them.” YABATECH Alumni Association President, Pastor Olufemi Martins, a popular comedian, Owen G and patron of the YABATECH Magazine, Dr Olurotimi Ajibola, were present at the event.