The Skyline University Nigeria (SUN), Kano, on Monday matriculated its first batch of 200 students, with a promise groom graduates with world standard technology that can shape the socio-economic development of Nigeria. Speaking to Reporters, shortly after the matriculation ceremony, SUN Vice Chancellor, Dr. Prana Krishna Biswas, said though the National University Commission (NUC) has given approval for the admission of 500 students, the institution has admitted 200 in the first batch, while another 300 students would be admitted in January, 2019. According to him, Skyline, which started in Nigeria in 2018, was not an entirely new University, as it boasts of 28 years rich experience in Skyline University College (SUC) based in the United Arab Emirate (UAE). He described the pioneer students as part of history, stating that, “I must congratulate the students for having taken this momentous opportunity to be part of this University in this part of the country. “We are multi-cultural. Our aim is that every child must have access to education; every citizen must have access to education. When you have the knowledge and you are well-educated, you don’t need to depend on the government. “We have aligned ourselves with the needs of Nigeria. Nigeria needs development; and we have a goal to provide a dynamic economic system for Nigeria through offering educational programmes that bring changes in tone with the environment.” Dr. Biswas urged the matriculating students to always promote integrity, high ethical standard, honesty, compassion, fairness and ethical behaviour both in the classrooms and beyond. The Vice Chancellor added that, Skyline University was prepared to, “be a multi-disciplinary, teaching and research university with an aim to be a leading international institution of higher learning driven by technology to build multicultural environment for all its stakeholders that commit to nurture creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship which can sustain social development.” He said the University is well-equipped to offer over 50 Courses accredited by NUC, adding that the University has been equipped with e-books, world-class library, digitized class rooms, laboratories, and other research facilities found in first-class universities across the globe. Dr. Biswas also revealed that the institution has concluded plans to partners with governments and Non-Governmental Organizations, international agencies, to engage in activities that bring about agricultural development, considering the fact that Kano is one of the leading agrarian states in the country.