The Accountant-General of the Federation (AGF), Ahmed Idris, yesterday said the public finance reforms had helped the Federal Government in building savings needed to for infrastructure and social security. Idris, a Fellow of the Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN) spoke  in Abuja at the 23rd Annual Conference of Certified National Accountants. According to him, the public finance reforms initiatives like the Treasury Single account has impacted positively on government desire for enhanced revenue generation, transparency and accountability in the management of public resources. He said that the conference theme: “Economic Recovery and Growth: Issues and Options” was apt considering the collective desire to consolidate the gains in the successful implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP). “I am confident that presentations and deliberations during this conference would unearth additional insights and ideas that can impact on national economic development. Nigeria receded into economic difficulties long before the formal declaration of recession in 2016. We must not forget what led us into those difficulties and how the ERGP as a strategic macro-economic tool was used by the government to recover the economy successfully,” he said. Continuing, he said failure by the previous governments to save falling oil prices and past corrupt practices were the major factors responsible for the 2.06 per cent contraction of the economy, marking the beginning of the worst recession Nigeria had ever experienced. “However, the conception and diligent implementation of the ERGP by the present administration stabilised the macro-economic environment. Similarly, there was a boost in primary agricultural production and food security. Nigeria also recorded energy efficiency, improvement in power and petroleum exploration and export in recent times.“These achievements, according to the World Bank, earned Nigeria recognition among the top 10 most improved economies in the world, even as the International Monetary Fund cited the business climate reforms as a significant contributor to lifting the economy out of recession in 2017,’’ he said. He said: “In direct contrast to the activities that led us into recession, the policies of the present administration are responsible for our foreign reserves hitting the 47 billion dollars mark as at the end of second quarter of 2018, representing 124 per cent increase from $21 billion at the onset of the recession.’’ Idris explained that the achievements recorded by government through the TSA and other public finance reforms initiatives would not have happened without deployment of ICT tools and principles of good corporate governance in all operations and processes. He urged every member of ANAN and all Accountants in other professional bodies in the public sector to rise and attain self-elevation concerning the acquisition of knowledge in Information and Communication Technology (ICT). The President of ANAN, Shehu Ladan, said that the 2018 conference with the theme “ Economic recovery and growth : issues and options ‘’, was chosen against the backdrop of Nigeria’s exit from recession and the need to sustain the gains from the economic recovery in line with various policies of the government to attain the desired growth’’.