Allegations of anti-party activities have unsettled the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) chapter in Ogbia, the Local Government Area of former President Goodluck Jonathan. Stakeholders of the party, under the auspices of the Ogbia PDP Renaissance (OPR), said PDP leaders and close associates of Jonathan were hobnobbing with other parties after losing out in the just-concluded primaries of the party. The group insisted that the leaders were working against the interest of the party ahead of the 2019 general elections. The stakeholders specifically accused a prominent traditional ruler and the lawmaker representing Ogbia Constituency 1 in the state House of Assembly, Mietama Obodor of working against PDP’s fortunes. The Chairman of the group, Obhioru Mitanoni, in a statement said that the PDP leaders were sponsoring candidates in other political parties to challenge PDP candidates. Mitanoni said following failures of their preferred aspirants to emerge victorious in the just-concluded PDP primaries, the leader allegedly purchased nomination forms in other political parties for them. He further alleged that the Chairman of the State Environmental Sanitation Authority, Chief Robert Enogha and former Special Adviser to the  Managing Director of the NDDC, George Turnah, were also involved in working against the PDP. He claimed that Turnah, who lost in his bid to clinch the PDP ticket for Ogbia Federal Constituency was backing one Cleric Awudum for the Ogbia Constituency 2 seat in the State Assembly. The statement said: “We are raising this alarm because of the emerging political development in Ogbia kingdom which is very disturbing. We want everyone to know that some people who call themselves leaders are working against our collective interest as a party. “We want our people to know that these leaders are working against the PDP. These men bought forms for those who lost the PDP primaries to go to other parties to contest against our candidates. “We are aware that for George Turnah the man he is sponsoring Cleric Awudum in Accord Party has not even resigned his appointment in the Niger Delta University. Everything is being done to ensure he wins the Ogbia constituency two seat. But we are ready for them”. Mitanoni lambasted Jonathan for failing to call some of the leaders, who are his known allies, to order, adding that the ex-president was promoting political divisions in Ogbia. He said Jonathan was the one who encouraged Chief Nimi Barigha-Amange to contest the Bayelsa East senatorial seat on the plattform of the ADC, having lost the PDP ticket to Blessing Ipigansin. He wondered why the former President  would conspire against a party that brought him to the limelight. He said the group decided to make a public statement and put the leadership of the party on notice to prevail on leaders to retrace their steps. He described the leaders as disgruntled and blamed them for the gross underdevelopment of Ogbia. In a swift reaction, Enogha said he was shocked at the extent some desperate and disgruntled element would go just to score cheap political points. Enogha described the statement signed by Mitanoni as the height of sycophancy and lies. He wondered why a founding member of the PDP and a loyal supporters of the Restoration team of Governor Seriake Dickson would be dragged into such an unthinkable act adding that he was totally committed to the party and its leadership. Also, George Turnah described the claims as false and cheap allegations. He further referred to the group behind the allegations as faceless but said he remained committed and loyal to the PDP despite contesting and losing the party’s ticket for the House of Representatives. Turn an said he was the most persecuted member of the PDP by the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari adding that he should have been the one complaining against the process that led to the PDP primary. He, however, assured persons behind the allegations that he and his team would support them to win the forthcoming poll.