Following his dream first team start in the Europa League recently for Villarreal CF in an away tie against Spartak Moskva, Nigerian teenager, Samuel Chukwueze, speaks about his breakthrough with the Yellow Submarines and how he’s grappling with life at his current place of abode in Europe, reports CHIZOBA NWACHUKWU. At the end Match Day Two, in group G of the Europa league, the Otkritie Stadium had served up an entertaining fixture between Villarreal CF (proudly nicknamed The Yellow Submarine) and Spartak Moskva, the game ended with three goals apiece. Of course, The Yellow Submarines took the lead twice, then went behind at 2-3 but they powered back to salvage a point in a thrilling 3-3 draw. Yet, one of the highlights of the energy-sapping encounter was the first senior start for Villarreal in the Europa League for former Nigerian youth international, Samuel Chukwueze, barely weeks after making his debut as a replacement for Nicola Sansone in  the 2-2 home draw against Rangers FC. But at the Otkritie Stadium, the FIFA U-17 World Cup Chile 2015 bronze ball winner, played as the right winger in a 4-4-1-1 system used by the team, helping in the build up to the second goal by Pablo Fornals. Until he was later subbed off in the 70th minute of the game for Santi Cazorla, who scored the equalising goal from the spot to spare the team’s blushes, Chukwueze dazzled with his velvet skill on the right wing much to the pleasure of the travelling fans who gave him a standing ovation. “It was a dream come true for me,” Chukwueze whose middle name Chimerenka in his native Igbo dialect means ‘God did this one’ told The Nation. “Although I knew I worked hard, I was not expecting it. “I was surprised when the coach said ‘Samuel you’re starting’; I was very happy. It was a nice experience for me and I loved it,” added Chukwueze, showing that awesome feeling like a kid handed his first toy car. For the uninitiated, the Europa League is the second most important club competition in Europe with the winner guaranteed huge cash as well as the chance to play the winner of the UEFA Champions League for the prestige UEFA Super Cup. No wonder, Villarreal manager, Javi Calleja, had some good words for the Nigerian teenage star, tasking him to work harder in order to add his quota to the overall success of team they want to go all the way to glory. Chukwueze would equally admit he needs to work “harder” to maintain his growing status in the team and improving himself since according to him his happiness lies turning out regularly for the Yellow Subramines. “I am happy that I have made my debut for the first team in the Europa league, this is my second season,” he said when pressed about his progress so far. As the saying goes, talent without hard work is nothing and the lad further explained: “I want to put in more hard work and make more progress, move up and never come down.” This is only his second year of his five-year contract with Villarreal, so making his first start is definitely a step in the right direction. Consistency is key for growth and development as well as setting reachable goals is very important. “I am working hard so as to make my debut in La Liga,’ he reassured. Villarreal currently are in the top half of the table, battling among the big boys of the Spanish league, including the likes of Real Madrid, Barcelona and Atletico Madrid and they have the prospect of going beyond their 5th finish in the 2016-2017 season. Despite playing several games in the Segunda Division B where he scored two goals, Chukwueze explained that his best moment yet was a rare opportunity of showcasing his talent in the Europa League. He offered: “My best game was against Spartak Moskva in the Europa League. It was a good game with good experience, although the cold was much, it was still a nice game and loved it,” Obviously, he had been dreaming about his start and after the game he gained more exposure that added to his maturity as a player. Meanwhile, in a file interview with The Nation, Chukwueze had talked about his dream of becoming Africa’s Best Player in the foreseeable future, adding that he was always inspired by the success story of former Super Eagles captain, Nwankwo Kanu, who shone from his youthful days in Ajax before being revered throughout the world for his other accomplishments, especially while at English Premier League side, Arsenal. Why shouldn’t Chukwueze dare to dream? He is a young talent with a long career still and he admitted that with hard work and humility, he would one day become a household name in Nigeria. As a young footballer fraught with emotions, he recognised the support of his family, especially his adorable mom. “The initial plan was for my mom to stay with me after being here when I signed my first contract with Villarreal but it didn’t work out,” he volunteered. “She had to stay in Nigeria since she is also working there and taking care of my siblings. “I am the first born of the house and that is a huge responsibility, but I really thank my family for their support always.” He continued about the challenges of leaving home early at a young age in order to eke out a living and develop his career:  “I had to do it; that is coming over here, though it was difficult initially. I had to face the reality of life and become a man my siblings can look up to. “I have to put food on the table for my mom and siblings and the only way I can do that is by focusing on my career and working hard. “I miss them so much because settling down has not been easy. I haven’t settled well, I am still coping, learning the language, coupled with the environment and everything.” Of course, moving away from one’s country to another is not easy. Language becomes a barrier, one finds it hard to communicate and express oneself. A player needs to communicate with the teammates and coaches and because of this obvious inability, Chukwueze said he has been using his spare time wisely. “I go to classes to learn Spanish, so that I will understand everybody and communicate well, so after training sessions I go to learn. After the classroom, I come back home to use my laptop to watch and learn more Spanish,” Chukwueze added. Surely, all work and no play makes Chukwueze a dull boy. “Most often, I hang out with friends to have fun, watch jokes on YouTube and go out to play soccer on FIFA. “What makes me happy?” Chukwueze jokingly repeated the question. “My progress and seeing my mom and my siblings happy.” Chukwueze sure sounded like a mummy’s boy. Well, a mother’s love is what everyone should be able to feel as it is important to growth and the making up of a person. Having stated several times that his mother is the source of his happiness, there is no doubting that Chukwueze will do everything possible to remain a delight of Villarreal faithful and Nigerians in particular.