It was a display of talents in carpentry, drawings, paintings, tailoring, hairdressing, make-up and bead making at this year’s World Literacy Day, held at the Ilupeju Junior Grammar School, Ilupeju Lagos State. About 100 pupils from the six secondary schools within the Ilupeju schools’ complex, including the host school, participated in the exercise, which lasted about four hours. They are: Ilupeju Senior Grammar School, Ilupeju Senior Secondary School, Ilupeju Junior Secondary School, Estate Junior Grammar School and Estate Senior Grammar School. Colourful fabrics and other creative handiwork of the pupils dotted the school field used for the event. The event, which had as theme: “Literacy and skill development”, was graced by the Tutor-General/Permanent Secretary, Education District Six, Mrs. Olufunmilayo Onadipe; as well as the principals of the six schools, directors and teachers. Justice Edobor, an SS1 pupil of Ilupeju Senior Grammar School, shone for his painting of the Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode and the host Principal, Mrs. Bolanle Olufowobi. He said his drawing was motivated by gratitude to them. “The reason for drawing the Lagos State Governor, Akinwunmi Ambode and my former Principal is to show my utmost and unending gratitude to them. They have both contributed immensely to who I am today. I appreciate the governor for his contribution towards free education, which has made schooling easy for me. I also appreciate Mrs. Olufowobi, whose wisdom and words of advice have and are still guiding me,” Edobor said. Another SS1 pupil of Estate Senior Grammar School, Ridwan Teller, displayed an architectural design of a spacious building with a playground, security post, and main gate, with chipboard and tray board. Mrs. Onadipe praised the display of skills by the pupils, saying her headgear was styled by one of them. She said: “I have gone round and seen the skills these students possess; they tied my headgear and that made me proud of their great skills. “I advise the students not to stop their learning on what they have been taught; they should further their education to polytechnics, universities and seek further knowledge, so their skills will not end here.” Mrs. Onadipe advised them to take advantage of the Lagos State Acquisition Programme to build up on the acquired skills and have a sustainable future. “It is good to learn how to make things with your hands while learning how to read and write, but you must be careful not to make it affect your studies.” She urged the pupils to strike a balance in what they are learning and make sure it does not affect their studies. Onadipe also appreciated the effort of the Lagos State governor for supporting the programme. “We are lucky to be Lagosians. It is in Lagos State we celebrate this kind of thing. We lead and others follow. We are truly the Centre of Excellence. We appreciate the governor for his interest in children and for the fact that education is paramount to him,” she said.