The All Progressives Congress (APC) has assured the people of Ekiti State that Governor Kayode Fayemi will fulfill all promises made during electioneering campaign. The party hailed Fayemi for what it described as populist and welfarist actions taken in the first week of his inauguration. Describing Fayemi as a “good and dependable ambassador,” the party urged the people of the state to continue to support Fayemi to bring his blueprint to reality. The party said Fayemi needs the prayers of Ekiti people to succeed for his administration to take the state to greater heights. The Ekiti APC Publicity Secretary, Mr. Ade Ajayi, in a statement on Monday said the governor, in his first week, has taken some actions that showed that he (Fayemi) loved the common man and had the interest of the people at heart. Ajayi lauded the Town Hall meetings held by Fayemi in all the three senatorial districts in which he has taken government back to the people and gave them a sense of belonging. The party spokesman described Fayemi as a man of integrity who would keep his words to make life easier for the people of Ekiti State. Ajayi said: “The governor has announced the cancellation of education development levy imposed on pupils in private and public schools by the past administration, while free education would also return to public primary and secondary schools in the state as against the exorbitant fees under former Governor Ayo Fayose. “We applaud the governor for the return of the social security scheme that will alleviate the sufferings of our aged people and it is also heartwarming that Ekiti pupils in public schools would be enjoying free meals latest by December. “Governor Fayemi would accord workers welfare his administration priority; pensioners,local government workers and teachers would not be left out in the scheme of things. “The governor has expressed his readiness to pay all the backlogs of workers and pensioners salaries and benefits but we plead for patience from our people.” Ajayi also reiterated Fayemi’s call on all APC candidates for state and federal legislatures to extend hands of fellowship to contestants who lost at the primaries to face the general elections as a united house. “According to Governor Fayemi, all the State and National Assembly candidates must reconcile with their co-contestants, leaders and members of the party in their units, wards and local government areas to enhance victory at the polls in the forth coming election in the state,” Ajayi said. The party expressed appreciation to Fayemi in his bid to pay severance and furniture allowances to politicians who served under him,saying they should exercise patience in his bid to make political appointments. The statement also appealed for calm from party members on the killing of the state Treasurer, Mr. Moses Adeoye, noting that the governor has urged the state police command to bring the killers to justice. He added that the governor had given his words to take care of the family of the deceased. 