The Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) has urged the National Assembly (NASS) and the Executive to prioritise the passage of the Petroleum Industry Governance Bill (PIGB) into law. Its Executive Director, Auwal Ibrahim Musa Rafsanjani, who made the call in an interview with The Nation, in Lagos, stated that it was common knowledge that the PIGB being considered originated as a private member bill. He added that both chambers had set up a joint committee on the PIB to fast-track its passage. He said: “The result is the successful passage of the PIGB. We, however, note that in spite of all the efforts that went into the bill and the opportunities provided during the public hearing, the President has raised some observations, which made him withhold his assent. “CISLAC notes that the president has returned up to 15 bills to the NASS for review before assent. We note with delight that upon resumption on October 9, 2018, the NASS had commenced action on several of the returned bills. The request for funding of the INEC as well as the Electoral Act amendment, are worthy of note. “We call on the NASS to also re-visit and prioritise the passage of the PIGB by addressing the genuine concerns of the president and re-sending it to him for assent as soon as possible. We also call on the President, through relevant channels, to be proactive and liaise with the relevant committees of the NASS, through constructive dialogue, to ensure that a bill that will adequately address the challenges in the sector, serve the interest of Nigerians and receive presidential assent is passed.” Rafsanjani emphasised that millions of naira being lost in revenues and investments and other positive multiplier effects accruable from the sector could be avoided through the passage and assent to the PIGB and all other components thereof. He also called on the Executive to engage the NASS to expedite action on the outstanding components addressing fiscal frameworks, host and impacted communities and sector administration issues so that they can become law before the elections in 2019. He said: “All well-meaning stakeholders are optimistic that this session of the NASS would conclude what they had started and contribute to supporting the executive so that this government could fulfil its promise to the Nigerian people as it relates to the passage of the PIB.” 