…I ll stay and fight this battle, says Fayose  The People’s Democratic Party (PDP) has alleged has alleged that the Presidency has directed the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) to detain indefinitely, the outgoing governor of Ekiti State, Mr. Ayodele Fayose. In a statement issued Monday by its spokesman, Kola Ologbondiyan, the PDP said information at its disposal and in the social media, indicated that the Presidency has put the EFCC on the alert to arrest the governor at midnight today and detain him indefinitely. The party said the alleged directive by the Presidency was not unconnected with alleged plot to use the EFCC and other security agencies to incarcerate the governor for his persistent criticism of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC government. The statement said, “This uncompromising stand of the outgoing governor against the present administration was the reason Ekiti State was invaded and taken by force during the last governorship election. “By 12 midnight, the governor’s residence is expected to be surrounded by armed men of the EFCC under the pretense that they had information of his plot to escape. This is to achieve their plan to humiliate the governor and portray him in bad light to the public by dramatising his arrest. “Nigerians can recall that it was the governor who offered to submit himself to the EFCC despite the commission’s clear display of bias and partisanship as demonstrated in its various actions, especially its tweets and putting the governor on security watch-list. “The EFCC even unprofessionally showed its bias in deriding the governor, making light of a very serious matter by mocking him and asking him to come before his tenure elapsed, which the governor declined in line with his constitutional immunity. “It is now beyond dispute that Governor Fayose is not a scoundrel running away from justice. Whatever the EFCC, APC, and the Presidency’s spin-doctors may say, it is also clear to everyone that Fayose is not a coward; neither is he afraid of the EFCC” The PDP said Fayose is prepared and ready to defend himself in the court of law, adding that neither the Presidency nor EFCC is a court of law. The party said having claimed to have dusted up Fayose’s files; the EFCC should be ready to take him to court once he presents himself at the agency’s office on Tuesday. “Governor Fayose has offered to walk to the EFCC office by himself and nothing must happen to him. The PDP condemns this resort to fascism by the APC government. The whole world should be at alert to see another demonstration of crude disrespect for the rule of law and rights of Nigerians”. Meanwhile, Fayose has reiterated his readiness to honour the EFCC’s invitation today, adding that he would “stay and fight this battle”. Fayose, spoke in Abuja Monday night at a send-forth ceremony organised in his honour by the PDP Governors Forum. According to him, he would continue to criticise the Buhari administration as his tenure ended midnight. Commenting on the All Progressives Congress (APC) led administration, Fayose said, “They got power by deceit. But they gave no solution. Tell them at the Villa; my name is Ayodele Fayose, Peter the Rock.  By the Grace of God, I will be at the EFCC tomorrow (today) by 1pm. I am not a coward. “Let it be said to them that today is their own.  Tomorrow is our own. I will not run away, they will rather run away. They took me to Court 13 years ago, I won after 8 years. “They harassed my family and I got judgment three times against them. This time will not be an exception. Those who wait for me will wait in vain. EFCC is no court”. Present at the send-forth ceremony were Governors Udom Emmanuel (A/Ibom); Nyesom Wike (Rivers); Darius Ishaku (Taraba); Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa); Ifeanyi Okowa (Delta); Dave Umahi (Ebonyi); Aminu Tambuwal (Sokoto); and the National Chairman of the PDP, Prince Uche Secondus. 