Stakeholders have called for multifaceted approach to the farmer-herder crisis in the country. The stakeholders also urged the Government to set up a Federal Peace and Conflict Resolution Commission. In a communique issued at the end of the two day National summit on conflict resolution Organised by The Nation Newspaper and TV Continental in Abuja, it was also generally agreed that  government need to apply comprehensive approach in addressing the environmental factors that drive herders southwards. The stakeholders also recommended for the need to embrace the proposal for grazing reserves, beginning with consenting states while the old bonds that encouraged cooperation need to be built upon. Besides, they also tasked the government on the need to draw up implementation timelines for whatever suggestions put forward so as to ensure a more harmonious farmers-herders relationship. The Summit was conceived to provide workable solutions to the perennial herder-farmer clashes across the country. Dr. Kayode Samuel read the communique at the end of event, which was highly attended by stakeholders including herders and farmers from Plateau and Benue states. Other recommendations put forward by the stakeholders include the need to strengthen security arrangements to make both farmers and herders feel safe and to isolate the criminal elements. They also recommended for the resuscitation and massive funding of the various river basin authorities especially in the north to enable growth of grass for animal grazing to minimize nomadic mobility across the country. Also, the stakeholders recommended for existing conflict mediation and peace building mechanisms and avenues for constant dialogue between farmers and herders. The need to embrace Climate Smart Agriculture that sustains both crop farming and animal breeding was recommended by the stakeholders. In his welcome remarks, the Chairman of TV Continental, Mr Dele Alake said that Nigerians needed to dwell on the imperatives of peace and unity and to appreciate the country’s strengths and endowments. He noted that farmer-herders crises have implications for the cohesion of the nation as an entity and that Nigerians should keep working together peace, unity and progress of the country through dialogue. The convening of the Summit, he disclosed, was one of such desirable moves being undertaken by the two media organizations. Alake disclosed that the ultimate aim of the Summit is to afford the country a roadmap with which to address the multiple challenges now confronting her, particularly given the context of the forthcoming 2019 elections. He added that the groups in conflictare being encouraged through the Summit to freely express themselves in the hope that at the end of the event, significant levels of understanding would have been recorded. In his short remark, the Emir of Kano Mallam Lamido Sanusi advocated for more budgetary provision by the three tiers of government to maintain the grazing reserves across the country. The Emir who was represented by Professor Isa Hashim, the Jarman Kano said, ” The three levels of government should provide enough funds through our budgets for the maintenance of grazing reserves and stock routes, because this is what will help us to have an enduring peace in our country. The entire nation needs peace.” The CEO of TV Continental, Mr. Andrew Hallon who drew on the experiences of his home country, Ireland spoke on the need to set out a pathway to resolving the farmers-herders conflicts. He pointed out the importance of communication, respect for the points of view of others, a common desire for peace, a business-oriented approach to seeking solutions and the unlearning of harmful stereotypes. Also, Col. Ahmed Zubair (retd) former Director of Research of the Nigeria Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) pointed to the under-resourcing of the security agencies as a major drawback to the discharge of their role in conflict resolution. Mr. Kola Koko of DfID highlighted the fact that while population growth and climate change are affecting production, the country still has a static production system and called for improvements to the system. In his presentation, Dr. Saleh Umale of the Kaduna State Peace Commission described the farmers-herders crisis as a crisis long foretold. He identified the improvement of the livelihoods of Nigeria’s rural communities as key to the search for peace.  