PRESIDENT Muhammadu Buhari, Delta State Governor Ifeanyi Okowa and ex-Governor James Ibori have sent condolences to the family of the late Senator David Dafinone, a Second Republic legislator, who represented Bendel South in former Bendel State. Buhari, Okowa and Ibori also joined the business community in mourning the passing of renowned entrepreneur and philanthropist, Ojise of Asaba, Chief Sunny Okogwu. Buhari, in a statement by the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Femi Adesina, commiserated with the government and people of Delta State, Dafinone’s business associates and friends. He assured them the senator, who was a renowned chartered accountant, lived a life of service to God and the nation. He hailed the senator’s disposition to serve the Federal Government whenever he was called upon, while always promoting democratic values and culture among his people. Buhari prayed that the almighty God would receive the soul of the departed and comfort his family. The President sent condolences to family and friends of Ojise of Asaba, whose love and care for the poor and downtrodden remains historical, especially in Kaduna, where he spent most of his life. In a separate statement, the President also recommended to other Nigerians the detribalised and cosmopolitan outlook of Okogwu, who, he said, developed strong and meaningful relationships outside his roots, and graciously invested in the transformation of many lives. Buhari believed Okogwu’s business acumen also reflected in his large-heartedness as he contributed generously to communities’ growth across the country. The President prayed that the chief would find eternal rest in the bosom of the Lord. He urged his family to carry on with the legacies of the iconic businessman. Okowa commiserated with the Asagba-In-Council and the people of Asaba over the demise of Okogwu. The governor’s condolence was contained in a statement by his Chief Press Secretary, Mr. Charles Aniagwu yesterday in Asaba. He said the deceased spent his entire life in the service of humanity, especially by helping the underprivileged in his native Asaba and Sabon-Gaya Community in Chikun Local Government area of Kaduna State. Okowa said the life and times of the industrialist and philanthropist deserve to be documented for posterity. Ibori expressed sadness over the departure of Okogwu and Dafinone. The for governor, in separate statements issued by his Media Assistant, Tony Eluemunor, described the two men as exceptional, leaving indelible legacies in the lives of Delta State and its various peoples. He said: “Chief Okogwu was indeed one of my sureties and he offered his Ship House as a bond to meet my bail conditions. His fragrant memory will always linger in my mind. May God grant him eternal rest.”