With stakeholders’ call for a multi-faceted approach to the lingering clashes between itinerant herders and farmers, the curtain was drawn on the two-day summit on conflict resolution organised by Vintage Press Limited, publishes of The Nation and Television Continental (TVC), in Abuja. Participants at the Nigerian Air Force Conference Centre venue of the summit, tagged: “Towards enduring peace”, suggested ways out of the conflict. The highlights of the stakeholders’ discussions are presented below. Day One proceedings’ summary The summit was conceived as an open forum to promote frank exchange of ideas on burning issues of national and international concern, with particular regard to the herdsmen-farmers clashes, with a view to seeking workable and enduring solutions. It was attended by representatives of farmers’ groups, cattle breeders and herders, frontline traditional rulers, state governments, security agencies, members of the diplomatic community, as well as notable leaders of thought. In his opening remarks, TVC Chairman Oladele Alake said that Nigerians needed to dwell on the imperatives of peace and unity and to appreciate the country’s strengths and endowments. He noted that inter-group crises have implications for the cohesion of the nation as an entity and that Nigerians should keep working to engender peace, unity and progress of the country through dialogue. The convening of the summit, he disclosed, was one of such desirable moves being undertaken by the two media organisations. Specifically, he identified the objectives of the summit to, among other things: Alake, a former Information & Strategy Commissioner in Lagos State, disclosed that the summit’s ultimate aim is to give the country a roadmap with which to address the multiple challenges now confronting her, particularly given the context of the forthcoming 2019 elections. He added that concerned groups are being encouraged through the forum to freely express themselves in the hope that at the end of the event, significant levels of understanding would have been recorded. In his remarks, the Chairman of the event and former Secretary to the Niger State Government, Prof Yahaya Kuta alluded to the significance of organising a summit to deliberate on the farmers-herdsmen clashes nationwide and the topicality of the issue at this time. He observed that the presence of seasoned experts, the parties concerned and security personnel at the event underscored the seriousness with which the organisers approached the issue. Prof Kuta counseled that agricultural extension workers who have direct dealings with the issues in focus should always be included in conversations seeking a search for solutions. He further advised that resolutions and recommendations from the summit must be implemented by relevant actors who must give effect to them. The professor concluded by admonishing that best practices from outside Nigeria, which the country can borrow and benefit from, must always be factored into the search for solutions. A documentary on farmers-herders clashes produced by the TVC crew was presented to the audience. The documentary focused on the devastation in Benue, Adamawa, Plateau and Taraba states. While identifying the parties in the conflicts, the documentary also alluded to the involvement of criminal elements in escalating the situation. Presenting the lead paper, University of Maiduguri Prof. Daniel Musa Gwary, dwelt on the resilience of crisis in national life, noting that conflicts in the Northeast axis of the country had subsisted for many years before becoming the staple of national and international news. The highlights of the paper include: Some of the recommendations offered in the paper include: The Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore and the Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association (MACBAN) outlined the causes of the conflicts and possible solutions in their presentations. They alluded to the desirability of establishing a ranching model that takes into consideration the meaning of nomadism to the regular herder. The Deputy Inspector-General (Operations) of the Nigeria Police, Mr. Joshak Habilah and the Officer-in-Charge of Civil-Military Relations in the Nigeria Air Force, Air Commodore David Aluku, gave perspectives from the security agencies. They acknowledged the imperative of community policing and the need to check rampant drug abuse. Contributions also came from Mr. Rotimi Williams, a rice farmer in Nasarawa State, who spoke of the creative approach he adopted to check herders incursion on his farms by incorporating Fulani people into his operations as farm security personnel and as workers tending the crop and helping with harvesting. He, however, also had to manage negative reactions to his approach by indigenous elements who frowned at the visibility and economic empowerment of the “minority/stranger” Fulani. In his submission, Senator Shehu Sani (Kaduna Central District) urged the political elite must decide what kind of country they wish to preside over and take a decision to shift the expenditure of security votes from fostering thugs to promoting security. He noted that every community harbours criminals and that negative stereotyping must be avoided. Former Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFFC) Chairman Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, noted that nomadic groups are peculiar to Nigerian and that the challenge of nomadism had been meaningfully addressed elsewhere. The Fulani, he disclosed, are seeking for a space while the Bororo, who are the most affected amongst the Fulbe, remain landless and unrepresented in the political scene. He commended the nomadic education programme and cautioned against stigmatizing the Bororo as terrorists. The Plateau State Peace Building Agency Director-General Joseph Lengman, who represented the Plateau State Government, cautioned that sentiments will not resolve the issues involved in the farmers-herdsmen crisis. The ingredients for peace, he said, are a spirit of forgiveness and compromise, and the building of a social compact. He described his agency as a model under which community stakeholders come together. He recommended it as a model to copy. Businessman Isyaku Rabiu presented the farmers-herdsmen crisis as an opportunity requiring creative management. The empowerment of people and their incorporation as stakeholders will reduce their resort to violence to press their needs. President of the Veterinary Association of Nigeria, Dr. Godwin Abonyi, noted that several similar meetings had prescribed ranching as a solution but that government has not taken concrete steps on such recommendations. He urged the Federal Government to start with states that are willing and that the success of the initiative may encourage the reluctant and undecided to join in. Dr. Victor lyama advised that a distinction must be drawn between bandits and herdsmen. Ranching may be a solution but that it is an expensive option. He spoke of the need to re-direct security votes into the development of ranches. In his own remarks, the representative of Senator Abu Ibrahim, Chairman of the Senate Committee on Police Affairs, cautioned against flippant pronouncements, which only aggravate crisis. In his goodwill message delivered by Mr. Sunday Dare, All Progressives Congress (APC) stalwart Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu rejected the two extremes of the conversation to declare that, neither the herders, nor the farmers bear absolute blame. He also frowned at what he called media religionisation of the conflict, advising that concern should be focused on how to solve the problem. Tinubu proffered short, medium and long-term solutions. They include: moderation of nomadism, maintenance of effective military presence in hot spots, continuing dialogue and the setting up of a national peace and conflict resolution commission. Three discussants of the keynote address, Prof Biodun Adeloye, Prof N.A. Gworgwor and Dr. Eustace Iyayi also offered their perspectives. They spoke of the need to modify nomadism to the advantage of the practitioners and counselled that the nomad needs to combine tilling with nomadism by producing crops like maize on which to nurture their herd. Other specific recommendations are that: A broadcast journalist, Ms. Medina … emphasized the need for prompt and effective communication by all the parties concerned, rather than allowing grievances to fester. She also advised against unhelpful profiling which only aggravates conflicts. In his response, Lead Speaker Prof Gwary, advised that farmers and herders must do away with misconceptions about one another and learn to admit and forgive past hurts, injuries and injustices while also taking care to divorce the conflict from religion. Day Two proceedings summary The day opened with brief remarks by Mr. Alake. The Emir of Kano and chair of the summit sent his goodwill message through a representative the Jarman Kano, Prof Isa Hashim. He said that the governments at the three levels should provide enough funds for the maintenance of grazing reserves and stock routes. He spoke of two types of Fulani – the bororoji (cattle Fulani) and the sororoji (town Fulani) – who have their differences even though outsiders think they are one. He recalled his days amongst the Tiv and called for a re-creation of that harmony. TVC Chief Executive Officer Andrew Hallon drew on the experiences of his home country – Ireland – to set out a pathway to resolving the farmers-herders conflicts. The key issues are continuous communication; respect for others’ points of view; a common desire for peace; a business-oriented approach to seeking solutions; and the unlearning of harmful stereotypes. A former Nigerian Army Training and Doctrine Command (TRADOC) Director of Research, Col. Ahmed Zubair (rtd), pointed to the under-funding of security agencies as a major drawback to the discharge of their role in conflict resolution. Kola Kuku of the Department for International Development (DfID) highlighted the fact that while population growth and climate change are affecting production, the country still has a static production system. He called for improvements to the system. In his presentation, Dr. Saleh Umale of the Kaduna State Peace Commission, described the farmers-herders crisis as a crisis long foretold. He identified the improvement of the livelihoods of Nigeria’s rural communities as key to the search for peace. Others discussants are: Prof Eugene Aliegba Aliegba;  Lengman;  Sari Umar and Nuhu Abdullahi. Recommendations