…OGUNSAKIN WITHDRAWS  Former Minister of State for Works, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, former House of Assembly Speaker, Mr. Femi Bamisile and a businessman, Mr. Sola Fatoba, have emerged as consensus candidates of Ekiti State All Progressives Congress (APC) for the National Assembly primaries. Adeyeye has no opponent in the party for the Ekiti South senatorial district while Bamisile will be affirmed as candidate for Ekiti South Federal Constituency 2. Fatoba became the candidate for Ekiti Central Federal Constituency 1 following the withdrawal of an aspirant, Dr. Jimlas Opeyemi Ogunsakin. Ogunsakin, announced his withdrawal at a news conference at APC State Secretariat, on Friday before the commencement of voting in the National Assembly in all the 177 wards. The primaries to elect candidates for the three Senate and six House of Representatives seats were still ongoing at the time of filing this report. The state APC Chairman, Mr. Paul Omotoso, commended aspirants for their maturity in ensuring that the crowded field was reduced to enhance the party’s chances of winning all the National Assembly seats. Omotoso assured that all those who acceded to the request of the party and stepped aside from the race, would be compensated by APC leaders. He said: “We are going to compensate them bountifully for helping our party reduce the burden of allowing a crowded race in this election. “Nobody was coerced to step down, they did so out of their volition after consultations with relevant stakeholders. These are people who
have contributed to the party financially and physically and we shall appreciate them.” Ogunsakin said, he decided to step down from the race owing to the enormous respect he has for the party top hierarchy in the state. “I decided to reconsider my stand to stand for primary because of the respect I have for APC leaders . As a party man, I believe in party
supremacy and respect for leadership and this I have demonstrated to avert crisis in Ekiti APC. Read Also: Primary: My victory is for APC , Ogun people – Abiodun With this, I have stepped down for Mr. Sola Fatoba and I won’t participate in today’s (Friday’s) primary , because I have withdrawn my aspiration in party’s interest. “I want to thank all my supporters and plead that they show understanding in this regard, because I did it not for selfish i nterest, but in party’s interest. “As a good party man, we have to respect the authorities, who deemed it fit to have a consensus in Ado/Irepodun-Ifelodun Federal
Constituency. “Let me also state that my withdrawal is without bitterness or ill-feelings against anyone. And we shall all work hard to ensure
that our party wins in 2019”, Ogunsakin said.