The phrase ‘period poverty’ may sound strange to some persons but it constitutes a major health challenge to the girl-child in Nigeria. In this report, ROSE OKEKE examines its effect in rural areas and how a not-for-profit organisation has taken up the task of assisting victims Period poverty, the struggle and inability to afford quality sanitary pads, is just one of the major challenges that young girls and women face in Nigeria as a result of major economic hardship. Period poverty poses a substantial threat to less-privileged schoolgirls who do not attend school during the entire duration of their menstrual periods. According to a UNESCO report in 2014, one in ten girls in Sub-Saharan Africa misses school during her menstrual cycle, which ultimately amounts to 20% of a whole school year. The report reads: “A focus group conducted among women in Nigeria, for instance, highlighted that almost all adult women, young women and girls used rags during menstruation. Many older women had tried disposable pads but did not find them comfortable, and therefore preferred using rags.” Also, the issue of lack of basic hygiene services such as adequate latrines and toilets in schools throughout the nation further promotes the absence of girls from school during periods. A 2015 UNICEF survey indicated that only 25% of school toilets/latrines in Nigeria had sinks and soaps, most toilets in filthy condition. The ratio of latrine to students was 1 to 297 for girls, and 1 to 1216 for boys, as opposed to the recommendation. In addition to missing school, period poverty also leads to participating in transactional sex among young girls and older men, in order to obtain financial resources to purchase sanitary products. This ultimately contributes to teenage pregnancy and forces the girl to leave school entirely. The Sanitary Aid Initiative Nigeria, founded by Karo Omu in January 2017, has distributed over 9,300 sanitary pads to Nigerian schoolgirls in 8 states across all geopolitical regions, and raised over N4,ooo,ooo for the cause. Karo, in an interview with Abuja Review said: “Sanitary Aid Initiative started after a conversation on Twitter about the 100% increase in pad prices during the 2017 recession. I couldn’t believe that the prices had doubled in only a year. My first thought was what less privileged girls and women would do in such a situation, so we decided to do something about it. “So far, 9,317 packs of pads have been distributed, 1,000 of which are reusable pads. “We have reached 7,397 girls and women so far. Currently, we have had outreaches in 8 states. Over the next couple of weeks, it will have surmounted to 10 states.” Aisha, an SS2 student and beneficiary from Ogun State, shared her experience in an interview that before the Sanitary Aid Initiative arrived at her school, she had been using tissues and cloths in place of pads, a practice she described as difficult. When asked if it affected her schoolwork and attendance, she replied: “I do come to school, but sometimes when the pain is a lot I just skip class. I can’t express how happy I am but I’m very grateful for the pads that Sanitary Aid gave us.” Another beneficiary of the initiative, Boluwatife, an SS1 student, complained about the increase in prices of pads making them less and less affordable. She said that the help received from Sanitary Aid Initiative made her “very, very happy.” In addition to the distribution of free sanitary products, Sanitary Aid also engages in positive sex education and orientation for both boys and girls in order to sensitize them about puberty and ease off the stigma surrounding it. “Many of them are aware of what’s happening within their bodies but sometimes they have been led to believe some myths with regards managing menstrual pain, their cycles,” Karo told The Nation. “For some, it’s not ignorance, they just don’t have access to products. So even when they are choosing to use cloth or skip school, it’s not because they don’t know what to do but because they can’t afford to do it. “I always say that is even more important than the products. We tell the girls about sanitary hygiene, period positivity and sometimes even sex education. We also involve the boys, encouraging them to be more receptive to such conversations. One time, on our first visit, a young boy was happy to share that he gave his sweater to his friend when she was stained. The atmosphere we create makes this an easy conversation to have.” According to the founder, Sanitary Aid Initiative is currently in the process of manufacturing reusable pads, and partnering with sponsors who share the same vision and goal. “For every stakeholder or potential stakeholder, it is important for us all to understand the effects of period poverty on girls from missing school to self-esteem issues to even health issues from poor period management. “The onus is on those with the means to actively and deliberately change the face of menstruation management in our country. We have so many impressionable young girls and boys and targeting them with the right information early enough helps the future,” Karo stated. She called on the federal, state, and local governments to contribute to the cause by prioritising the hygiene needs, especially of girls and women with little or no income at all. She implored the government to take a leaf out of the books of other countries that are already succeeding in this area. 