Dubbed the enfant terrible in his heyday, Tarila Okorowanta, one of the best of his generation, relives his career in an exciting conversation with TAIWO ALIMI. Ex-international Tarila Okorowanta’s fondest memories are with Stationery Stores of Lagos. ‘Super five years with Super Flaming’ is the way he described his playing career with Stores way back 1979-1984. In case you have forgotten Okorowanta, he is Nigeria’s first bundle of talent to be crowned ‘enfant terrible’ by the local and foreign media. Etim Esin antics looked like a child’s play in comparison with Okorowanta’s, and now resides in Bayelsa State and attached with Bayelsa Queens as coach. He has not changed much. Dynamite, they say, comes in small packages. Though smallish, you cannot miss him in a crowd, given his ebullient nature. His voice and mannerism are as sharp as his youthful days when the name evoked admiration and fear in his fans and opponents respectively. Though he played for bigger clubs – Leventis United, IICC Shooting Stars, and clubs in Gabon and Cote d’Ivoire, he is filled with great thoughts of the time he shared with ‘Flaming.’ Okorowanta said of his formative years in Ajegunle-Lagos (AJ city) and first contact with soccer – as he loves to call the game of football. He began: “I was born in Lagos-at Ajegunle Navy Barrack. There was a huge football pitch in the barrack and that is where you would find me as soon as I learnt how to run and jump. “My parents were against this but that did not stop me. Whenever they were out, I would head off to the pitch and as soon I noticed my father coming back, I would smuggle my way back into the house.” Tried as his father did, Okorowanta had his way. “Since it was school they wanted me to go, I told them I would do whatever they wanted but I should be allowed to play soccer too. I would go to school and still play football. “At a point, they would lock me up but I would sneak out from a window, climb down from our room upstairs to play. After a while, my parents got the idea and left me alone.” From St Gregory to Maryland Comprehensive School, the young Okorowanta said he kept pushing his game until scouts from the Lagos darling club, Stationery Stores, spotted him and signed him up. “I was barely a teen when Stores took me in. They would come to my school early in the morning to pick me for training at Onikan waterfront. And by 8 am, they would bring me back to school to attend to my studies.” Though he picked up his skills from the streets of AJ City, it was at Stores that they were polished. “Up Flaming gave me a chance to dream and be a great footballer. I was like 15 or 16 when I started playing for Stores. It was there that I learnt all I needed to know about soccer. “I fell in love with the attraction that we got from the club and fans and the overall ambience of the soccer pitch. The supporters are awesome and they loved the game and the players. The friends I made in Stores are the friends I still have now. I spent five years there and they were super five years.” Staring alongside Nigeria soccer greats like Peter Rufai, Haruna Ilerika, Isa Alabi, and Austin Fregene, Collins Ebitimi, Ike Shorunmu and Sam Opone, Okorowanta said he played hundreds of games and scored many goals. “Unfortunately, I can’t say the number of games I played or goals because accurate records were not kept that time. “It was the glorious years of Nigerian football when the stadia were filled to capacity and fans came from all over the country to cheer us up.” Though, he moved on to play for other teams and the national teams, he said Stores would remain his favourite. “I was really hot in Stores and so my call to the junior national team, Flying Eagles, did not come as a surprise. I was part of the first FIFA Junior World cup in 1983 and I would have travelled out to play for Cosmos in the United States, but it did not work out. “At this time, Pele (Brazilian legendary soccer star) was playing for New York Cosmos and I would have played alongside him but the trial did not happen. I was young then and did not know the implication of it until years later.” His talent was undeniable. A master dribbler with Stores, New Nigeria Bank of Benin, Bendel Insurance, Leventis United and Shooting Stars Club of Ibadan, he played mostly from wide on the right but used as a support striker for Green Eagles. Big clubs courted him with car gifts and one of such time was in the ’85 season when he got a Volkswagen Beetle when Insurance signed him up. He was the first Nigerian to score in a FIFA tournament when he scored the late goal against USSR in Mexico ’83. He scored another brilliant goal in the U20 Tessema Cup final between Nigeria and Ivory Coast same year. While playing for the Green Eagles he netted a beautiful thunderbolt goal against Togo in 1987. Okorowanta has laurels to show for his talents. In 1981 and 82, he was in the Stores squad that made it to the final of African Cup Winners Cup and won the FA Cup respectively. He got a silver medal at 1984 AFCON, and the 1984 WAFU and 1987 National league titles. Well known for his truancy and stubbornness, Okorowanta did not even try to deny. “Yes! I was stubborn and I am not proud of some of my actions. But that was youthful exuberance. I was young and that in a way made me very good at what I did. I put all I have into every game and that helped me to score many goals. Maybe I was overconfident at times and that made me take some bad decisions.” He gave an instance: “Like when I defected to Italy after Shooting Stars played an African Champions Cup match in Tunisia. It was a bad decision but when others went back I could not because of my stubbornness. “I was confident that I could get a club but because I did not have a manager it was difficult and that was how I spent five years not playing for any team. It was devastating for me but I did not want to do menial jobs that others were doing. “I went to many clubs but you needed to have your manager who would negotiate with the club and take you there. You don’t just walk into a club there. I spent five years in Italy trying to get a club to play, but to my surprise it didn’t work out. So I started doing some other things to earn a living.” Not happy with his situation, he moved on to Germany, Belgium and finally United States, where he got back to football line. “When I got to the U.S, I got an opportunity to get back into football when I was offered a job as a coach. I was to train a grade 7 girl’s team for two days in a week. Though I was not a qualified coach, I showed them my pictures in the colours of Nigeria and I was given the job. “After a while, I became bored with the job and life in the U.S and decided to come back home. It was when I got back that I enrolled at the National Institute for Sport (NIS) and got a coaching certificate and since 2012 I have been coaching in Bayelsa. Right now, I am coaching Bayelsa Queens,” Okorowanta said. “Coaching is a good thing but in Nigeria it is difficult. Coaching in Nigeria is not easy. It is not like when you are abroad and everything is structured. Here, there is a lot of problem around salary of players and coaches. In fact, I am tired. This coaching thing is not lucrative in Nigeria. I am thinking of going into administration so that I can help make some changes instead of complaining.” He said the league needs to be cleaned up inside out to return to its glorious days. “The present league managers are trying but there is still a lot to be done. If you go to stadium and you don’t see people there it is discouraging. Now we have beautiful stadiums everywhere unlike in our time, but people don’t come. The referees do not fare better. It’s all about money here and there and in somebody’s account for matches to be won. It was not like that in our time. Now it is win at home at all cost. Even those in charge of the league are not helping. They have the rules. Players are not paid their sign-on fees and winning bonuses. European football has taken over our football. It is Premiership that our kids know. They know Ronaldo and Hazard, what about our own players? They don’t know even one.”