Mazi Okechukwu Unegbu, lawyer, arbitrator and stockbroker, is currently Managing Director/Chief Executive, Maxifund Investments and Securities Plc. In this interview with Ibrahim Apekhade Yusuf, he speaks on the lull in the stock market and the implications for the economy. Excerpts: The likes of MTN Nigeria and other major companies have been mooting the idea of coming into the stock market since last year. But from all indications, this seems no longer feasible. Could this be a reflection of the parlous state of the economy or does it have anything to do with the rules of engagement by the regulators? First and foremost, if you look at the stock market or the capital market, most times, it is the barometer or measure of the health of our economy. Once this barometer shows that the economy is sick, it also immediately reflects on the stock market, which is what has happened. You see both the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the Nigeria Stock Exchange (NSE) overemphasis on foreign investors without thinking about the local investors.  You know when there is any negative report on the economy; the first place that is hit is the capital market. Those foreign investors you gave many appetizers to come in will immediately run away with their money and once that happens, the stock market is affected. And because you did not encourage the local investors to remain, of course, the local investors aren’t going anywhere; they will continue to support their own economy. But because you make them look as if they are not wanted, then they would have to go elsewhere.  People, who understand the economy, know that you must have to do environmental impact assessment. Our regulators have not done environmental impact assessment. They don’t understand that the Nigerian economy cannot be compared to the UK or the US. So you cannot introduce the rules of engagement in those economies to Nigeria because we are still developing and that is why the economies like Malaysia, Singapore will always come with policies that would help their economy. Here, there is nothing like that. Nobody is thinking about that. What are those incentives or policies that you bring on board to encourage local investors? What is the way forward? A lot has to do with the policy direction of the country. There is a lot we need to get right as a country. Everything we do begin and ends with politics. Once you don’t get the politics right then a lot of things won’t work. Take Ghana for instance, MTN successfully completed listing at the Ghana Stock Exchange in May. It also plans to list in Ivory Coast. These are countries where [policies are business-friendly when compared to our own clime. If you look at the Brazilian election which happened recently, the moment the one of the candidate was announced as leading, the stock market in that country spiked up in Brazil because the people have been studying their various policies. Now between you and I, if you look at the current economic policies what do you see? All you hear is that this party is confused, this one is corrupt. That is not what we should be living upon. We should be looking at what are they bringing to the table apart from the bricking of the political parties. Jobs have been lost, inflation is on the increase. So where are we heading to? So these are the things investors would be looking at to guide them to be able to make investment in an economy that is supposed to be doing well amongst its peers in the world. So it’s unfortunate. Like I said, the year is ending, the 2017 budget is still been fought over, not much has happened. The president has submitted a supplementary budget but the NASS has not considered it. The 2018 budget is neither here nor there.  There is no budget for 2019 yet so on what basis are we going to even forecast to say whether we can invite investors to come into the market? And once there is this kind of lull, what do you expect? Nobody wants to do anything from there. So we must first get our politics right then the other things will follow.