THE National Judicial Council (NJC) has said it would investigate a petition by a major petroleum importer, Petrocam Trading Nigeria Ltd, against Justice Rilwan Aikawa of the Federal High Court, Lagos. NJC Chairman Chief Justice Walter  Onnoghen, in a May 21 letter to the firm, acknowledged receiving the petition. The petition is entitled: “Complaint against perceived abuse and reckless use of judicial powers to oppress and cause grievous damage to our business interest by Hon. Justice R. M. Aikawa of the Federal High Court.” Chief Justice Onnoghen wrote: “This is to acknowledge receipt of your petition dated May 7, 2018 on the above subject matter and to inform you that action is being taken, please.” Petrocam Trading Nigeria, Mr. Patrick Ilo and Petrocam Trading (PTY) Ltd South Africa are defendants in a suit. The oil firm, which is a supplier to the Nigerian National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC), said the judge made an ex-parte order on April 18 freezing its accounts. The company said the judge made six orders against it under the guise of mareva injunction, resulting in the freezing of its accounts in commercial banks without directing that the defendants be put on notice. “His Lordship proceeded to make the ex-parte orders pending the determination of the substantive suit even when a motion on notice was filed by the applicant and it was pending. “His Lordship did not even avert his mind to the fact that it was a writ of summons proceeding which may last for a long while…No undertaking was given as to damages in the event that the orders ought not to have been made. “In mareva injunction proceedings, unlike general proceedings, it is a mandatory requirement, because of the potential harm it may cause. His Lordship granted the orders ex-parte and failed to protect the defendants in any form,” the firm said. Petrocam said rather than adjourn for a brief period because of the far-reaching nature of the order, “His Lordship adjourned for seven weeks…for mention”. The firm had asked Chief Judge of the Federal High Court Justice Adamu Kafarati to transfer the case to another judge as the defendants no long had confidence in Justice Aikawa. The defendants had also filed an application before Justice Aikawa praying for an order referring the suit to the Chief Judge for reassignment to another judge. The firm was sued for allegedly being indebted to a bank.