The Southwest Women Leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Kemi Nelson, has said that women in the party will mobilise other women in Lagos State to vote for the governorship candidate, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, in next year’s election. She urged the party women to educate other women on the need to get their permanent voter’s cards ready, ahead of the exercise. Nelson advised them to live by example by getting their cards ready before they start admonishing their targets to do the same. The women leader spoke at the Babajide Sanwo-Olu Campaign Office, GRA, Ikeja, which hosted party women from the 57 local councils for a sensitisation meeting. They were received by the campaign manager, Tayo Ayinde, Cardinal James Odunmbaku, Bayo Osiyemi, the woman leader, Bolanle Akinyemi-Obe, Sesan Daini, Bayo Ajisebutu and Abiodun Mafe. At the meeting were Mrs. Yetunde Arobieke, Mrs. Kehinde Babalola, Bola Lawal-Olumegbon, Mrs. Toun Adediran, and women members of the state executive committee of the party. Ayinde thanked the women on behalf of Sanwo-Olu and urged them to sustain the tempo of loyalty and commitment. “We appreciate you for voting for Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu during the primary and we also solicit your support for our candidate during the general elections. Sanwo-Olu will not disappoint you. He will not disappoint Lagosians.” Nelson highlighted the challenges ahead, advising the women to gird their loins. She said: “Go and get your PVCs. Mobilise in your wards, local governments and constituencies. The reward after voting will commensurate with your contributions. This time around, reward will be based on efforts.” Odunmbaku thanked the women for their devotion and commitment to the party. He said much is expected of them during the election, assuring that their efforts will not be in vain. The Director of Women Affairs at the campaign organisation, Akinyemi-Obe said: “We are ready. Lagos APC Women are prepared to mobilise other women to get their PVCs ready and vote for Sanwo-Olu at the poll. As APC women, we are on ground. Other indigenes are also carried along. Non-indigenes, especially women, are with us because we do not discriminate against them and they have been enjoying the dividends of democracy in the Centre of Excellence.” 