Security chiefs yesterday raised the alarm over the alleged stockpiling of arms and ammunition by politicians ahead of next year’s general election. This is one of the highlights of the meeting of security chiefs with President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa. The meeting was also told of the plan by some politicians to pressurise the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) through street demonstrations, which are capable of being hijacked by hoodlums and miscreants. Minister of Defence Mansur Dan-Ali told reporters: “The meeting started by discussing the general overview of the security situation in the country as it relates to the conduct of the forthcoming 2019 general elections. “It recommended deployment of security agencies to the states to enable elections to be conducted peacefully and to further douse the tension created by the outcome of the political parties primaries and some desperate persons to sabotage the electoral process. “The meeting also discussed attempts to put pressure on the electoral body by some notable personalities through demonstrations which was brought under control by combined efforts of security agencies to avoid being hijacked by hoodlums and armed bandits. “Another area of security concern includes postelection violence as desperate politicians may whip up ethno-religious sentiments to create security situation in the country. “Also of concern is the proliferation and stockpiling of weapons by some disgruntled elements with a desire to take laws into their hands at the slightest opportunity. “The Council called for the concerted effort of all security agencies to ensure that the 2019 elections are hitch-free and the need for continuous sensitisation of the public by National Orientation Agency and regular meetings of relevant stakeholders, including INEC, international/local observers and the media ahead of the elections.” Inspector-General of Police Ibrahim Idris also told State House correspondents that all security agencies would be neutral and nonpartisan in their operations as they concern the general elections. 