A Pan-African group, PANAF has decried incessant abuse of human rights in the country and Africa at large. The coalition from about 15 African countries including Nigeria advocated for a change of attitude and need to respect human right processes. The Coordinator, PANAF Project on Consolidating Civil Society Participation in translating African Human Rights Standards to Practice, Prof. Solomon Ebobrah, said undue detention of people despite court orders have been on increase. He spoke on Monday at the Train the Trainers workshop held in Abuja, stressing that it’s only peer pressure that could make countries comply to human right laws. He added that the international bodies on human rights does not force governments to comply. “Obviously, keeping people in detention after a valid court order is a violation of human right. “It rather uses what we call peer pressure, where other countries are expected to put pressure on a particular country, asking it to do the right thing. And that’s where the voices around the continent must come to say Nigeria must do the right thing and call on authorities in Nigeria to obey the orders of its courts,” he stated. The workshop, he stated was organised by HURIDAC in partnership with African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies (ACDHRS) to train different countries who will be in a position to train other people when they return to their countries on ways to translate human rights standard to practice through human rights mechanisms. About 36 people from West and Central African countries such as Togo, Gabon, Central African Republic, Congo, Nigeria, among others were trained under the programme. The Executive Director of the African Centre for Democracy and Human Rights Studies, Banjul, Gambia, Hannah Foster, added that human rights abuse was becoming worse by the day, thus need for the training. She identified significant role of the human right groups and civil society organisations to curtailing the trend. According to her, perpetrators are deploying new tactics on human rights abuse and means to cover up their violations and as such should be promptly checked. “Human rights violation in Africa is not getting better and it is all over. Perpetrators are getting more subtle with the way they carry out their violations and in the way they cover up. Suffice it to say that there needs to be a new culture of Pan-Africanism, because in other continents citizens are telling you that is their country first. “For instance, Donald Trump is telling you that it is America first. But how many of us are saying Africa first, because if we do say Africa first then a lot of these abuses that are taking place from our leadership and others won’t happen.” “This gives greater responsibility to civil society to be able to speak truth to power. To say this is happening and we the citizens want to see you live up to your commitments. “That is what the African Centre for Democracy is trying to train fellow CSOs so that we can address this issue that is all over Africa and ensure that the next generation is made up of Africans without human rights abuses,” she added. The Executive Director, HURIDAC, a regional human rights organisation, Ayodele Amin, said the programme was put together to address gaps in using the human rights system. “This training was put together to enable our citizens adequately engage the human rights systems in their various countries.”