Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar has presented the scorecard of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) under his watch as the Chief of Air Staff (CAS). The Air Marshal says the Buhari administration has been retooling the NAF for effective and efficient service to securing the country, reports BLESSING OLAIFA. ACQUISITION of ultra-modern aircraft, rehabilitation of existing ones and expansion of structures are some of the projects being pursued by Chief of Air Staff (CAS) Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar to reposition the Nigerian Air Force (NAF). The Air Chief has enjoyed tremendous support from President Muhammadu Buhari since he took the saddle on May 29, 2015. The President’s visit to the two Air pilots who survived the September 28 air crash in Abuja, on his return from the United Nations (UN) General Assembly, underscored such gesture. Air Marshal Abubakar announced an eight-point agenda to positively change the NAF narrative in tune with the Buhari-administration’s mission of making Nigeria a safer place to live in for all citizens. The innovate ideas that created a new template in the air security parlance, the CAS said, were designed to put  the nation’s Air Force in global perspective for effective and efficient service delivery. Besides, the projects were tailored to protect the nation’s territorial integrity. Air Marshal Abubakar outlined eight major areas as needing urgent attention with the aim of maximising available human and material resources within the Air Force for optimal goals. They include: training and capacity building as well as the improvement of personnel welfare. Other areas are: construction of modern facilities to enhance training and operations, research and development breakthroughs, decimation of Boko Haram terrorists, improvement of civil/military relations and empowerment of youths residing in the barracks through agricultural programmes. The NAF fleet under CAS Abubakar’s watch has, in the last three years, recorded an unprecedented growth. It has bought 18 brand aircraft and refurbished 13 grounded ones. The reactivation of another two was said to ongoing. Some of the new platforms acquired are: From available records, the Federal Government has also released funds for the purchase of 12 Super Tucano Aircraft from United States (U.S.). Additional six attack helicopters are being expected from Italy. In the past three years, the NAF has expanded its force structure and created two new field commands. It has also created Quick Response Groups and Wings to bring security closer to the people of Nigeria. The two new commands are Special Operations Command (located in Bauchi) and the Ground Training Command (located in Enugu). The quick response units and regiment groups which are manned by NAF Special Forces. They are located in Lafia, Nasarawa State; Nguroje, Taraba State; Gusau, Zamfara State and Ipetu Ijesa, Osun State. Other places where the NAF established new units include: Kerang, Plateau State; Agatu, Banue State, Kastina; Gusau, Zamfara State; Sokoto and Gombe. The training and capacity building are strategic efforts designed to launch the service to the forefront, particularly as the nation contends with the reality of asymmetric war and other security challenges. In line with the CAS’ key drivers of human capacity development and result oriented training, the NAF has trained various officers (airmen/airwomen) in different categories of air and ground functions. It was learnt that the NAF has trained 90 pilots in the last three years. Several others are sharpening their skills in various fields at home and abroad.  It was learnt that the Service has also customised training arrangements with reputable foreign and local training schools. On April 26, President Muhammadu Buhari inaugurated a NAF Reference Hospital in Bauchi State. The 60-bed capacity hospital consists of an Accident and Emergency Unit, Intensive Care Unit, Twin Theatres, Radio Diagnostic Unit, as well as Renal Dialysis, Ophthalmic, Dental, Physiotherapy, Maternal and new born units. It also has a morgue. The hospital, fitted with modern diagnostic and life support equipment, has a mandate to provide medical care to critically-ill patients, especially, those injured in combat. The NAF has also upgraded medical equipment at its various medical centers around the country. The NAF medical hospital in Port Harcourt, Rivers State,   has also been upgraded to a Reference Hospital as part of efforts to ensure that NAF personnel and members of their families have access to good medical services. Also during the period under review, the NAF has renovated, remodeled and constructed new schools across its units. Besides, it has built more than 250 blocks of residential accommodation, thereby raising accommodation sufficiency from 35 per cent to 60 per cent. The NAF leadership has concentrated attention on a number of facilities built to enhance training and operations. The development, a senior officer said, has apart from ensuring effective operations, broadened the NAF scope. According to the officer, who pleaded for anonymity, the NAF has built several shooting ranges and that the training facilities at the Kaduna Military Training Center have been expanded to allow for the simultaneous training of recruits. At the moment, the NAF has capacity to train 2,500 personnel simultaneously as against the previous 500. He noted that due to this development, nearly 7,500 persons have been recruited in the past three years. He argued that while enhancing the ability of the NAF to carry out its constitutional mandate, the massive recruitment has also reduced unemployment in the country.  Focus on research and development  The NAF has in the last three years invested heavily in research and development to build capacity to tackle emerging security challenges. It was learnt that millions of foreign exchange have been saved through these various innovations. Some of the research and development  breakthroughs include: induction of the first NAF indigenous operational unmanned aerial vehicle named Tsaigunmi by President Muhammadu Buhari; the NAF received patent right for the production of the Unmanned Ground Vehicle; patent right approval for the production of the hydraulic accumulator diaphragm for the Mi 35 helicopter; reactivation and weaponisation of Mi-17 helicopter; and    reactivation and weaponisation of 3 x EC-135 helicopters for deployment in the ground attack role. Others are: design and production of a test bench for the Alpha Jet anti-skid system; repair of Alpha Jet engines locally by NAF technicians; local production of 30.1mm Rockets; production of gyros for Alpha Jet aircraft; development of a universal test bench for small aircraft starter and alternators systems; local production of Heat Shield protective cones; local production of Aviation Power pack and replacement of electrolyte in battery of F-7Ni Fighter aircraft. There is also the weaponisation of 3 x Alpha Jet aircraft, whose weapon systems were reconfigured locally to carry, not only the Western bloc rocket launchers, but Eastern bloc rocket launchers; as well as weaponisation of the L-39ZA trainer aircraft. The decimation of the Boko Haram insurgents and anti-banditry operations, being part of the NAF’s constitutional commitment, has been pursued with vigour. This followed an assurance made to Nigerians by Buhari during the campaigns in 2015 that his administration would make the nation safe and secure. The acquisition of new platforms, research and development breakthroughs and the provision of needed resources for the NAF by the Federal Government have greatly enhanced the Service’s capability to decimate the Boko Harram Terrorist Group (BHTs). The NAF has conducted several air raids independently in support of the Operation LAFIYA DOLE. Some of the independent operations include; Operation RUWAN WUTA I – IV and Operation THUNDER STRIKE I and II. Operation DIRAN MIKIYA, an independent air operation embarked upon by the NAF designed to fish out armed bandits from Zamfara and surrounding states in the Northwest of Nigeria has yielded tremendous results in the area. The NAF also deployed some Special Forces elements that are fighting side by side with other security agencies in Operation WHIRL STROKE in Benue, Nasarawa, Taraba and Zamfara states. In conjunction with other security agencies, the NAF has been providing air support; air interdiction; liaison flights within theater of operation logistics, re-supply of ammunitions, water, food and medicine; medical evacuations as well as causality evacuations. In an effort to alleviate the sufferings of the Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) and strengthen better civil-military relations between the NAF and members of host communities, the Service has established two Level 2 hospitals in Bama and Dalori. The NAF has also continued to conduct medical outreaches and have since treated over 500,000 Nigerians in the last three years. The school feeding programme initiated by NAF for 1000 school pupils, has improved school enrolment in some affected areas. The Barrack Youth Empowerment Through Agriculture (BYETA) scheme was introduced as part of measures to empower youths within the NAF bases to reduce unemployment as well as encourage agriculture. Through the BYETA, many youths have been empowered, as the NAF established small cooperative societies which provide loan facilities for interested participants as takeoff capitals. Air Marshal Abubakar attributed the feat attained by the NAF under his watch to the support extended to the Service by the Federal Government, in the face of daunting challenges. “Without Mr. President’s support and understanding, nothing much would have been achieved”, the CAS said, pledging the loyalty of his officers and men to the President. He assured that the NAF would remain grateful to the administration and carry out its constitutional responsibilities to the best of its abilities. “The service is always willing, able and ready in all circumstances”, CAS Abubakar said. 